3878241|Using previously preserved material, a minimal number of sacrificed specimens, unharmed live individuals, and field observations, we studied the life history and habitat of the Pigeon Mountain salamander (Plethodon petraeus). Individuals of this species are patchily distributed among various habitats including rock outcrops and cave entrances. They were most abundant relative to other species of salamanders where extensive outcrops were associated with cave openings. Females mature at a larger size (mininum of 65 mm SVL) than males (minimum of 56 mm) and grow to a greater maximum size (85 mm for females and 80 mm for males). The minimum age at maturity appears to be three years for males. Our data on testicular variation suggest that mating occurs during late winter and/or spring.
3878242|Tipularia discolor is a terrestrial woodland orchid of the eastern United States that exhibits variable spatial patterns. The genetic diversity of several populations in Maryland, Delaware, and Virginia was examined using ISSR markers. Low levels of genetic variation were detected, yet four distinct genotypes were determined. A Mantel test revealed that genetic diversity did not correlate with spatial distance (Mantel t-test = -0.349; p = 0.364). An Analysis of Molecular Variance (AMOVA) showed genetic differences between and within populations (p = <0.01). Our data suggest that gene flow has occurred between the four populations of Tipularia discolor, although field studies have documented that populations are maintained through clonal growth. This study illustrates that ISSR markers can be used to detect genetic diversity at a population level.
3878243|Few studies have attempted to quantify the association between land snail communities and calcium (Ca) in upper soil horizons. If soil Ca is important to land snails, then land snail communities may be sensitive to reductions in soil Ca, including those caused by atmospheric acid deposition. In this study, snail density was estimated at ten <tex-math>$200m^2$</tex-math> plots in mature forest using a litter sieving technique, and species richness was determined from litter sieving and timed searches. The most abundant snail species was the small spot, Punctum minutissimum (I. Lea), representing 34% of the specimens collected. Land snail density and species richness were positively correlated with extractable Ca, water soluble Ca, and pH in the Oe soil horizon and in the horizon below. Basal area of sugar maple, Acer saccharum Marsh., was positively associated with snail density and Ca in the Oe horizon, while basal area of red maple, Acer rubrum L., was negatively associated with snail density and Ca in the Oe horizon.
3878244|The Pike County Pocosin Nature Preserve is located approximately 10 km east of Troy, Alabama, on the east side of Walnut Creek. The Preserve consists of 84 hectares of xeric sandy ridges interrupted by deep ravines. The Alabama Department of Conservation and Natural Resources manages the site with an emphasis on the protection of rare species. The floristic survey was conducted from March 1999 through September 2000. A total of 348 taxa representing 247 genera and 97 families were found to occur or were reported from within the Nature Preserve. Poaceae represented the largest family with 43 species. Asteraceae and Fabaceae were the next largest families with 40 and 31 species, respectively. Quercus represented the largest genus with 12 taxa.
3878245|Migrating monarch butterflies can be censused several ways, but studies that compare censusing methods are lacking. Furthermore, although it is known that monarch butterflies alter their flight strategies in varying wind conditions, it is not known if and how counts of monarchs made during migration are affected by wind conditions. We assessed the abundance of migrating monarchs in the fall of 2000 using three techniques, which each differ in the flight strategy they target. We tested for differences between the resulting counts and examined the influence of wind conditions on each method. We (1) censused monarchs on a five mile driving route, (2) counted monarchs from a hawkwatching platform, and (3) counted monarchs at a roost site. The hawkwatch and driving census produced similar overall indices of abundance. Furthermore, wind conditions affected each count. As we predicted, the driving census detected the most monarchs when wind speeds and directions were unfavorable for migration, and the most were counted with the hawkwatch census during light favorable wind directions. Unexpectedly, counts of roosting monarchs were highest during strong winds in both favorable and unfavorable directions. We recommend that long-term monarch monitoring stations employ a combination of techniques to obtain comparable counts of monarchs.
3878246|Although many surveys of invasive plants have been conducted, relatively little research has been conducted on the biology of hybridization between invasive and native species. We hypothesized that interspecific hybridizations between the native bittersweet (Celastrus scandens L.) and the invasive introduced species (C. orbiculatus Thunb.) may be more vigorous and have less seed dormancy than C. scandens seedlings. To test this hypothesis, we performed controlled pollinations using C. scandens as the female parent and C. scandens or C. orbiculatus as the male parent. Although both the interspecific and intraspecific pollinations resulted in a comparable percentage of germinating seedlings, the seedlings from the interspecific crosses had less seed dormancy and were more vigorous than the intraspecific seedlings. These results indicate that the decline of the American bittersweet may be due in part to interspecific hybridizations with the invasive introduced species, and that the distinct genetic identity of C. scandens may be threatened.
3878247|Since receiving legal protection in 1972, Maryland's black bear (Ursus americanus Pallas) population has grown, and increased numbers of bear-human conflicts created a need for information on bears for management. Thus, we determined habitat use of female black bears in western Maryland by incorporating locations (n = 641) of 5 adult radio-collared bears into a geographical information system (GIS) to enable analyses of macro-habitat characteristics. Overall, bears selected mixed forest and wetlands, and habitat with high stream densities. Bears selected conifer stands throughout the year and residential areas during the spring-summer season. Variation in use of residential areas and habitat near streams appeared to be related to the availability of wetlands to individual bears. Bears avoided primary highways, but not other road classes, although females traveling with cubs selected habitat at lower road densities. To manage habitat for female black bears, we suggest maintaining wetlands and mixed forest habitats, enhancing understory cover in maturing deciduous forest, increasing conifer stands in areas where management for mature forest is unrealistic, and constructing wildlife underpasses on high-speed highways.
3877992|Assessment was made of all available cranial specimens of wild Canis dating since the Blancan and prior to AD 1918 in the region east of the Great Plains and south of the Prairie Peninsula, Lakes Erie and Ontario, and the St. Lawrence River. The small wolf C. priscolatrans (= C. edwardii) of the early Irvingtonian seems unrelated to the modern red wolf (C. rufus), but gave rise to a lineage including the larger C. armbrusteri and culminating in C. dirus of the late Rancholabrean. A small wolf, possibly a descendant of the Eurasian C. mosbachensis, did not reappear in the east until near the end of the Rancholabrean. At the same time, the coyote (C. latrans) disappeared from the east, not to return until the small wolf was extirpated in the 20th century. Fragmentary remains of the small wolf, dating from around 10,000 and 2,000-200 ybp, show continuity with 14 complete, mostly modern, eastern skulls. Multivariate analysis indicates those 14 represent a well-defined species, C. rufus, distinct from large series of the western gray wolf (C. lupus) and coyote. There is no evidence that the red wolf originated as a hybrid of the latter two species, though early specimens from central Texas suggest it began to interbreed with C. latrans by about 1900. Three long-recognized red wolf subspecies appear valid: C. r. floridanus, Maine to Florida; C. r. gregoryi, south-central United States; and C. r. rufus, central and coastal Texas, southern Louisiana, and probably now represented in the captive/reintroduced populations. The subspecies C. lupus lycaon of southeastern Ontario and southern Quebec is statistically intermediate to C. rufus and western C. lupus, and may have resulted from natural hybridization of those two species. Such could explain how the red and gray wolf differ so sharply where their ranges meet in the west but morphologically approach one another in the east.
3877993|An allozyme analysis was conducted to determine the population genetic structure of baldcypress (Taxodium distichum [L.] Rich. var. distichum) and pondcypress (Taxodium distichum var. imbricarium [Nuttall] Croom) and the level of genetic differentiation between these two taxa. Approximately 400 individuals of both varieties and apparent morphological intermediates were sampled from 21 locations across the geographic range of Taxodium distichum and 11 enzyme loci assayed by starch gel electrophoresis. Although baldcypress populations contain higher levels of genetic variation among sub-populations, populations of both varieties have approximately the same levels of heterozygosity. Populations of baldcypress and pondcypress were found to differ on the basis of varying allele frequencies of one locus, PGI-2, which appears to be semi-diagnostic as a varietal indicator. A correlation was observed between the allele frequencies of this locus and a ratio of bark thickness to diameter (BT/D). Baldcypress exhibits higher frequencies of PGI-2 allele "1" and lower BT/D ratios, whereas pondcypress has higher frequencies of PGI-2 allele "3" and higher BT/D ratios. An apparent clinal gradient was observed in the spatial distribution of both BT/D ratios and PGI-2 phenotypes within a few populations. The apparent existence of gene flow (whether it is presently occurring or has occurred in the recent past) and the possibility of clinal variation within populations suggest that these two taxa are best regarded as varieties of the same species.
3877994|Hardwood depressions in the southeastern United States have been extensively altered due to agriculture and other land management practices. They are small isolated wetlands dominated by oaks that typically become flooded every couple years for a few weeks to several months. We sampled the aquatic invertebrate assemblages of six depressions in 1998 and five depressions in 2001 and found they were composed primarily of clam shrimp, cladocerans, calanoid copepods, and chironomids. The primary functional feeding group was collector-filterers, which comprised >60% of the total numbers. Eubranchiopoda were well represented by two species of clam shrimp (Lynceus gracilicornis and Limnadia lenticularis) and one species of fairy shrimp (Streptocephalus seali). L. lenticularis is the first record of this species in Georgia. Consideration should be made for the conservation of hardwood depressions because of the rare invertebrates they accommodate.
3877995|Mercury from an industrial source was introduced in the 1960's into Pickwick Lake, an impoundment on the Tennessee River in northwest Alabama. Liver and muscle tissue of catfish (Ictalurus furcatus) collected from this lake were analyzed to determine if Hg continues to be a contaminant in this system. Low concentrations of mercury were detected in all of these fish. Catfish (Ictalurus furcatus) from an adjacent upstream lake and catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) from five surrounding farm ponds were also collected. Tissue levels of Hg were found to be higher in fish from the upstream lake and from the farm ponds than those from Pickwick Lake. Although Hg is still accumulating in fish in Pickwick Lake, the source does not appear to be from the historic industrial releases. A possible source for the Hg at all the sites is atmospheric deposition from local coal-burning electrical generation plants. Mercury residues in muscle tissue did not exceed the USFDA limit for any of the catfish collected in this area.
3877996|We document the occurrence of the rayed creekshell (Anodontoides radiatus Conrad), a freshwater mussel (Unionidae), at eight sites in the upper Yazoo River drainage (lower Mississippi River Basin) in northern Mississippi. Previously, A. radiatus was thought to be restricted to Gulf Coast drainages as far west only as the Tickfaw River system (Lake Pontchartrain Basin), Louisiana. The eight populations reported herein represent the only known occurrences of this species in the Mississippi River Basin. This distributional pattern, along with distributions of other aquatic organisms, suggests that headwater stream capture events occurred historically between lower Mississippi River Basin tributaries and the upper Tombigbee River drainage (Mobile Basin). Because A. radiatus is a rare species, considered imperiled throughout its range, the discovery of eight additional populations and the extension of its known range are of significance to its conservation.
3877997|Three limestone glades in Calhoun County, Illinois were studied. These relatively rare herbaceous plant communities are dominated by grasses of the tallgrass prairie that grow where limestone is at or near the surface and the shallow soils do not support much woody vegetation. Occasionally associated with hill prairies on the bluffs of the Illinois and Mississippi Rivers, the thin soil and bare rock prevent the growth of many hill prairie species. Vascular plant species found included three ferns, one gymnosperm, 33 monocots, and 87 dicots for a total of 124 taxa. Thirteen alien taxa were encountered (10%). Juniperus virginiana (eastern red cedar) was common on and around the glade edges. The common grasses were Schizachyrium scoparium (little bluestem), and Bouteloua curtipendula (sideoats grama), while Andropogon gerardii (big bluestem) and Sorghastrum nutans (Indian grass) were occasionally found in crevices. Common forbs included Hedyotis nigricans (narrow-leaved bluets), Ruellia humilis (wild Petunia), and Croton capitatus (capitate croton).
3877998| A goblin shark, Mitsukurina owstoni (family Mitsukurinidae), was captured in the northern Gulf of Mexico at 2844.62' N, 8834.13' W on 25 July 2000. The shark was captured by commercial fishers at 919 to 1,099 meters depth after it became entangled in fishing gear. The shark was female, the gut was empty, and no pups were present. Using regression analysis, the length was estimated to be 540 to 617 cm total length and may be the largest specimen collected to date. This capture from the Gulf of Mexico extends the goblin shark's range into the Atlantic waters of North America. 
3877999|We used mistnets to survey bats at 41 sites throughout the Shawnee National Forest in southern Illinois during the summers of 1999 and 2000. Unlike most previous studies, we placed nets in the interior of forest stands as well as the more typical placement along edge habitats associated with water. We captured 417 individual bats representing 10 species. Of these, 168 individuals (40.3%) and 8 species were collected in interior forest. Northern long-eared bats (Myotis septentrionalis) were caught significantly more often in interior forest, whereas red bats (Lasiurus borealis), eastern pipistrelles (Pipistrellus subflavus), and big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) were netted more often in edge habitats. In contiguous forest, especially within the geographic range of M. septentrionalis, a more accurate measure of bat diversity and relative abundance is obtained by placing nets in interior forest as well as edge habitats.
3878038|Odonate larvae were collected at 127 sites in the Enoree River and nine of its tributaries in the summers of 1999 and 2000. Mean odonate abundance, species richness, and Simpson's diversity were compared across tributaries and the main channel of the Enoree River with one-way ANOVA. These indices were significantly lower in Brushy Creek, Rocky Creek, and the Upper Enoree than in the other streams (Tukey multiple comparison test, p < 0.05). These three streams also differed from the others in species composition (MANOVA p < 0.0001), as measured by changes in the relative abundances of the five most abundant species: Progomphus obscurus, Boyeria vinosa, Macromia illinoiensis, Cordulegaster maculata, and Ophiogomphus mainensis. For example, O. mainensis was nearly absent from Brushy, Rocky, and the Upper Enoree, but was a significant component of the assemblages in other streams. Cordulegaster maculata was rare in Rocky Creek but dominated the Upper Enoree where other species were less abundant. Brushy, Rocky, and the Upper Enoree are areas of either rapid residential development or known industrial contamination. The different structure of odonate assemblages in these streams may reflect the impact of these local anthropogenic effects.
3878039|The need for regional planning is increasingly important for effective Florida panther (Puma concolor coryi) (Bangs 1898) conservation and is essential for protecting enough habitat in South Florida to ensure a viable population. We used two decades of radio telemetry data and geographic information system (GIS) software to develop a regional blueprint for landscape restoration that enhances dispersal, facilitates population colonization, and could be the basis for future land use decisions in the range of the endangered Florida panther. We identified 923,576 ha of forests in an 18-county study area that is a barrier-rich patchwork of land uses. A least cost path analysis simulated natural colonization events and can be used to identify landscape linkages and conservation networks for the panther. Our analysis of planned development permits suggests that large-scale land protection must happen quickly. The alternatives are managing an isolated, heavily managed population or large-scale landscape restoration that is probably economically unfeasible.
3878040|We evaluated breeding season (May-July) bird species richness, abundance, and diversity in 21 restored wetlands and several associated habitats (woodlots, cultivated and uncultivated fields, and hedgerows) on Maryland's Eastern Shore over two years. Ninety-seven bird species were encountered over all habitats, while 72 of these species were found in wetlands. Of those birds found in wetlands, 35 species (49%) were wetland dependent and 13 species (18%) were breeding. Wetland-dependent, shorebird, and total species richness and bird abundance were lowest in fields and highest in restored wetlands. Total avian abundance and species richness in woodlots were similar to values in restored wetlands, but species composition differed. The density of individuals and of species was highest in hedgerows and restored wetlands. Bird abundance, species richness, and diversity were higher in restored wetlands in the second year of the study. Richness showed no regression relationship (p > 0.05) with either site age or cover-to-water ratio. Restored emergent marshes in eastern Maryland provide habitat for wetland birds, but benefits must be weighed against the loss of bird use in habitats converted into a wetland.
3878041|The fish fauna of the Buffalo Creek drainage, a tributary of the Little Tallapoosa River in the upper piedmont ecoregion of West Georgia was sampled during the summer and fall of 1999. Five regions within the drainage were defined primarily on the basis of perceived anthropogenic impact. Community structure was described by species richness, diversity, evenness, relative species abundance, family composition, feeding guilds and pollution tolerance levels. Little Buffalo Creek, perceived as the least impacted region, exhibited higher species richness, diversity, and evenness, higher trophic structure complexity and a greater abundance of pollution sensitive species than regions on Buffalo Creek. Within Buffalo Creek, species richness was more dependent upon local conditions of substrate and flow regime than distance downstream.
3878042|We collected physical evidence (scats and tracks) that suggested the presence of 1 or more mountain lions (Puma concolor) in Arkansas from 1998-1999, and conducted a survey of mountain lion occurrences in Arkansas from 1996-2000. Mountain lions were reported statewide, with most in the Ozark and Ouachita Mountains. In addition to the surveys, we collected 7 pieces of tangible evidence (e.g., scats, tracks, and video) from 1996-2000. A survey of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, state veterinarians, and an Arkansas Game and Fish Commission (AGFC) internal survey of their wildlife officers documented at least 101 captive P. concolor in the state. The origins of reported free-ranging animals could not be determined.
3878043|We examined reproductive performance of yearling males in a recently established free-ranging elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni, Erxleben) population in southeastern Kentucky. Sixteen of 18 (89%) adult females bred by yearling males produced a calf. The calving period, determined for 11 cows, peaked in mid-June; however, 3 females bred by yearlings did not calf until mid-July or August. It is not possible to attribute the extended calving period to breeding by yearling males, as it may have been a result of poor physical condition of females or the disruption of social bonds after translocation the previous winter.
3878044|Nine-banded armadillos (Dasypus novemcinctus) are born in litters of genetically identical quadruplets. In this study, we asked the questions, (1) to what extent does the extreme genetic uniformity of armadillo siblings translate into phenotypic similarity; and (2) does variability between and within litters change over time? To answer these questions, we examined the extent of variation existing within and between 36 litters of juvenile armadillos and 14 litters of adults captured between 1992 and 2001 at a study site in northern Florida. We assessed variability by calculating coefficients of variation for 7 phenotypic measurements. One of these measures, the extent of anatomical damage, was significantly more variable than any of the others for both juveniles and adults. In both juveniles and adults, nearly all measures were significantly more variable between than within litters. However, within-litter variability did not differ significantly between juveniles and adults but between-litter variation was significantly less in adults. For juveniles, male and female litters were equally variable and the extent of variability was not dependent on the number of littermates measured. These findings were extended by analyses of data from two lab-born litters, reared under identical conditions by the same mother in two successive years.
3878045|The distributions of masked shrews (Sorex cinereus Kerr) and smoky shrews (S. fumeus Miller) were examined in relation to environmental conditions on opposing slopes in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Arrays of drift fences and pitfall traps were established on 3 north-facing plots, 3 south-facing plots, and 6 streamside plots in the Gingercake Creek drainage of Burke County, North Carolina. Shrews and invertebrates were collected on several consecutive nights each month in the autumn of 1996 and in the spring and summer of 1997 (TN = 2544). Leaf litter moisture content, daily high temperatures, and volume of downed logs were measured. South-facing plots were significantly warmer and drier than north-facing and streamside plots (p < 0.001) and had the lowest percentage volume of heavily decomposed logs (p = 0.02). Capture rates of S. cinereus and S. fumeus were significantly greater on mesic north-facing slopes and at streamside sites than on xeric south-facing slopes (p = 0.05 and 0.04), but biomass of invertebrate prey was similar between habitats. Smoky shrews were significantly positively correlated with percentage litter moisture and heavily decomposed logs but negatively correlated with invertebrate biomass. Masked shrews were not significantly correlated with any habitat variable. Results suggest that the distributions of these shrews are strongly influenced by habitat heterogeneity at high-resolution scales.
3878046|From September to October 2000, a longline survey conducted aboard the NOAA/National Marine Fisheries Service's research vessel FERREL between Ft. Pierce, FL and Charleston, SC resulted in the capture of 72 juvenile tiger sharks, Galeocerdo cuvier, (mean size = 108 cm total length). Twenty-three were found to have large quantities of feathers, both contour and semiplumes, on the teeth and on the outside of the buccal area. An internal examination of 5 individuals found the remains of clapper rail, Rallus longirostris (100% occurrence). Since clapper rails generally inhabit coastal salt marshes and are not considered to be a migratory species, we could not positively ascertain how juvenile tiger sharks, a species normally found in offshore waters, were able to prey on this bird species. Although we cannot explain the sequence of events that brought these species together, it is possible that the birds were swept offshore by storm winds, there was a "mass exodus" from a marsh habitat due to disturbance, or perhaps a dispersal flight.
3878170|Using museum collection records and variables computed by digital terrain modeling in a geographic information system, we examined the relationship of elevation, aspect, and "cove" patch size to the presence or absence of 7 common woodland salamanders in mature cove hardwood and northern hardwood forests in the southern Appalachians of Georgia, North Carolina, and South Carolina. Overall, elevation, aspect and patch size were poor discriminators among salamander species presence or absence at collection sites. Increased elevation was an important variable explaining the presence of Ocoee salamanders (Desmognathus ocoee) and Jordan's salamanders (Plethodon jordani). In contrast, decreased elevation was an important variable explaining the presence of slimy salamanders (Plethodon glutinosus). Our study contrasts with recent research indicating that suitable habitat patch size is an important determinant of woodland salamander species richness and abundance at recently disturbed sites. In these mature stands, we believe that cove patch size as determined by modeling either was well above effect-level thresholds for influencing individual species presence or our modeling failed to reflect true collection site conditions.
3878171|In the Ohio River basin, the northern madtom, Noturus stigmosus Taylor, is morphologically similar to and sympatric with the mountain madtom, Noturus eleutherus Jordan. Although recognized as distinct sympatric (and syntopic) species, N. stigmosus and N. eleutherus are difficult to distinguish in streams where they are associated, based on previously defined characters. Sheared principal component analysis (PCA) of morphometric data revealed characters that more effectively differentiate the two species. Noturus stigmosus differs from N. eleutherus in having longer pectoral fins and spines, a longer dorsal fin and spine, a shorter and higher adipose fin, and a longer first dorsal saddle. As juveniles (20-30 mm standard length), N. eleutherus more closely resembles N. stigmosus on the basis of morphometry and pigmentation, but differs from the former in lacking a distinct dark adipose blotch. Meristic comparisons indicate that the two species differ most consistently at sizes > 30 mm SL in the numbers of caudal fin rays (usually > 48 in N. stigmosus vs. < 47 in N. eleutherus) and preoperculomandibular (POM) pores (modally 11 in N. stigmosus vs. 10 in N. eleutherus).
3878172|Changes in arthropod populations (numbers of individuals identified to the family level in most cases) were studied during the decomposition of coarse woody debris (CWD) in the Atchafalaya River Basin of Louisiana. The arthropod study was linked with a CWD decomposition study installed after disturbance by Hurricane Andrew. Arthropod numbers were compared between two canopy disturbance classes and between two spatial orientations of CWD (i.e., suspended above- and in contact with the soil). Results during 30 months in the field suggested little influence of canopy disturbance or spatial orientation of CWD on arthropod numbers. Counts were most frequently dominated by Collembola and Acarina and peaked after 18-24 months within larger debris.
3878173|Perch-site selection is thought to be an important component of foraging success for sit-and-wait avian predators, such as flycatchers. Perch selection has further consequences for territorial advertisement and display. We quantified perch characteristics of Acadian Flycatchers in three bottomland hardwood forests in Arkansas, Louisiana, and South Carolina. We compared measurements made at flycatcher perches with those made at randomly selected trees and branches. In two of our study areas, flycatchers perched on dead limbs more often than expected by chance, and foliage volume was less around flycatcher perches than at randomly selected branches. Both of these results suggest a preference for foraging and displaying sites that provide a relatively unobstructed view. Discriminant function analysis revealed substantial overlap in perch-site characteristics among study areas, indicating that species-wide preferences were at least as important as local conditions in perch-site selection by Acadian Flycatchers.
3878174|A pedestrian survey of snakes was conducted for 1022 days (79% of the available days) along 6 km of rural roads through xeric upland habitats in Hernando County, Florida. Two hundred twenty-eight snakes of 18 species were recorded, 93% of which were dead. The relative abundance of many snake species, such as the rough green snake (Opheodrys aestivus) and southern hognose snake (Heterodon simus), differed between the road survey and three drift fence surveys in xeric upland habitats that trapped 22 species. The pedestrian road survey was successful at detecting small snake species and neonates. Mean annual mortality of all snake species was 12.8/km/yr, despite low traffic volume on the roads surveyed, and 70% of carcasses remained on roads for <1 day. Peak periods of snake activity were June-July and September-November. Snakes were not found along roads in proportion to the coverage of four natural and three ruderal habitat types; snakes were found proportionally less frequently adjacent to lawns and improved pastures. Some snake species, such as the southern hognose snake, can apparently persist in areas of fragmented and altered upland habitats, but this study suggests that loss and degradation of natural habitats may have long-term impacts on populations of large snake species. Roads may be a significant source of mortality for some snake populations, especially for dispersing neonates, which comprised 80% of road-killed snakes in September-December.
3878175|I studied the life history of Striped Newts (Notophthalmus perstriatus) at a breeding pond in north-central Florida. Newts were captured in pitfall traps at a drift-fence as they migrated into and out of the pond basin. During the 2-year study, I recorded 10,290 captures (8,127 individuals) of newts at the drift-fence. Newts were active during each month of the study, but there were four peak activity periods, each of which included immigration and emigration events. Immigration events were almost exclusively comprised of adults, whereas emigration events were comprised of adults and recently transformed larvae. I documented 5,296 recently transformed, immature larvae (efts) and 435 recently transformed mature larvae (paedomorphs) during four distinct periods of emigration. Efts matured in the uplands before returning to the pond to breed. In the uplands, male efts (n = 16) grew 0.0183 mm/day on average, whereas average female (n = 24) growth was 0.0167 mm/day. Immigrating adults of both sexes were significantly smaller than emigrating adults. Emigrating efts were smallest, followed by emigrating paedomorphs, immigrating adults, then emigrating adults. The overall adult sex ratio was 1:1.25 (m:f). Sex ratio of emigrating paedomorphs was highly skewed towards females, with one male for every 4.43 females. Newts tended to move during wetter periods, and captures were significantly correlated with rainfall, but rainfall was a poor predictor of the magnitude of newt movements.
3878176|Freshwater mussels were surveyed in the mainstream Duck River downstream of Centerville, Tennessee, during June and October 2000. A total of 32 species (1 Margaritiferidae and 31 Unionidae) representing 23 genera was found. Comparisons with species reported in the literature revealed that three species, spectaclecase, Margaritinopsis monodonta (Say, 1829); Wabash pigtoe, Fusconaia flava (Rafinesque, 1820); and clubshell, Pleurobema clava (Lamarck, 1819), were new records for the Duck River drainage. One of these, Pleurobema clava, is a federally listed endangered species. Our survey also documented downstream range extensions within the Duck River for six species, Tennessee pigtoe, Fusconaia barnesiana (Lea, 1838); wavyrayed lampmussel, Lampsilis fasciola Rafinesque, 1820; slabside pearlymussel, Lexingtonia dolabelloides (Lea, 1840); Ohio pigtoe, Pleurobema cordatum (Rafinesque, 1820); rabbitsfoot, Quadrula cylindrica (Say, 1817); and painted creekshell, Villosa taeniata (Conrad, 1834). The range extensions included one federally endangered candidate species, Lexingtonia dolabelloides, and the remaining five species are reported by the Tennessee Valley Authority, Natural Heritage Project, as listed or candidates for conservation status by one or more states within their range. The results from this limited survey indicate the presence of unusual mussel diversity and calls attention to the need for increased conservation activities on the Duck River.
3878177|The high elevation beech gaps of the Great Smoky Mountains have become the killing front of beech bark disease. This insect/fungal pathogen was introduced into Nova Scotia in the late 1800's, and has since spread southward to the Southern Appalachians. In affected stands, mortality of beech stems frequently approaches 90 to 100 percent. We used inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSR) markers to assess the relationship between host genotype and degree of pathogen infection in beech trees in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. We used statistical analyses to test the relationship between stem diameter and degree of pathogen infection. We found no correlation between host genotype and degree of infection. We did find a significant positive relationship between stem size and degree of infection. Among three stem size classes, smallest stems (<1.5 cm) were least likely to be infected, while largest stems (>3.0 cm) were most likely to be infected. Implications for future studies are discussed.
3878178|Yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera) flowers have been reported to be an important component of the spring diets of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the southern Appalachians. We quantified the nutritional contribution of yellow-poplar flowers by comparing flower nutrient content to published nutrient requirements for deer. Yellow-poplar flowers exceeded the calcium, phosphorus, crude protein, and digestible energy requirements (P < 0.001) for productive processes. However, sodium requirements for antler growth and digestible energy requirements for peak lactation for twin fawns were not met by yellow-poplar flowers. Similar to oak (Quercus spp.) mast in the fall months, yellow-poplar flowers are an important seasonal source of energy for deer.
3878084|Much attention has been given to the biology, ecology, and restoration of wiregrass because of the essential role it plays in the longleaf-slash pine ecosystem of the southeastern United States. A previous morphological study separated wiregrass into two species, A. stricta and A. beyrichiana; but that view conflicts with available allozyme data. This discrepancy inspired us to assess anatomical and morphological characters of herbarium specimens and field-collected material and to conduct common-garden experiments. On the basis of these new data, we conclude that A. stricta and A. beyrichiana are not distinct at the species level.
3878085|Biotic pollination should be an important consideration when devising management plans for endangered plant species. In this study we documented inter-annual shifts in the suite of floral visitors to Clematis socialis, a federally endangered species. These pollinator shifts were correlated with shifts in climatic variables that we used as a proxy for the potential effects of climatic change. In addition, we characterized floral visitor behavior and conducted single-visit seed set experiments to assess the pollination effectiveness of floral visitors. Five insect species visited flowers of C. socialis: two lepidopteran species (Erynnis juvenalis and Hemaris diffinis) and three bee species (Anthophora ursina, Bombus pennsylvanicus and Xylocopa virginica). Due to their relatively greater frequency of flower visitation and high single-visit seed set (ca. 2.6-3 seeds/visit), two bee species (Anthophora ursina and Bombus pennsylvanicus) are considered to be the major pollinators of C. socialis. However, the relative importance of each pollinator species varied between years. Anthophora ursina was the most important pollinator in 1997, a year when C. socialis bloomed later in the spring. Queens of Bombus pennsylvanicus were the primary pollinator during 1996, a year when C. socialis bloomed relatively early in the spring. We conclude that management plans that focus on the "best pollinator" of a suite of pollinators may not preserve the long-term reproductive integrity of endangered plants with generalized pollination systems. We further conclude that asynchrony between flowering season and pollinator activity patterns may be a risk factor associated with human-caused global climate change.
3878086|Historically, the alligator snapping turtle (Macrochelys temminckii Harlan) was heavily collected in Georgia to provide meat to soup canneries. With the exception of previous studies of the Flint River population, the current status of this species in Georgia is poorly known. We trapped most navigable streams within the species' range in Georgia, except the Flint River, to evaluate the population status and distribution of this threatened species. Populations in the Chattahoochee River catchment and Spring Creek (Apalachicola River drainage) are more robust than those found elsewhere in the state. Despite extensive trapping, M. temminckii was not caught in the Suwannee River. The current prohibition against collecting this species in Georgia should enhance its ongoing recovery, although the Suwannee River drainage warrants further investigation and possibly more intensive recovery strategies.
3878087|Tulotoma magnifica (Conrad, 1834) is an enlarged operculate gastropod, formerly found throughout the Coosa River system in Alabama, USA whose range has been severely reduced and is now listed as endangered. We found its current range in 4 of 6 tributaries to be greater than in previous surveys. Neither abundance nor size of T. magnifica was consistently related to five habitat factors that we measured (rock surface area, rock height, water depth, current speed, abundance of other snail species), explaining less than 12-18% of the variation. While T. magnifica consistently used larger and taller rocks, there was no consistent difference in water depth, current speed, and abundance of other snail species between rocks with versus without T. magnifica. Isozyme variation of T. magnifica was greatest in the main channel Coosa River population; some Coosa River alleles were not detected elsewhere. Populations were at Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium at all but two of 17 loci examined, indicating random mating, no selection, no migration, and no mutation (except at those two loci). Genetic similarity (S) among populations ranged from 0.88-0.97; the smaller values are at a level that potentially suggests different subspecies, due primarily to a near fixed difference in allele frequency at the GPI locus. The distribution of T. magnifica within areas where it has been found is greater than thought based on recent surveys. In addition, there exists suitable unoccupied habitat at most sites. We suggest that some of these areas represent locations that could be considered for future efforts at recolonization, should that fit within the species recovery plan.
3878088|Information on bat diversity, reproduction, and sex ratios in the southeastern United States is limited, particulary in managed pine (Pinus spp.) forests. Such information is needed if regional forest managers are to consider bats within their overall management plans. Therefore, I mist-netted over water to document bat species richness, diversity, reproduction, and sex ratios in landscapes of managed loblolly pine (Pinus taeda) forests of eastern Mississippi from late April to early September, 1998-2000. In 53 survey nights, I captured 284 bats of six species [eastern red bat (Lasiurus borealis), evening bat (Nycticeius humeralis), Seminole bat (L. seminolus), eastern pipistrelle (Pipistrellus subflavus), hoary bat (L. cinereus), and southeastern myotis (Myotis austroriparius)]. Simpson's diversity index was 0.36 for all years combined. Managed pine forest landscapes in this study appeared to provide suitable habitat for bats. Overall, 84% of captured female bats displayed reproductive activity, indicating that habitat quality was likely sufficient for successful reproduction. Sex ratios for red bats and eastern pipistrelles changed from male-dominated as juveniles to female-dominated as adults. Seminole bats displayed sex ratios skewed toward females as juveniles and adults. Evening bat sex ratios were skewed toward females as juveniles, but nearly even between sexes as adults. Future surveys should include simultaneous recording of bat echolocation calls, bridge surveys, and winter surveys to determine how managed pine forest landscapes contribute to conservation of bat communities in the southeastern United States.
3878089| The endangered Cumberland pigtoe is a small mussel endemic to the upper Caney Fork River drainage in middle Tennessee, USA. Gravid individuals were collected from late June through August. Conglutinates obtained from these individuals contained few glochidia and were composed primarily of unfertilized eggs. In the laboratory, 18 species of fish were exposed to glochidia, and metamorphosis occurred on telescope shiners and striped shiners 8 to 10 days later. Although conglutinates contained few (< 50) glochidia,  30% of the telescope shiners collected from the Collins River were infested with glochidia, and juvenile Cumberland pigtoes excysted from naturally-infested telescope shiners returned alive to the laboratory. The consistent predominance of unfertilized eggs in conglutinates of the Cumberland pigtoe and the high incidence of glochidia encysted on telescope shiners collected from the Collins River support the hypothesis that a high proportion of unfertilized eggs in conglutinates may be adaptive rather than an anomaly in certain species. 
3878090|Fishes and habitat were sampled at nine sites in the Sipsey Fork River drainage in Bankhead National Forest, Alabama. Stream width, depth, current velocity, substrate type, bank height and amount of large woody debris (LWD) were measured at each site to test for association of these habitat variables with upland stream fish assemblages. Regression of habitat variables onto species richness indicated that only bank height was significantly associated with species richness in our study area. The lack of habitat associations with species richness seemingly contradicts findings by several previous investigators working in lowland streams. The availability of large substrate and both deep and shallow habitats at all sites may have reduced the observed association of these variables and LWD with stream fish assemblages. Stream width and current velocity, though not significant, did show strong positive correlations with species richness. The significant association between high banks and species richness may reflect a more intact riparian zone due to inaccessibility of streams in gorges.
3878091|Wing-flashing in northern mockingbirds (Mimus polyglottos) has been studied frequently, but its function remains unclear. I studied wing-flashing associated with northern mockingbird foraging during March-April 1998 in Alabama. Rate of prey attack was negatively related to wing-flashing rate, and wing-flashing rate was not significantly related to ambient temperature. Wing flashing was more likely during mid-day than during morning or evening periods, but was independent of cloud cover, lighting conditions (shaded versus open), and substrate type. Use of wing-flashing to simply flush or illuminate prey appeared unlikely. Wing-flashing may improve foraging efficiency by allowing northern mockingbirds to assess prey mobility or defensive ability.
3878092|Although ravens were once widespread throughout Appalachia they are now considered threatened or endangered in many states of the region. We document a nesting pair of common ravens in an area of southeastern Kentucky nearly 50 km northwest of traditional nesting sites. Further, we suggest several factors that may have influenced the patterns of raven abundance in the state and offer management recommendations to assist their recovery.
3878093|Swampfish (Chologaster cornuta) occur from southeastern Virginia to east-central Georgia and are often considered to be uncommon. We obtained swampfish from January-April 1976 and January 1977-January 1978 in an east-central North Carolina stream (tributary ditch to Black Swamp Creek, Jones Co.). Swampfish reached sexual maturity by the end of its first year and exhibited a spring (early March-middle April) spawning season. Ovaries were developing by late fall, increasing to a mean gonosomatic index of 7-11% before spawning. Females (n = 156, 20-48 mm SL) had an overall mean of 24.7 mature ova (range 6-98) prior to spawning. The positive relationship between fecundity (F) and standard length (SL) was described by the linear regression: F = 2.67(SL) - 25.71 (r = 0.67). Mean mature ova diameter increased from 1.09 mm in January to 1.48 mm in late March and April. Females were nearly always more numerous and larger than males. Of the 14 taxa eaten by swampfish (n = 289, 13-48 mm SL), amphipods were dominant, occurring in 60.3% of the specimens and representing 41.1% of the foods by number. Chironomids were the next most frequent and abundant food, followed by cladocerans. The preference for amphipods was maintained across all seasons and size groups. Two year classes of swampfish were apparent on every sampling date. We estimated a maximum age of 26 months. Length frequency data suggested very slow or no growth during the summer. Weight (W) and length were highly correlated, and the formula (both sexes combined) was: <tex-math>$W = 0.23 \times 10^{-4}(SL)^{2.88}$</tex-math>, (r = 0.95). The appendage that develops on the snout of male swampfish was not noticeable in age 0 fish through about 16 mm SL. By late age 0 (23-25 mm SL) males could be sexed by locating the organ, and it was fully developed by early age 1 (25 mm). The anterior migration of the vent was most rapid between 10 and 17 mm SL, with little change in <tex-math>$fish \geq 19 mm$</tex-math>. The low species richness in the diet, the low fecundity, and the generally greater than reported longevity of these fish could be related to life in the ephemeral ditch.
3878094|There is a paucity of information available about the distribution of bats in the southeastern United States. Golley (1966) recorded the distribution and gave a brief summary of the natural history of 11 of 14 species of bats that occur in South Carolina and DiSalvo et al. (2002) recently reported on the distribution of 13 species of bats that occur in South Carolina based on bats submitted to the public health personnel for rabies testing. Maps provided by Golley are outdated and those provided by DiSalvo et al. are not inclusive of museum records, capture records reported in the literature, or records from the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources (SCDNR). We synthesized records from museums, bat captures, and bats submitted for rabies testing to provide a more accurate and useful distribution for natural resource managers and those planning to research bats in South Carolina. Distributional information, including maps, collection localities within counties, and literature references, for all 14 species of bats that occur in South Carolina has never been synthesized. To provide better information on the state's bat fauna, we have updated distributions for all species that occur in South Carolina.
3878136|We describe a new species of hemidactyliine salamander in the genus Eurycea based on a study of variation in morphometric, osteologic, reproductive, and larval characteristics and allozyme-based allele frequencies and fixed differences in samples of two color pattern morphs known to exist in the E. quadridigitata complex in North and South Carolina. The new species differs from its presumptive relative Eurycea quadridigitata (Holbrook) in having a bright yellow venter, a smaller size, relatively longer limbs, fewer paravomerine teeth, a greater number of yolk-laden ovarian eggs, and dorsally spotted hatchling larvae. Osteologic differences include a frontal with a well-developed triangular postero-lateral process, a prevomer that lacks a posteromedial bony shelf, a prevomerine tooth series that is not sharply arched, a tetraradiate os triangulare, and fewer trunk vertebrae. The new species exhibits between four and seven fixed allozyme differences from E. quadridigitata. The two species are largely allopatric in distribution in the Carolinas.
3878137|Wildlife and vegetation were sampled on five tree islands in the Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge from June 1999-June 2000 in order to generate a preliminary species list and examine the logistics of using various sampling techniques on bayhead tree islands. Seventy-nine vertebrate species and 19 plant species were recorded. Species richness for plants and vertebrates were similar among islands. Similarity among islands ranged from about 35 to 70% for plants and about 40 to 60% for vertebrates. Richness and similarity values for vegetation were lower than those recorded for tear-dropped shaped islands in wetlands south of the refuge probably due to differences in island topography and geographic location. Number of vertebrate species recorded by sampling method ranged from 2 to 62 with most vertebrate species recorded as observational data rather than during trapping events.
3878138|Four years after construction of a 5.54 hectare wetland, we compared its floral composition to that of a nearby, well-established reference wetland and to the original plan for its construction. The created wetland contained 88 % of the plant species originally installed and more total species than the reference wetland. Obligate wetland species comprised 65 % of the plants in the reference wetland and 34 % in the created wetland. The created wetland also contained more early-successional stage species and more facultative upland species than the reference wetland. Weighted averages analysis of the created wetland based on wetland indicator categories indicated appropriate wetland vegetation. The successful performance of the created wetland was due in large part to seed bank transfer from a salvaged marsh surface.
3878139|Distributions of two species of fairy shrimps (Crustacea: Branchiopoda: Anostraca) and two species of clam shrimps (Crustacea: Branchiopoda: Laevicaudata and Spinicaudata; formerly Conchostraca) in Carolina bays and other wetland ponds are reported for the Atlantic Coastal Plain province of South Carolina. The distributions are based on extensive sampling of 123 ponds at 11 sites in 10 counties. The fairy shrimp Streptocephalus sealii, which was common (28 ponds), has been previously published as a state occurrence. Here, we present new county occurrences. The other fairy shrimp, Eubranchipus moorei, which was uncommon (3 ponds), has not previously been reported for the state, nor has either of the clam shrimps, Limnadia lenticularis, which was uncommon (3 ponds), and Lynceus gracilicornis, which was common (17 ponds).
3878140|We studied nesting success of the Wood Thrush (Hylocichla mustelina) in bottomland and upland hardwood forests in South Carolina. Twenty-one of 26 nests (80.8%) were located in bottomland sites, and 76.2% of these nests were in narrow (<150-m wide) bottomland corridors. No nests were found in upland sites enclosed by fields. The Mayfield success rate for 20 nests was 35.3%. All nest failures were attributed to predation; no nests were parasitized by Brown-headed Cowbirds (Molothrus ater). Nest sites were characterized by a dense overstory and a moderately developed understory. Bottomland hardwoods, especially relatively narrow corridors, appear to provide suitable nesting habitat for Wood Thrush in this region. Brood parasitism by Brown-headed Cowbirds does not appear to be a significant factor in the failure of Wood Thrush nests in these sites.
3878141|The effects of ground lichens on seed germination were studied in rosemary scrub on the Lake Wales Ridge in south-central Florida. Lichen removal and seed addition experiments were established within gaps in scrub patches unburned for more than 30 years. Vegetation in these gaps was dominated by ground lichens and vegetatively propagated Licania michauxii and Selaginella arenicola. All ground lichens were removed from one of each of 21 paired plots in 1995 and 1998. Seeds of four short-lived perennial herbs were added to 9 randomly selected plot pairs in 1998. Plots were monitored for seedling and clonal recruitment and death, as well as feral pig damage from 1995-2000. Occasional feral pig disturbance temporarily decreased lichen cover. Our study confirms that seedling recruitment is naturally low in these long-unburned, lichen-covered sites. Seedling emergence was higher, however, in lichen removal plots throughout the experiment, but only significantly so before seed addition. Low recruitment after seed addition was not limited by the availability of seeds and was probably caused by drought. Lichen cover evidently suppresses recruitment in years favorable for recruitment, but variation in precipitation has an overriding effect. Fire suppression leads to increased lichen cover and reduced recruitment of herbs over long periods of time, but remnant larger gaps retain microsites that support recruitment.
3878142|We characterized Indiana bat (Myotis sodalis) roosting habitat at three maternity colony sites in western North Carolina and eastern Tennessee. Using radio telemetry, we tracked six bats a total of 40 bat days (range 4-9 days/bat). In 1999, we located a primary roost in an eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) snag (109 cm DBH) in the Nantahala National Forest, NC. In 2000, we located a primary roost in a pine (Pinus sp.) snag (39 cm DBH) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP), TN. Another primary roost was found in a pitch pine snag (P. rigida; 55 cm DBH) in GSMNP in 2001. Largest exit counts for the three colonies were 28, 23, and 81 bats. Primary roost sites were exposed to direct sunlight during most of the day. We also located six alternate roost trees: three pine snags, two red oak (Quercus rubra) snags, and one live sweet birch (Betula lenta). All three primary roosts located in this study were not used during subsequent summers. The eastern hemlock used in 1999 was still standing as of June 2001, while the two primary roosts in GSMNP had fallen within a year of being located. These records represent one of the first descriptions of Indiana bat maternity habitat in the southern United States.
3878143|Until recently, eastern woodrats (Neotoma floridana, Ord) at Pine Hills, Union County, were believed to be the only extant population in Illinois. During 1994, additional populations in adjacent Jackson County were discovered at Fountain Bluff, Horseshoe Bluff, and Little Grand Canyon. Genetic variation among Illinois woodrat populations was estimated based on microsatellite DNA at 6 loci. The four populations were separated by 2-14 km, yet all exhibited significant genetic differentiation. Fountain Bluff was the most geographically isolated population and had the lowest genetic heterozygosity. A sample of individuals from a more contiguous population in Missouri exhibited the highest heterozygosity. Populations were monitored by mark-recapture live-trapping for 39 months at Pine Hills and 19 months at Fountain Bluff. Although the Fountain Bluff population was smaller than the Pine Hills population, seasonal demographics and reproductive output were similar. Natural dispersal from all 4 populations was limited by fragmented habitat, natural barriers, and anthropogenic barriers. Reintroductions of woodrats may be necessary for the species to repopulate formerly occupied sites throughout southern Illinois.
3878144| The year-round food habits of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus seminolus Rafinesque) were studied in the wet prairie-tree island habitat of the southwestern Everglades system during 1988-91. Microhistological analysis of rumen contents revealed that a single plant, swamp lily (Crinum americanum L.), constituted 40.4% of the annual diet by dry weight and occurred in the rumens of 87.7% of 39 adults ( 1 yr in age) and 18 fawns (< 6 mo in age). No other food among the 35 plant items identified in the rumens constituted more than 6.6% dry weight. Swamp lily was the top-ranked food by dry weight for adult females (53.3%), adult males (29.6%), fawn females (27.1%), and fawn males (31.6%). Diet, by food category (e.g., aquatic herbs, woody plants) did not differ between the winter dry season and the summer wet season. Adult females consumed more aquatic herbs (69.8% dry weight) than adult males (38.2%), and, conversely, adult males consumed more woody plants (31.9%) than adult females (18.3%). These dietary differences between adult females and males resulted from the differential use of habitats by the sexes, likely to maximize reproductive success. The diet of fawns did not mirror that of adult females. Fawns consumed more woody plants than did adult females, which probably reflected the use of tree islands by fawns for concealment to avoid predation during their first months of life. 
3878145|Stomach contents were examined from 289 Atlantic sharpnose, Rhizoprionodon terraenovae, 120 blacktip, Carcharhinus limbatus, and 66 finetooth, Carcharhinus isodon, sharks collected from the Mississippi Sound, and the frequency of occurrence (% F) of each prey item was determined for each shark species. Rhizoprionodon terraenovae consumed the highest diversity of prey items, which included teleost fishes (67.0 %), crustaceans (37.0 %), mollusks (8.0 %) and elasmobranchs (2.5 %). Carcharhinus limbatus and C. isodon fed primarily on teleost fishes, which occurred in 94 % and 100 %, respectively, of stomachs that contained prey. All shark species exhibited a medium to high level of dietary overlap, with the highest level of overlap found between C. limbatus and C. isodon. An ontogenetic shift was observed in the dietary habits of R. terraenovae with young sharks feeding primarily on invertebrate prey (65.2 %), and adult sharks feeding primarily on teleosts (69.0 %) and elasmobranchs (5.8 %).
3878146|The Eurycea bislineata (Two-lined salamander) species complex is characterized by extensive geographic genetic fragmentation throughout its range. I tested for sexual isolation and divergence in courtship behavior across a contact zone between E. wilderae and E. cirrigera. I found concordance between patterns of geographic genetic fragmentation and sexual isolation that suggests that divergence in the mate-recognition systems of E. cirrigera and E. wilderae prevents free gene exchange across their contact zone. In addition, the courtship behavior of the E. bislineata complex provides insights into alternative hypotheses of evolution of the mental gland and pheromone delivery behavior in plethodontid salamanders.
3878147| The breeding chronology of Florida Snail Kites (Rostrhamus sociabilis plumbeus) was studied at 6 wetlands in central and south Florida during 1987-1993. Average hatch date pooled for all nests was 27 April  36.1 days and ranged from 10 February to 29 August (n = 630 nests). Significant differences in mean hatch dates existed between wetlands and among years at individual wetlands. While hatch date was not correlated with longitude, there was a significant positive correlation between hatch date and latitude suggesting a general increase in hatch date as nesting progressed north. Snail Kite breeding cycles did not appear to be closely associated with water levels during the January to July period at either Lake Kissimmee or Lake Okeechobee. Kite breeding also did not appear to be closely associated with air temperatures during the same period at either Lake Kissimmee or Lake Okeechobee. However, the passing of cold fronts early in the year did delay the initiation of new nests. 
3878148|On the central Appalachian Plateau, evergreen trees and shrubs often dominate riparian vegetation. In contrast, deciduous trees dominate upland forests. To evaluate an important aspect of habitat suitability for Neotropical migratory birds, we placed artificial nests baited with a Japanese quail (Corturnix coturnix japonica) egg at regular intervals along successively upland transects paralleling Poplar Lick Run and Little Savage River, Garrett County, Maryland. Nests were alternated between 0-0.5 m and 1-2 m heights and were exposed for 12 days during each of four trials in 1990, and 12 days during each of six trials in 1991. Egg predation was typically higher within 50 m of these streams than farther from them. Although artificial nests may not truly represent natural nests and the losses incurred by nesting birds, our results should alert land managers and conservationists to a potential problem and stimulate further research into the suitability of existing, evergreen riparian zones for nesting Neotropical migrants.
3878003|Migrating hawks were observed at Fort Morgan, Alabama during autumn 1995-1998. The three most abundant migrants were Sharp-shinned Hawk (Accipiter striatus), Broad-winged Hawk (Buteo platypterus) and American Kestrel (Falco sparverius). The three species accounted for 84% of all observations. Most individuals (> 80%) were seen heading west. Compared with days with east and south winds, days with north winds were associated with significantly higher passage rates for all species, and passage rates of Broad-winged Hawks were significantly higher on days when both a cold front and north winds occurred than on days with north winds only. Hawks flew higher on east winds than on north and south winds, suggesting that hawks fly lower in winds that may blow them out over the Gulf of Mexico.
3878004|We re-evaluate the distribution of the swamp rabbit (Sylvilagus aquaticus) in Southeast Missouri. We developed a list of 276 sites that were identified by the Missouri Department of Conservation as potential swamp rabbit habitat. Most of these sites were surveyed initially in 1992. We visited 245 of these sites in an effort to establish the presence or absence of swamp rabbits. Presence of swamp rabbits was based on scat deposition on down logs or stumps, presence of skulls or carcasses, sightings of live swamp rabbits, reports by trappers, or kills made by hunters. Logistic regression analysis was used to quantify the relationship between site area and likelihood of swamp rabbit presence. A patch size of approximately 48.6 ha was required to ensure a 50% likelihood of swamp rabbits in 1992, whereas in 2001 only 40.5 ha were required. No significant improvement in the distribution of swamp rabbits has occurred in Missouri since 1992.
3878005|Depressional wetlands provide habitat for birds, mammals, reptiles, amphibians, invertebrates, and rare plant species. In order to protect, restore, and manage depressional wetlands, it is important to know more about the vegetative composition and productivity of these systems. The species composition and aboveground productivity of three seasonally flooded depressional forested wetlands were studied on the coastal plain of South Carolina from January 2000 to January 2001. The dominant tree species in the depressions were Taxodium distichum [L.] Rich., Nyssa aquatica L., and Nyssa sylvatica var. biflora [Walt.] Sarg. Annual diameter at breast height (dbh) growth was measured for all trees >10 cm dbh in five 20 x 25 m plots within each depression, and changes in dbh were used to estimate annual biomass and stem production. Aboveground net primary productivity (ANPP) was calculated for each wetland by summing stem and leaf litter production. There were no significant differences in ANPP among sites, ranging from <tex-math>$564-774 grams/m^{2}/yr$</tex-math>. These ANPP values are similar to values reported for slowly flowing forested wetland systems of the southern United States.
3878006|Field studies in the Gus Engeling Wildlife Management Area, which consists of approximately 4465.5 ha (11,034.1 acres) of the Post Oak Savannah of Anderson County, have resulted in an annotated checklist of the vascular flora corroborating its remarkable species richness. A total of 930 taxa (excluding family names), belonging to 485 genera and 145 families are recorded. Asteraceae (124 species), Poaceae (114 species), Fabaceae (67 species), and Cyperaceae (61 species) represented the largest families. Six Texas endemic taxa occur on the site: Brazoria truncata var. pulcherrima (B. pulcherrima), Hymenopappus carrizoanus, Palafoxia reverchonii, Rhododon ciliatus, Tradescantia humilis, and T. subacaulis. Within Texas, Zigadenus densus is known only from the study area. The area also has a large number of species that are endemic to the West Gulf Coastal Plain and Carrizo Sands phytogeographic distribution patterns. Eleven vegetation alliances occur on the property, with the most notable being sand post oak-bluejack oak, white oak-southern red oak-post oak, and beakrush-pitcher plant alliances.
3878007|The objective of this study was to assess whether differences in abundance of white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) were related to habitat features within and surrounding 60 sampled bottomland forest patches. Habitat features included patch size, patch shape, and landuse within a 300-m buffer surrounding each patch. During 18,000 trap nights, we captured 1,308 white-footed mice within approximately 3,110 ha of bottomland forest. Type of habitat surrounding a patch was a significant determinant of white-footed mouse abundance. Sample sites where less than 10 individuals were captured were surrounded by a large percentage of upland deciduous forest and a low percentage of urban/other habitats. Sample sites where 30 or more individuals were captured were surrounded by a large percentage of urban/other habitats and a small percentage of upland deciduous forest. Sites where 10-29 individuals were captured were surrounded by intermediate amounts of upland deciduous forest and urban/other habitat. Although deciduous forest is necessary, it may not be the primary determinant of white-footed mouse abundance. Unsuitable habitat may surround and create islands of high density from which successful dispersion is difficult.
3878008|In northern regions, ruffed grouse (Bonasa umbellus) conserve considerable energy during winter by burrowing under snow cover to roost. When conditions are unsuitable for snow burrowing grouse almost invariably roost in conifers. We studied selection of winter night roosts by ruffed grouse in western Virginia, a region where snow accumulations are rare and transient. Grouse almost always used ground roosts when snow was present even though snow was never deep enough for snow burrowing. When snow was absent grouse did not show any clear preference in roost microsite type, and were found roosting in and under deciduous and evergreen trees and shrubs, in brush piles, and in leaf litter. We hypothesize that this ambivalence to conifers was due in part to persistent accumulations of fallen oak leaves, which likely afford grouse good thermal cover and concealment. Grouse were frequently found at low elevations during daytime, but rarely roosted in bottoms. This suggests daily elevational movements, possibly to avoid cold air settling in low-lying areas during night.
3878009|We studied the federally threatened eastern indigo snake (Drymarchon couperi) from 1992 to 2002 in southeastern Georgia, including a 4-year mark-recapture study conducted on the Fort Stewart Military Reservation. Indigo snakes in this region are sexually dimorphic in size, with males attaining greater maximum lengths. Subadult and small adult snakes grow more rapidly than larger adults. Georgia specimens prey on a variety of vertebrates, including juvenile gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus). The return of adult indigo snakes to the same sandhills in multiple years has conservation and management significance. Long-term population monitoring of indigo snakes is feasible and may yield valuable information.
3878010|A new species of diatom, Meridion alansmithii sp. nov. is formally described from a soft-water montane wetland in western North Carolina, U.S.A. Meridion alansmithii is characterized by its shape in valve view, its range of length, diminished costae near the foot pole, and the location of the rimoportula. This species occurs in isolated habitats in the ancient landscape of the Southern Appalachians, an area well-known for high biodiversity and endemism in other groups of organisms.
3878011|I report an observation of singing by a Canada Warbler (Wilsonia canadensis) in basic or female plumage. The individual was observed three times over a period of 5 days. The timing of the observation in the annual cycle of this species suggests this to be the first reported example of singing by a female Canada Warbler. Previous reports of female song in the congeneric Wilson's Warbler (Wilsonia pusilla) and Hooded Warbler (Wilsonia citrina) support this inference.
3878012|Predators of caterpillars (Lepidoptera larvae) can indirectly enhance economic gains from plant resources by reducing herbivore damage to plants. For this study, we directly observed predation of caterpillars on understory trees in the Ozarks. Our objectives were to determine the relative importance of diurnal guilds of caterpillar predators, the time of day most diurnal predation events occur, and whether predators spend more time feeding in open or closed canopy areas. Once per month, June-September, we tethered caterpillars to understory saplings and recorded all predation events. Only invertebrate predators were observed feeding on caterpillars, and most predation events were attributed to ants and vespids (wasps, hornets and yellow jackets). Predation by vertebrate predators such as birds, small mammals, reptiles and amphibians was not observed. Most predation events took place at mid-day between 1200 and 1600 hrs. Predation pressure differed significantly over the four observation dates with peak ant predation in July and peak vespid predation in September. Canopy environment appeared to influence predation events as there was a trend towards higher vespid predation of caterpillars on open canopy as opposed to closed canopy saplings. Ants and vespids accounted for 90% of observed predation events; therefore they appear to be important predators of caterpillars during the summer months. Future studies at earlier sampling dates would be valuable in determining whether the relative importance of other diurnal guilds of caterpillar predators might be greater in the spring.
3878013|The Greater Chassahowitzka Ecosystem (GCE) in west central Florida supports one of the smallest black bear (Ursus americanus floridanus) populations (< 20 adults) in North America. Females were markedly older (8.9 years) than those in other bear populations and recruitment appears infrequent. Mean annual home ranges (<tex-math>$male: \bar{X} = 105 km^2$</tex-math>; <tex-math>$female: \bar{X} = 31 km^2$</tex-math>) tended to be smaller than those observed in other Florida populations. Habitat was used in proportion to what was available in the GCE with a tendency to select bottomland hardwood forest. Habitat beyond the inhabited core area was dominated by anthropogenic land uses, less forest, and was not used by GCE bears. Land management must focus on maintaining the quality of existing habitat and facilitating connectivity with other black bear populations.
3878014|We developed an Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) for wadeable Ozark Highland streams in Arkansas by using fish-assemblage data from 96 stream sites. All sites were classified as reference or non-reference based on both subjective and objective information, and we used uni- and bivariate statistics to examine 39 potential IBI metrics. Seven metrics were chosen for the IBI. They were percent (of individuals) as algivorous/herbivorous, invertivorous, and piscivorous; percent with black spot or an anomaly; percent green sunfish Lepomis cyanellus, bluegill L. macrochirus, yellow bullhead Ameiurus natalis, and channel catfish Ictalurus punctatus; percent invertivorous; percent top carnivores; number of darter Etheostoma and Percina, sculpin Cottus, and madtom Noturus species; and number of lithophilic spawning species. Trophic metrics contributed most to IBI scores, and metrics were most often correlated with chloride, nutrient, land use, road density, and sedimentation levels, which suggests that our IBI should be able to successfully differentiate stream conditions in wadeable Ozark Highland streams of Arkansas.
3877976|Abundance, diversity, and richness of herpetofaunal species were compared between burned and unburned bottomland hardwood stands at Di-Lane Plantation Wildlife Management Area (WMA) in Burke County, Georgia, from July to October 2001. Two trap clusters, each consisting of a drift fence pitfall array, four coverboards, and three polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe refugia, were randomly placed within each of three burned and three unburned stands. Habitat variables were measured within a 0.04-ha circular plot centered on each trap cluster. A total of 346 individuals, representing 21 species, was captured in 348 array nights. Amphibian abundance, diversity, and richness were similar between burned and unburned stands. Reptile abundance and diversity were greater in burned stands, whereas reptile species richness was similar between burned and unburned stands. Winter burns did not significantly affect coarse woody debris volumes between burned and unburned stands and may have accounted for similar amphibian abundance, diversity, and richness. Greater reptile abundance and diversity in burned stands likely was a result of decreased ground cover providing greater thermoregulatory opportunities.
3877977|The Tallapoosa darter (Etheostoma tallapoosae) is only found in the Piedmont portion of the Tallapoosa River system which spans Georgia and Alabama. Particularly in western Georgia headwaters, the habitat of this darter is potentially threatened by human population growth. The purpose of this study was to assess the extent of genetic variation and genetic structuring of this species to determine if those populations at greatest risk are genetically unique and would thus raise conservation concerns. Mitochondrial control region and cytochrome b sequences were determined for thirteen populations spanning the length of this species' range. Phylogenetic analysis and analysis of molecular variance shows that while the populations in western Georgia headwaters are not genetically unique, the Tallapoosa darter population is subdivided into genetically divergent populations that can be designated as management units for future monitoring of the species.
3877978|The objective of this study is to investigate hydrocarbon species and amounts released by red mangrove foliage and determine if these quantities warrant future research on atmospheric chemical processing of these compounds. The field investigation took place during July 2001 at Key Largo, Florida Bay, Florida. Foliage still attached to plants was enclosed in cuvettes while air of known flow rates circulated around leaves to study hydrocarbon emissions. Cuvette air samples underwent gas chromatographic analyses to determine species and amounts of hydrocarbons released by mangrove foliage. Red mangrove foliage emits isoprene and trace amounts of the monoterpenes of -pinene, -pinene, camphene, and d-limonene. The mangrove flowers released these latter compounds in amounts ranging from 0.5 to 10 mg (monoterpene) per gram of dry biomass per hour. These fluxes are normalized to the foliage temperature of 30  C. When normalized to the foliage temperature of 30  C and light levels of <tex-math>$1000 \mu mol m^{-2} s^{-1}$</tex-math>, isoprene emission rates as high as <tex-math>$0.092 \pm 0.109 \mu g$</tex-math> (isoprene) per gram of dry biomass per hour were measured. Compared to terrestrial forest ecosystems, red mangroves are low isoprene emitters. During peak flowering periods in the summertime, however, red mangroves may emit sufficient amounts of monoterpenes to alter ground-level ozone concentrations and contribute to biogenic aerosol formation.
3877979|Lists are presented of 79 species of Florida insects, mostly wasps, that have distinctive dark red markings on a black background. Most of these species have more northern relatives (subspecies or congeners) whose markings are yellow rather than red. This apparent replacement of yellow-marked forms by red-marked forms in Florida has occurred at least 31 times in different lineages. Yellow-marked and red-marked species may be sympatric in Florida. Biogeographic details of the phenomenon are poorly known.
3877980|We studied species composition and individual abundance of copepods in the surficial aquifer northeast of Everglades National Park. We identified the spatial distribution of subsurface habitats by assessing the depth of the high porosity layers in the limestone along a canal system, and we used copepods to assess the exchange between surface water and ground water along canal banks, at levels in the wells where high porosity connections to the canals exist. Surface- and ground-water taxa were defined, and species composition was related to areal position, sampling depth, and time. Subsurface copepod communities were dominated by surface copepods that disperse into the aquifer following the groundwater seepage along canal L-3IN. The similarities in species composition between wells along canal reaches, suggest that copepods mainly enter ground water horizontally along canals via active and passive dispersal. Thus, the copepod populations indicate continuous connections between surface- and ground waters. The most abundant species were Orthocyclops modestus, Arctodiaptomus floridanus, Mesocyclops edax, and Thermocyclops parvus, all known in literature from surface habitats; however, these species have been collected in ground water in ENP. Only two stygophiles were collected: Diacylcops nearcticus and Diacyclops crassicaudis brachycercus. Restoration of the Everglades ecosystem requires a mosaic of data to reveal a complete picture of this complex system. The use of copepods as indicators of seepage could be a tool in helping to assess the direction and the duration of surface and ground water exchange.
3877981|We located the endangered rock vole, Microtus chrotorrhinus, at 3 of 59 sites in mixed mesophytic forests in the southern Appalachians. Rock voles were always found within mixed mesophytic habitats characterized by yellow birch, Betula alleghaniensis, rather than mixed mesophytic habitats dominated by other tree species. We compared the tree communities, microhabitat features, and small mammals found within three groups of habitats: sites where M. chrotorrhinus was found, yellow birch habitats where M. chrotorrhinus was not found, and other mixed mesophytic habitats where M. chrotorrhinus was not found. Sites occupied by M. chrotorrhinus had greater amounts of large, rocky substrate, greater incidence of moss, and a more northwest aspect than yellow birch and other mixed mesophytic sites without M. chrotorrhinus. Moreover, sites with rock voles had larger trees and were significantly older than sites without M. chrotorrhinus. Red-backed voles, Clethrionomys gapperi, are readily sampled by live-trap methods and were significantly more abundant at sites with M. chrotorrhinus, and may thus be a promising indicator species. Our results suggest that mixed mesophytic forests, especially older stands dominated by yellow birch and rocky substrate, should be managed with care to preserve M. chrotorrhinus habitat.
3877982| We present a case study from three topographically distinct stands in an old-growth cross timbers forest in north central Oklahoma. We determined the primary mode of reproduction, i.e., sprouting versus seedling, and population dynamics of small Quercus marilandica and Q. stellata reproduction ( 1 m height) in relation to previous disturbance events and changes in site conditions. Approximately 99 percent of the reproduction were of sprout origin and most were stump sprouts (root crown diameter > 5 cm). Surprisingly, root sprouts were an important component of reproduction across stands, comprising 24 and 30 percent of stems for Q. marilandica and Q. stellata, respectively. Mode of reproduction varied by stand, with seedling sprouts (root crown diameter  5 cm) occurring more frequently on the most xeric site. Stem growth rates increased from xeric to mesic stands and were highest for stump sprouts. Stem longevity was similar across stands and mode of reproduction and was probably limited by low available light. Despite the relatively short life span of aboveground stems (X  ~ 6, tap-roots of seedling sprouts were capable of prolonged persistence (X  ~ 20 years) through recurrent dieback and sprouting. Stem age structure indicated disturbance encouraged sprouting, as evidenced by increasing populations following fire and declining densities in the absence of perturbation. Seedling establishment for both species appeared to be episodic, as determined by age of tap-roots. Establishment by acorns probably provides a minimal input to oak populations on a yearly basis, but is an important component in the auto-accumulation of oak reproduction over time. 
3877983|We sampled a population of two species of hylid treefrogs using 90 vertical ground-placed PVC pipes of 3 diameters positioned along a 1500-m transect at a forest-open pond ecotone in north-central Florida in order to identify potential capture biases. We recorded 1,981 treefrog observations (778 unmarked, 1,203 recaptures) in 8 months. Our results identified species-specific seasonal and weather-related variation in capture by pipe diameter and pipe location. These biases may limit the usefulness of this sampling technique when monitoring long-term treefrog population status and trends.
3877984| Arthropods compose a large proportion of biological diversity and play important ecological roles as decomposers, pollinators, predators, prey, and nutrient cyclers. We sampled ground-occurring macroarthropods in intact gaps created by wind disturbance, in salvage-logged gaps, and in closed canopy mature forest (controls) during June 1998-May 1999 using drift fences with pitfall traps. Basal area of live trees, shade, and leaf litter coverage and depth were highest in controls and lowest in salvaged gaps. Coarse woody debris (CWD) cover was greater in intact gaps than in salvaged gaps or controls, but decay was more advanced and CWD had less bark in controls than gaps. We captured 2,390 grams (dry biomass) of > 28,000 macroarthropods in 21 orders and 66 identified families. Among orders, Coleoptera (36.4%), Hymenoptera (12.2 %), Orthoptera (11.7%), Araneae (7.1%), Julida (5.9%), Spirobolida (5.7%), and Scolopendromorpha (5.5%) were numerically dominant, whereas Coleoptera (44.0%), Spirobolida (19.9%), Orthoptera (12.8%), Julida (6.8%), and Scolopendromorpha (5.0%) composed the majority of dry biomass. Total macroarthropod abundance and biomass were greater in forested controls than in intact or salvage-logged gaps, and was highest in summer, followed by fall, then spring, and lowest in winter. Differences among treatments were attributable to a higher abundance of Carabidae, Julida, Scolopendromorpha, Spirobolidae, and Araneae in forested controls than in gaps. Sclerosomatidae and Gryllidae were more abundant in salvaged gaps than in intact gaps or controls. Overall, mid-sized macroarthropods were more abundant than small (< 5 mm) or large ( 30 mm) macroarthropods, but those  15.0 mm were more abundant in the controls. Small macroarthropods were most abundant in fall and winter, but those  5.0 mm were most abundant in summer and fall. Important questions that remain include whether reductions in macroarthropod numbers and biomass at the levels observed are likely to adversely impact vertebrate predators, and at which scales do impacts become a conservation issue. 
3877985|Yellow jackets (Hymenoptera: Vespidae) are attracted to the typically ant-dispersed seeds of trilliums and will take seeds from ants in the genus Aphaenogaster. To determine if yellow jacket, Vespula maculifrons (Buysson), presence interferes with seed foraging by ants, we presented seeds of Trillium discolor Wray to three species (A. texana carolinensis Wheeler, Formica schaufussi Mayr, and Solenopsis invicta Buren) of seed-carrying ants in areas where vespids were present or excluded. We found that interspecific aggression between yellow jackets and ants is species specific. Vespid presence decreased average foraging time and increased foraging efficiency of two of the three ant species studied, a situation that might reflect competition for a limited food source. We also found that yellow jackets removed more seeds than ants, suggestive that vespids are important, albeit underestimated, components of ant-seed mutualisms.
3877986|Procambarus (Ortmannicus) verrucosus Hobbs, first identified from specimens collected in Alabama south of Tuskegee in the Alabama River drainage, has been collected from five locations in two Georgia counties in the Chattahoochee River drainage. Associated crayfish species and a possible ecological equivalent are identified. Under laboratory conditions, P. verrucosus specimens reproduced from May through August. It appears that the Georgia range of this species may be quite limited, rendering this a species of possible conservation concern.
3877987|Hellbender salamander (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis) populations have received considerable attention over the last few decades and recent studies show declines. We compared C. alleganiensis populations and habitat characteristics of the Little River (LR) in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) of Tennessee, with those of the North Fork of the White River (NFWR), Missouri. We also compared the results of two different sampling methods for obtaining small individuals < 20 cm total length (TL) and gilled larvae. There was no significant difference in the frequency of larvae and adults in LR. There were highly significant differences in the frequency of larvae and adults in the NFWR population and in the proportion of larvae and adults between LR and NFWR. The stream bottom substrate, especially the deep gravel beds of the NFWR, provided a more secure larval habitat than in the LR. We believe this secure larval habitat was a major factor in maintaining large adult populations in NFWR. The less secure larval habitat within the LR makes larvae more susceptible to capture, and coupled with reduced crayfish populations, translates to fewer adult C. alleganiensis. Larvae were more efficiently collected by skin-diving than wading and turning rocks in these habitats. With the exception of the LR population, which is composed of 48% gilled or gilled sized larvae, all recorded populations are almost entirely composed of adult and sub-adult age groups and small larvae, especially gilled larvae are either uncommon or unknown.
3877937|In many areas, small fossorial snakes are among the most abundant vertebrates present; yet, the ecology of these species remains poorly understood. Between 1999 and 2002 we collected 210 small fossorial snakes representing five species in a small area of northern Mecklenburg and southern Iredell Counties, North Carolina. The eastern worm snake (Carphophis amoenus; n = 116) was the most frequently captured species in this region, with fewer numbers of ringneck snakes (Diadophis punctatus; n = 44), brown snakes (Storeria dekayi; n = 24), redbellied snakes (S. occipitomaculata; n = 20), and smooth earth snakes (Virginia valeriae; n = 6). The three most abundant species exhibited significant sexual dimorphism, with females being larger and having shorter relative tail lengths than males. Carphophis amoenus were more abundant in dry upland forest than D. punctatus, which were most prevalent in moist, lowland forest. Snake activity was weakly correlated with environmental conditions. A peak in activity of male C. amoenus, D. punctatus, and S. occipitomaculata during September suggests fall breeding seasons for these species.
3877938| The relationship between predator and prey is dependent on resource availability, the predators' hunting strategy, the prey's suite of antipredatory mechanisms, and the complexity of the habitat. We conducted a laboratory experiment to evaluate background preferences by tadpoles of Bufo woodhousii Girard and the predaceous water bug Belostoma lutarium Stl (Hemiptera: Belostomatidae). Our results indicate that 1) tadpoles switched preference away from black backgrounds when a chemical signal from B. lutarium was introduced, 2) earlier stage tadpoles exhibited a stronger effect than later stage tadpoles in the presence of the predator's chemical signal, 3) hemipterans were observed randomly on both backgrounds but were mostly found associated with vegetative cover, and 4) B. lutarium killed significantly more tadpoles on dark backgrounds compared to light backgrounds. 
3877939|Nolina brittoniana is endemic to the central ridges of peninsular Florida. Its scrub and sandhill habitats have suffered extensive anthropogenic modification. Analysis of isozymes from populations throughout its range revealed less genetic variation than generally reported for endemic plants. Populations were well differentiated, with significant clines in allele frequency along the north-south axis of distribution. Pair-wise F-statistics calculated at four levels of population geographic substructure revealed that current and inferred historical habitat patches had similar genetic structure. We found no evidence of recent bottlenecks or changes in genetic structure due to habitat loss and fragmentation, consistent with populations having always been small, isolated and low density. Our data support preservation of populations from throughout the species' range to meet conservation objectives.
3877940|Conservation planning is only as good as the science on which it relies. This paper evaluates the science underlying the least-cost-path model, developed by Meegan and Maehr (2002), for the Florida panther, Puma concolor coryi. It also assesses the resulting claim that private lands in central Florida are desirable for panther colonization (Maehr et al. 2002a, p. 187; Maehr 2001, pp. 3-4; Maehr and Deason 2002, p. 400). The paper argues that panther conservation planning, as proposed by Maehr, is flawed because of its (1) poor analysis of panther-habitat requirements, owing largely to use of only daytime telemetry, a black-box model, and failure to take account of spatial and temporal uncertainties; (2) use of stipulative and misleading definitions of key biological terms, such as "forest obligate" and panther "dispersal"; (3) employment of question-begging value judgments to rank habitat; (4) weak testing of the model; (5) inconsistency in evaluation of forest habitat; (6) inconsistency in evaluation of agricultural lands; and (7) inconsistency in assessing effects of highways on panther habitat.
3877941|The endangered Florida panther (Puma concolor coryi) shares its shrinking habitat with agriculture, surface mining, and rapid urban growth. Although panthers have extensive home ranges and use diverse land covers, methods that dominate panther habitat evaluation for Endangered Species Act (ESA) consultations and regional land use planning consider only forested day-use elements within the landscape mosaic. Maehr and Deason (2002) present a Panther Habitat Evaluation Model (PHEM) that, in addition to excluding nonforested habitat, reduces the assessed value of forest patches based on criteria for patch size, forest type, proximity to a "core" area, and connectivity to other patches. An examination of the foundations of PHEM is therefore warranted. Building on earlier work that included an evaluation of panther habitat selection studies (Comiskey et al. 2002), we examine PHEM in light of data quality criteria and the panther's known life history requirements. We conclude that the precepts and rules of the PHEM methodology are based on unwarranted assumptions, nonstandard methods of analysis, and exclusion of relevant data, leading to an undue emphasis on day-use land cover and forest patches larger than 500 ha. Large areas of southern Florida that have abundant prey and are intensively used by panthers would score low in PHEM habitat assessments because they lack large forest patches. We discuss the conservation implications of applying a methodology that discounts substantial portions of occupied panther habitat as unsuitable, and describe an alternative approach to habitat definition and evaluation that is both consistent with panther habitat requirements and applicable to conservation decision-making. Conserving sufficient habitat for recovery of the panther extends an umbrella of protection to the many species that dwell within its range.
3877942|We examined the relationship between habitat availability and nest site selection by southern two-lined salamanders (Eurycea cirrigera) during Spring 2002. We added natural slate tiles to two second-order streams in the Georgia Piedmont and surveyed the streams during the nesting season (April). Seventeen nests were found in Boscoe Creek and 20 in Lee Creek. Nesting females ranged from 34-42 mm snout-vent-length (mass: 0.8-1.3 g), and clutch size varied from 10 to 72. Salamanders only nested under tiles in Boscoe Creek (n = 7), which suggests that nest cover-objects may have been limited. Principal component analysis demonstrated that salamander nests were over-represented in shallow areas with gravel/cobble substrata and under-represented in deep areas with silt substratum. We did not detect significant correlations between female size (either SVL or mass) and clutch size, developmental stage of eggs/larvae, nest cover-object volume or surface area, or nest cover-object depth. Future actions (e.g., development, road construction) that increase sedimentation in Piedmont streams may reduce the availability of suitable nesting habitat for these salamanders.
3877943|Allelic variation at hypervariable, nuclear-encoded loci and mitochondrial (mt)DNA was studied among three geographic samples (40 individuals) of the critically endangered Cape Fear shiner, Notropis mekistocholas. Genetic variation, as measured by allelic richness and gene (microsatellite) or nucleon (mtDNA) diversity, was similar to that in other fish species. Homogeneity tests of allele and genotype distributions and analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) at nuclear-encoded loci revealed significant genetic heterogeneity among localities. No differences in mtDNA allele (haplotype) frequencies were detected. The ratio of the number of microsatellite alleles to the range in allele size suggested that significant reductions in effective size have occurred at two of the three localities. Long-term (inbreeding) effective population size differed among the samples and ranged from ~1,300 to ~3,000. Collectively, these results indicate that (i) Cape Fear shiners at these localities are not genetically impoverished, (ii) separate populations of Cape Fear shiners may exist in the Cape Fear drainage, (iii) recent reduction in effective size may have occurred in two of the three localities, and (iv) ancestral populations of Cape Fear shiners may have been of sufficient effective size to offset extinction due to genetic factors.
3877944|We conducted surveys of concrete bridges in southern Mississippi from 2000-2002 to determine the phenological pattern of use by Rafinesque's big-eared bat, Corynorhinus rafinesquii. The earliest dates on which we located maternity colonies were 9 March 2000, 20 April 2001, and 15 May 2002. Maternity colonies increased in size and abundance as spring progressed. Pups were born in mid- to late May (first observed 12 May 2000, 15 May 2001, 27 May 2002) and nursed through midsummer (lactating females last captured 14 July 2000, 25 July 2001, 16 July 2002). Colony size and percentage of bridges occupied by bats declined in late summer. Colonies were absent during fall and winter, although we occasionally found solitary individuals during these seasons. Number of bats present under an occupied bridge ranged from 1 to 25. The mean number of individuals per occupied bridge was 4.6 (SD = 5.8) in 2000, 3.9 (SD = 5.0) in 2001, and 3.0 (SD = 4.4) in 2002. The mean number of adult females per maternity colony was 5.6 (SD = 3.1). Although we found males throughout the study period, females were largely absent from bridges outside of the maternity season, suggesting that much of the population used alternate roosts during this time.
3877945|We compared the efficacy and biases of pitfall trapping and Winkler extraction of sifted leaf litter for sampling the diversity of ground-dwelling ants in native oak-hickory hardwood forest and cultivated pine stands on the Cumberland Plateau in southern Tennessee. Samples yielded 2,635 individuals from 23 species, 17 genera, and 4 subfamilies. According to estimates of expected species richness, our sampling effort inventoried at least 82% of the ant fauna likely to be captured by these methods at a given site. Litter sifting yielded more individuals, more species and more occurrences of most species than did pitfall traps, but neither method captured all species. Most myrmicine and all ponerine species showed a significant bias toward capture by litter sifting, whereas pitfall traps tended to be more effective at capturing large-bodied Camponotus ants and species that forage outside of prime daylight hours, when litter samples were collected. Large pitfalls (75 mm diameter) caught more species and more individuals than small pitfalls (25 mm diameter). The preliminary survey indicated that a change from native hardwood to cultivated pine reduced species richness and altered the assemblage of ant species present, but did not alter community diversity or abundance of ants. Larger scale surveys involving commercial pine plantations are needed for more accurate assessments of how this type of land use change affects local ant diversity and ecosystem functioning.
3877946|A Black-crowned Night-Heron (Nycticorax nycticorax) was observed bill-vibrating, a foraging behavior in which the heron submerged its bill tip in the water and rapidly opened and closed its mandibles creating a disturbance of the water surface. This fish-luring behavior has previously been reported once for a Black-crowned Night-Heron, and for several other heron species. This behavior may be used when algal growth or other water obscuring agents interferes with a heron's vision making visual foraging techniques problematic, and may have enhanced effectiveness because the algae make the predator less likely to be seen.
3877947|The defensive behavior of snakes towards humans has been well documented. Ironically, many of these early studies focused on harmless colubrid species. Knowledge of venomous snake defensive behavior is limited, and further research is necessary to understand how pitvipers react to human confrontations. I performed laboratory tests daily over a period of five days to investigate whether cottonmouths would habituate to handling. Eleven days after the last habituation test, snakes were tested again to see if cottonmouths show a recovery response. Cottonmouths exhibited a significant change in defensive behavior between Day 1 and Day 5 of the experiment. However, they did not significantly revert to their original behavior 11 days later.
3877948|Sediment quality was assessed at multiple sites in the lower Oconee River, GA to identify contaminants potentially affecting the survival of an endemic "At-Risk" species of fish, the robust redhorse (Moxostoma robustum). Five major tributaries that drain urban and agricultural watersheds enter this stretch of river and several carry permitted municipal and industrial effluents containing Cd, Cu, and Zn. Sediments for chemical analyses and toxicity tests with Hyalella azteca (Amphipoda) were collected at 12 locations that included sites above and below the major tributaries. Compared to national data bases and to the nearby Apalachicola-Chattahoochee-Flint watershed, sediments from the Oconee River had elevated concentrations of Cr, Cu, Hg and Zn. Zinc concentrations showed a marked increase in sediment downstream of the confluence of Buffalo Creek demonstrating contributions from permitted municipal and industrial effluents discharged to that tributary. When exposed to these sediments, growth of H. azteca was significantly reduced. Amphipod growth was also reduced when exposed to sediments collected from another site due to toxicity from Cr. Sediments in the lower Oconee River appear to be impaired due to metal contamination and could pose a threat to organisms, such as the robust redhorse, that are closely associated with this matrix during their life cycle.
3877949| Along the southeastern coast of the United States, hardground systems support a high diversity of sub-tropical and tropical fishes. Many of these hardgrounds occur in deep (ca.  50 m) waters and their fauna is still poorly described; however, with concentrated sampling in these deeper areas, new records of fishes continue to emerge. In the northeastern Gulf of Mexico and off North Carolina, we used the Johnson-Sea-Link submersible, remotely operated vehicles, trawling gear, and angling gear to sample deep reef systems (38-248 m). We document five records of fishes new to continental United States waters, including Liopropoma aberrans, Parasphyraenops incisus, Lipogramma regia, Apogon gouldi, and Prognathodes guyanensis. We also report range extensions for eleven species: Gymnothorax hubbsi, Gymnothorax vicinus, Lepophidium staurophor, Cypselurus comatus, Liopropoma mowbrayi, Serranus annularis, Rypticus saponaceus, Caranx lugubris, Prognathodes aculeatus, Centropyge argi, and Canthigaster jamestyleri. 
3877950|Marsh managers along the Gulf Coast Chenier Plain frequently use winter burns to alter marsh vegetation and improve habitat quality for wintering waterfowl. However, effects of these burns on marsh avifauna are not well documented. We recorded abundances of breeding bird species and vegetation structure in burned and unburned control marshes during one breeding season before (1996) and two breeding seasons after (1997, 1998) experimental winter burns. We used non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis to assess the extent and direction of changes in bird community compositions of burned and unburned control marshes and to investigate the influence of vegetation structure on bird community composition. Overall, we found that Seaside Sparrows (Emberizidae: Ammodramus maritimus [Wilson]) and Red-winged Blackbirds and Boat-tailed Grackles (Icteridae: Agelaius phoeniceus [L.] and Quiscalus major Vieillot, respectively) comprised > 85% of observed birds. In burned marshes during the first breeding season following experimental burns (1997), icterid abundance increased while Seaside Sparrow abundance decreased relative to pre-burn (1996) conditions. This pattern was reversed during the second breeding season post-burn. No obvious patterns of change in avian abundance were detected in unburned control marshes over the 3-year period. Qualitative changes in breeding bird community composition were related to effects of winter burning on percent cover of dead vegetation and Spartina patens (Aiton) Muhl.
3878098|The Southeastern American Kestrel (Falco sparverius paulus), a non-migratory subspecies of the widespread American Kestrel, has declined to the point that it is listed as threatened in Florida, the state in which it is most common. We studied the nesting biology of Southeastern American Kestrels in 1999 and 2000 at Eglin Air Force Base, FL, in old-growth longleaf pine savanna, a habitat type historically widely occupied by the kestrels. Most of the nest cavities we observed were in old-growth trees, both living and dead, and were originally excavated by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (Picoides borealis) and then enlarged by other woodpecker species. Nesting success was 70% in 1999 and 56% in 2000. In 1999, 67% of eggs survived to become fledglings in successful nests, as did 58% in 2000. Nests in live pines and snags were equally successful, and nest success was positively related to cavity height in 1999. Reduced nesting success in 2000 may have been related to severe drought conditions. High nesting concentrations of up to <tex-math>$4 pairs per km^2$</tex-math> were observed. We suggest that stands of old-growth longleaf pine, with little or no hardwood midstory and a relatively high number of snags, inhabited by Red-cockaded Woodpeckers, may constitute high quality habitat for Southeastern American Kestrels. Therefore, loss of longleaf pine habitat, degradation of remaining longleaf habitat due to fire suppression and removal of old-growth and snags, and the decline of the Red-cockaded Woodpecker, a species on which kestrels may have depended as a source of nest cavities historically, may have contributed to the decline of the Southeastern American Kestrel.
3878099|Since a comprehensive fish survey in 1968, four impoundments have been constructed in the Bear Creek (Tennessee River drainage) watershed in Alabama (Wall 1968). Data from this original study were compared to a recent survey in order to determine if any changes in fish species composition had occurred during the approximately 30 year time period. A comparison of similarity for 44 collections showed low similarity between the two surveys for a large percentage of sites visited (86% for Jaccard's Similarity and 62% for Morisita Similarity). Sites with low similarity between survey dates were typically associated with impoundments. Most species missing in the recent survey include species considered sensitive, such as cyprinids and percids. Species that have increased since 1968 include centrarchids, a group typically tolerant of impoundment and environmental change. Virtually all fish species composition differences indicate a less pristine fish assemblage in the more contemporary survey, suggesting that recent factors have had a negative effect on the fish assemblage of Bear Creek.
3878100|Benthic meiofauna are important food resources for marine fishes and crustaceans, some of which have important commercial value. Ray feeding activities produce pits that disturb intertidal and subtidal sediments. Our previous research showed that feeding pit formation reduced meiofaunal abundance inside intertidal pits. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the recovery time of meiofauna as the summer season progressed. In July, meiofauna recovered by 4 tidal cycles (within 48 h) after pit formation. In August, meiofaunal numbers took 6-14 tidal cycles (72-168 h) to recover. The longer recovery time later in the summer may be due to the continuous disturbance of the sediments by ray feeding activity, as 16-19% of the intertidal surface area was disturbed by this activity.
3878101|The South Fork Holston River is one of three major tributaries of the Holston River, originating in Smyth County in southwestern Virginia and flowing southwesterly and then northwesterly to where it enters the Holston River at Kingsport, TN. Three dams constructed in the 1950s, Fort Patrick Henry, Boone and South Holston, impounded the entire stretch of river flowing through Tennessee. Identification of shell recovered from two prehistoric aboriginal sites, Eastman Rockshelter (40SL34) and Site 40SL330, and from two collections of relic shells plus species recorded from four localities by Ortmann (1918), provide evidence for a diverse and abundant naiad fauna prior to impoundment. Thirty-five species of mussels historically inhabited stretches of the South Fork Holston River flowing through Tennessee; all have been extirpated. Populations of Actinonaias pectorosa, Lampsilis fasciola, Fusconaia subrotunda, and Ptychobranchus subtentum appear to have been four of the most abundant naiads inhabiting the river. In addition to the Asian clam, Corbicula fluminea, the giant floater (Pyganodon grandis) and paper pondshell (Utterbackia imbecillis) are invader species now common throughout the reservoirs.
3878102|During 2000-2002 we surveyed for salamanders in the larger limestone caves of Mississippi, all within the Vicksburg Group rock unit. We found four species: Plethodon mississippi was the most abundant, followed by Eurycea guttolineata, Eurycea cirrigera, and Desmognathus conanti. We did not find Pseudotriton montanus in any of the caves, and question the validity of an investigator's statement made nearly 45 years ago that, "it is one of the most numerous salamanders in Mississippi limestone caves." The salamander fauna we found is similar to that of the only other comprehensive survey of salamanders in Mississippi caves, conducted almost thirty years ago.
3878103|I conducted a mark-recapture study of Siren lacertina and Amphiuma means for one year at a lake in north Florida and documented average individual movement, size class distribution, seasonal activity patterns, survival rates, and density estimates. I captured Siren lacertina more frequently in winter and A. means more frequently in spring. Recapture probabilities of both species were low, whereas survival rates and density estimates (<tex-math>$1.3 salamanders/m^2$</tex-math> for S. lacertina, <tex-math>$0.28 salamanders/m^2$</tex-math> for A. means) were high. I recorded no individual movement of over 10 m for either species. Sirens and amphiumas are large, predatory generalists that can have substantial biomass in wetlands (<tex-math>$233 g/m^2$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$44 g/m^2$</tex-math>, respectively, at this study site), and therefore can impact many other wetland species. Thus, more attention must be focused on evaluating and monitoring their populations.
3878104|We document the occurrence of the Bird-voiced Treefrog (Hyla avivoca), at 32 sites in the upper Ouachita River system of Arkansas, including specimens from the Little Missouri and Saline River tributaries. This more than doubles the total number of sites from which this frog is known in Arkansas, and the distributional limit coincides with the interface of the Ouachita Mountains and the Gulf Coastal Plain. West of the Mississippi River, only a few localities are known for this species in Oklahoma and Louisiana, making the Arkansas populations important for the conservation of the species.
3878105|A recent study suggested that reproductive nest-association of nonindigenous rough shiner {Notropis baileyi) may be contributing to changes in abundances of native bluehead chubs (Nocomis leptocephalus) and bandfin shiners (Luxilus zonistius) in the Chattahoochee River system. We used videorecording techniques to determine whether rough shiners associate with nests built by native fishes, and if so, whether they influence the reproduction of other native nest-associates. Results indicated that rough shiners did not appear to adversely affect native fish reproductive behavior, and in fact, may be competitively excluded from optimal spawning areas by other nest-associates. These results support the hypothesis that reproductive nest-association by nonindigenous rough shiner may facilitate its increase as well as the increase of bluehead chubs within this drainage. Previously unreported spawning behaviors of rough shiner are also described.
3878106|An association between vine habit and cordate leaf shape in higher plants has been reported, but previous comparative analyses have not taken into account phylogenetic history. We surveyed the flora of the Carolinas and used phylogenetic comparative methods to test the hypothesized relationship. We found 25 phylogenetically independent vine taxa in the Carolina flora and, for each, attempted to identify its hypothesized non-vine sister taxon based upon recent phylogenetic studies. Using conservative criteria for vine habit and leaf shape determinations, a sign test revealed a significant association between the two traits. The addition of taxa for which information was slightly more ambiguous increased the strength of the association. Our findings suggest that convergence in leaf shape of vine taxa may result from a selective advantage of cordate leaves in plants with a climbing habit. We discuss possible adaptive explanations for the observed association.
3878107|The savannah lilliput (Toxolasma pullus, Bivalvia: Unionidae) is the only member of its genus represented along the mid-Atlantic slope. The rarity, limited range, and declining status of this species have caused concern among resource managers for its conservation. Little is known about the life history of T. pullus; such information is necessary for recovery of the species. We conducted a fish host trial and examined population demographics of T. pullus from University Lake, NC. Toxolasma pullus appears to be a long-term brooder, brooding into August. Hybrid bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus x L. cyanellus) are suitable hosts for T. pullus, however, other Lepomis species may also serve as hosts. The sex ratio of the population was 1:1. Most specimens of T. pullus were between 4 and 6 years old; the oldest specimen was 9 years of age. Predation by muskrats and raccoons may be an important source of mortality in University Lake.
3878108|The species composition of the Southern Loam Hills was partially inventoried during a study to identify landscape scale land units. Eight land units with unique species composition were identified. The study identified 252 species in 83 families and 172 genera. These numbers partially express the plant diversity of the Southern Loam Hills. No riparian or depressional wetlands were included in the study.
3878109|Features of floral anatomy and pollination biology of Cyrilla racemiflora were studied to complement existing data on pollinators. Floral anatomy and development were observed through bright field, fluorescence, and scanning electron microscopy. Pollination biology was investigated through a pollinator-exclusion bagging experiment. During maturation the floral parts undergo a number of color changes, chief among them being the greening of the nectary at the base of the ovary. The bilobed stigma surfaces are of the wet type, the fluid being lipoidal. The ovarian nectary possesses papillate epidermal cells, a distinct cuticle, and stomates through which secretion probably occurs. Petals have an adaxial thickening whose precise function is unknown. Calcium-containing crystals appear at certain sites in the anthers and might influence the process of dehiscence. No self-incompatibility exists as regards pollen-tube germination and growth, although pollination is rare in the absence of a vector. Self-pollination can lead to seed set.
3878110|This paper describes an unmanaged 1930s-era pine-hardwood stand on a minor stream terrace in Ashley County, AR. Probably inventoried as a part of an early growth and yield study, the sample plot was approximately 3.2 ha in size and contained at least 21 tree species. Loblolly pine comprised 39.1% of all stems, followed by willow oak (12.7%), winged elm (9.6%), sweetgum (7.8%), water oak (6.7%), white oak (6.2%), red oak (4.9%), and hickory (4.6%). Pine, sweetgum, and oak dominated the midcanopy and overstory, with few late successional species. Stand basal area averaged <tex-math>$32 m^2/ha$</tex-math>, with 409 live trees/ha. The dominance of shade intolerant species, the lack of very big trees, and a scarcity of snags suggested that this stand was second-growth and likely arose from a disturbance in the mid-19th Century. Because this forest was sampled in the 1930s, its composition and structure should better reflect mature presettlement pine-hardwoods on minor stream terrace sites than modern examples.
3878111|Increasing development north of Charlotte, NC, threatens aquatic life in streams by reducing riparian zones and increasing runoff. Runoff, sedimentation from erosion, and poor construction practices are principal sources of pollution. We asked how land use and disturbance affected benthic insects. We visited nine streams from May to October 2001, collected data on insect diversity, chemistry, and physical habitat. We used a Geographic Information System to delineate watersheds and land use patterns. Watersheds were categorized based on land use, abiotic variables, and disturbance. Insect communities were more diverse in streams draining low disturbance watersheds than in streams draining highly developed watersheds. Sensitive taxa were found in streams with extensively forested watersheds, but were nonexistent in extensively developed watersheds. Disturbances occurring in streams caused declines in diversity, often eliminating sensitive taxa. Aquatic insect diversity is related to land use patterns and disturbances, and anthropogenic alteration of habitat has negative consequences to that diversity.
3878112|The effects of drying and rewetting on rotifer egg bank hatching were examined for three habitats in a mainstem reservoir embayment, Kentucky Lake, KY: a littoral zone with an annual drying and wetting cycle, a floodplain that was only rarely inundated, and a permanently wetted embayment. Hatching from surface sediments also was compared with hatching from sediments 4-10 cm and 14-20 cm deep. Seven rotifer species normally associated with littoral zones and two other zooplankton species hatched from sediments following rewetting. No pelagic species hatched. Surface sediments normally experiencing drying and rewetting cycles had a greater number of species than permanently wetted sediments. Eggs hatched more quickly from deeper than surface sediments. Results demonstrated that reservoir water level fluctuations may play a role in rotifer community dynamics by providing favorable conditions for littoral as well as pelagic species.
3878113|Discarded beverage bottles have been recognized as a source of mortality for small mammals since the 1960s. We walked 4.34 km of moderately to heavily traveled highways and interstate interchanges near Newport News, VA, and counted discarded bottles and vertebrates trapped inside. We found 10,681 bottles, for an average of 2461 bottles/km. Greater numbers of bottles per km were found along heavily-traveled roadways than along moderately-traveled roads. Although only 4% of bottles trapped vertebrates, 795 vertebrates were found in those bottles with an average of 183.2/km of roadway. Most animals killed in bottles were Blarina brevicauda. Other casualties included Peromyscus leucopus, Microtus pinetorum, Mus musculus, Sorex longirostris, Cryptotis parva, lizards, and plethodontid salamanders. Although we found no rare or endangered species, similar numbers of bottles likely occur in areas with species of shrews, rodents, or salamanders whose populations are declining.
3878067|Mottled Ducks (Anas fulvigula) are widely distributed in southeastern coastal marshes, as are American Alligators (Alligator mississippiensis). Although the alligator has been noted to prey upon Mottled Ducks, evidence of Mottled Duck consumption is rare in numerous studies of alligator food habits. This may be due to the season and habitat from which alligators were collected for evaluation (often autumn samples from deep water habitats preferred by adult alligators). We examined stomach contents of alligators in summer (when Mottled Duck broods and molting adults are flightless) from shallow water habitats preferred by Mottled Ducks. Mottled Duck remains were found in 20.9% of 43 alligator stomachs examined, far more than the highest frequency occurrence previously reported (1.27%). Unexpectedly, three relatively small alligators (1.51-1.70 m total length) consumed Mottled Ducks and the sixteen largest alligators did not. This study underscores the importance of season and location of collections when evaluating stomach content data.
3878068|The Spotted Turtle (Clemmys guttata) is declining throughout its range in eastern North America as a result of habitat loss and collection for the pet trade. Although the species has been relatively well-studied in the northern part of its range, little is known about southern populations. We conducted a four-year study on a population of Spotted Turtles in South Carolina. A total of 44 turtles were captured: 21 females, 17 males, 5 juveniles, and 1 hatchling. There was no size dimorphism with respect to carapace length. However, females had longer plastrons, greater shell heights, and heavier body masses than males, likely as a result of the concavity of the male plastron. The adult sex ratio did not differ from 1:1. Estimated adult population size varied annually from 31 to 36 turtles, and density was estimated at 0.36 turtles/ha. This information is important for the creation of management plans to conserve populations across the Spotted Turtle's range.
3878069| Our study appears to represent the western-most report of autumn breeding within this species' range, the first report of potential environmental cues stimulating the occurrence of fall breeding, and the first examination of egg clutches and spermatogenesis from fall breeding populations. We conducted calling surveys throughout the year over a 4 year period extending from 1999-2002 to determine the frequency of fall breeding in this species. Southern Leopard Frogs bred 20 September 2002 during heavy rains. Although we observed sporadic individual calling males in other years, lack of rain seemed to suppress breeding activities despite the presence of flooded agronomic fields and ditches in the region. We characterized 11 egg masses and the testicular condition of three males during years when fall breeding was observed. The number of eggs per mass in the fall was similar to that observed during the spring, but mass-per-egg was nearly twice that observed in studies of spring breeding frogs. The hatching rate for subsamples from these clutches varied between 91 and 100% hatched. Spermatozoa, spermatids, and spermatogonia were evident in nearly all spermatic cysts. The mean maximum spermatic cyst diameter of the three males was 61.24 m (s = 0.0125). Spermatic cyst diameter was significantly different among specimens (ANOVA, F = 20.71, df = 92, p = 0.001) suggesting they were not all expressing the same level of reproductive condition. A Tukey's pairwise comaparisons test indicated all three specimens had significantly different spermatic cyst diameters from each other. We suggest that clutch size may vary geographically and may be related to multiple clutching in this species. 
3878070|Ambystoma mabeei is listed as threatened in Virginia due to its rarity and susceptibility to urbanization and poor forestry practices. The purposes of this study were to determine the composition of the diet of larval A. mabeei and to compare larval diet in different geographic regions to gain insights into the ecology of Virginia populations. Ninety-eight percent (N = 75) of all A. mabeei larvae dissected contained food items. Virginia samples harbored higher loads of gastric parasites (Nematodes) than individuals from other locations. Furthermore, prey species found in the stomachs of Virginia specimens were different than those of conspecifics from more southern locations. Higher loads of gastric parasites in Virginia animals may be related to their diet, which in turn is related to the forest cover over natural ponds. Habitat disturbance and parasite prevalence may have major implications both for larval survival and for the long-term persistence of A. mabeei populations in this portion of their range.
3878071|We surveyed 39 tributaries of the Tallapoosa River drainage in Alabama in an effort to increase the available knowledge of its crayfish fauna. The survey yielded six crayfish species: Cambarus (Depressicambarus) englishi, C. (Depressicambarus) halli, C. (Depressicambarus) latimanus, Orconectes (Tubericambarus) holti, Procambarus (Pennides) spiculifer, and P. (Pennides) versutus. Cambarus englishi and C. halli are endemic to the Piedmont Plateau province of the Tallapoosa drainage, where they were syntopic with each other and with C. latimanus and P. spiculifer. The genus Orconectes has not previously been reported from anywhere within this drainage. Orconectes holti and P. versutus were found only in the Coastal Plain, where O. holti was syntopic with P. spiculifer, but not with P. versutus. The two Procambarus species occupied mutually exclusive sites. Crayfishes were present at sites with lower pH, lower conductivity, shallower riffles, lower stream order, and lower link magnitude than occurred at sites where no crayfish were found. The presence of one or more individual species was significantly correlated with specific environmental factors.
3878072|Samples of the Notropis rubellus complex were collected from 33 localities in Kentucky and Tennessee during the late spring and early summer of 1998-2001. Based on nuptial coloration, scale and fin-ray counts, and body shape, two taxa were diagnosed and recognized as species in the study area. Notropis rubellus (Agassiz) occupies upland streams of the Ohio River basin upstream of the mouth of the Green River and in the Cumberland River drainage above Cumberland Falls. Notropis micropteryx (Cope) occurs in upland streams of the Cumberland River drainage downstream of Cumberland Falls and the Tennessee River and Green River drainages. This species differs from N. rubellus in having modally fewer circumferential scales (23-24 vs. 25-26), modally fewer scales below the lateral line (three vs. four), and less red on the dorsum of the head of nuptial males. Green River populations exhibit more mean scales below the lateral line and slightly more intense red than other N. micropteryx populations. Support for recognition of these taxa as evolutionary species includes zoogeographic evidence in addition to the array of morphological characters.
3878073|Hoplosternum littorale is a South American catfish (Family Callichthyidae) first discovered in the United States in 1995 in Florida. The presence of H. littorale was documented from early 2002 to late 2003 in Lake Tohopekaliga (Kissimmee River Basin) in central Florida. In this paper, 22 H. littorale nests and nest sites are described. The characteristic bubble nests were present from late May to early September, with number of nests peaking in August when water stage and temperature were both high. Nest habitats (shallow, open marshes) and timing of nest construction (rainy season) were similar to what has been reported for H. littorale in its native range. Most nests (n = 14) were in areas dominated by Hydrilla verticillata and constructed largely from parts of this Asian aquatic plant, representing a unique association between two non-native species. Nevertheless, during August, as water levels increased, nesting shifted from H. verticillata-dominated communities to use of inshore grass zones dominated by Luziola fluitans. Knowledge of H. littorale nesting seasonality and habitat preferences may be useful for any efforts to control or manage this invasive fish.
3878074|Woodpeckers in North America are not widely recognized as nest predators. In this paper, we describe several eyewitness accounts of songbird nest predation by Red-bellied Woodpeckers (Melanerpes carolinus), document evidence that songbirds recognize woodpeckers as nest predators, and show that our observations are consistent with previously published notes. We believe that this species, commonly overlooked, may be an important predator of songbird nests in many eastern North American forests.
3878075|We assessed breeding-pair density and habitat associations of Barred Owls (Strix varia) at the edge of their range in north-central Oklahoma in 1995-1996. We played taped calls of Barred Owls to solicit and record responses (visual and auditory) and thereby determine density in our 1155-ha study area. Numbers of owls ranged from 7 pairs in 1995 to 11 pairs in 1996, or 1 Barred Owl pair/105-165 ha in a relatively contiguous bottomland forest. To assess habitat associations, we overlaid core areas of owl activity, as inferred from the locations of Barred Owl responses, on aerial photographs and quantified habitats in a <tex-math>$0.65-km^2$</tex-math> cell surrounding owl core areas. Barred owl pairs were associated with closed-canopy forest (62.8%), fallow agricultural fields (10.6%), water (8.1%), and treeless (open) areas (6.2%), which differed from single owls (presumed nonbreeders) that showed a greater affinity for open-canopy forest and agricultural fields.
3878076|Previous studies of the relationship between acorn production and Peromyscus populations have been conducted in regions with severe winter climate where winter breeding is rare. I trapped white-footed mice, Peromyscus leucopus, in a southern Piedmont oak-hickory forest during autumn and winter for four consecutive years to determine how acorn availability influences winter reproduction in P. leucopus. Acorn production in years 1 and 4 of the study was over 10 times higher than in years 2 and 3. Peromyscus leucopus density was highest in winters following large mast crops, but also increased following a low mast crop in year 3. Body weight was significantly lower during one of the poor mast years, but not the other. More than 50% of female mice were reproductively active during all four winters of the study. Thus, P. leucopus responded positively to high mast availability, but mice remained reproductively active even in poor mast years.
3878077|A survey of the vascular flora of Dale County, AL, was conducted from August 1999 through December 2000. Dale County consists of 145,039 ha in the southeastern section of Alabama and occurs entirely within the Coastal Plain Province. Plants were collected from all major habitats within the county, including xeric and mesic woods, fields, floodplains, and swamps. Additionally, a search of the pertineant literature was conducted, and the herbaria at Troy University (TROY), Auburn University (AUA), and The University of Alabama (UNA) were searched for taxa not collected during this study. A total of 921 species, representing 458 genera and 142 families, were found within the county. The largest families were Asteraceae (121 species), Poaceae (94 species), and Fabaceae (75 species). Twenty-one of the taxa documented for this study are globally or state ranked for rarity of occurrence.
3878078|Species composition, extent of coverage, biomass and factors influencing the distribution of submerged aquatic vegetation were determined within <tex-math>$428 10-m^2$</tex-math> plots located along the 213-km Piedmont section of the 6th order James River, VA. The six species of submerged plants dominant in the river were ranked in abundance as follows: Heteranthera dubia > Elodea spp. > Potamogeton pectinatus > Vallisneria americana > P. illinoensis > Najas guadalupensis. The combined air-dry biomass of all species of submerged plants in the river increased rapidly from a minimum in May of <tex-math>$3 g/m^2$</tex-math> to <tex-math>$55 to 75 g/m^2$</tex-math> from July through October. Thirty-six percent of the riverbed along the 213 km of river was covered by submerged plants, with coverage peaking at nearly 60% of the riverbed in the middle section of the river. Stepwise regression analysis showed a weak relationship (<tex-math>$R^2 \leq 0.12$</tex-math>) between the distribution of plants and type of substratum, water depth, and water velocity. Digitial multi-spectral videography (DMSV) of submerged aquatic vegetation revealed the estimated coverage by plants of specific areas of the river bottom differed by a mean of 11% when comparing the DMSV data with that estimated visually from a boat, showing that this form of remote sensing can be used for broad scale detection and monitoring of submerged riverine macrophytes.
3878079|In the active delta of the Mississippi River, Phragmites australis occurs in large contiguous stands of predominantly two clonal genotypes. We determined morphological variability among and within clones in this environment. Eight morphological variables were measured on culms from eight clonal populations within three subdeltas. Six populations were from the two dominant genotypes, whereas two populations were of two recombinant genotypes. All eight populations were genetically assessed from previous isozymic analysis. Culm, leaf and panicle morphology varied significantly between the two predominant genotypes, whereas the morphology of the two recombinant genotypes generally fell intermediate to that of both dominant genotypes. Morphological differences found within genotypes among the three subdeltas demonstrated phenotypic plasticity within P. australis. Morphological variability across subdeltas is likely the result of one or several environmental factors related to water depth or substrate quality.
3878080|We conducted a landscape-level survey of Microstegium vimineum (Trin.) A. Camus (Japanese grass, Nepal grass) at the Oak Ridge National Environmental Research Park to: (1) document the distribution of this species, (2) measure several important characteristics of the populations and invaded habitats, (3) identify biotic and abiotic environmental factors that may limit its distribution, and (4) quantify its response to environmental gradients. We found that M. vimineum exhibits the broad environmental tolerance of many "weedy" species, and it appears that no single variable explains presence or performance. Presence of M. vimineum was correlated only with soil pH, whereas M. vimineum performance was positively correlated with canopy openness and biomass of other species. Explanatory variables differed among sites, which suggests that other factors (such as disturbance or dispersal) may be locally important, or that different factors may interact to control the distribution and performance of this species at any given site. The nearly ubiquitous presence of M. vimineum along roads and trails in the study area, and the frequent incursion of roadside populations into adjacent forested habitat, highlights the importance of early control of source populations at forest edges.
3878019|The Nile Monitor (Varanus niloticus), the longest lizard in Africa, was first observed in southwestern peninsular Florida in the Cape Coral area of Lee County ca. 1990. From April 2001 through 7 July 2003, we compiled 146 sightings or captures of this species by local residents or ourselves. Numerous individuals of all size classes have been observed or collected, suggesting the occurrence of a reproducing population. Although our records are mostly confined to Cape Coral, our data indicate that V. niloticus has recently expanded its range northwards and to nearby islands. Because this large lizard has the potential to disperse into nearby ecologically sensitive areas and preserves where it could pose a serious threat to waterbirds, Burrowing Owls (Athene cunicularia), sea turtles, and other native wildlife, population monitoring and eradication are warranted.
3878020|American Alligators (Alligator mississippiensis Daudin) are ecological engineers who alter the Everglades landscape through creation and maintenance of small ponds, called alligator holes, that play a key ecological role by providing both drier and wetter habitats for other organisms. The objective of this study was to compare morphology, vegetation, and activity of alligators in twenty natural and nine man-made alligator holes in ridge and slough wetlands of the central Everglades. All alligator holes were circular in shape and excavated to flat limestone substrate. Nine natural alligator holes were associated with tree islands and 11 were surrounded by sawgrass marsh. Man-made alligator holes were adjacent to islands constructed as high water refugia for deer. Marsh alligator holes were smaller and shallower than alligator holes associated with tree islands. Alligator hole size was correlated with water depth. Alligator holes surrounded by marsh had less diversified surroundings and lower species richness than alligator holes associated with tree islands. Alligator holes contained species of vegetation not found in the surrounding marsh. Seventy-nine percent of the alligator holes had signs of recent activity by alligators. Larger alligator holes associated with tree islands had adult and hatchling alligators and smaller marsh alligator holes contained juvenile alligators. Understanding the ecological role of alligator holes will be critical to planning and evaluating restoration of the Everglades ecosystem.
3878021|We conducted a 13-year study of a stream community of eight turtle species in a west-central Florida spring-run. A major shift towards smaller species is apparent when this study is compared to another made at the same locality six decades earlier. Over the duration of our study, sizes of Pseudemys concinna and P. floridana populations appeared to increase, though not to the levels of six decades previously. Average adult size for both species also increased significantly; these changes may reflect enhanced levels of protection. Growth rates of P. concinna and P. floridana vary throughout life and appear to be strongly seasonal. In light of constant water temperature and abundant food, we suggest that basking behaviors may limit growth, and the availability of basking sites may be critical to the health of the population. Data on sexual dimorphism in P. concinna and P. floridana are also presented.
3878022|Loggerhead sea turtles Caretta caretta (Linnaeus) were sampled (n = 304) for epibionts while nesting in Georgia from 1998-2003. Twelve newly documented epibiont species were observed and represent the first records of a hermit crab and a sea star as sea turtle epibionts. We report some physical, behavioral and ecological characteristics of the newly documented epibionts, particularly because nothing is known of their life history in Georgia as sea turtle epibionts. We also discuss the role of epibiotic crabs as facultative associates of loggerhead turtles.
3878023|A hierarchical clustering technique was used to classify sites in the upper Tennessee River basin based on relative abundance of fish species. Five site groups were identified. These groups differed mainly by the occurrence of minnow and darter species. Drainage area and ecoregion were the primary factors explaining the differences among groups; elevation and human influence were of secondary importance. The Blue Ridge site group had the most distinct fish assemblage, large-river sites supported the highest species richness, and the upper Ridge and Valley sites contained the highest percentages of environmentally sensitive species. These results can provide a regional framework for management and conservation activities.
3878024|Fish assemblages were sampled from streams in Mississippi (fall 2000-2003) allowing a comparison of fish species diversity across drainages and years. Because species diversity is dependent on sample size, we used rarefaction to compare richness and evenness across drainages at a standardized abundance. Rarefied richness was higher in northern drainages (Tennessee, Tombigbee, Lower Mississippi North) than in southern drainages (Pearl, Pascagoula, Lower Mississippi South). Rarefied evenness did not differ across drainages. Diversity and species composition at localities were relatively similar across time. Local diversity was not associated with regional diversity, supporting the idea that local ecological factors limit the number of coexisting species. Higher diversity of the Lower Mississippi North, Tennessee, and Tombigbee drainages is strongly related to their biogeographical history.
3878025|Planimetric comparisons of home range sizes of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus Zimmermann) from across their range may not be appropriate due to regional differences in topography. We compare seasonal topographic diversity between male and female white-tailed deer home ranges in the central Appalachians using percent increase from planimetric to topographic areas as a measure. Mean percent increase in home range size for all deer-seasons combined was 3.1 (range = 1.3-6.4). No differences in percent increase in home range areas occurred between sexes or among seasons. The relatively low percent increase in home range area and lack of variation between sexes and among seasons validates the common practice of comparing planimetric home range sizes from different geographic areas.
3878026|We report a sighting, supported by DNA evidence from a scat, of a cougar (Puma concolor) in southeastern Louisiana. The 16S-rRNA genotype obtained from mtDNA is one that is common throughout North America, making it difficult to determine the origin of the individual. Based on DNA and hair scale analysis, the scat contained the partially digested remains of a dog (Canis familiaris) and an eastern cottontail (Sylvilagus floridanus), indicating that the individual was successfully foraging on locally occurring prey.
3878027|Proper den sites are crucial to the reproduction of female black bears (Ursus americanus). We monitored 31 bears for 39 bear winters in the Southern Appalachians with 95% of the bears confirmed to have denned. Bears denned in trees (41%), rock cavities (32%), excavations (14%), snags (8%), and ground nests (5%). Chestnut oak (Quercus prinus; n = 9), red oak (Q. rubra; n = 8), and tulip-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera; n = 1) were used as tree dens. Habitat characteristics did not differ between ground dens and tree dens; however, older bears used ground dens more frequently than tree dens (Z = -2.484, P = 0.013). We documented one instance of den reuse. Our results provide managers with more accurate information about black bear dens.
3878028|We evaluated breeding bird communities in forested streamside zones in eastern Texas to determine threshold widths of riparian forest that were associated with the addition of mature-forest-breeding birds and loss of shrub-breeding birds. We observed an association of shrub-breeding birds with narrow streamside zones and an increasing number of mature forest species within wider streamside zones. Streamside zones also provided song perches for many shrub breeding species. Although many bird species increased or decreased in a generally linear pattern as streamside zone width increased, some species appeared to have threshold widths associated with their presence. The Acadian Flycatcher (Empidonax virescens), Yellow-throated Vireo (Vireo flavifrons), and Yellow-billed Cuckoo (Coccyzus americanus) seemed to require at least 70 m of forest width before their abundance increased. In contrast, the Blue Grosbeak (Passerina caerulea), Painted Bunting (Passerina ciris), and Prairie Warbler (Dendroica discolor) decreased markedly at widths greater than 20 m and were absent after streamside zone widths increased beyond 70 m. We were unable to detect a relationship between streamside zone width and abundance of 11 species of birds. Uncut forested streamside zones within pine plantations provided a variety of habitat for forest-breeding and shrub-breeding birds that would not have been present had streamside zones been cut during harvesting operations. Our results provide important information to help forest managers balance the habitat requirements of both shrub-breeding and forest-breeding birds when they harvest timber in southern pine forests.
3878029|Habitat use and reproductive success of the Brown-headed Nuthatch (Sitta pusilla Latham) were studied in East Texas during the 2001-2002 breeding seasons. We compared nest cavity selection at used and randomly selected non-used areas. Height of nest trees, midstory density, and percent leaf litter were negatively correlated with nest site selection. Brown-headed Nuthatches showed a strong preference for short snags; yet placed their nest cavity entrances near the top of the snags. While nuthatches may be selecting for habitats with little or no midstory density, percent of leaf litter in the nest sites is most likely the consequence of frequent burning. No significant differences among habitat variables and snag characteristics were found between successful and failed nest cavities. Additionally, no habitat variables were correlated with the number of chicks fledged per nest. Predation was the major cause of nest failure in this study.
3878030|The Cuban Treefrog, Osteopilus septentrionalis, is an invasive, non-native species whose range is rapidly expanding throughout Florida and may be a significant predator of native treefrogs. To investigate the attractiveness of various sized native Green Treefrogs as prey to Cuban Treefrogs, we conducted laboratory experiments where we offered very large Cuban Treefrogs the choice of arthropods (crickets), conspecifics, and Green Treefrogs. We found that all prey types were consumed by the very large Cuban Treefrogs over the course of the feeding trials. When given the choice of crickets or treefrogs as prey, more of the very large treefrogs ate just crickets and crickets were usually consumed before treefrogs. While not indicating a selection or preference for predation on other treefrogs, our trials did show that Cuban Treefrogs will eat both Green Treefrogs and conspecifics and could have a negative impact on native hylids by removing reproductively mature individuals from the population.
3878031|This paper reports the results of an inventory of the vascular plants at the Hugo Wildlife Management Area in southeastern Oklahoma. A total of 573 specific and interspecific taxa of vascular plants in 359 genera and 113 families were collected. The most commonly collected were of the families Poaceae (75), Asteraceae (76), Fabaceae (40), and Cyperaceae (38). One hundred sixty-four species were annuals or biennials, and 409 were perennials. Ninety-seven species of woody plants were present. Fifty-one exotic species were collected representing 9% of the flora. Fourteen species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were found. This study reports 256 species previously not documented in Choctaw County.
3878032|We used drift fences with pitfall traps to compare soricid abundance, richness, and demographic parameters among intact multiple-tree windthrow gaps, salvaged gaps, and mature forest in a xeric southern Appalachian forest type during 1997-1999. We also tested whether capture rates were correlated with rainfall, and whether similar-sized species did not co-occur as predicted by multi-species assemblage rules. We captured six species: Blarina brevicauda (Say) (northern short-tailed shrew), Cryptotis parva (Say) (least shrew), Sorex cinereus Kerr (masked shrew), S. fumeus G.M. Miller (smoky shrew), S. hoyi Baird (pygmy shrew), and S. longirostris Bachman (southeastern shrew). Tree basal area, forest structural features, and arthropod abundance differed among treatments, but species richness and abundance of most shrews did not. Captures during June-October were higher in 1998 than in 1997, although 1998 summer rainfall was low. Rainfall was correlated with shrew activity, but explained little of the variability in capture rates (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.05). The sex ratio within each species was similar among gap treatments and controls, but differed from 1:1 for S. hoyi, S. longirostris, and S. fumeus. The soricid assemblage did not conform to multi-species assemblage rules; three small-bodied species co-occurred in similar numbers at all study sites. Our results suggest that forest management that mimics conditions created by multiple windthrows in xeric forest of the southern Appalachians is unlikely to affect shrew communities adversely, at least in the short-term.
3878033|Gray's Post Oak Woodland is an open wooded community located on the western edge of the Wabash Border Natural Division about 9 km southeast of Harrisburg, Saline County, IL. Associated with a clayey soil missing most of the surface layer, the trees were stunted and gnarled. Quercus stellata dominated the canopy, accounting for nearly all of the importance value. Although six other tree species were present, few individuals exceeded 15 cm dbh. The open understory contained few saplings, averaged 1520 stems/ha, with young post oaks common. The herbaceous layer was sparse with a bare ground and litter cover of 48.90%. Danthonia spicata dominated, along with various moss and lichen species, some tree seedlings, and Carex spp.
3878034|Walleye (Sander vitreus [Mitchill]) are native to rivers and streams in the Mobile River basin in Mississippi and Alabama. These populations comprise a genetically unique strain (Gulf coast walleye, GCW) and represent the southern-most distribution of walleye in the United States. Luxapallila Creek was considered an important spawning site for GCW prior to and shortly after impoundment of the Tombigbee River in 1980. Extensive sampling in Luxapallila Creek in 2001 and 2002 collected only one larval walleye. Microsatellite DNA analysis suggested 14 of 16 adult walleye from Luxapallila Creek were hatchery-produced fish or their progeny. Controlled angling catch rates of adult walleye have declined since 1997. The scarcity of wild-spawned walleye and the similarity of wild-caught and hatchery broodstock walleye indicates that the GCW population in, or spawning in, Luxapallila Creek is sustained by stocking and recruitment from these stocked fish may be diminishing.
3878153|We examined the ecology of a Black Swamp Snake (Seminatrix pygaea) population inhabiting an isolated wetland in the upper Coastal Plain of South Carolina. The observed population structure was skewed towards mature individuals, with neonates and juveniles underrepresented, perhaps due to trapping bias. The sex ratio was biased during May and June, with females outnumbering males, but no sex ratio bias was evident at other times of the year. Seminatrix pygaea showed sexual dimorphism in body size, with females being longer and heavier than males and males having relatively longer tails than females, but there was no difference in monthly growth rates. Approximately 76.3% of the mature females captured in May and June 1998 were pregnant. Therefore, most mature females in this population probably exhibit annual reproduction, while some undergo biennial reproduction. The majority of females gave birth in July or August, with a few births occurring in September and October, and perhaps even as early as May or June. Our mark-recapture estimates suggest a population density greater than 60 adult snakes per hectare, which indicates this small aquatic snake, endemic to the Southeast, may play a large role as both predator and prey within isolated wetland ecosystems.
3878154|We studied the interactive effect of ultraviolet-B radiation and the heavy metal copper on the tadpole fitness of the Spring Peeper (Pseudacris crucifer). Many studies have identified UV-B effects on amphibian survival while others have examined the effects of heavy metals, such as copper; however, few studies have investigated the possibility of interactive effects between UV-B and heavy metals on amphibian fitness. Tadpoles were reared in laboratory containers and tested to ascertain whether UV-B and Cu had interactive effects on P. crucifer fitness. Exposure to UV-B and Cu individually and interactively significantly affected P. crucifer survival. This suggests that in some areas amphibian survival could be impacted due to abiotic interactions.
3878155|The antipredator behaviors of Phaeognathus hubrichti (Red Hills Salamander), a large fossorial plethodontid, and the basal member of the desmognathine salamanders, are unknown. The responses of P. hubrichti to tongue-flicks from hand-held snakes, tapping with a rod and pinching with a forceps were recorded with a videocamera. When contacted by a snake tongue-flick, P. hubrichti exhibited several antipredator behaviors including immobility, gape, walk, run, head flatten, head elevation, flip, bite, and flinch. One other antipredator behavior-writhe-was observed in the field. The antipredator behaviors of P. hubrichti are more similar to those species in its sister taxon, Desmognathus, than to those of other less closely related fossorial salamanders. Gape, a threat display, is nearly identical to that of Desmognathus quadramaculatus. Gape, bite, and writhe are proposed to be ancestral behaviors in this group.
3878156|We used two experiments to test the hypothesis that variation in growth rate, temperature, and thyroid hormone exposure will induce variation in metamorphic timing in the Black-bellied Salamander, Desmognathus quadramaculatus (Holbrook). In one experiment, second-year larvae (i.e., those approaching a metamorphic summer) were treated with high or low food and exposed to high or low temperature. Low temperature resulted in delayed metamorphosis, while food regime had no effect on metamorphic timing. In a second experiment, first-year larvae (i.e., those not expected to undergo natural metamorphosis during the experiment) were grown at two temperatures and treated with thyroid hormones or control supplements. Larvae at low temperature grew more slowly. Larvae treated with thyroid hormone failed to show any sign of metamorphosis compared to control larvae.
3878157|Arnold Air Force Base (AFB) comprises ca. 15,800 ha in the Barrens region of south-central Tennessee. General herpetofaunal field collecting techniques were used to survey low-lying forests subject to seasonal flooding, dry forested slopes, old fields, intermittent and permanent streams, and a 1611-ha reservoir. Sixty species were found, comprising 46% of the known state- and 75% of the suspected Barrens-herpetofaunal species. Several species listed as needing special protection by state or federal agencies occur at the site, including Rana capito, Hyla gratiosa, Ambystoma talpoideum, Hemidactylium scutatum, Pituophis melanoleucus, and Ophisaurus attenuatus. Significant extensions or clarifications of distributions were noted for R. capito, Ambystoma texanum, Nerodia erythrogaster, Virginia valeriae, Thamnophis sauritus, Pseudemys concinna, and Kinosternon subrubrum.
3878158|Understanding movement behavior and habitat use is critical for determining how land-use changes affect wildlife. We conducted an experimental study of terrestrial movement paths by displaced adult Northern Green Frogs on a central Missouri golf course. Fluorescent pigments were used to examine habitat use by frogs released at the convergence of three habitat types. Frogs tended to choose the least resistant habitat available, avoiding forested habitats during movements. Although frogs may be conspicuous at urban and suburban ponds, populations may decline even when provided with adequate breeding habitat if the surrounding terrestrial habitats become increasingly less suitable for migration and terrestrial activity.
3878159|Museum specimens and published literature records were examined to determine how many taxa of freshwater mussels of the family Unionidae occurred within the boundaries of the State of Mississippi. Eighty nine taxa (85 described species, two of which have two described subspecies within the state; two undescribed species) were found to be distributed over the 10 river drainages within the state. The greatest number of taxa was found in the Tombigbee River drainage (52), followed by the Yazoo River drainage (46), and the Pearl River and the Big Black River drainages (39). The Coastal Rivers drainage, those streams draining into the Gulf of Mexico between the Pearl River and Pascagoula rivers, had the fewest with only six documented species. Almost half of the freshwater mussel taxa in Mississippi are considered imperiled, and 10 species appear to have been extirpated from the state.
3878160|This project's goal was to restore populations of four rare fishes into Abrams Creek, Blount County, TN. These species, all on the US Endangered and Threatened Wildlife List, include two catfishes, the smoky madtom (Noturus bailey) and the yellowfin madtom (N. flavipinnis), the duskytail darter (Etheostoma percnurum) and the spotfin chub (Erimonax monachus). Captive propagation, reintroduction, and non-invasive monitoring techniques were used for this restoration effort, which began in 1986. By 2000, there was evidence of reproduction for all four species. As of 2003, the number of these species stocked in Abrams Creek was 3167 smoky madtoms, 1574 yellowfin madtoms, 3430 duskytail darters, and 11,367 spotfin chubs. Increasing population sizes were indicated for three of the four fishes, and smoky madtom and duskytail darter abundances were nearly comparable to native populations in Citico Creek, Monroe County, TN.
3878161|Based on analysis of fecal pellets, June bugs, Scarabaeidae, were the most abundant food of a colony of big brown bats, Eptesicus fuscus, from Morrow, GA, forming 36.9% of the food overall. They were eaten heavily early in spring and less so in late summer and fall. Ground beetles, Carabidae, were the second most abundant food item (12.1% of the diet overall). Beetles, collectively, made up 57.7% of the sample, followed by hymenopterans (10.7%; composed primarily of Formicidae), dipterans (10.5%), homopterans (8.8%), and hemipterans (5.0%). Lepidopterans made up 2.8% of the diet.
3878162|Mature larvae identified as Thermonectus basillaris by culture to adults revealed that larval characters attributed to the species and commonly used in taxonomic literature are incorrect. Species level identifications that are based on published descriptions of T. basillaris and T. nigrofasciatus ornaticollis (as T. ornaticollis) are problematic, even when these are the only two representatives of the genus in a local fauna.
3878163|A comparison of ectomycorrhizal morphotypes and hypogeous fungi (truffles and false-truffles) in northern hardwood and spruce-fir forests on Roan Mountain (NC/TN) was performed to increase our knowledge of the fungal communities in the Southern Appalachian high elevation forests. These forests are home to an endangered subspecies and mycophagist, the Carolina northern flying squirrel (Glaucomys sabrinus coloratus), as well as the popular Christmas tree species and ectomycorrhizal host, Fraser fir (Abies fraseri). Ectomycorrhizal root tips were collected with soil cores and separated into morphotypes for quantification. Fruiting bodies of hypogeous fungi were sampled with a stratified random design, using exclosures to minimize mycophagy. Elaphomyces muricatus was the most commonly found hypogeous fruiting body, and Cenococcum geophilum the most commonly found ectomycorrhiza, in both forest types. Elaphomyces muricatus was most strongly associated with A. fraseri. There were more ectomycorrhizal morphotypes in the spruce-fir forest than in the northern hardwood forest. Functional groups of ectomycorrhizas were classified by exploration type. Historical land use on Roan Mountain is discussed in conjunction with the patterns found in this study, along with future concerns of the fragile Southern Appalachian spruce-fir ecosystem.
3878164|Pocket gophers (Geomys pinetis), Gopher Tortoises, armadillos, and fire ants were the primary soil disturbance agents in a longleaf pine ecosystem. Pocket gopher mounds were the most abundant soil disturbance and covered the greatest percentage of the study area. The most prominent feature of the pocket gopher soil disturbance regime was a strong peak in mound formation from November to January each year in the three-year study, with the location of mound clusters shifting from year to year. During the three-year study, the area disturbed in 0.25-ha plots ranged from <tex-math>$0.7-1.0\% yr^{-1}$</tex-math>. Pocket gopher mound formation rates were negatively correlated with air temperature and influenced by soil type in some cases, but mostly unaffected by prescribed fires.
3878165|While single-tree selection, uneven-aged management is being used increasingly on southern national forests as an alternative to clearcutting and planting of pine, its effects on wildlife are largely unknown. We compared breeding season bird abundance, species richness, diversity, and composition among uneven-aged stands and six seral stages of even-aged stands in upland pine (predominantly loblolly pine, Pinus taeda Linnaeus) forests of eastern Texas. Even-aged stands 18-80 years old generally had the lowest abundance, richness, and diversity of birds; uneven-aged stands and even-aged stands 1-9 years old generally had comparable values for all three of these measures. Numbers of migrants were highest in seedling, sapling, and pre-commercially thinned even-aged stands. Although many migrants were encountered in uneven-aged stands, their frequencies of occurrence there (even in the most recently harvested stands) were generally less than in early sere even-aged stands. While overall bird abundance, species richness, and diversity under single-tree selection may be comparable or higher than that found throughout most of a typical national forest even-aged rotation, our data suggest that single-tree selection management will not provide suitable habitat for many migrant species that require early succession conditions.
3878166|We investigated the use of pine plantations by Worm-eating Warblers within the coastal plain of North Carolina during the breeding seasons of 1997 and 1998. A total of 60 plantations, representing 10 age categories within the growing cycle, were surveyed for warblers using fixed-radius point counts. Worm-eating Warblers appear to colonize plantations around the time of canopy closure. Singing males were detected within 95.2% of plantations that were 10 years old or older. Mean density within these plantations for both years combined was 0.56 birds/10 ha. With the exception of understory density, habitats used by Worm-eating Warblers within the study site appear to be distinctly different from those reported from other populations throughout the species range. The history of landuse within the region suggests that the use of pine plantations by Worm-eating Warblers is a recent event. Habitat attributes that result from open-canopy pine management appear to mimic those of the historic tall pocosin habitat within the region where this species still breeds in high densities.
3877957| We document the continued population expansion of red lionfish, Pterois volitans, the first documented successful introduction of an invasive marine fish species from the western Pacific to Atlantic coastal waters of the United States. Red lionfish are indigenous to the Indo-Pacific and have apparently established one or more breeding populations on reefs off the southeastern United States. Fifty-nine specimens, most presumably adult red lionfish, were documented or collected on live-bottom reefs off North Carolina, South Carolina, and Florida, and on a manmade structure off Georgia. Observation/collection depths and bottom water temperatures for these fish ranged from 40-99 m and 13.8-24.4 C, respectively. Eleven juvenile lionfish, believed to be expatriated from southeastern waters, were collected in estuaries along the coast of Long Island, NY, at depths of 0-5 m and water temperatures ranging from 13.8-16.5 C. Twelve of the total 70 specimens collected or observed were positively identified as red lionfish. Based on histological assessment of gonad tissue, two reproductively-active males and one immature female were collected. The life history of red lionfish, especially their reproductive biology and food habits, should be investigated along the east coast of the US to determine the potential impacts of this species on ecosystems they have invaded. 
3877958|The purpose of this study was to investigate patterns of size-specific habitat use by banded sculpin (Cottus carolinae) in Brawley's Fork (Cumberland River Basin, TN). In a survey of three riffle and three pool habitats in a first order stream, adults were found almost exclusively in the pools, while young-of-the-year (YOY) were found almost exclusively in the riffles; juveniles were found in both habitat types. In-stream habitat-choice chambers were used to examine the velocity and depth preferences of juveniles and YOY sculpin and to determine the influence of adult presence on habitat selection of juveniles and YOY. Size-specific habitat segregation is not related to velocity differences between pool and riffle habitats. None of the size classes demonstrated a velocity preference, and the presence of adults did not affect the velocity use of the juveniles or YOY. However, adults showed a strong preference for deep habitat, YOY tended to prefer shallow habitat, both when alone and when in the presence of an adult, and juveniles strongly preferred deep habitat when no adult was present, but chose shallow habitat in the presence of an adult. The ontogenetic habitat shift from riffles to pools by juvenile sculpin may be explained by a change in predation risk as sculpin grow. The most significant predation risk to smaller sculpin is posed by larger piscivorous fish, which primarily inhabit deeper pool habitats. The greatest risk of predation for larger sculpin is posed by piscivorous mammals, reptiles, and birds, and this risk is minimized by the fishes' use of deeper pool habitats. The timing of this habitat shift appears to be a function of the density of adult sculpin, which are potential competitors/predators of the juvenile sculpin.
3877959|We sampled fishes and measured physical habitat in 14 first-order streams in north-central Mississippi to document fish community characteristics and examine the relationships between the fish communities and physical habitat characteristics. We documented 36 species and 11 families from 6943 captures. The five most abundant species were creek chub (Semotilus atromaculatus Mitchell), least brook lamprey (Lampetra aepyptera Abbot), blackspotted topminnow (Fundulus olivaceus Storer), creek chubsucker (Erimyzon oblongus Mitchell), and green sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus Rafinesque). We also observed that most streams (> 50%) were numerically dominated by: 1) Cyprinidae, 2) fishes having a maximum body size between 300-399 mm TL, 3) insectivores, and 4) guarder-nest spawners. Fish species composition of our study streams was similar to the species composition documented in other medium- and low-gradient headwater streams in the Gulf Coastal Plain. Additionally, fish community structure in first-order streams was significantly correlated with channel cross-section area, woody debris, canopy cover, water depth, velocity, wet width, and substrate types. The observed relationships between fish communities and physical habitat characteristics in first-order stream were similar to fish-habitat relationships observed by previous investigators working in northern Mississippi streams ranging in size from first to fifth-order.
3877960| A self-releasing satellite "pop-up" tag was attached to an adult male shortfin mako captured off of the southeastern United States. The tag was deployed in the spring of 2002 and detached after 60 days in an area approximately 72 km from the tagging location. Archived tag data indicated a depth range of 0 to 556 m in ambient temperatures between 10.4 and 28.6 C. The shortfin mako demonstrated a diel pattern of vertical movement defined by greater mean depths and larger depth ranges during daylight hours. Depth and temperature data suggested a seasonal behavioral change in vertical movements associated with an increase in sea-surface temperatures during the study period. 
3877961|Accurate knowledge of an organism's distribution is necessary for conserving species with small or isolated populations. A perceived rarity may only reflect inadequate sampling effort and suggest the need for more research. We used a recently developed method to evaluate the distribution of a rare fish species, the blackmouth shiner Notropis melanostomus Bortone 199 (Cyprin- idae), which occurs in disjunct populations in Mississippi and Florida. Until 1995, N. melanostomus had been collected from only three localities in Missis- sippi, but in 1995, eight new localities were discovered. We analyzed museum records of fish collections from Mississippi, Florida, and Alabama to compare sampling effort before and after 1995. Results supported our predictions that 1) pre-1995 data would indicate inadequate sampling effort in Mississippi, 2) addi- tional post-1995 sampling improved confidence in the currently known Missis- sippi distribution, and 3) there has not been enough sampling to accurately repre- sent the actual distribution of N. melanostomus in Florida and across its entire known range. This last prediction was confirmed with the recent (2003) discovery of the first N. melanostomus in Alabama.
3877962|We conducted a thorough survey of the Bogue Chitto River fish assemblage from February 1996 to January 1997 to examine long-term trends in the assemblage by comparing our findings to surveys conducted in 1971-1974 and 1987-1988. The 1971-1974 survey described an assemblage dominated by Cyprinidae (50%), Percidae (9%), and Ictaluridae (8%). Numerically abundant species included Notropis longirostris (19%), Cyprinella venusta (13%), and Percina sciera (10%). The 1987-1988 survey described an assemblage dominated by Cyprinidae (74%), Percidae (9%), and Centrarchidae (9%). The numerically dominant species were C. venusta (36%) and N. longirostris (16%). Our survey described an assemblage dominated by Cyprinidae (75%), Percidae (8%), Centrarchidae (6%), and Poeciliidae (6%). We identified a decline in the relative abundance or possible extirpation of over twenty species during the 27-year period and the numerically dominant species was C. venusta (57%). Using Morisita's Index of Similarity, we found relatively low faunal similarity between the 1970-1974 survey and our study, but relatively high similarity between the 1987-1988 survey and our survey. In addition, assemblage evenness and heterogeneity decreased over time, indicating a change in the system's fish fauna from one with relatively high species evenness and diversity to a fauna dominated by a few, abundant species. We speculate that increased siltation has contributed to changes in the Bogue Chitto River fish assemblage because many of the declining species were benthic minnows and darters, which would be adversely effected by increasing substrate loads.
3877963|In coastal Louisiana many restoration projects are approved based on assumed regeneration of submerged aquatic species (SAV) in shallow marsh interior ponds. In this study, we estimated seed bank size and composition of shallow water areas in oligohaline fringing and restored (terraced) marsh, and a freshwater managed (impounded) marsh, located in Sabine NWR, LA, using the sieving method. For the same marshes, we also provided an estimate of the readily germinable fraction of the seed bank using the germination method. Sieving results indicated that restored marsh edges had very low seed densities (<tex-math>$5034 seeds/m^2$</tex-math>) compared to fringing marsh (<tex-math>$331,185 seeds/m^2$</tex-math>), although species composition was similar. Managed freshwater marsh ponds had more diverse seed banks and mid-range seed densities (<tex-math>$80,500 seeds/m^2$</tex-math>). Viability estimates of dominant species in the seed bank reduced seed density estimates at all sites by as much as 10 fold (fringing marsh: <tex-math>$36,185 seeds/m^2$</tex-math>; restored marsh: <tex-math>$859 seeds/m^2$</tex-math>; managed marsh <tex-math>$44,388 seeds/m^2$</tex-math>) suggesting that a correction factor should be applied to future seed density estimates in this region. Seedling emergence was significantly higher in the managed marsh under drawdown conditions (<latex>$> 2500 seedlings/m^2$</latex>) as compared to flooded conditions (<latex>$< 500 seedlings/m^2$</latex>; ANOVA, p = 0.0001). Seedling emergence in oligohaline marsh was significantly affected by salinity and management (fringing, restored) (ANOVA, p = 0.0186). Fringing marsh at 0 g/L had the highest seedling emergence (<latex>$> 500 seedlings/m^2$</latex>). At higher salinities, fringing and restored marsh had similar emergence (<latex>$< 150 seedlings/m^2$</latex>). Results indicate that recruitment is likely to be more successful under drawdown conditions, and in low salinity conditions. However, both a lack of SAV emergence in the germination experiment and a lack of SAV seeds in the seed banks using the sieving method suggest that reliance on seed banks for the restoration of shallow water areas in southwest Louisiana may prove unsuccessful.
3877964|The genetics of small population size is of considerable interest to conservation biologists and land managers concerned with maintaining genetic diversity in populations of rare plants. In this paper, I present evidence obtained through starch gel electrophoresis of allozymes that an isolated population of Cleistes bifaria (Fern.) Gregg and Catling is multiclonal with levels of genetic diversity comparable to other taxa in the Orchidaceae. A total of 24 unique multilocus genotypes were resolved by eight alleles expressed by three polymorphic loci in a census of 64 aboveground stems. Levels of clonal diversity and evenness in the distribution of genotypes indicate that the population rapidly responds to favorable habitat conditions maintaining allozyme diversity despite repeated population contractions to few reproductive individuals. Sixty stems (35 flowering) had appeared in a newly created field after only five years with allozyme and clonal diversity mirroring that found in a long-existing habitat. The population genetic data obtained from allozymes plus population monitoring and knowledge of site history suggest that intrapopulation genetic variation is maintained within persistent individual clones that apparently survive underground during periods of adverse environmental conditions.
3877965|Hybrid imported fire ants (S. invicta x S. richteri) outcompeted several native ant genera at baits in pasture and field sites in southeastern Tennessee. They more quickly discovered and recruited to baits than native ants, and they ultimately controlled more baits. After half of the fire ant mounds were experimentally removed by poisoning, native ants were quicker than fire ants to discover and recruit to baits, but fire ants still ultimately controlled about half the baits. Interactions between fire ants and native ants at baits were very rarely directly aggressive; rather, either the later arrival left or the different species spatially partitioned the bait without fighting. Occasionally control of a bait changed between species, but such shifts were not accompanied by aggression between the contenders. These results suggest that, like the red imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta, the hybrid fire ant outcompetes native ants in disturbed habitats. This competitive superiority rests at least partly on numbers, and interference competition is not operating at the scale of individual baits.
3877966|Sixteen species of odonates, representing 9.2% of Alabama's odonate fauna, were collected from flowing waters 10-450 m wide in the poorly surveyed Mobile/Tensaw Delta of Baldwin County over a one-year period. The number of species was positively correlated with the number of specimens per site, with sites nearest Mobile Bay having fewer species, possibly reflecting higher salinities. Odonate assemblages in large flows of the Delta are unpredictable in terms of species co-occurrence, and fit a model of non-equilibrium community structure.
3877967|Silphid larvae of three species of potential forensic importance were studied to verify total instar number, document instar size classes, and illustrate frequencies of instars through time. Larval material was collected at seven large vertebrate carcasses during spring 1999 in East Baton Rouge Parish, LA. A total of 534 Necrodes surinamensis (F.), 80 Oiceoptoma inaequale (F.), and 13 Necrophila americana (L.) larvae were evaluated using three morphological measurements. Three instars were identified for N. surinamensis and O. inaequale. The distance between dorsal stemmata was found to be a more reliable indicator of instar size than body length with results (in mm) as follows for N. surinamensis and O. inaequale, respectively: 1st (0.87-1.09), (0.95-1.08), 2nd (1.30-1.60), (1.28-1.51), and 3rd (1.78-2.07), (1.66-1.79).
3877968|This study examines the relationship between Red-cockaded Woodpecker (Picoides borealis Vieillot) reproduction and rainfall during May when group members are provisioning nestlings with food. Patterns of variation over a 4-year period of approximately 30 woodpecker groups suggested that the mean number of hatchling deaths was positively related to the amount of rainfall that occurred during May. During the same 4 years, the mean number of young fledged from nests appeared to be inversely related to May rainfall. Observations of nestling provisioning behavior during four breeding seasons indicate that group members slow down or stop feeding nestlings during periods of heavy rainfall. During a 20-year period, total May rainfall was related to the percentage of woodpecker groups producing fledgling-sized young in cavities (<tex-math>$r_{s} = -0.56$</tex-math>, P = 0.0097) and the occurrence of El Nino events (<tex-math>$r_{s} = -0.50$</tex-math>, P = 0.0347).
3877969|Black Vultures (Coragyps atratus) and Turkey Vultures (Cathartes aura) are found throughout many parts of southeastern North America, but relatively little is known about the factors that may negatively impact their populations. We surveyed both species for blood parasites to learn more about factors that may influence their health. During 2000-2001, 22 Black Vultures and 11 Turkey Vultures were live-captured at the Savannah River Site in South Carolina. Two blood smears from each bird were made on microscope slides, stained, and examined at 1000x magnification. A Haemoproteus sp. was found in blood smears of one Turkey Vulture and microfilariae were detected in smears of one Black and two Turkey Vultures. We did not detect Leucocytozoon or Plasmodium in our samples, even though they have been reported in vultures from other parts of eastern North America.
3877970|Iguana iguana is a well-established introduced species in southern Florida, including a large population on Key Biscayne. In its native range, I. iguana is known to be almost strictly herbivorous. Juveniles are often reported to be somewhat omnivorous, but prey items are rarely identified. The tree snail Drymaeus multilineatus is common in southern Florida, where it is found on stems and leaves and in edificarian habitats. The examination of I. iguana stomachs from Bill Baggs Cape Florida State Park, Key Biscayne, resulted in the discovery of D. multilineatus in two lizards, including 12 snails in one juvenile I. iguana. The large and rapidly growing I. iguana populations in southern Florida may have the potential to devastate some highly localized native species of tree snails.
3877971|We assessed daily and seasonal activity and movements of reintroduced elk in eastern Kentucky from March 1999 to November 2000. Elk activity was determined by monitoring radio-transmitter pulse rate changes, and movements were calculated using hourly ground locations. A total of 1469 activity bouts and 1441 locations were collected on 38 and 32 radio-collared elk, respectively. Elk exhibited a tri-modal activity pattern with peaks near dawn, dusk, and midnight. Activity did not differ between seasons, although it was influenced by gender and time of day. Peak movements corresponded with peaks in activity at dawn and dusk, and increased from spring to winter. Elk were more gregarious and visible during the fall and winter, which increased their susceptibility to human disturbance and caused longer movements.
3877972|We report use of an underground roost by an adult male evening bat (Nycticeius humeralis) during winter in southwestern Missouri. The bat was fitted with a radio-transmitter and followed to tree roosts for 28 days before it was found in a hole covered by leaf litter at the base of a live white oak tree (Quercus alba). The bat remained in the underground roost for 3 days that coincided with extremely cold ambient temperatures before moving back to a tree roost.
3878182|Evergreen, understory shrubs, often members of the Ericaceae, have been implicated in the suppression of tree recruitment in many ecosystems. One possible mechanism of this suppression could be an allelopathic interaction between shrubs and seedlings. We tested the allelopathic potential of Kalmia latifolia L., an important component of southern Appalachian forest understories. Aqueous extracts of soil, humus, K. latifolia litter, mixed forest floor litter, and green leaves from K. latifolia did not inhibit germination or initial root elongation of our test species Lactuca sativa L. (lettuce). Root, shoot, and total biomass were reduced in P. rigida seedlings grown in forest floor substrate collected beneath K. latifolia compared to those grown in forest substrate without K. latifolia. While these differences were not significant, they could be exacerbated in the field when seedlings are exposed to multiple stressors (reduced light, water, and nutrient availability). Our findings suggest that allelopathy is not a strong mechanism in the inhibition of canopy tree recruitment by K. latifolia.
3878183|Species composition, cover, diversity, and temporal dynamics of the three main plant communities in the channelized Kissimmee River floodplain were evaluated to provide a baseline for tracking the success of an ongoing restoration project. Much of the drained floodplain supports an upland herbaceous community with cover dominated by the planted pasture grasses Paspalum notatum and Axonopus fissifolius. Mesophytic woody communities are comprised primarily of Myrica cerifera, Baccharis halimifolia, Ludwigia peruviana, and understory ferns, while Sagittaria lancifolia, Pontederia cor data, and Panicum hemitomon are dominant species in remnant wetland communities. Community composition and the associated gradient of weighted averages of wetland indicator species reflect prevailing hydroperiods and land uses on the drained floodplain. Managed hydrologic regimes have promoted temporal stability, with seasonal variability of plant community characteristics limited to a decline in live plant cover and species richness during winter months. Lower live vegetation cover during winter resulted from senescence of dominant herbaceous species, while the winter decline in species richness was due primarily to sampling error resulting from seasonal phenology of taxonomic characteristics and obscured growth of rare or diminutive species. The limited variability of plant community characteristics in the channelized floodplain reduces the potential for confounding uncertainty in evaluating successful restoration. Results indicate that functional assessment of plant community characteristics in this subtropical floodplain is most accurately measured in spring and summer.
3878184| We present a checklist of the beetles known to occur in and on the oyster mushroom, Pleurotus ostreatus Fries. A total of 136 taxa from 30 families are presented in our checklist. Taxa included in the checklist are known throughout North America with emphasis on those occurring in the southeastern United States. Both adult and larval forms are presented in the checklist along with the type of fungal association, of which  60% are obligate mycetobionts. A total of 58 beetle taxa were summarized from existing published records, and 78 taxa are new additions from our studies. A discussion of fungi as microhabitats for beetles is given using P. ostreatus and polyporoid fungi as examples. 
3878185|Many urban areas contain forest remnants and city parks that may be used by birds as stopover and wintering sites. We conducted a case study on how construction of a new apartment complex in Gainesville, FL, affected avian communities both in a forest site and in a portion of a marsh in an adjacent city park. In fall and winter, 1995-1999, we conducted point count surveys of migrant, resident, and wintering birds and compared 1 year of pre-construction survey data to 2 years of post-construction survey data. We conducted analyses to explore changes in: 1) abundance and richness by residency status (resident and migrant guilds), and 2) individual species abundance. Combining pre- and post-construction surveys, we sighted 71 bird species in the developed site and adjacent marsh during the fall and 46 species during the winter. Resident and migrant guild abundance and species richness were not different before versus after construction on the forest site or in the marsh for both seasons. Several individual species did decline in post-construction years, most notably the ovenbird {Seiurus aurocapillus) during the fall migration period that went from 32 to 3 sightings, pre- to post-construction. Results suggest that within the timeframe of this study, the remnant forest patch and adjacent marsh continued to attract migrating and resident species, even after development. On-site preservation of tree canopy and natural buffer areas, in combination with existing vegetative features in the surrounding landscape matrix, may explain why development had a minimal impact on avian richness and abundance.
3878186|We conducted aerial surveys during 1996-1998 to estimate abundance and species composition of waterbirds using the channelized Kissimmee River to help understand how river channelization has altered bird use. For waterfowl, mean monthly species richness was <tex-math>$1.5 \pm 0.3$</tex-math> (mean  SE, n = 11 surveys); mean monthly abundance was <tex-math>$86 \pm 43$</tex-math>, <tex-math>$191 \pm 70$</tex-math>, and <tex-math>$13 \pm 16$</tex-math> birds in 1996-97, 1997-98, and 1998-99, respectively. Blue-winged Teal (Anas discors Linnaeus) were the most abundant duck (74%) followed by Mottled Ducks (Anas fulvigula Ridgway, 21%). Mean wading bird species richness was <tex-math>$8.48 \pm 0.35$</tex-math> (n = 20 surveys). Cattle Egret (Bubulcus ibis Linnaeus) were the most abundant wading bird species during the wet season (<tex-math>$64 \pm 22\%$</tex-math> of individuals); White Ibis (Eudocimus albus Linnaeus) were most common during the dry season (<tex-math>$39 \pm 23\%$</tex-math>). Mean total wading bird abundance was greater during the wet than dry season (<tex-math>$F_{1,15} = 6.29$</tex-math>; P = 0.02), with the increase driven by increases in Cattle Egret (<tex-math>$F_{1,15} = 5.46$</tex-math>, P = 0.03) and large-prey visual foragers (<tex-math>$F_{1,15} = 5.47$</tex-math>, P = 0.03). Compared to the 1950s, waterfowl species richness has declined 70% and abundance has declined 95%. For wading birds, mixed species breeding colonies no longer occur in the floodplain, and the community composition is dominated by the largely terrestrial foraging Cattle Egret during the wet season.
3878187|Tree cavities are rarely incorporated into surveys of forest ecosystem biodiversity, due to difficultly in their systematic sampling. We examined the feasibility of using southern flying squirrel (Glaucomys volans Thomas) nest boxes for monitoring arboreal vertebrates at 11 sites within the Savannah River Site, SC. We recorded 3130 vertebrates of 11 species (3 mammals, 3 birds, 5 reptiles) using nest boxes for nesting, roosting, and foraging. G. volans represented the majority of these with 3019 individuals, but flying squirrel occupancy did not affect occupancy of boxes by other species. Upland hardwood forests had the most species that used boxes; however, due to uneven sampling, nest boxes placed in dense-canopy plantations detected the most species per box. We conclude that nest boxes are a useful means of surveying for cavity-dwelling species. We recommend a protocol that uses different size nest boxes at varying heights to accurately survey a traditionally under-sampled component of forest ecosystems, those species using tree cavities.
3878188|Parental behavior and prey deliveries at a Bald Eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) nest were monitored (628 observation hours) during three breeding attempts from 1997-1999 at a nest in inland south-central South Carolina. Attendance patterns varied between adults and among breeding attempts, with reduced attendance and incubation observed during a failed attempt. During the three nesting attempts, the female was most often in attendance and incubated more than the male. The eagle pair averaged approximately 4 foraging trips per day during the successful 1997 season, but only 3 trips per day during the 1999 season. Fish and waterfowl comprised 56% and 34% of diet in 1997, respectively, with largemouth bass (Micropterus salmoides) the major fish prey and American Coots (Fulica americana) the major avian prey. Fish (primarily bass and sunfish) comprised 91% of the diet in 1999. Later nesting and reduced waterfowl populations may have contributed to increased fish prey in 1999.
3878189|Predation by raccoons, Procyon lotor marinus (L.), is the primary cause of sea turtle nest loss in the Ten Thousand Islands archipelago. Four islands within Ten Thousand Islands National Wildlife Refuge were surveyed for sea turtle nesting activity from 1991-95. Raccoons depredated 76-100% of nests on Panther Key from 1991-94, until 14 raccoons were removed in 1995 resulting in 0% depredation and 2 more were removed in 1996 resulting in 0% depredation. Raccoon removal may be an effective management option for increasing sea turtle nest survival on barrier islands.
3878190|The winter roost-site selection of most North American foliage-roosting bats is relatively unknown. We examined winter roost-site selection of Seminole bats (Lasiurus seminolus) in the Lower Coastal Plain of South Carolina during January 2004. Seminole bats used a variety of day-roost structures including the canopy of overstory hardwood trees, hanging vines, pine needle clusters suspended from understory vegetation, and leaf litter on the forest floor. Although reported for red bats (L. borealis), this is the first report of Seminole bats roosting in forest floor leaf litter. Winter roost selection differed from previous observations of summer roosts, which consisted almost exclusively of live overstory pine (Pinus spp.) trees. Roost-site selection in winter likely is related to ambient temperature and optimizing exposure to solar radiation during the day. Management decisions in southeastern forests should consider seasonal changes in roosting behavior to minimize adverse impacts on forest bats.
3878191|The distributions of woodland jumping mice {Napaeozapus insignis Miller) and white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus Rafinesque) and their associated microhabitats were examined in four habitat types in the Pisgah National Forest of western North Carolina. A total of 115 jumping mice and 192 white-footed mice were collected using arrays of drift fences with pitfalls in 3 north-facing and 3 south-facing upland plots, and in 3 north- and 3 south-facing streamside plots, during the autumn of 1996 and the spring and summer of 1997. Napaeozapus were strongly associated with cooler, moister habitats with high volume of heavily decomposed logs, but P. leucopus were ubiquitous. Results indicate that P. leucopus is a habitat generalist whereas N. insignis is a habitat specialist. Indirect effects such as the availability of subterranean fungi as food may explain the distribution of Napaeozapus at smaller scales.
3878192|Freshwater mussel beds of the lower 68 km of the Cache River, AR, were delineated and sampled using diving and stratified random sampling methodology to determine species richness, density, size structure, and population and community numerical standing crop (CNSC). A total of 38 mussel beds were delineated, including 14 major beds (Mbeds) and 24 minor beds (mbeds). Twenty six species were collected, four of which were previously unknown from the Cache River. Amblema plicata, Megalonaias nervosa, and Plectomerus dombeyanus were the most abundant. Estimates of CNSC ranged from <tex-math>$3705 \pm 1908 to 122,115 \pm 24,194$</tex-math> individuals in Mbeds with mean densities ranging from <tex-math>$6.2 to 44.1 mussels/m^2$</tex-math>. Nine of 16 species with > 10 individuals had a unimodal size frequency distribution and the other seven had multi-modal distributions. This study found impressive mussel assemblages in the lower Cache River, previously thought to contain only refugial pockets of mussel assemblages. Further monitoring of some species is recommended based on lack of recruitment.
3878193|We surveyed tributaries of the Cumberland and Tennessee Rivers for populations of the Eastern Hellbender during the early 1990s. We captured 42 Hellbenders at the Collins River (Warren County), 28 at the Buffalo River (Lawrence County), four at the Calfkiller River (White County), and three at the Duck River (Coffee County). All Hellbenders collected from the Collins, Calfkiller, and Duck Rivers were sexually mature; by contrast, 25% of the Hellbenders collected at the Buffalo River were juveniles. We found that 41% of all mature Hellbenders had gross abnormalities; whereas, no physical abnormalities were noted on any juvenile Hellbenders. The abnormalities noted were similar at each river and included the absence of one or more digits, supernumerary digits, bifurcate manus or pes, absence of one or more limbs, and truncated tails. Fresh wounds (abnormalities) were found only during August and September. We interpret these data as an indication that the injuries were caused by either 1) intraspecific aggression between adult Hellbenders for diurnal retreats or nesting sites, or 2) predatory attacks that resulted in injury to large Hellbenders and death by ingestion to smaller Hellbenders. Regardless of the cause, the large percentage of injured individuals inhabiting middle Tennessee streams merits further study.
3878194|We surveyed for the presence of the Northern Curlytail Lizard, Leiocephalus carinatus armouri, from Port Salerno, Martin County, FL, northward to the Indian River-Brevard county line to determine the extent to which this species occurs along the Florida East Coast. The geographic range of L. c. armouri appears to be uninterrupted along the coast from northern Broward County through Palm Beach County. The heavily modified coastal habitat provided this species with the open sunny conditions and cement analogues to the rocky substratum to which it is adapted. Its ubiquity, rate of geographic expansion, combined with its carnivorous habits and large body size, have long since set the stage for an extensive restructuring of the indigenous and exotic lizard fauna in a way that has not been seen since its initial establishment in Palm Beach County almost one-half century ago. Urban heat island effects notwithstanding, frost isotherms predict instability of populations north of Fort Pierce and just below Sarasota on the West Coast.
3878195|For nine weeks during the summer of 2002, a mark and recapture technique was used to study homing behavior of Musk Turtles (Sternotherus odoratus) living in Lake Matoaka, VA. During the first three weeks of the study, 119 turtles (83 male, 36 female) were captured using unbaited crabpots, then marked and displaced from the site of capture. Turtles were displaced 100 m across open water 4 m deep, 520 m along the same shore, or 550 m across open water. For the last six weeks of the study, 110 turtles (65 males, 45 females) were captured and released with no displacement. Overall, 39% (49/126) of males and 21% (15/71) of females in this study were captured more than once. Seventy-five of 118 recaptures (64%) were at the site of most recent release (sedentary behavior) and 11 recaptures (9%) were at neither the original nor most recent site of capture (non-homing behavior). Thirty-four of 118 recaptures of displaced turtles (29%) occurred at the site of original capture, and 31 (91%) of these movements were made by males, a significant difference in homing behavior between males and females during the time of the study. Neither distance nor open water significantly impeded turtle homing.
3878196|An American Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis Daudin) was observed and photographed in the Gulf of Mexico on 4 May 2004, some 56 km south of Marsh Island, LA (approximately 63 km from the nearest point on mainland Louisiana). Alligators generally avoid saltwater and we are unaware of prior documentation of an alligator occurring this distance offshore.
3878197|The Southeast is the stronghold of US herpetofaunal biodiversity and comprises approximately half of the nation's species of amphibians and reptiles, of which about 20% are endemic. However, few areas have been inventoried, thus hampering efforts to monitor and protect populations. We conducted 2-year herpetological inventories of 16 parks within the National Park Service's Southeast Coast Network. We used a wide variety of standard field techniques to document species occurrences and augmented our collecting records with historical data from museums, published literature, and personal collections. We documented the presence of 123 native species of amphibians and reptiles at the 16 parks, with numbers of species ranging between 6 and 64 per park. Many southeastern parks support rich assemblages of herpetofauna.
3878224|Dionaea muscipula (Venus' fly trap) is endemic to a restricted area of the Carolina's Coastal Plain, including southeastern North Carolina and northeastern South Carolina. Our understanding of Venus' fly trap habitats is based largely on a single published study focused on plants associated with pocosins in North Carolina. Little is known about Venus' fly trap habitats or microhabitats in other parts of the endemic range. This paper presents data on Venus' fly traps at Lewis Ocean Bay Heritage Preserve, SC, an area where the species occurs at the ecotone between Carolina bays and adjacent plant communities. Complex microtopography including hummocks, hollows, and Sphagnum carpets, was common at this ecotone. Venus' fly trap seedlings were overrepresented in hollows; adult plants were overrepresented on Sphagnum. No vascular plant species were consistently associated with Venus' fly traps growing at the ecotone. However, areas downslope, relatively closer to bays, and areas upslope, relatively farther from bays, were associated with indicator species, presumably reflecting an underlying moisture gradient. Areas with Venus' fly traps were characterized by relatively high plant diversity, high Sphagnum cover, low total vascular plant cover, and soil disturbance associated with old vehicle tracks. Small, persistent openings in the shrub layer and soil disturbances that facilitate Sphagnum colonization may be important for maintaining populations of Venus' fly traps at the ecotone between Carolina bays and adjacent plant communities.
3878225|Three independent surveys for undescribed members of the Noturus elegans species complex in the middle and upper Tennessee River drainage were conducted between 1993 and 2001. These surveys encompassed 104 collections made at 92 sites in Alabama and Tennessee. A total of 10 chucky madtoms was captured from two upper Tennessee River localities on Little Chucky Creek, Greene County, TN. Nine of these specimens were collected in September 1994, and the tenth in March 2000. No specimens were captured during three visits to Little Chucky Creek in 2001. No N. elegans species complex madtoms were collected in the middle Tennessee River drainage. Additional work is required to demonstrate the continued existence of these extremely rare fishes before recovery measures can be implemented.
3878226|Ichthyofaunal surveys of many river systems in the southeastern USA have been completed. However, subsequent surveys of these systems have been limited to searches for species of special interest and studies of anthropogenic effects on portions of river systems. Thus, little is known about temporal variation at the system level. The Hatchie River System (HRS) in northern Mississippi and western Tennessee was intensively surveyed in 1972 and again in 2001-2003. Data from 272 collections (130 localities) were used to determine patterns of species distribution and any changes that may have occurred in the past 30 years. Dispersal from neighboring systems, introductions, ecological effects, and sampling techniques appear to have influenced the distribution and composition of the known HRS species. Of the 107 known HRS species, 15 were collected for the first time since 1975, six were only collected before 1975, and 40 changed in the collection frequency between sampling prior to 1975 and in 1975 to the present. An intensive, system-wide survey was necessary to detect the changes in distribution and increase in the number of known species from the HRS.
3878227|We investigated the role of fruit availability in the diet of wintering Catharus guttatus Pallas (Hermit Thrushes) in southeastern Louisiana. Most fecal samples contained fruit and arthropods (N = 126), while few samples contained only arthropods (N = 32). We observed 26 species of fruiting plants at our sites, and found nine in fecal samples. Ilex vomitoria (Yaupon, 52% of samples), Ligustrum sinense (Chinese privet, 27% of samples) and Myrica cerifera (wax myrtle, 9.5% of samples) were the most common in fecal samples, and their presence was associated with availability. Yet, fecal samples contained more yaupon and less privet and wax myrtle than expected based on availability. Fruit availability within territories and sampling period predicted presence in fecal samples. Samples without fruits may be associated with low fruit availability, and not with higher arthropod activity.
3878228|Scolopax minor (American Woodcock) populations have been declining for the past several decades. Weather conditions have been hypothesized to affect reproductive efforts in February and March in the southern United States, but similar influences on January breeding activities are unknown. We used a 17-year harvest data set from eastern Texas to examine the influence of several temperature and precipitation measures, female body mass, and forest habitat type on the occurrence of reproduction by Woodcock in January. Only adult females exhibited characteristics of breeding activity. There was annual variation (0-29%) in the occurrence of breeding adult females, but local temperature and precipitation measures were not correlated with January reproduction. More breeding Woodcock were harvested in open sapling stands than other habitats. Environmental factors other than monthly temperature and precipitation may influence January reproductive efforts of Woodcock in eastern Texas. We suggest investigation of timing of fall migration and condition of the birds upon arrival on wintering grounds as potential factors influencing reproductive efforts in January.
3878229|Researchers often use road corridors to collect data on diversity, life history, or population parameters of vertebrates. In areas with high abundances of scavengers, road surveys may be biased due to removal of carcasses from roads. Thus, the rates at which scavenged items are removed from roads are of considerable interest to field biologists who use roads when collecting data. We experimentally investigated scavenging rates along a road on the Atlantic coast of central Florida using both bird and snake carcasses. We found extremely high rates of carcass removal by scavengers: 60-97% disappeared within 36 hours of their placement along roads. Additionally, scavenging rates were higher for snakes than birds, although snake body size did not affect scavenging rates. Bird carcasses placed in the center of the road were removed at faster rates than those placed at road edges. Researchers should use extreme caution when interpreting data based on roadkill; since scavengers can remove roadkill rapidly, such data may not be representative of populations in habitats surrounding roads.
3878230|Herpetofauna of steephead ravines in the Blackwater and Yellow River drainages, Okaloosa or Santa Rosa County, FL, were surveyed using funnel traps along drift fences. Nineteen amphibian and 24 reptile species in seven steephead ravine sites were documented during 165 days of trapping. Amphibian or reptile species composition was most similar between steephead ravines in the Blackwater and northern Yellow River systems, which were in close proximity. Ravines in the northern Yellow River system, however, were unique in apparently lacking Dusky Salamanders (Desmognathus sp.). Herpetofaunal species composition among ravines was somewhat similar to that found in ravines farther east in the Apalachicola and Ochlockonee River drainages, but 12 species were trapped only in Ochlockonee-Apalachicola ravines and 13 species only in Blackwater-Yellow ravines. The first month of trapping experienced heavy rainfall from Hurricane Georges and produced 76% of all captures of Pseudotriton ruber (Red Salamanders) and three aquatic salamander species. Amphibian captures, particularly salamanders, were correlated positively with precipitation. The most productive trapping months were April, June, and August for anurans; February and October for salamanders; and April and June for reptiles. Mean recapture rates were 8.6% for anurans, 6.8% for salamanders, 52.2% for turtles, 17.3% for lizards, and 9.8% for snakes. Data were collected on some little-known species: Rana okaloosae (Florida Bog Frog), Amphiuma pholeter (One-toed Amphiuma), and Siren cf. intermedia ("Least" Siren). Potential threats to ravine herpetofauna are logging, water pollution, groundwater use, stream siltation from dirt roads and cleared lands, stream impoundment, recreational use, trash dumping, Sus scrofa (feral hogs), and management of adjacent upland habitat.
3878231| We investigated population structure and life history traits in syntopic populations of Desmognathus aeneus and Desmognathus wrighti in the southern Nantahala Mountains, NC. The two species occupy similar microhabitats in the spring months, occurring in clumps of moss and damp leaf litter and under stones and logs in deciduous forests bordering streams and seepages. We examined the reproductive organs in living individuals taken in large samples in early spring. The goal was to determine sex and reproductive status. We confirmed these assessments by dissections of small numbers of preserved individuals collected in the same months of later years. The sample of D. wrighti included first-year juveniles (8 mo), second-year juveniles and adult males (20 mo), and third-year and older adults ( 32 mo). Similarly, the sample of D. aeneus contained first-year (11 mo), second-year (23 mo), and third-year and older ( 35 mo) individuals, in the same reproductive categories as identified in D. wrighti. The age differences reflect different oviposition times, estimated as 1 May in D. aeneus and 1 August in D. wrighti. In both species, we estimated that males attain sexual maturity in their second or third year, and that females usually oviposit initially at age 3 years. There is considerable overlap in body size between species. Within species, adult females average larger than males, in part a consequence of earlier maturation of males, but maximum sizes of males and females are similar. 
3878232|The reproductive ecology of Terrapene carolina carolina (Eastern Box Turtle) was studied in an 11-ha woods in Lynchburg, VA. Estimated population demographics included a population size of 176 turtles with a 1:1 male to female sex ratio, population density of 16 turtles/ha, mean clutch size of 3.15 eggs, and a proportion of adult females gravid per year of 0.405. Reproductive output was 112 eggs per year. A positive significant relationship existed between female carapace width and clutch size, as well as female shell height and clutch size. However, no significant relationship existed between female carapace length (CL) and clutch size. When mean clutch size was compared to those of other investigators of T. c. carolina, a slight positive correlation with latitude was indicated, though it was not statistically significant. Mean female CL and clutch size in a Long Island population were both significantly larger than the means from the Virginia population.
3878233|Palaeopheid snake fossils from the Late Eocene Hardie Mine local fauna (l.f.) of Wilkinson County, central Georgia, include Pterosphenus schucherti Lucas and Palaeophis africanus Andrews. This occurrence represents a new geographic record for P. africanus because this species was previously known only from the type locality in Nigeria. The Hardie Mine l.f. is the first North American Late Eocene fauna where Pterosphenus and Palaeophis co-occur in the same local stratigraphic context. The stratigraphic range of Palaeophis is extended from the Middle Eocene into the Late Eocene. The nearshore marine paleoenvironment of the Hardie Mine was inhabited by juvenile and adult palaeopheid snakes of both genera. Based on our specimens, Pterosphenus appears to have been more common than Palaeophis.
3878234|In September 2003, we monitored the movements of a postpartum Crotalus horridus (Timber Rattlesnake) and her four neonates via radiotelemetry. Upon dispersal, two neonates maintained a close association with the mother, but within one week they were making independent movements. Total movement distance by all five snakes during the first 10 days varied considerably (mother: 22 m; neonates: 3, 21, 49, and 154 m). Continued movements by neonates were independent and sporadic, with individuals staying several days in single locations. Excluding one neonate, all individuals converged to a single wooded, rocky hillside for hibernation (320 m from birth site). During their movements to the hibernaculum, one neonate was found with a subadult female and another neonate was found again with its mother. Our observations support the hypothesis that conspecific trails may be used by neonates during their initial den location.
3878235|We measured species richness and composition of adult Odonata and inferred habitat preferences among man-made wetland sites and surrounding tracts of natural bottomland forest. Cumulative species richness and composition were described by proportion coefficients and beta diversity indices. The three man-made sites provided open space resources, and more species were observed in each than in the floodplain forest. Twenty-nine of 42 species documented over a four-month period were observed in only one or two of the four wetlands studied. Large differences in species assemblages between the immediately adjacent ditch and marsh sites were the best evidence for high habitat affinity because distance and structural barriers to movement were absent. Such compositional asymmetry may reflect differential vegetative and reproductive suitability of the habitats. Results suggest that the open-canopy wetlands supported higher diversity of adult Odonata, and that distinct odonate assemblages were found among different habitat types in this floodplain wetland complex.
3878236| Neofiber alleni (round-tailed muskrat) is a wetland-associated species of conservation concern restricted to the southeastern United States. This species is relatively unstudied and no standardized procedures exist for determining its distribution. We evaluated a survey technique for assessing presence-absence of round-tailed muskrats in small, isolated, freshwater marshes in central Florida. We conclude that  2 trained persons searching adjacent belt transects on foot for  30 min during fall-early winter can reliably determine occupancy for muskrats based on presence of their distinctive lodges. Resurveys of unoccupied wetlands did not reveal any false absences from our initial survey, and an investigation of lodge persistence indicated that false presences were unlikely. Broad-scale studies of distributional patterns and temporal trends in occupancy of the round-tailed muskrat are needed to assess its conservation status and threats. 
3877916|Successful long-term monitoring programs of amphibians require the ability to distinguish natural population fluctuations from human-caused declines. Because recruitment in populations of pond-breeding amphibians depends on optimal environmental conditions of rainfall and hydroperiod, extended periods of drought may have adverse effects. We examined the breeding biology of Ambystoma cingulatum at a breeding site in northwestern Florida for four consecutive seasons (1999-2002) during and immediately following a drought. The number of immigrating adults declined steadily during this period, and larvae and metamorphs were not observed. Potential explanations for the observed decline in number of adults include disruption of migration as a result of insufficient rainfall during the breeding season and cumulative rainfall deficit, lack of juvenile recruitment, and adult attrition. We believe reduction in number of adults is best explained as attrition of adults without recruitment of juveniles.
3877917|Recovery of the federally threatened Ambystoma cingulatum (Flatwoods Salamander) will require monitoring of known populations, as well as continued searches for additional populations. In an effort to develop recommendations for maximizing efficiency of future surveys of larval Flatwoods Salamanders, we combined data from surveys conducted between 1990 and 2004 in Florida and Georgia. Analysis of these data revealed variation in the number of larvae captured, survey effort, capture rates, and larval body size among years and months. An average of 16 min or 45 one-m long dipnet sweeps was required to catch each larva. For wetlands surveyed twice in a season, results (i.e., larval presence or assumed absence) were consistent in 74% of consecutive surveys. We make recommendations for conducting future surveys and the implementation of a coordinated research and monitoring program for Flatwoods Salamanders.
3877918|This study was conducted to determine the relationship between water chemistry and presence of stygobitic (cave-obligate) crayfishes (Cambaridae) in Tennessee, Alabama, and Georgia. We analyzed nine chemical factors in water samples from twenty caves, twelve of which contained stygobitic crayfish and eight in which none were found. A multiple analysis of variance using principal components scores suggested that absence of crayfish was associated with lower dissolved oxygen, higher ammonia, and higher water temperature. Caves with externally originating streams supported no stygobitic crayfishes, and the chemical factors of the water in these caves were more variable.
3877919|A new non-destructive method of sampling burrowing crayfish, the burrowing crayfish net, was compared to the Norrocky burrowing crayfish trap. The new sampling method captured significantly more crayfish than did the trap. Captured crayfish sizes were similar and sex ratios were not biased in the two methods. Sixteen species of crayfish have been captured with the burrowing crayfish net.
3877920|Effective conservation of mussels in streams of the lower Flint River basin, southwest Georgia, requires more rigorous understanding of mussel-habitat associations and factors shaping assemblage composition in stream reaches. We surveyed mussels and habitat conditions at 46 locations, and used regression, correlation and multivariate direct gradient analysis (Canonical Correspondence Analyses) to identify species-habitat relationships and characteristic species-assemblage types in Flint basin streams. Riparian wetland and catchment forest cover, average mid-channel depth, and drainage network position accounted for 49% of the variability in mussel species richness, 36% of the variability in unionid abundance, and 32% of the variability observed in Shannon-Wiener diversity across survey sites. Species were grouped into four assemblage types based on their habitat associations: large-river-riffle associates, slackwater associates, habitat generalists, and stream-run associates. Results are broadly concordant with anecdotal reports of mussel-habitat relationships and provide insight into the habitat conservation needs of mussels.
3877921|Simpsonaias ambigua (salamander mussel) is a small-shelled member of a monotypic unionid genus and the only freshwater mussel reported to be an obligate parasite of amphibians. Recent surveys of the Duck River drainage found no historical or recent records of the salamander mussel, but documented records for 73 other species, including 53 extant taxa. In 2003, a fresh-dead shell of S. ambigua was collected from the Duck River in Humphreys County, TN. Additional specimens were found in June 2005. These specimens represent the only known occurrence of S. ambigua in the Duck or Tennessee River drainages and may represent the only remaining Tennessee population.
3877922|A survey of the terrestrial mollusks of the Sipsey Wilderness Area, Bankhead National Forest, in northwestern Alabama was conducted from August 2003 to May 2004. A total of 15 sites were sampled across a number of different habitat and vegetation types found within the area. A total of 50 species were found, representing 14 families and 30 genera, including 58 new county and 2 new state records. This represents a significant increase in the known diversity of the area based on a preliminary survey conducted in the 1960s, which yielded only six species. The current survey highlights the need for more detailed survey work across Alabama and the southeastern United States.
3877923|Streams were sampled throughout the Upper Black Warrior River basin to (1) determine the current distribution of Necturus alabamensis (Black Warrior Waterdog) and (2) identify its habitat requirements. Individuals were observed at 14 of 112 localities within 60 streams. Discriminant function analysis of stream characteristics revealed that waterdog populations were associated with the presence of ephemeropteran larvae on a local scale and with water depths of 1-4 m, large leaf packs, and low percentage of fine sediments on a regional scale. Where present, N. alabamensis occurs at relatively low population densities, and populations monitored in our survey exhibited a 1:1 sex ratio with no apparent age-class structure or sexual size dimorphism. We conclude that this species is rare on the basis of its restricted geographic range, low abundance, and unpredictable occurrence in suitable habitat; as such, N. alabamensis should be considered for federal protection.
3877924|Cyprinella gibbsi (Tallapoosa shiner) is sympatric with Etheostoma tallapoosae (Tallapoosa darter) and both species are endemic to the Tallapoosa River system of Georgia and Alabama. The darter population has been shown to be divided into genetically divergent populations. In this study, mitochondrial ND4L sequences were analyzed for 10 populations of the Tallapoosa shiner from throughout its distribution. Phylogenetic analysis and analysis of molecular variance show that the shiner population is also divided into genetically divergent populations. These can be designated as management units for future monitoring of the species. The distributions of the genetically divergent populations of the shiner and the darter are similar, and indicate that the two species share a common biogeographic history.
3877925|Fall Line sandhills vegetation occurs on dry, sandy ridgetops and supports a suite of rare or uncommon plant species (TES). We surveyed nine sandhills sites and 32 "matrix" mixed pine-hardwood stands at Fort Benning to characterize canopy and groundlayer vegetation patterns and determine the extent of sandhills vegetation, including characteristic dominant species and TES, over the upland landscape. The relative abundance of Pinus palustris (longleaf pine), P. taeda (loblolly pine), and P. echinata (shortleaf pine) and sandhills oaks contributed to canopy composition differences among sites. The sandhills communities support a unique set of groundlayer species, including state-listed Chrysoma pauciflosculosa. Although there is some species overlap, especially in overstory composition, characteristic sandhills vegetation is not widely distributed in mixed pine-hardwood stands at Fort Benning and conservation might best be achieved by maintaining existing sites.
3877926|The fungus Fusarium semitectum infects the flowering heads of Rudbeckia auriculata at two sites in Alabama. This is the first report of a fungal agent infecting this globally rare species. The fungus produces orange-tinged or pinkish-white spores on the flower heads and renders infected flowers sterile. Fungal spores superficially resembled pollen and are picked up by the main pollinator, the composite specialist bee Andrena aliciae, which serves as a dispersal agent for the fungal pathogen. Fungal spores were found attached in higher ratios in those areas of the bee's body that come into most direct contact with the flowering heads during feeding. The rate of spread of the fungus on potted plants indicated significant negative correlations between number of infections and the distance from the fungal source. Fusarium colonies were isolated from the entire length of flowering stems, and apparently invade vegetative portions of the plants. As R. auriculata is a perennial plant that reproduces almost exclusively by the production of short stolons, the fungus poses no serious threat to its immediate existence.
3877927|In Spring of 1995 and 1997, 170 ha of a savanna-glade complex in the Ozark Mountains of Arkansas were burned. These prescribed burns included 5 of 18 permanent plots established across the site in 1993. We surveyed the ground flora, seedling, sapling, and overstory vegetation of these plots before and after burning. The burns greatly impacted the sapling layer, where density decreased from 2540/ha preburn to 610/ha after the second burn. Ground flora richness was unchanged following burning, but evenness and diversity increased. Species richness, evenness, and diversity also increased on the unburned plots. We observed large increases in the cover of several glade and savanna species after burning. We observed similar trends, but of lesser magnitude, on unburned plots.
3877928|Sphyrapicus varius (Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers) are winter residents of mature Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) forests in the southeastern US. Sapsuckers pierce the bark of mature pines to create wells on living trees and consume the sugar-rich exudate and insects attracted to this food source. To determine sapsucker preferences for individual trees, for locations along boles, and for edge vs. interior habitat, we surveyed an old-growth Pinus palustris stand in lower Alabama with recent sapsucker activity. Individual tree characteristics and stand conditions were evaluated to assess their influence on the number and location of sap wells. Of 596 pines sampled, 74 (12.4%) contained wells. Sapsuckers selected trees with greater diameter at breast height (mean dbh of welled trees = 40.4 cm; non-welled trees = 24.6 cm; P < 0.01). Among pines with wells, sapsuckers fed differentially on different aspects and stem heights. Sap wells were concentrated on the north aspect of the bole (P < 0.05), where wells were 40% more likely to occur than any other aspect. No stand characteristics (plot distance to stand edge, plot basal area, plot tree density, 5-year radial increment growth) significantly influenced sapsucker tree-selection patterns.
3877929|I surveyed bird communities during the 1999 and 2000 breeding seasons in oak-pine sawtimber (ST) stands, pine poletimber (PT) stands, high-density pine seedling (SS) stands, and recently clearcut areas throughout Holly Springs National Forest (HSNF), in north-central Mississippi. Species richness was 25% greater in forested stands compared to clearcut areas, yet total bird density was 50% greater in clearcut areas. Bird communities ranged from open-habitat assemblages in clearcut areas to forest-obligate assemblages in ST stands. Little overlap of avian community composition was observed between ST stands and clearcut areas. PT and SS stands supported avian communities where most species were observed at intermediate abundance values compared to ST or clearcut areas. Highly fragmented, closed-canopy stands embedded within the silvicultural landscape of HSNF do not support large populations of species traditionally associated with detrimental edge effects on forest-obligate songbirds. Intensively managed PT and SS stands appear to provide suboptimal habitat for forest and grassland species. Land managers in HSNF could maximize regional avian diversity by maintaining a mosaic of large closed-canopy, oak-pine stands, and fire-maintained open areas embedded among other silvicultural stand types.
3877930|Obtaining reliable survival estimates is important in the management of wildlife populations, particularly for the construction of computer simulation models. Many methods for estimating survival (e.g., radiotelemetry) are cost-prohibitive or time consuming. Life tables can provide survival estimates using data routinely collected by some management agencies. We calculated annual survival for Odocoileus virginianus clavium (Key deer) using age-specific mortality data. We compared our life-table estimates to those calculated from radiotelemetry data. Key deer survival estimates derived from life tables were similar to rates calculated from radiocollared deer. The only exception was for yearling/adult females on north Big Pine Key, where the life-table estimate was only slightly outside of the 95% confidence interval for the radiotelemetry estimate. Our results suggest that life tables based on age-specific mortality data can be a useful tool in estimating survival for Key deer. Comparing survival estimates from both methods allowed us to evaluate potential biases due to violation of assumptions associated with life-table calculations. While wildlife managers should be aware of the potential biases, age-specific mortality data may provide an adequate and cost-effective alternative for estimating survival.
3877931|Peromyscus leucopus (white-footed mice) and Ochrotomys nuttalli (golden mice) were live-trapped in eight experimental plots of lowland and upland deciduous forest during 2001 and 2004. An outbreak of Cuterebra fontinella (botfly) parasitism occurred on both species of small mammals during the 2001 and 2004 trapping seasons, with peaks in mid-July each year. A second peak of parasitism was observed in late October 2004, which differed greatly from 2001 where only one peak occurred. We suggest that a greater three-dimensional home-range size and pattern of behavioral activity exhibited by P. leucopus led to a greater incidence of parasitism (41.7%) compared to the more arboreal O. nuttalli (6.3%-12.5%). The second outbreak of parasitism appeared to have been the result of a late-summer deluge of tropical weather caused by an exceptionally active hurricane season affecting the southeastern United States.
3877932|Chironomid pupal exuviae were sampled monthly using drift nets and hand sieves over an annual cycle from Hendrick Mill Branch (HMB; Blount County, AL) and Payne Creek (PC; Hale County, AL). Taxon richness, community composition, and emergence phenologies were similar despite marked differences in physical/chemical characteristics of the study streams. The highest emergence rates were observed in spring (PC) or both spring and fall (HMB). However, there was no significant relationship between emergence/emergent biomass and date. Estimates of daily emergence and emergent biomass were much higher in HMB than in PC. These patterns may have resulted from a more consistent flow regime, higher substrate stability, lower variation in temperature/chemical characteristics, greater channel surface area, and a more significant hyporheic zone in HMB than in PC.
3877933|Here we evaluate monthly and daily activity patterns of Neoseps Reynoldsi (Sand Skink), through examination of museum specimens and population studies at Archbold Biological Station (ABS), Highlands County, FL, and in Ocala National Forest (ONF), Marion County, FL. Sand Skinks are active throughout the year, with highest captures in February through May, and August through October. Museum specimen data suggest a peak in December, but this reflects collector bias. Number of captures is significantly negatively related to precipitation and positively related to temperature for Sand Skinks at ABS, but this relationship is due to capture of hatchlings from July through October. At ONF, no relationship between temperature and precipitation and number of captures exists. The number of Sand Skink tracks per day at ABS is not related to temperature, but is significantly negatively related to precipitation.
3878201|Urbanization and other anthropogenic factors are often implicated in turtle population declines, yet limited research on the natural history of turtles in urban areas has been conducted. To assess the effects of urbanization and to help develop proper conservation strategies for Terrapene c. carolina (Eastern Box Turtles), we conducted a mark-recapture study in the vicinity of Davidson, NC, from 1999 to 2004. We made 354 turtle captures, 42 of which were recapture events. We evaluated meristic characters, body condition, activity patterns, population structure, and growth rates, and then examined relationships among these variables and the amount of anthropogenically-modified habitat within 100 m of each turtle's collection location. Males and females had different patterns of seasonal activity and body condition indices. Growth rates decreased with turtle age and varied between developed and forested habitats. More turtles over the age of 20 were found in areas with extensive forest cover than in areas that were developed. Although box turtles may persist in urbanized landscapes and may grow more quickly there, they suffer higher mortality in these habitats compared to forested landscapes.
3878202|This study qualitatively surveyed freshwater mussel assemblages at 24 sites in the Choctawhatchee, Yellow, and Conecuh-Escambia river drainages of southeastern Alabama and northwest Florida in 2004. A specific focus of the study was to determine the current status of seven narrowly endemic candidate species: Margaritifera marrianae, Fusconaia escambia, Hamiota australis, Pleurobema strodeanum, Ptychobranchus jonesi, Quincuncina burkei, and Villosa choctawensis. Presence-absence analysis was used to compare 2004 data to recent historical records from the 1990s. There was no significant difference between the number of taxa found in the 1990s and in 2004. There was, however, a significant decrease from the 1990s to 2004 in the number of candidate species found at a site and the number of sites at which candidate species were found.
3878203|A common assumption is that titillation by adult female Trachemys scripta (Slider Turtles) always represents female participation in courtship, but there is only limited empirical support for this assertion and some data may contradict this supposition. Behavioral interactions were staged among wild-caught T. scripta throughout the local season of activity for this species (April-October). Each of 47 trials involved 6 turtles (total = 282 turtles: 94 melanistic males, 94 nonmelanistic males, 94 females) videotaped for 3 h (total = 141 h). During our study, titillation behaviors initiated by females were largely intrasexual, exhibited no peak during the local mating period, and did not stimulate males to attempt copulation. We concluded that such characteristics were inconsistent with the traditional assumption of a courtship function and were more consistent with the characteristics of agonistic signals, signals that communicate sender identity, or compound signals with multiple communicative functions that may change ontogenetically or in different social contexts. Because the communicative value(s) of these displays is not yet fully understood, we argue that the traditional term "titillation" that has been used to refer to these displays is inappropriate and should be replaced with "foreclaw display" which is neutral with respect to the potential communicative function(s).
3878204|In the past century, habitat alteration and fragmentation have increased dramatically, which increases the need for improving our understanding of how species and biological communities react to these modifications. A national strategy on biological diversity has focused attention on how these habitat modifications affect species, especially herpetofauna (i.e., changes in species richness, community evenness and similarity, and dominant/rare species). As part of this strategy, we surveyed Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge, a coastal, mixed second-growth forested swamp (MFS) and pocosin wetland (PW), in North Carolina for amphibians and reptiles from September 2000 to August 2001. We randomly selected three sites (3 x 3 km) in two major habitat types (MFS, PW) and completed random surveys and trapping using transects, quadrats, nighttime aural road surveys, drift fences, canal transects, coverboards, incidental captures, and evening road surveys. We also collected herpetofauna opportunistically throughout the refuge to establish an updated species list. For analysis, we used Shannon-Weiner species diversity (H'), evenness (J'), species richness and species detectability (COMDYN4), and community percent similarity index to determine herpetofaunal community differences. We estimated 39 species in MFS and 32 species in PW (P < 0.10). Species detectability was similar between habitats (0.84 to 0.86). More reptilian species (+ 31%) inhabited MFS than PW, but estimated amphibian species richness was identical (17 spp.). H' was higher (P < 0.0001) for PW (2.6680) than for MFS (2.1535) because of lower J' in the latter (0.6214 vs. 0.8010). Dominance of three Rana species caused lower J' and H' in MFS. Similarity between the communities was 56.6%; we estimated 22-24 species in common for each habitat (95% CI = 18 to 31 spp.). We verified 49 of the 52 herpetofaunal species on the refuge that were known to exist in the area. Restoration of natural water flows may affect herpetofaunal diversity, which may be monitored during a restoration project. Currently, the refuge retains historical levels of herpetofaunal diversity for the region.
3878205|Radio-transmitters were implanted in six male and three female adult Northern Pinesnakes at Arnold Air Force Base in Middle Tennessee. Snakes were radio-tracked during the spring, summer, and autumn of 2001 and 2002 to ascertain possible sexual variation and seasonal patterns of habitat use. Radio-tracked Pinesnakes spent most of their time within pre-existing stump holes or under old concrete foundations found scattered throughout the study area. They primarily used disturbed habitats with little or no canopy cover. Selected habitats were characterized by vegetative ground cover and woody debris during both years. Monitored pinesnakes avoided upland deciduous forest and closed-canopy pine forests. The affinity for open-canopy areas increased throughout the year, with males and females inhabiting these areas most often during autumn. Females used more underground retreats than males during summer. Moreover, both sexes used underground retreats most often during autumn. Considering past and ongoing land use patterns of the area, disturbance (e.g., fire and timber harvest) may be important to the maintenance of habitat diversity needed by Northern Pinesnakes.
3878206|In recent years, researchers have begun to focus on the upland habitat requirements of pond-breeding amphibians. The increased attention is due to a general lack of knowledge about the terrestrial phase of the life history of most pond-breeding species and a concern over loss of upland habitats. In this study, radio telemetry was used to determine the terrestrial behavior of Rana capito (Gopher Frogs) in central Florida. Frogs were captured at Gopherus polyphemus (Gopher Tortoise) and Geomys pinetis (pocket gopher) burrows. Surgically implanted radio transmitters were used to follow nine Gopher Frogs at various times between September 1999 and May 2000. Radio-located frogs used from one to four terrestrial shelters (<tex-math>$Mean \pm S.D. = 2.28 \pm 1.11$</tex-math>). Terrestrial movements ranged in total distance from zero to 35 m (<tex-math>$Mean \pm S.D. = 15.28 \pm 15.29$</tex-math>). Mean minimum convex polygons (m<sup>2</sup>) were calculated for each frog (<tex-math>$Mean \pm S.D. = 45.29 \pm 79.73$</tex-math>). Gopher Frogs showed strong site fidelity to both pocket gopher and Gopher Tortoise burrows. Drought conditions could have resulted in an underestimate of movement distance and an overestimate of site fidelity to upland shelters. Upland habitat should be managed to protect all species of terrestrial burrowers; in doing so, Gopher Frogs will be managed.
3878207|The southernmost population of Gopherus polyphemus (Gopher Tortoises) occurs at Cape Sable, FL. The burrows of this population were surveyed in 1979 using strip transects to estimate Gopher Tortoise burrow density. We present data from a 1990 strip-transect survey and a 2001 line-transect survey of burrows for comparison. We found a significantly lower density of active burrows and a significantly higher density of abandoned burrows in 2001 compared to 1979 and 1990, but the overall density of burrows did not differ significantly over time. The distribution of burrow widths in 2001 was not significantly different from the 1982 distribution, and the bimodal pattern suggests that reproduction has occurred at the site. The 76% decline of active burrows at the site suggests that Gopher Tortoises have been subject to mortality. Reduction of habitat quality and tropical storms are possible explanations for the apparent decline in the Gopher Tortoise population at Cape Sable, but more monitoring is required to understand the long-term trends in this coastal population.
3878208|To assess use of terrestrial habitat by ambystomatid salamanders, Ambystoma tigrinum (Tiger Salamanders) were monitored with radiotelemetry. Four individuals were tracked as they exited a wetland and made wide use of the surrounding landscape. Salamanders moved up to 255 m from the wetland of origin and found refugia both within forested land and wildlife food plots. Based on the extent of terrestrial movements by Tiger Salamanders, our findings support previous work demonstrating that upland habitat surrounding wetlands are critical areas in amphibian life cycles. Salamander movements did not appear to be influenced by agricultural development, as two individuals traveled through this habitat type.
3878209|Surveys for nesting Limnothlypis swainsonii (Swainson's Warblers) were conducted in the Appalachian mountains of northwestern South Carolina (Pickens County) during the breeding seasons from 1999 to 2003. A total of 74 nests were located, of which 60 (81%) were found in young (small) Tsuga canadensis (eastern hemlock). This nest-site selection tendency in montane populations has not been described. Habitat data collected in 1999 revealed trends of nests placed low, supported by multiple stems, close to the main tree stem, well concealed from above with leaf litter, poorly concealed from below and relatively close to streams. We suggest that conservation of areas in the Southern Appalachians where eastern hemlock is a component of the forest may play an important role in Swainson' s Warbler conservation.
3878210|Habitat suitability index (HSI) models, which are meant to analyze the habitat value of an area for a particular species of interest, are commonly used to evaluate species, communities, and habitats for management or impact assessment. However, many assessments are conducted under strict time and money limitations, and this use of HSI may lead to inappropriate interpretations. The purpose of our work was to evaluate the relationships between three HSI models, the presence of their attendant species, and related avian communities at common assessment time scales. We compared the habitat values of a north Texas bottomland forest measured by HSI models for three species commonly used as indicators of this habitat type, Hairy Woodpecker, Pileated Woodpecker, and Barred Owl, with (1) the actual presence of each species, and (2) the presence of a larger forest-dependent avian community. HSI values did not correlate well with either occurrences of the indicator species or communities for any of the three models. Our results suggest that these models are not necessarily effective indicators of actual habitat use by indicator species, and may not be useful in helping managers make decisions that may affect an entire community related by habitat type. Positive assessments of habitat value through HSI values should be appraised carefully before management decisions are initiated, perhaps through outside review and/or a clear discussion of the context. The primary value of HSI use may be the ability to measure changes in the habitats themselves over time, and not exclusively as representations of species or community presence.
3878211|Breeding biology of Anas fulvigula maculosa (Mottled Ducks) has been described in coastal marsh and associated habitats, but little information is available for agricultural habitats in Louisiana. We located nests to determine nest-initiation dates and clutch sizes during the primary breeding season (February-May) in 1999 (n = 29) and 2000 (n = 37) on agricultural lands in southwestern Louisiana. In 1999, 60% of located nests were initiated between 22 March and 10 April, whereas in 2000, only 22% of nests were initiated during the same time period. Average clutch size was 0.9 eggs smaller in 2000 than in 1999. Annual differences in reproductive parameters corresponded with extremely dry conditions caused by low rainfall before the laying period in 2000. Flooded rice fields appear to be important loafing and feeding habitat of Mottled Ducks nesting in agricultural lands, especially during drought periods when other wetland types are not available or where natural wetlands have been eliminated.
3878212|Relatively little is known about Ixobrychus exilis (Least Bittern) nesting sites. We searched for Least Bittern nests on Reelfoot Lake and nearby Black Bayou Waterfowl Refuge, TN, May-July 2003. We located 8 nests at Reelfoot Lake, where Decodon verticillatus (swamp loosestrife) dominated emergent communities. We also discovered 2 nests at Black Bayou, where Zizaniopsis miliacea (giant cutgrass) dominated emergent communities. D. verticillatus was the dominant plant species within 60 m of most nests. Z. miliacea dominated within 5 m of most nests, and most nests were made of Z. miliacea. We found a nest with 2 white-colored chicks and 2 ochre-colored chicks, which may be the first such instance reported.
3878213|Four species of stoneflies (Plecoptera) from an intermittent stream-perennial spring continuum were the subject of comparative life-cycle analyses. Allocapnia recta was common in each reach and exhibited univoltine-fast life cycles and determinate voltinism. Leuctra alta from the intermittent reach and a L. alta-L. sibleyi mix from the perennial reach each displayed an univoltine-fast cycle, implying that L. alta demonstrated determinate voltinism. Leuctra cf. tenuis was absent from the intermittent reach, and its growth followed a univoltine-slow cycle in the perennial reach.
3878214|Cyperus entrerianus, a native of temperate South America, has become a tenacious weed in the southeastern United States. Herbarium and field studies revealed records of C. entrerianus from an additional 39 counties in the southeastern United States, increasing the number of counties where it is known by 118%. Vegetation sampling at two southeast Texas bottomland hardwood stands showed that C. entrerianus is capable of invading the understory of a mature forest with old-growth characteristics and that native herbaceous species richness and aerial cover are negatively correlated with increasing aerial cover of C. entrerianus. Life-history characteristics of C. entrerianus suggest it will continue to spread and could alter both herbaceous and woody plant dynamics in bottomland forests of the southeastern United States.
3878215|Rotifer hatching was examined for moist sediments collected from three benthic environments in a mainstem reservoir embayment, Kentucky Lake, KY: a drawdown zone with an established annual drying and wetting cycle, a floodplain that is only rarely inundated, and the permanently inundated embayment. Hatching data were compared with previous published data for laboratory-dried sediments from the same sites and with bi-weekly water-column samples over a one-year period. Of the total 44 taxa now recorded from Kentucky Lake, 18 species hatched from moist sediments and six from completely dried sediments. Taxa that emerged from moist and dried sediments were common to temporary and littoral habitats indicating that they may be better adapted for surviving diapause in a fluctuating reservoir environment. Evidence further suggests that the degree of sediment drying in drawdown and floodplain zones may affect egg hatching and that human-induced reservoir water level fluctuations may play a role in rotifer community dynamics by increasing or reducing rotifer community diversity in a single year.
3878216|We examined 53 nests of southern flying squirrels constructed within nest boxes in Mobile County, AL. Of those containing a bedding layer (n = 35), 80% contained fungal rhizomorphs of Marasmius brevipes. Rhizomorphs of this genus have been reported in bird-nest descriptions, but have not been documented in flying squirrel nests. M. brevipes was common on our study site, and its use by flying squirrels may be unique to the area. Nevertheless, this and similar species of rhizomorph-producing fungi occur in other portions of the flying squirrel's range, and the nondescript nature of rhizomorphs may lead to their misidentification. Our observations appear to constitute the first description of an ecological relationship between this fungus and a mammalian species.
3878217|The main foods of 73 Blarina carolinensis (southern short-tailed shrews) taken during 2003 and 2004 on Cumberland Island, GA, were the introduced terrestrial amphipod, Talitroides topitotum (Amphipoda, 21.8% volume), larval beetles (Coleoptera, 12.4%), centipedes (Chilopoda, 11.8%), earthworms (Annelida, 9.1%), moth larvae (Lepidoptera, 8.6%), and spiders (Araneae, 7.4%). The primary foods identified in this study were similar to results from a study in South Carolina, except that amphipods, T. topitotum, comprised 21.8% of the Georgia food, but did not occur in the South Carolina sample, and subterranean fungi Endogonaceae made up 16.8% of the South Carolina food, but only 3.8% in Georgia. The importance of amphipods in the diet in coastal Georgia was probably due to the great abundance of these amphipods in the study area. Talitroides topitotum is a terrestrial amphipod of Indo-Pacific origin and this is apparently the first report of this species from Georgia. There was little seasonal variation among the primary foods, but centipedes and ants were eaten most heavily in spring, annelids and spiders in summer, and fungi in winter.
3878218|The ant-decapitating fly Apocephalus tenuipes (Diptera: Phoridae) was known previously only from two Florida specimens. Here we report two additional Florida records and a Mississippi record that represents a significant range extension. Field observations of A. tenuipes are presented as well.
3878219|Two shortnose sturgeon were artificially passed above the Pinopolis Lock and Dam into the Santee-Cooper Lakes in order to simulate the use of a fish-passage mechanism. Movement patterns and spawning behavior were studied to determine the potential success of future shortnose sturgeon migrations if and when a fish-migration bypass structure is installed. In addition to movement patterns, water temperature was monitored in areas that shortnose sturgeons utilized. Shortnose sturgeon migrated through a large static system to a known shortnose sturgeon spawning area more than 160 km upstream where water temperatures were consistent with known shortnose sturgeon spawning temperatures. No specific movement patterns in the reservoir system were recorded during downstream migrations.
3878117|Periodic quantitative surveys to monitor populations of freshwater mussels (Unionidae) were conducted at eight sites in the Verdigris River, KS during 1991, 1997, and 2003. Twenty-two species were collected including several on the Kansas rare-species list. Overall mussel abundance increased from 1991-2003. Abundance of 10 species (Cyprogenia aberti, Fusconaia flava, Lasmigona complanata, Pleurobema sintoxia, Ptychobranchus occidentalis, Quadrula metanevra, Quadrula nodulata, Quadrula pustulosa, Tritogonia verrucosa, and Truncilla donaciformis) increased significantly while only Lampsilis teres decreased. This positive trend in unionid abundance could be due to various factors that have improved habitat quality of this reach of river.
3878118| We examined relationships between catchment-scale disturbance from military training and two dominant fish species, Pteronotropis euryzonus (broadstripe shiner) and Semotilus thoreauianus (Dixie chub) in headwater streams at the Fort Benning Military Installation (FBMI), GA. Disturbance was estimated as the percent of the catchment that was bare ground and unpaved road cover. Relative abundance of broadstripe shiners and Dixie chubs were negatively and positively related to disturbance, respectively. This complementarity likely resulted from contrasting life histories, feeding behaviors, and habitat preferences between the two species. Absolute abundance of broadstripe shiners increased, whereas relative abundance of Dixie chubs decreased, with stream discharge, suggesting that both species were affected by local habitat conditions. Additionally, the average body size of both species was lower in high-disturbance streams, signifying that both species were affected by disturbance. Results also suggest a disturbance threshold, where streams with disturbance levels of  5-8.1% of the catchment had broadstripe shiner proportions below those in low-disturbance streams. About 71-88% of second-order catchments on FBMI lie below this threshold level, suggesting that many streams on FBMI are potentially suitable for the broadstripe shiner. 
3878119| Etheostoma scotti (Cherokee darter) is a member of the subgenus Ulocentra and a federally threatened endemic to the Etowah River system, GA. Field observations of spawning behavior of the Cherokee darter were made at five stream sites to identify spawning season and habitat over two field seasons. Cherokee darters primarily spawn in pool habitats between mid-March and early June, at temperatures between 11 and 18 C. Egg deposition was typically on large gravel substrate, but ranged from gravel to bedrock in size and included woody debris. Spawning occurred in a variety of depths (0.09-0.59 m) and velocities (0-0.68 m/s). 
3878120|We examined the relationship between seven wall-microhabitat features and the occurrence of the nonindigenous Hemidactylus turcicus (Mediterranean Gecko) in north-central Florida using a repeatable technique. We characterized 160 one-story walls by age of the building, cardinal orientation, color, length, presence or absence of a light source, building material, and vegetation level, and recorded the presence or absence of H. turcicus for each wall during two separate nocturnal visits. The occurrence of H. turcicus was only dependent on wall surface color and length. Both the lack of significance of the majority of the microhabitat variables investigated and the fact that H. turcicus was found on all wall types suggest that this gecko is capable of inhabiting a wide variety of wall environments. This habitat flexibility may be a key factor in the prolific expansion of this gecko's nonnative range.
3878121|Monthly surveys were conducted in Gregorys Cave, Great Smoky Mountains National Park, for one year using systematic, repeatable methods to quantify the distribution and abundance of the salamanders Eurycea longicauda and Plethodon glutinosus. Information was gathered regarding larval development of E. longicauda in cave pools, as well as the occurrence of young P. glutinosus. Salamanders were most commonly encountered during spring and late summer from the entrance gate to 50 m inside the cave. Both species were found deepest in the cave during late summer-early fall and late winter-early spring. Young P. glutinosus and recently transformed E. longicauda were observed during late winter and early spring between 50 and 80 m inside the cave. Additional study is required to further understand the timing and frequency of metamorphosis of larval E. longicauda in cave pools.
3878122|Food habits of 109 Macrochelys temminckii (Alligator Snapping Turtles) collected from Arkansas and Louisiana were studied by examination of stomach and intestinal tract contents from harvested turtles. There was a positive correlation between the turtle carcass mass and the gastrointestinal tract content mass (r = 0.39106, p < 0.0001). The most commonly occurring prey item was fish, followed by Procambarus clarkii (crawfish), molluscs, turtles, insects, and Myocastor coy pus (nutria). Other mammalian species occurred infrequently, as did snakes, birds, and crabs. Several species (Dasypus novemcinctus [armadillo], Didelphis virginiana [opossum], Sciurus sp. [squirrel], and Sus scrofa [hogs]) that have not previously been reported as prey items for Alligator Snapping Turtles were noted. Some prey items were recovered in intestinal tracts that were not observed in stomachs, illustrating the importance of examination of the entire gastrointestinal tract when evaluating food habits in this species. The results suggest Alligator Snapping Turtles are opportunistic scavengers able to consume a wide variety of prey species.
3878123|We analyzed a 15-year (1989-2003) dataset of spatial nesting locations for Loggerhead and Green Turtles along a 40.5-km stretch of beach encompassing the Archie Carr National Wildlife Refuge along the Atlantic coast of Florida. To assess whether there are differences in spatial distribution influenced by temporal site-selection cues, we divided each season into quartiles and analyzed the autocorrelative patterns of the nest distributions within each time frame. Fundamentally, intraspecific differences in nest spatial patterns from the beginning to the end of the nesting season were minor. Though the temporal grain of the analyses may not be able to discern affects of fine-scale fluctuations (e.g., high- and low-tide events), these results suggest that environmental variables that change over the nesting season (e.g., ocean temperatures, day length, and existing human activities) are not significantly influencing where these sea turtles place their nests.
3878124|Extensive trapping surveys across the historical range of Pituophis ruthveni (Louisiana Pine Snake) suggest that extant populations are extremely small and limited to remnant patches of suitable habitat in a highly fragmented landscape. Evaluation of habitat at all known historical localities of P. ruthveni documents the widespread degradation of the fire-maintained pine ecosystem throughout the historical range of the species. The primary factors leading to degradation of P. ruthveni habitat are intensive pine silviculture and alteration of the pre-European fire regime. Habitat restoration on public lands is feasible and could potentially restore populations of this critically rare species.
3878125|We studied the presence and distribution of 19 species at risk in northeastern Florida at the Camp Blanding Training Site (CBTS) during 2000-2001, seven years after the first major baseline surveys of CBTS were conducted. Much of the training conducted at CBTS deals with light infantry exercises, but the site is also used for mining, silviculture, hunting, fishing, emergency logistical support, and entertainment purposes. CBTS contains more than 2000 species of plants and animals in 14 natural communities, each impacted to various degrees by past and current land management. Adaptive management plans for species may be ineffective without continual feedback and the flexibility for change. Here we summarize and discuss the results of our surveys, compare these results with those of past surveys, identify differences between the surveys, and discuss the importance of systematic protocols and study design for CBTS environmental managers.
3878126|I conducted a vegetative survey of the wetland habitats at Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve (JLNHPP) - Barataria Unit. Although wetland habitats make up over 65% of the total park area, there has never been a thorough vegetative survey of this portion of the preserve. Three main habitats were identified: freshwater floating marsh, spoil banks, and waterways. The floating-marsh habitat was further divided into three different community types: thick mat, thin mat, and wax-myrtle thicket. The thick-mat community encompasses four vegetative associations characterized by their dominant species. These are the Sagittaria lancifolia, Typha spp., Schoenoplectus americanus, and Spartina spp. associations. Overall, I identified 168 species in 113 genera in 60 families. Of these, 47 species had never been recorded in the area now encompassed by JLNHPP, and 27 species had not previously been recorded in Jefferson Parish, LA. The three most prevalent families were Cyperaceae (29 species), Poaceae (24 species) and Asteraceae (16 species).
3878127|Helenium virginicum (Virginia sneezeweed) is a federally listed threatened herb found at unshaded sites in seasonally inundated ponds in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia and in the Ozark Highlands of Missouri. In the Ozarks, one population of H. virginicum was discovered in the 1950s, though it was thought to be a hybrid of Helenium flexuosum and Helenium autumnale until genetics work resolved its identity in 2000. Since that time, it was the only known population outside of Virginia. In this study, we systematically identified potential H. virginicum habitat in the Ozarks by using topographic maps and aerial photographs and surveyed these areas for H. virginicum. Our objectives were to locate new populations of the plant and to better define its ecology in Missouri. By the end of the growing season of 2004, we had located 42 new populations of H. virginicum in the lower Missouri Ozarks - more populations than are currently known in the state of Virginia. The results of this study greatly expand the known range of H. virginicum in Missouri and provide important information regarding its ecology.
3878128|The recent invasion of Dasypus novemcinctus (nine-banded armadillo) into the southeastern United States has brought it into contact with a native burrowing chelonian, Gopherus polyphemus (Gopher Tortoise), whose burrows it usurps. Because the Gopher Tortoise is listed as vulnerable by IUCN (1996), baseline data on burrows of armadillos might improve our understanding of the impact of this introduced mammal on this reptile. Armadillo burrows were counted in a stratified random sample of 4 major habitats at Avon Park Air Force Range, FL. Data on spatial distributions of the burrows in all habitats fit the negative binomial distribution, indicating clumping. Burrow density in pine habitats was more than twice that of oak hammock, sand pine, or oak scrub. Likelihood-ratio tests combined with Akaike's Information Criteria showed that the best model was one in which the dispersion parameter (k) did not vary but the parameter for the arithmetic mean (m) did.
3878129|Based on microhistological examinations of feces, Cervus elaphus (elk) from a reintroduced herd on the Cumberland Plateau in southeastern Kentucky exhibited an annual diet of grasses (24%), forbs (27%), and browse (32%). Diets shifted seasonally, possibly in response to availability and palatability. Forbs dominated the summer diet (34%), whereas grasses, forbs, and woody browse accounted for approximately equal portions of the fall diet. Grasses (40%), and browse (46%) dominated the diet during winter and spring, respectively. Grasses were eaten less during spring (10%) than during any other month. Nutritional quality does not appear to be limiting in this growing population.
3878130|We studied the breeding biology of two Agelaius phoeniceus (Red-winged Blackbird) populations in south Florida. Red-winged Blackbirds in our study bred at low relative abundance in a wide variety of habitats, were rarely socially polygynous, and were highly aggressive toward intruders. The breeding season extended from March through August and coincided with the rainy season. Nesting periods were similar to those reported for other subspecies of Red-winged Blackbirds, but clutch sizes were small, with 2- and 3-egg clutches predominating. Nesting success varied from 28% on Sanibel Island to 63% on the Florida Keys. Both populations accepted a majority of artificial eggs into their nests, although cowbird parasitism has been rarely reported in south Florida.
3878131|Broadcast vocalizations have been used to augment winter point counts. We investigated the effects of time and Strix varia (Barred Owl) playback on woodpecker detection. Habitats were classified as upland pine, bottomland hardwood, and mixed pine-hardwood stands. Ten unlimited-radius, silent point counts of 3-min and 10-min duration were conducted in each habitat type on alternating weeks. During alternate weeks, silent counts followed by Barred Owl playback and post-playback counts were conducted. Detection was significantly greater during 10-min silent counts than during 3-min silent counts. We detected more woodpeckers after Barred Owl playback than during 3-min silent counts prior to playback. Species diversity was highest in mixed pine-hardwood stands, although abundance was lower than in hardwood stands. Mixed stands may not be able to support high woodpecker densities as well as bottomland hardwood forests.
3878132|A marked decline in the Picoides borealis (Red-cockaded Woodpecker [RCW]) population at Noxubee National Wildlife Refuge, MS, was observed in 2002. Demographic changes - including absence of hatch-year birds, decreases in size of known groups, and loss of known groups - were identified during annual fall surveys and are uncharacteristic of RCW populations. In 2003, a serosurvey of 28 adult RCWs was conducted to investigate the presence of West Nile virus (WNV) exposure in the population, possibly providing insight into whether WNV may have been responsible for this decline. Blood smears were also examined from these birds for blood parasites. We found no evidence of West Nile virus exposure or blood parasites in any of the RCWs sampled. Further monitoring of the RCW population and WNV activity in other species at Noxubee NWR is recommended to further evaluate the potential role of WNV and blood parasites in their decline.
3878050|A case study reporting a high diversity of native ants co-existing with imported fire ants is presented. Thirty-six species of ants were collected within one meter of the base and on the lower two meters of the trunk of a Quercus pagoda (cherry bark oak) in Tombigbee National Forest, Winston County, MS, on five dates during 2003 and 2004. Twenty-three of these species, including the imported fire ant hybrid, Solenopsis invicta x richteri, were nesting in the same area. A list of all species collected at the site is provided. Notes are given on the nesting habits of Polyergus lucidus longicornis and its slave, Formica dolosa, and also for other species in the area. Potential explanations for high diversity including the island effect of an isolated habitat, differing diets and foraging behaviors, habitat partitioning, and seasonal activity are discussed.
3878051|Arenivaga floridensis (Florida sand cockroach) is a fossorial insect restricted to scrub and sandhill communities on ancient ridges in peninsular Florida. Ecologically insular by nature, these ridge communities have experienced further fragmentation and significant reduction following conversion to citrus agriculture and subsequent urbanization. To assess the status of A. floridensis, we updated its known distribution by conducting an extensive field survey of scrub and sandhill habitats throughout the state. Roaches (n = 325) were collected at 47 localities, confirming the species' continued presence in nine out of eleven counties from which it has been reported, and providing 28 new localities for these nine counties. Moreover, we discovered 15 new populations representing six additional counties for which A. floridensis has either never been recorded (Gilchrist, Indian River, Martin, Palm Beach, and St. Lucie counties) or had records published (Orange County). We collected Arenivaga on 11 named peninsular ridges, including one major (Atlantic Coastal) and three minor (Bell, Gordonville, Orlando) ridges on which this species had not been previously reported. The nine new localities on the Atlantic Coastal Ridge constitute a significant range extension for A. floridensis, making it the most broadly distributed species of Florida's endemic ridge fauna.
3878052|Less than 4% of the once extensive Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) ecosystem remains today. Although longleaf pine habitats are recognized for their high species diversity, few published accounts document the vertebrate faunas of remaining tracts. Here we report on the vertebrate species richness of Ichauway, an 11,300-ha property in Baker County, GA. The property includes ca. 7300 ha of longleaf pine with native ground cover, along with more than 30 seasonal wetlands and ca. 45 km of riparian habitat associated with Ichawaynochaway Creek, Big Cypress Creek, and the Flint River. The fauna includes 61 species of fish, 31 amphibians, 53 reptiles, 191 birds, and 41 mammals. Despite the relative isolation of the property from other natural ecosystems, the vertebrate fauna of Ichauway is remarkably diverse and may offer an example of reference conditions to guide restoration of longleaf pine forests, associated seasonal wetlands, and riparian areas elsewhere in the southeastern US.
3878053|Habitat preferences for many woodpeckers are poorly known in many regions of North America. Seven woodpecker species use forested wetlands in peninsular Florida, yet no study has examined habitat use by woodpeckers in these forests. From September 1991 to August 1992, we used unlimited-distance point counts to sample birds at 32 stations in 2 forested wetland types (spring-fed and blackwater) in central Florida. We documented 1415 visual or aural woodpecker detections. Melanerpes carolinus (Red-bellied Woodpecker), Picoides pubescens (Downy Woodpecker), and Dyrocopus pileatus (Pileated Woodpecker) were common, accounting for 91% of all detections. Overall woodpecker abundance was greater in spring-fed forests than in blackwater forests. The relative abundance of 4 species was greatest during the fall and winter; this trend likely reflected shifts between habitats in response to fruit production as well as an influx of migrant Sphyrapicus varius (Yellow-bellied Sapsuckers). The relative abundance of Red-bellied and Pileated woodpeckers was greatest at sites surrounded by extensive forest cover. Unlike other studies, we found no relationship between woodpecker abundance and tree or snag basal area. The presence of Quercus spp. (oaks) also did not appear important to woodpeckers. Compared to other studies, snag density in the forests we sampled was high. This may have reduced the importance of snags to woodpeckers or made detecting relationships difficult. A high density of Sabal palmetto (sabal palm) may have provided additional foraging and nesting/roosting sites that further contributed to the lack of correlations between woodpecker detections and the presence of snags and oaks.
3878054|Meleagris gallopavo silvestris (Eastern Wild Turkey) habitat was altered in the Southeast by the introduction of Pinus spp. plantations to agricultural areas through the Conservation Reserve Program. However, the preponderance of M. gallopavo silvestris research has focused on extensive Pinus spp. plantations that lack the cover-type diversity that typifies the Southeast. From May-July 1998 and 1999, we monitored 36 radio-tagged M. gallopavo silvestris in Burke County, GA to investigate habitat use in landscapes intensively managed for agriculture and silvi-culture. We used compositional analysis to identify habitats selected by male and female M. gallopavo silvestris during summers. Proportions of habitat types within the home range were different from habitats at radio-locations of males and females. Hardwood stands and fields were the most-selected habitat types by M. gallopavo silvestris in the summer. However, within home ranges, males and females also selected closed-canopy Pinus spp. habitats. Hens with broods did not preferentially select planted Pinus spp. habitats, but their use of Pinus spp. stands was greater than use of agricultural fields. The replacement of agricultural fields by closed-canopy Pinus spp. plantations may have improved habitat quality for M. gallopavo silvestris in some areas of the Southeast by diversifying the landscape. Our results suggest that closed-canopy planted Pinus spp. cover types are not detrimental to M. gallopavo silvestris when well distributed with fields and mature hardwood drains.
3878055|We report the findings of stream-survey data, a length-at-age study, and host-fish determination for Villosa constricta (notched rainbow). Visual surveys were done for freshwater mussels at 44 bridge crossings in the upper Neuse River basin in North Carolina. Three surveyors, each searching a 1-m wide lane, covered a 600-m long stream reach at each site. All mussels found were identified to species and measured, and females were checked for gravidity. Of the 24 sites where V. constricta occurred, the median number found was 3.5 (range = 1-54). We cut thin-sections of 71 individual shells collected from middens at 1 survey site and counted growth lines to determine mussel age. Shell ages ranged from 3 to 14 years. Lab trials determined that Etheostoma flabellare (fantail darter) served as a suitable host for this species.
3878056|Keowee Reservoir has supported an abundant population of native Micropterus coosae (redeye bass) for over 30 years. Recently, redeye bass abundance in this reservoir declined concomitantly with the establishment of angler-introduced Micropterus punctulatus henshalli (Alabama spotted bass). We suspected declines in redeye bass abundance may be related to their hybridizing with the Alabama spotted bass resulting in offspring that are difficult to differentiate from the Alabama spotted bass. Thus, we collected tissue for genetic analyses from what was thought to be pure redeye bass (Jocassee Reservoir, SC), the original source of Alabama spotted bass (Lake Lanier, GA) stocked in Lake Keowee, and suspected redeye bass x Alabama spotted bass hybrids (Keowee Reservoir, SC) to determine if hybridization might be occurring. These analyses confirmed that hybridization among species of Micropterus had occurred in Keowee Reservoir.
3878057|An earlier collection of monthly samples of presumed Desmognathus quadramaculatus from Union County, GA, revealed the presence a previously unknown, sympatric, sibling species. This new form was recently described as D. folkertsi. In this paper, we report on the reproductive life history of this new species from data taken during (1) a 14-month period in 1989-90 and (2) late spring of 1998. Adult males and females mature at approximately the same size (57-58 mm snoutvent length [SVL]), and males reach larger mean (72 versus 66 mm SVL) and maximum (81 versus 75 mm SVL) sizes. Metamorphosis apparently takes place at approximately two years of age, and reproductive maturity is reached at four or more years of age in both sexes. If number of lobes in the multi-lobed testis indicates age, as has previously been presumed in adult male Desmognathus, then the paucity of singly-lobed, presumably young male D. folkertsi in both sampling periods suggest a declining population. Relative measures of density, however, indicated that the population at the study site was stable for eight years between collections. Therefore, testis-lobe data do not appear to be valid estimators of age in desmognathines. Clutch size, estimated from the number of developing follicles, averages approximately 40 eggs and is positively related to female body size. Ova take more than a single year in which to develop to oviposition size. This does not mean, however, that females follow a strictly biennial reproductive cycle.
3878058| In Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator), body length increases with age, but body length can be used as an accurate estimator of age only up to about 6-7 years, when growth rates slow considerably. Telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences that cap the ends of each chromosome. Telomeres shorten with age in most animals, but telomere shortening has not been examined in reptiles. We measured telomere length in erythrocytes of A. mississippiensis varying between  5 and 240 cm in body length and found a negative relationship between telomere length and body length (P < 0.01). Assuming that erythrocyte telomeres continue to shorten with time, even after growth rate declines, those individuals with the shortest telomeres should be the oldest members of the population. This method of estimating age, even in animals of similar body size, should allow questions about age structure and senescence to be addressed. 
3878059|Apparent widespread declines in abundance of Anguilla rostrata (American eel) have reinforced the need for information regarding its life history and status. We used commercial eel pots and crab (peeler) pots to examine the distribution, condition, and abundance of American eels within the White Oak River estuary, NC, during summers of 2002-2003. Catch of American eels per overnight set was 0.35 (SE = 0.045) in 2002 and 0.49 (SE = 0.044) in 2003. There was not a significant linear relationship between catch per set and depth in 2002 (P = 0.31, depth range 0.9-3.4 m) or 2003 (P = 0.18, depth range 0.6-3.4 m). American eels from the White Oak River were in good condition, based on the slope of a length-weight relationship (3.41) compared to the median slope (3.15) from other systems. Estimates of population density from grid sampling in 2003 (300 mm and larger: 4.0-13.8 per ha) were similar to estimates for the Hudson River estuary, but substantially less than estimates from other (smaller) systems including tidal creeks within estuaries. Density estimates from coastal waters can be used with harvest records to examine whether overfishing has contributed to the recent apparent declines in American eel abundance.
3878060| Lynx rufus (bobcat) home-range sizes have been studied throughout the Southeast, but study duration is generally  2 years and number of bobcats sampled is often < 20. There have been even fewer studies dealing with spatial interactions of bobcats, and fewer still within a Pinus palustris (longleaf pine) ecosystem. Because both bobcat home-range sizes and the degree that space is shared by bobcats are highly variable, it is important to understand factors that influence bobcat home-range size and spatial organization within the various habitats where this species is found. Therefore, we determined seasonal and annual home-range sizes and spatial overlap of bobcats in a longleaf pine forest in southwestern Georgia. We monitored 44 radio-collared bobcats (17 M and 27F) during 2001-2004. Gender and year did not interact to affect bobcat annual home-range sizes (95% adaptive kernel), and annual differences in annual home-range sizes were insignificant. However, male bobcats had annual home-range sizes almost 2 times greater than those of females. Gender and season interacted to affect seasonal home-range sizes of bobcats; thus, we analyzed seasonal home-range sizes for each gender separately. Seasonal home-range sizes of male bobcats did not differ. However, for female bobcats, the greatest home-range sizes occurred during winter of 2003 and the smallest during summer of 2002. We examined 3 types of spatial overlap: male-male, female-female, and female-male. Home-range overlap differed among types; female-male overlap was approximately 1.6 times greater than female-female overlap and approximately 2.8 times greater than male-male overlap. Our home-range sizes were among the smallest reported in the Southeast. While intrasexual overlap is generally considered rare in bobcats, we observed sharing of space by male-male and female-female pairs. Furthermore, space shared by female-female pairs exceeded that of male-male pairs, contrary to hypotheses concerning land tenure of solitary carnivores. Land-management practices, such as prescribed burning and maintenance of food plots, provided abundant small prey for bobcats and best explain smaller home-range sizes of bobcats in this study relative to that reported in most other southeastern studies. We suggest that spatial exclusivity among male-male and female-female pairs is most likely when prey are moderately abundant, but that exclusivity of home ranges may be abandoned when prey are either abundant or rare. Further investigation into home-range overlap is needed to consider the effect of bobcat density on these variables. 
3878061|We radio-collared and tracked 16 (10 female, 6 male) Neotoma floridana smalli (Key Largo woodrats) from March-November 2002 and recorded a total of 631 locations. The average monthly ranges of individual male and female woodrats were <tex-math>$4756 (95\% CI = 2376-7136) m^2$</tex-math> and <tex-math>$2051 (95\% CI = 1091-3011) m^2$</tex-math>, respectively. We found male and female ranges to be significantly different (P = 0.032). Female ranges varied with season (P = 0.032), while male ranges did not (P = 0.567). Spring (P = 0.033) and summer (P = 0.019) ranges were significantly different between sexes. At two spatial scales, Key Largo woodrats showed a preference for young habitat with selection ratios of 6.3 and 6.7. Six female ranges overlapped an average of 49% and 2 males overlapped an average of 8%. No woodrats were recorded crossing a major road. Study results suggest that N. f. smalli prefer early succession hammock, male woodrats should be introduced separately, and a major road is a barrier to woodrat movements.
3878062|Tree islands-small, wetland forest communities imbedded in a matrix of freshwater marsh-characterize Arthur R. Marshall Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge in South Florida. The establishment and spread of invasive exotic plant species were hypothesized to alter tree-island communities and prolong recovery times from hurricane disturbances. During the fall of 2004, two hurricanes, Frances and Jeanne, caused damage to these tree islands. We examined the spatial extent of damage to tree islands and tree species across the Refuge by sampling 74 islands. Each tree island was assigned an overall damage rating based on both the openness of the canopy and the type and quantity of damage received. Distance from the eye-wall of the hurricanes, tree-island size, average tree height on the island, and relative abundance of invasive exotic plants were examined as predictors of damage. Over 85% of the sampled tree islands had damage, with most of the damage occurring in the center of the Refuge. Most tree islands were found to have moderate damage, (i.e., snapped large branches and less than 50% canopy cover removed). Persea palustris (swamp bays) had more snapped trunks than Ilex cassine (dahoon holly) and Myrica cerifera (wax myrtle). Islands with larger trees had heavier damage than islands with shrubs or smaller trees. Fifty-eight percent of the tree islands sampled had either Lygodium microphyllum (lygodium) and/or Melaleuca quinquenervia (melaleuca). The only island with severe damage had abundant lygodium that appeared to have caused the entire canopy to collapse. These hurricanes present a unique opportunity to investigate recovery patterns of tree islands in an ecosystem impacted by invasive exotics. They also provide an opportunity to examine patterns of spread and recruitment of lygodium and melaleuca.
3878063|Over the last two decades, the northern Gulf of Mexico has undergone tremendous growth and development that has resulted in extensive and ongoing habitat modification. We had the opportunity to survey the main channels and bayous of three coastal estuarine basins for the presence and coverage of the invasive Phragmites australis (common reed). The occurrence and area of P. australis was highly variable among the lower Pascagoula River, Back Bay of Biloxi, and St. Louis Bay basins, with the largest amount of coverage (<tex-math>$0.489 km^2$</tex-math>) found within the lower Pascagoula River basin and the smallest in Back Bay of Biloxi (<tex-math>$0.0056 km^2$</tex-math>). Monospecific-stand coverage (47.2%) dominated both mixed-tree (27.2%) and mixed-marsh (26.6%) coverages in the lower Pascagoula River basin, whereas in the Back Bay of Biloxi, mixed-marsh coverage (71.4%) was greater than monospecific-stand (25.0%) and mixed-tree (3.6%) coverages. The only portion of St. Louis Bay containing P. australis (<tex-math>$0.069 km^2$</tex-math>) was near the mouth of the Jourdan River, with monospecific-stand (62.3%) dominating the mixed-marsh (36.2%) and mixed-tree (1.5%) coverages. Although we were not able to survey all possible areas of each estuarine basin, the information gained in this study provides baseline data on the occurrence of this invasive species in the three main Mississippi coastal basins. Future monitoring of the spread of common reed, especially in the light of continued coastal development, is necessary if resource managers are to make informed decisions about which management action (water diversions and restoration scenarios) might positively influence this highly invasive native species.
3877954|Thirteen species of salamanders and nine species of frogs and toads are recorded from the Jim Timmerman Natural Resources Area in South Carolina. Additionally, eight species of salamanders and five species of frogs are listed as potentially occurring within the boundaries of the property. Pseudotriton montanus (Mud Salamander) is considered rare on the property due to the scarcity of suitable habitat and is known only from historical records. Ambystoma maculatum (Spotted Salamander) may utilize non-breeding habitat on the property, but known breeding sites are located off the property near the southern boundary. Desmognathus fuscus (Northern Dusky Salamander) is apparently absent from the property, and perhaps from the entire escarpment and mountain region in South Carolina. Current range maps of D. fuscus, based on historical records, suggest a continuous distribution through this region, but a re-examination of pertinent museum specimens reveals that all records from the escarpment and mountains of South Carolina are based on erroneous identifications. Hemidactylium scutatum is known from only two localities in Pickens County near the southern boundary of the property. It is considered rare and patchily distributed in the upstate. Cryptobranchus alleganiensis is apparently absent from the property as well as the entire upstate. Its purported presence in South Carolina is based on one specimen record from the Lake Tugaloo section of the Savannah drainage system. Rana palustris (Pickerel Frog) is uncommon, and Rana sphenocephala (Southern Leopard Frog) is known only from historical records, and may now be extinct within the property. The reported isolate of Bufo terrestris in Pickens and Greenville counties has not been verified following field surveys. It is hypothesized that the several upstate records are based on anomalous specimens of Bufo americanus. The diverse amphibian fauna of the Jocassee Valley was extirpated when the valley was flooded following completion of the Jocassee Dam in 1972.
4540975|Analysis of regurgitated pellets of Caracara cheriway (Northern Crested Caracara) at a site in south-central Florida produced a wide variety of insects and spiders from 34 families and at least 72 genera. Species identified occur in dung, on carrion, and in both aquatic and terrestrial habitats. Some taxa identified are known to be chemically protected, and their consumption exposes Northern Crested Caracaras to a broad diversity of chemical deterrents: 1,4-benzoquinones, isoprenoids, carboxylic acids, esters, aldehydes, an alcohol, and ammonia, for example. Other species identified in pellets indicate that Northern Crested Caracaras likely experience other noxious substances, such as those produced by species with dischargeable defensive glands (i.e., formic acid), plant-derived deterrents ejected when the insects are disturbed, and venom produced by those that sting (i.e., piperidine alkaloids). Our collection of pellets represents only part of one year; therefore, the list of noxious chemicals ingested by these raptors with their insect food may be even more extensive than is now evident. Further analysis of more pellets and from both breeding season and non-breeding season months is warranted to obtain a more complete picture of this raptor's insect diet.
4540976|Remote sensing, geographical information system applications, and ground and aerial assessments revealed a fragmented distribution of 44,933 ha of potential habitat for the endangered Ammodramus savannarum floridanus (Florida Grasshopper Sparrow) with most of this habitat (30,262 ha, 67%) located on conservation lands. A continued decrease in available habitat since 1996 was indicated. Searches of potential habitat and information from surveys at known locations found 278 male Florida Grasshopper Sparrows at seven sub-populations during 2004. No previously unknown breeding aggregations were found. The current distribution evinces a considerable contraction in range compared to historic distribution; however, other breeding aggregations may exist on private property (10,718 ha) where access was denied. Three formerly large sub-populations on Avon Park Air Force Range have declined and are now near extirpation. The low number of individuals and the paucity and fragmented distribution of suitable dry prairie will be limiting factors for recovery of this sedentary subspecies. Habitat expansion and management, and demographic improvements at existing locations may restore some Florida Grasshopper Sparrow sub-populations. Large areas (> 377 ha) of protected potential habitat in Manatee, DeSoto, and Glades counties offer the best opportunities for the establishment of additional sub-populations (> 50 pairs) to achieve recovery goals. The cooperative effort of public land managers from various agencies and of private landowners will be needed to prevent the extinction of this bird.
4540977|Sterna antillarum antillarum (Eastern Least Tern) historically nested on Atlantic Coast beaches and barrier island shores, but has moved inland to artificial habitats, such as dredge-spoil sites, as available natural habitat has been lost to development and increased human recreational activities. Least Terns readily nest on artificial sites, but the effects of different habitat characteristics and depredation conditions on reproductive success are unclear. We examined the effects of management strategies, disking and electric fencing, on daily survival rate (DSR) and 21-day survival rate (
4540978|Rostrhamus sociabilis (Snail Kite) nesting success and productivity were studied at the recently colonized Lake Kissimmee and historically occupied Lake Okeechobee in Florida during 1987 to 1993. Mean ( SD) clutch size for all lake-years was
4540979|A study was undertaken to compare the anatomy of the laminar floral parts with that of the spathes and leaves of Commelina erecta L. Each flower has two types of petals and two types of sepals. In contrast to the other organs, the petals have a completely open venation system whose vein endings consist solely of modified bundle-sheath cells. Bundle sheaths of leaves and spathes, but not the floral organs, contain sclerified cells for support. The high density of hook-shaped trichomes on the outer surface of the spathe and of glandular microhairs on the inner surface might indicate protective and secretory functions, respectively. Anomalous stomatal apparatuses are more common on floral organs than on spathes or leaves. Leaves and spathes appear to have a more detailed developmental program than sepals and petals.
4540980|The assemblage of microfungi associated with bark samples of healthy and damaged Fagus grandifolia (American beech), Abies fraseri (Fraser fir), and Tsuga canadensis (eastern hemlock) trees was evaluated during an All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in 2003 and 2004. Bark samples were collected from sampling points 0.3, 0.6, 0.9, and 1.2 m above the ground surface on the bole of each replicate tree. Patterns of species composition and diversity (species richness) were evaluated from bark samples over three sampling dates (May, July, and September) each year. A total of 4814 isolates were obtained, with greater than 95% belonging to the Deuteromycota. Over 94 species of fungi were identified from bark of the three tree species, which were either healthy or were damaged or under pressure from exotic pests. The most common genus was Trichoderma, for which a total of 13 species were identified during the two-year study. Frequencies of microfungi between healthy and damaged trees were similar across years, but when data was compared by year, frequencies were significantly greater in 2004 than 2003. Species richness was almost always significantly greater in September than in May and July. Frequencies of microfungi isolated from bark samples collected 1.2 m above the ground were significantly greater than in samples collected at 0.9, 0.6 and 0.3 m. Increased species richness at the higher bole positions was likely related to changes in microenvironment, as proposed by previous researchers. All other comparisons of species richness were similar.
4540981|Gully-eroded and steephead valleys on Eglin Air Force Base in the Florida panhandle were sampled for the abundance of four species of ravine-inhabiting, plethodontid salamanders in two separate periods, 25 years apart. In this interval, Desmognathus auriculatus (Southern Dusky Salamander) appears to have gone extinct and the abundance of D. cf. conanti (Spotted Dusky Salamanders) has decreased by about 68%. There was no change in the average abundance of Eurycea cirrigera (Two-lined Salamander). Pseudotriton ruber (Red Salamanders) declined in ravines from which larger populations of D. auriculatus disappeared, but increased in ravines from which smaller populations of D. auriculatus had disappeared. There was a slight increase in the average abundance of P. ruber in ravines that were inhabited by D. cf. conanti, but those changes in P. ruber abundance were unrelated to the changes in the abundance of D. cf. conanti. Declines in populations of D. auriculatus were also noted in Louisiana and Georgia; evidence suggests that all of these declines began in the mid-1970s. There are several potential causes of the regional declines, but no single explanation appears sufficient to explain declines in all populations. Feral pig rooting eliminates the larval seepage habitat of desmognathine salamanders and may be partly responsible for the declines on Eglin Air Force Base.
4540982|Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligators) demonstrated low hatch-rate success and increased adult mortality on Lake Griffin, FL, between 1998 and 2003. Dying Lake Griffin alligators with symptoms of poor motor coordination were reported to show specific neurological impairment and brain lesions. Similar lesions were documented in salmonines that consumed clupeids with high thiaminase levels. Therefore, we investigated the diet of Lake Griffin alligators and compared it with alligator diets from two lakes that exhibited relatively low levels of unexplained alligator mortality to see if consumption of Dorosoma cepedianum (gizzard shad) could be correlated with patterns of mortality. Shad in both lakes Griffin and Apopka had high levels of thiaminase and Lake Apopka alligators were consuming greater amounts of shad relative to Lake Griffin without showing mortality rates similar to Lake Griffin alligators. Therefore, a relationship between shad consumption alone and alligator mortality is not supported.
4540983|We radio-tracked nine Masticophis flagellum (Coachwhips) to determine home range, habitat use, and movements in eastern Texas from April to October 2000. Home ranges of Coachwhips contained more oak savanna macrohabitat than early-successional pine plantation or forested seep, based on the availability of these three macrohabitats in the study area. Likewise, within their individual home ranges, Coachwhips used oak savanna more than the other two macrohabitats, based on availability. An analysis of microhabitat use revealed that, relative to random sites within their home range, Coachwhips were found at sites with fewer pine trees and more herbaceous vegetation taller than 30 cm. Results of the two analyses, macrohabitat and microhabitat, were consistent: oak savannas contained relatively few pine trees but much herbaceous vegetation taller than 30 cm. Coachwhips made frequent long-distance moves, which resulted in large home ranges. Core activity areas, however, were small. These core activity areas were always within the oak savanna macrohabitat. Long movements, large home ranges, and small core activity areas likely were a result of the preferred oak savanna macrohabitat being patchily distributed in the landscape.
4540984|We conducted an intensive inventory of Harris Neck National Wildlife Refuge in coastal Georgia to determine the feasibility of establishing an amphibian monitoring program at this location. Thirteen semi-aquatic amphibian species were identified at 21 locations. Amphibian species richness at Harris Neck was similar to that of nearby barrier islands. The amphibian fauna of Harris Neck has long been affected by human-induced landscape changes, including the inadvertent introduction of tadpoles from distant fish hatcheries and the creation of artificial impoundments. Land-use history provides important information necessary to understand current amphibian distribution, especially when census data are used to establish a baseline from which to monitor future status and trends.
4540985|Cryptobranchus alleganiensis (Hellbenders) are primarily nocturnal salamanders, emerging at night from their daytime rock retreats. Most populations exhibit infrequent diurnal activity, mainly during the breeding season or during overcast or rainy days. This paper reports on a population of Hellbenders from Transylvania County, NC, where 148 observations of diurnal activity were made during 51 person hours over a 3-yr period. Hellbenders were most diurnally active during the September breeding season (mean = 16.3 individuals/person hr), but also exhibited high levels of diurnal activity during summer months, especially in May (mean = 11.4 individuals/person hr). Diurnal activity was not correlated with cloud cover, water depth, or time of day when searches were conducted, but was positively correlated with water temperature. Previous literature and numerous surveys conducted by the author in other parts of the Hellbender's range suggest that this North Carolina population is unique in its diurnal activity, which is possibly related to factors such as prey availability, intraspecific competition, or predator threats.
4540986|Invasive species are one of the major threats to biological diversity. Invasive species of crayfish are known to negatively impact native species in aquatic ecosystems. We recently found that an Ozark endemic crayfish, Orconectes neglectus, has been introduced into the Spring River drainage of southern Missouri and northern Arkansas and appears to have the potential to negatively impact the native communities. We used quantitative kick netting along the Spring River and selected tributaries to determine the distribution and abundance of O. neglectus and its potential to impact native crayfish species. The native crayfishes Orconectes eupunctus, a species of special concern, and Cambarus hubbsi appear to no longer occur throughout much of their former range in the Spring River drainage where O. neglectus is now abundant. Orconectes eupunctus, C. hubbsi, and O. neglectus mainly used fast-flowing riffle and run habitats with a mix of gravel, cobble, and boulder, whereas the other common species collected, Orconectes punctimanus and Orconectes ozarkae, were more generalists in habitat use and were found at all sampled sites. Orconectes eupunctus and C. hubbsi were positively associated with each other, but negatively associated with O. neglectus, despite their similar habitat use. These results provide evidence that O. neglectus is expanding its range, possibly to the detriment of O. eupunctus and C. hubbsi. An intensive field survey and manipulative experiments would be required to confirm the disappearance of the native species, and the mechanisms involved.
4540987|Although burial is known to have important effects on seed predation in a variety of habitats, the role of burial depth in affecting the removal of seeds in early-successional systems is poorly known. Phytolacca Americana (pokeweed) is a model species to examine the role of burial depth in affecting seed removal because it is common in early-successional habitats, studies suggest that seed removal is indicative of seed predation, and seed predation is related to the recruitment of mature plants. To determine how burial depth affects P. americana seed removal, 20 seeds of P. americana were buried at depths of 0, 1, or 3 cm in early-successional habitats at the Savannah River Site in South Carolina for over 6 weeks. The frequency with which seeds were encountered (as measured by the removal of at least one seed) and the proportion of seeds removed was significantly greater when seeds were on the soil surface (0 cm depth) compared to seeds that were buried 1 cm or 3 cm; there was no difference in encounter or removal between seeds at 1 cm or 3 cm. Our findings suggest that burial may have important consequences for P. americana population dynamics, because seed survival depends upon whether or not the seed is buried, and relatively shallow burial can yield large increases in seed survival. Because seed limitation is known to be an important determinant of plant community composition in early-successional systems, our work suggests that burial may play an unappreciated role in the dynamics of these communities by reducing predator-mediated seed limitation.
4540988|We developed a tail-mounted radio-transmitter for Myocastor coypus (nutria) that offers a practical and efficient alternative to collar or implant methods. The mean retention time was 96 d (range 57-147 d, n = 7), making this a practical method for short-term studies. The tail-mounts were less injurious to animals than collars and easier for field researchers to implement than either collars or surgically implanted transmitters.
4540989|Forty-eight Myotis grisescens (gray bat) maternity colonies in Missouri, Arkansas, and Oklahoma were monitored from 1978 to 2002 as recommended in the US Fish and Wildlife Service recovery plan for this endangered species. Seventy-nine percent of colonies were stable or increasing across 3 subpopulations in this portion of the species' range, and 9 of 14 (64%) actions required by the recovery plan in this region were entirely or partially completed. This study indicates that the dramatic decline in gray bat populations that led to its listing as endangered in 1976 may have halted and that gray bat populations appear to be recovering in the western portion of its range.
4540990|Gastropods in the family Ellobiidae are a cryptic and easily overlooked component of intertidal habitats in South Carolina salt marshes. Recent and archived collections reveal the presence of two ellobiid species, Microtralia ovula and Creedonia succinea, which are established and occasionally abundant in the mid- to upper-intertidal zone on oyster reefs and under wrack on washed shell banks. These species are previously known to occur only in Bermuda, southern Florida, the Bahamas, the Greater Antilles, and Mexico. This note reports a significant northward extension of their known range and acknowledges that similar distributional shifts are being more widely recognized for estuarine benthic fauna along the US Atlantic coast.
4540991|Speyeria diana (Diana fritillary) is a forest dwelling butterfly that has been eradicated from portions of its native habitat in North Carolina. This loss has been attributed to habitat destruction and pesticide use, resulting in its status as a species of special concern. During the spring and summer of 2003 and 2004, we conducted butterfly surveys on forested 10-ha plots in the southern Appalachians of North Carolina in which various forest management practices had been applied. During one survey (June 2004), we observed male Diana fritillary butterflies feeding on flowering Oxydendrum arboretum (sourwood) within plots that had been mechanically thinned and burned. These plots also had the greatest herbaceous plant cover. Our observations suggest that some forest management related disturbances, resulting in increased herbaceous plant cover, may help in conserving this species.
4540992| Carcharhinus isodon (finetooth shark) is a migratory shark found in coastal waters of the southeastern United States and is well documented in the waters of north Florida in both the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean. The southern-most reports are from Lemon Bay (27N), just north of Charlotte Harbor on the west coast and from Port Salerno (27N) on the east coast. Four C. isodon were captured on bottom-set longline in Florida Bay, just north of 25N latitude, during routine sampling for Pristis pectinata (smalltooth sawfish). These captures extend the southern range of C. isodon in Florida to approximately 25N and increase the likelihood of exchange between the Atlantic and Gulf stocks. 
4541015|In 2005, we assessed the occurrence of leeches on semi-aquatic turtles in nine ponds in the North Carolina Piedmont. Placobdella parasitica (smooth turtle leech) was the only parasitic leech found on turtles and was present on turtles from all ponds. Female Chrysemys picta (Painted Turtles) were more frequently parasitized than males (females 54.7%, males 40.9%; p = 0.039), possibly because they are larger and provide more surface for leech attachment. Chelydra serpentina (Snapping Turtles) had the highest leech load of any species (mean = 32.3/turtle), which we attributed to its large size and bottom-dwelling habits. Most leeches were found attached to the underside of marginal scutes or between the plastron and inguinal region. These sites likely offer protection from the environment when a turtle emerges from the water.
4541016|Hyla cinerea (Green Treefrog) is a common wetlands species in the southeastern US. To better understand its population dynamics, we followed a relatively isolated population of Green Treefrogs from June 2004 through October 2004 at a federal office complex in Lafayette, LA. Weekly, Green Treefrogs were caught, measured, marked with VIE tags, and released. The data were used to estimate population size. The time frame was split into two periods: before and after August 17, 2004. Before August 17, 2004, the average estimated population size was 143, and after August 24, 2005, this value jumped to 446, an increase possibly due to tadpoles metamorphosing into adults.
4541017|Forest vegetation was studied in relation to hydrogeomorphology on a large fluvial island in the meandering section of the Lower Mississippi River. The island has a relatively wide topographic gradient, including a former channel of the Mississippi River. Vegetation patterns were related to geomorphologic features, elevation, flood duration, and characteristics of surficial sediment. Overstory vegetation was species rich for the island as a whole and dominated by the pioneer taxa Populus deltoides (eastern cottonwood) and Salix nigra (black willow). Both pioneer species dominated the old channel. Vegetation at higher elevations was characterized by tree species from later successional stages such as Celtis laevigata (sugarberry), Acer saccharinum (silver maple), Liquidambar styraciflua (sweetgum) and Ulmus spp. (elm). Seedlings and saplings were dominated by sugarberry and other later successional species, whereas cottonwood was infrequent. Our results suggest that on the Lower Mississippi River, coexistence in the floodplain of pioneer stages and later successional stages will not be perpetuated under the prevailing hydrologic and geomorphologic regimes.
4541018|We investigated associations between soricids and coarse woody debris (CWD) in bottomland hardwood forests impacted by Hurricane Hugo. The objectives were to evaluate CWD loadings at three forests disturbed by Hurricane Hugo, monitor soricid captures at these forests, and identify habitat associates of soricids. Pitfall traps were used to sample soricids from January 2002-December 2003, and habitat parameters (CWD, vegetation, soils, and microsite) surrounding pitfalls were sampled. We found CWD volume was significantly higher at study sites that experienced highest hurricane wind speeds. Captures of soricids were highest in forests with high CWD loadings, and regression models associated soricids with log cover and CWD volume. Sorex longirostris (southeastern shrew) was associated with logs in an advanced state of decay and woody litter. Blarina carolinensis (southern short-tailed shrew)was associated with log cover and leaf-litter cover. Soricid captures also increased with close proximity of CWD. We found that major disturbances have a lasting influence on bottomland hardwood communities, and forests with high loadings of deteriorating CWD provide habitat for S. longirostris and B. carolinensis.
4541019|Habitat loss coupled with decline in harvest has raised concern for Sylvilagus aquaticus (swamp rabbit) in Arkansas. We assessed relative abundance and habitat associations of swamp rabbits in eastern Arkansas using presence of latrine sites. We searched for fecal pellets at randomly chosen sites during winters 2002-03 and 2003-04. Swamp rabbits were detected at 85% and 76% of sites searched during years 1 and 2, respectively. Bignonia capreolata (crossvine) stem density was significantly greater at sites inhabited by swamp rabbits (mean = 625, SE = 141) than at uninhabited sites (mean = 0.00, SE = 0.00) in year 1, but no differences were found in year 2. We found no relationship between woodland tract size and pellet-group density. Logistic regression predicted presence of swamp rabbits 88.3% of the time based on crossvine density and percent ground cover of grasses. To understand the potential for conserving swamp rabbit populations in Arkansas, it will be necessary to assess remaining bottomland hardwood stands in relation to the quality of swamp rabbit habitat.
4541020|Habitat of Sylvilagus aquaticus (swamp rabbits) in Illinois has been reduced and fragmented due to human land use. Translocation may enable swamp rabbits to colonize isolated habitat patches. We live-trapped and translocated 9 male and 8 female swamp rabbits to unoccupied habitat in southern Illinois in January and February 2004. Eight of 17 translocated rabbits died within 7 days after release. However, mortality rates appeared to drop rapidly over time after release. Predators killed at least 10 of 14 rabbits that died. For conserving swamp rabbits, translocation success is limited by poor live-trapping success and high levels of post-release predation. Intense live-trapping along with predator control in release sites may be necessary to make translocation a viable management strategy.
4541021| We used a geographic information system (GIS) and logistic regression to investigate relationships between geomorphology and Castor canadensis (North American beaver) impoundment of lower-order, blackwater streams of a southeastern landscape. Using GIS, we divided streams into 632 500-m reaches and measured a set of geomorphic variables for each reach. Beavers were most likely to impound stream reaches crossed by roads with a gradient of  0.6 to 1.2% and watershed sizes of  2500 ha; reaches with watershed sizes <  500 ha or > 5000 ha were almost completely avoided. Gradient and road crossings contributed little to discrimination among impounded and unimpounded reaches, suggesting these variables had relatively small influences on beaver impoundment when compared to stream size. Our results indicate that GIS and geomorphic variables can be used to model the impoundment of streams over larger areas (e.g., the proportion of third-order watersheds impounded), but are less accurate at predicting the impoundment of individual reaches. However, the temporal dynamics of impoundment creation and abandonment will need to be incorporated into region-specific models before they can be used in ecosystem integrity assessment. 
4541022|This paper represents the first study of reproductive success for Sturnella magna (Eastern Meadowlark) and Columbina passerina (Common Ground-dove) in Florida dry prairie and, to our knowledge, the first published study of reproductive rates of Chordeiles minor (Common Nighthawk) in North America. We located 34 Eastern Meadowlark, 13 Common Ground-dove, and 14 Common Nighthawk nests during the 1997 and 1998 breeding seasons. We estimated daily nest success (standard error) to be 0.93 (0.01), 0.94 (0.02), and 0.93 (0.02) for Eastern Meadowlarks, Common Ground-doves, and Common Nighthawks, respectively. Subsequently, total nest success was 0.16, 0.22, and 0.28 for Eastern Meadowlarks, Common Ground-doves and Common Nighthawks. Predation was the most common cause for nest failure. Our estimates of nest success for Eastern Meadowlarks and Common Ground-doves are generally lower than reported for other regions, which could be due to the small and fragmented nature of Florida dry prairie.
4541023|I used point counts and mist netting at the Lula Lake Land Trust, GA, a reclaimed mining area, to assess its suitability for migrating and breeding longdistance migratory landbirds. The results suggest that the property is suitable for migrants. The proportion of migrants is similar to other areas of the southeastern United States, as well as other reclaimed forestland. In addition, migrant populations were either stable or increased over the three years of monitoring, and 4% of migrants banded returned in subsequent years. Management of the Trust properties should continue to emphasize maintaining large areas of mature forest, and Trust managers should take measures to ensure that increased human recreational activity on the property does not degrade habitat quality.
4541024| Fish surveys throughout the Wateree River in 2004-2005 documented the presence of 8 catostomid species-Carpiodes sp. cf. Cyprinus (quillback), Erimyzon oblongus (creek chubsucker), Ictiobus bubalus (smallmouth buffalo), Minytrema melanops (spotted sucker), Moxostoma collapsum (notchlip redhorse), M. macrolepidotum (shorthead redhorse), Scartomyzon rupiscartes (striped jumprock), and Scartomyzon sp. undescribed species (brassy jumprock)-but failed to document C. sp. cf. velifer (highfin carpsucker), Moxostoma sp. cf. Erythrurum (Carolina redhorse), or M. robustum (robust redhorse). Four native (quillback, spotted sucker, notchlip redhorse, and shorthead redhorse) and the nonnative small-mouth buffalo were collected in sufficient numbers to allow observations of unique aggregations. Based on time of year, expression of milt, presence of tubercles, and published thermal preferenda during spawning, we believe these aggregations were associated with spawning, although direct observations of spawning behavior were not made. Spotted suckers used Piedmont and transitional-zone habitats early in the year and also aggregated in larger numbers in the mouths of blackwater Coastal Plain tributaries. Low catches of spotted sucker in riffle habitat in the Wateree River at temperatures exceeding 14 C appears anomalous and merits further investigation. All other suckers were collected predominantly in areas of gravel, cobble, and bedrock in the Piedmont and transitional zone; aggregations of quillback, shorthead redhorse, and then notchlip redhorse successively followed high spotted sucker catches. The nonnative smallmouth buffalo appeared to use these same habitats during the entire time when quillback, shorthead redhorse, and notchlip redhorse were present, although smallmouth buffalo were collected at low catch rates. The elevated temperatures at which notchlip redhorse aggregated appeared anomalous and merits further investigation. 
4541025| The early life-history requirements of Polyodon spathula (paddlefish) are not well understood, in part due to the difficulty of sampling early life stages. Passive sampling with benthic, mat-style devices effectively collected paddlefish eggs in the Tombigbee watershed (Mobile River basin) during spring 2005, facilitating identification and characterization of egg-incubation microhabitats. Eggs were collected over gravel, sand-impacted gravel, and bedrock substrates at corrected depths ranging from 1.2 to 7.7 m. Sampling occurred continuously (489 sampler-days) in the lotic bendway of the Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway from late February through April, when water temperatures ranged from 11.5 to 20.8 C. Of 106 paddlefish eggs collected from this unique macrohabitat, 95% were taken on either April 6 or April 16. Nine paddlefish eggs were collected in a tributary (Noxubee River) on April 13 after four sampler-days of effort. Water temperatures associated with peak spawning activity ranged from 16.9 to 19.4 C, slightly higher than temperatures recorded for Mississippi River basin populations. A substantial (> 2.74-m) rise in water level triggered spawning activity, similar to that observed in other systems. Benthic mats proved useful for delineating paddlefish egg-incubation habitat in areas not subject to shifting substrate, and could be used in the future to address hypotheses regarding micro- and macrohabitat suitability. 
4541026|I examined sexual dimorphism in the long-lived Aplodinotus grunniens (freshwater drum) from five lakes and four rivers in Alabama. Using the Von Bertalanffy growth function combined with nonparametric statistics, I found males and females had similar annual growth rates from years 0-4 years of age, but then showed significantly different growth rates across subsequent ages. Female drum grew significantly faster through adulthood, and ultimately attained significantly larger sizes (
4541027| We sampled fish communities in 19 isolated cypress pond and herbaceous marsh wetlands at locations in southwest, south-central, and southeast Florida. Breder fish traps were more effective at sampling fish communities at these sites than either seine or dip nets. We collected 23 total species, but species richness varied from 1-16 among sites. The availability of deepwater refugia and the extent to which periodic flooding connected these wetland habitats to other aquatic environments appeared to be principal factors influencing composition of fish assemblages. Models of fish distribution in response to hydrological changes in the Everglades have proposed size-structured, fish functional groups of  or > 7 cm, but our data suggested size and ecology of fish functional groups in isolated wetlands may be better described as small, omnivorous species ( 15 cm) and larger predatory species (> 15 cm). We suggest incorporating fish functional groups in programs to monitor ecological health of isolated wetlands in south Florida may be more productive than attempts to identify specific indicator species or relying solely upon measurements of physical, chemical, or plant-community parameters. 
4541028|Observations on tidal flats in North Inlet, SC suggested facultative suspension- and deposit-feeding in the chaetopterid polychaete, Mesochaetopterus taylori. Fecal coils consisted of two disparate sections, the first composed of small, brown fecal pellets wrapped together by mucus into long strands, which abruptly transitioned into a second gray, ropy section. We also made direct observations of exposed palps and probing of the sediment surface intermittently following tidal emersion. Granulometric analyses of gray and brown fecal material, surficial sediments, subsurface sediments, and materials in suspenson above the worm at high tide, corroborate our field observations that M. taylori is a facultative feeder, switching from suspension- to deposit-feeding with tidal emersion. Typically, this shift in feeding mode is not thought to effect a fundamental change in diet, i.e., the same materials are ingested, suspended or deposited depending on hydrodynamic regime. In contrast, M. taylori ingests finer particulates during tidal immersion, with concomitant differences in granulometric characteristics. The distinct provenance and composition of the dietary components of M. taylori likely supplies a relatively broad range of essential nutrients. The geophysical effects of M. taylori feeding are likely profound, in that it both translocates subsurface sediment to the surface during deposit feeding and deposits fine, suspended materials following filter-feeding.
4541029|Uniola paniculata (sea oats) is a perennial, clone-forming dune grass of coastal beaches in the southeastern United States. We used random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers to compare clonal diversity in younger and older patches of U. paniculata. Older patches were found to contain a significantly higher level of clonal diversity, suggesting that, in some cases, U. paniculata populations may increase in clonal diversity over time. The high level of clonal diversity found in the older patches provides further evidence for the important role of sexual reproduction in maintaining diversity in U. paniculata.
4541030|We estimated summer abundance of juvenile Loggerhead Turtles at our study site in Core Sound, NC with a Horvitz-Thompson type estimator, which uses count data and recapture probability to estimate abundance. Abundance ranged from 192 (95% CI = 88-1047) to 633 (95% CI = 219-1047) turtles over the six years of this study. These results provide preliminary estimates of juvenile Loggerhead Turtle abundance during the summer in Core Sound.
4541031|Previous studies have documented that cavities < 10 liters are consistently rejected as nest sites by Apis mellifera (European honey bees). During a study of Glaucomys volans (southern flying squirrel) ecology in Alabama, however, honey bees occupied a total of 10 nest boxes with volumes of 5-6.7 liters. These observations are significant because they represent the smallest documented cavity volume accepted by honey bees, and also because they lend support to the theory that minimum acceptable cavity volume varies geographically. Small volume cavities may be accepted in the southeastern United States due to milder climates, a paucity of natural cavities, genetic differences in honey bees among regions, or some combination of these factors. Consequently, there may be increased potential for competition between honey bees and other cavity-nesting species in the Southeast.
4541035|From 1992 to 2003, we captured and permanently marked 829 Dasypus novemcinctus (nine-banded armadillo) at the Tall Timbers Research Station in northern Florida. From 2004 to 2006, an attempt was made to eliminate all armadillos from Tall Timbers as part of an experiment to remove nest predators of Colinus virginianus (Northern Bobwhite). Data from armadillos killed at Tall Timbers during this period showed a rapid decline in previously marked individuals, with only 4 collected in 2006. Even though the resident population thus seemed to have been exterminated quickly, total numbers of armadillos collected remained stable over all 3 years. This did not appear to be due to an increase in reproductive success such that more juveniles were produced to replace the animals being lost. Rather, the data were more consistent with the hypothesis of immigration by adults into the population to colonize areas vacated by culled animals. This scenario supports previous reports of large numbers of transient armadillos that move extensively, and may provide insight into how armadillos have successfully invaded most of the southern United States in just the last 200 years. Finally, these findings also suggest that, at least in this area, culling animals is not likely to be an effective means of eliminating armadillo predation on quail eggs.
4541036|Daytime refuges are important to nocturnal rodents for protection from predators and environmental extremes. Because refuges of forest-dwelling rodents are often associated with woody debris, we examined refuge use by 37 radio-collared Peromyscus gossypinus (cotton mice) in experimental plots with different levels of woody debris. Treatment plots had six times (
4541037|We report the first interspecific double captures (n = 14) of Peromyscus leucopus (white-footed mouse) and Ochrotomys nuttalli (golden mouse). Intraspecific double captures of white-footed mice (57.0% of all double captures) were heterosexual (likely mating pairs). Overall, 62.0% of the double captures for both species were heterosexual, suggesting that there appears to exist a strong conspecific, heterosexual odor preference. The large number of intra- and interspecific double captures (n = 103) also suggests minimal interference or exploitation competition between these two small mammal species of similar body mass and life histories.
4541038|Principal component analysis, correlation, and multiple regression were used to evaluate the relationships of 12 environmental variables to the recorded values of density and biomass of Corbicula fluminea (Asian clam) collected in a 13-km segment of the lower Roanoke River delta, NC, in 1992-1993. Sediment fractions, pH, conductivity, and oxygen saturation accounted for the most variance in density, and, with the addition of shell length, water temperature, and river kilometer, accounted for the most variance in biomass. Similar variables were important in principal component analysis and multiple regression, although regression was less useful due to lower tissue weights of clams at two stations, which resulted in low predictive power for some regressions. The results of this preliminary census indicate that there were relationships among Asian clam density and biomass and various environmental factors. Higher density and biomass were found where the substrate was > 40% fine sand, < 45% silt, and < 8% organic content. This habitat type was limited in the study area and resulted in the majority of Asian clams living in a 4-km segment. Seasonal extremes in water temperature, low pH and calcium concentration, and phytoplankton limitations may also have contributed to the low weight of Asian clams in the Roanoke River. A more extensive sampling effort is warranted to further define the role of environmental Stressors in the Asian clam population.
4541039| Chelydra serpentina (Common Snapping Turtle) is a wide-ranging and often abundant turtle species in the eastern United States, but relatively little is known of its basic ecology in the Southeast. The objective of our study was to examine the ecology and population biology of and describe the morphology of Common Snapping Turtles in northwestern Florida. We intensively sampled five localities in Leon County, FL using traps and hand collection (n = 111), and we also opportunistically collected Common Snapping Turtles as we encountered them through the course of other studies (n = 11). Analysis of seven morphological characters from a subset of individuals indicated that the Common Snapping Turtle in this study is an intergrade between C. s. serpentina and C. s. osceola. Estimated early growth rates were 20 mm carapace length (CL)/year, and females matured at about 220 mm CL (156 mm PL, approximately 6-8 years). Male Common Snapping Turtles (CL mean = 299  6 mm) were larger than females (CL mean = 270  5 mm), and the overall adult sex ratio was 1:1. Diet consisted primarily of aquatic plants (n = 4). Nesting females were found from early April through mid-May, and clutch size ranged from 5 to 49 eggs (n = 3). Common Snapping Turtle abundance varied over the five sites, but was highest (an average density of 16 individuals/ha) in small suburban ponds with abundant aquatic vegetation, a thick layer of organic sediment, and no alligators. In northwestern Florida, predation by alligators and humans and primary productivity appear to be the factors that influence the distribution and abundance of Common Snapping Turtles. 
4541040|An increasing number of exotic terrestrial planarian species have established populations worldwide. In North America, the most prominent invasive flatworms are three members of the broadhead planarian genus Bipalium. Herein we report observations on the morphology, predatory behavior, and reproduction of Bipalium cf. vagum, new to this continent and report its occurrence in Florida and Texas. Individuals of this species have a distinctive combination of head shape and pattern of dark dorsal pigmentation (large head spots, complete collar, and prominent median stripe) that distinguishes them from other members of the genus. Although the other North American species of Bipalium feed on earthworms, B. cf. vagum feeds exclusively on terrestrial mollusks. Their predatory behavior includes following mucus trails and subduing the prey by capping the prey's head with the flatworm's anterior end and wrapping the prey's foot in the body of the planarian. Members of this species reproduce via egg capsules that contain small numbers of offspring. Because this is the first land planarian reported in North America that is a predator of mollusks, native land snails and slugs are unlikely to have effective defenses against it. Therefore, we should continue to monitor its geographic spread and potential ecological impact.
4541041|We describe age structure, growth, and fecundity of Hiodon tergisus (Mooneye) from the lower Tallapoosa River, AL. Mooneye (N = 49, 214-316 mm total length, 79-284 g) were aged using otoliths, and a von Bertalanffy growth model was derived for the species (
4541042|Shallow-water, lithophilic spawning fishes are among the most vulnerable to anthropogenic fluctuations in water levels. We monitored water levels and environmental conditions at the nest sites of Moxostoma robustum (Robust Redhorse) on a main-channel gravel bar in the Savannah River, GA-SC. During the course of the 2005 spawning season, over 50% of the observed nest sites were either completely dewatered or left in near zero-flow conditions for several days. This occurred on two separate occasions, once early during the spawning season and then again near its conclusion. We hypothesize the habitat preferences of spawning Robust Redhorse leave them vulnerable to water-level fluctuations, and this phenomenon may be widespread in regulated river systems.
4541043|Life-history aspects of Hypentelium etowanum (Alabama Hog Sucker) were investigated from 12 monthly collections in Shoal and Moore creeks (Etowah River Drainage) in Cherokee County, GA. Specimens were collected primarily from riffles, runs, and flowing pools, and examined for age, growth, food habits, and reproductive cycle. Chironomidae composed the bulk of the diet, with consumption lowest in winter and peaking in spring. Spawning appeared to occur in spring with 493-2717 ripe eggs ranging from 1.5 to 2.8 mm in diameter present in specimens collected in March, April, and May. Sexual maturity appeared to occur by 3 years of age, with a maximum lifespan of greater than 4 years. The largest specimen collected was a female 190 mm standard length and 132 g total weight.
4541044|Field collections, and laboratory observations and experiments, were conducted in Tift County, GA, to determine possible interactions among the three most abundant species of nocturnal scarab dung beetles. Light-trap data indicated that Copris minutus occurred primarily in the winter and spring, Ateuchus histeroides in the spring and summer, and Onthophagus gazella in the summer and fall. One of the species, O. gazella, is a foreign introduction, and comparative laboratory food procurement experiments revealed the superior ability of this species to obtain and remove dung from the soil surface. A confrontation experiment also demonstrated the behavioral dominance of O. gazella. A food-choice experiment indicated a more restricted diet for O. gazella than for the other two species. Implications for the future prospects of the two native species are discussed.
4541045|I studied interactions between the herbaceous weed Solanum carolinense (horsenettle) and its herbivore community in northern Virginia from 1996-2002. Thirty-two species regularly fed on the plant, including 31 insects from 6 taxonomic orders and Microtus pennsylvanicus (meadow vole). An intensive field experiment on 960 horsenettle individuals in 2001 revealed high levels of damage to all parts of the plants. Two chrysomelid beetles-Epitrix fuscula (eggplant flea beetle) and Leptinotarsa juncta (false potato beetle)-damaged leaves on nearly every plant. Roughly half of the flowers were destroyed by herbivores, with Anthonomus nigrinus (potato bud weevil) destroying 30%. Nearly three-fourths of the fruits were damaged by three species: the tephritid fly Zonosemata electa (pepper maggot), false potato beetle, and meadow vole. The weevil Trichobaris trinotata (potato stalk borer) bored in stems of 73% of the plants, and the most damaging root feeder was the moth Synanthedon rileyana (Riley's clearwing). A literature review on the horsenettle-herbivore community is integrated with new observations as a guide for applied and basic research on this economically significant species.
4541046|We investigated biotic and abiotic mechanisms that affect Quercus falcata (southern red oak) establishment from seeds in southeastern Pinus paulustris (longleaf pine) forests along a time-since-fire chronosequence (unburned since 1950, the mid-1990s, or winter 2001) and slope gradient. To determine if seed availability limits southern red oak recruitment, we measured seed production, populations of small mammals, and seed removal across sites. To determine if seedling survival limits establishment, we outplanted greenhouse-raised southern red oak seedlings and followed their survival throughout one growing season. We also measured abiotic conditions such as canopy openness, soil moisture, and soil temperature, and censused longleaf pine recruitment. Contrary to expectations based on species' fire-tolerances, longleaf pine recruitment was consistent over the chronosequence, but there was little oak seedling establishment in the long-unburned sites. Sites last burned in the mid-1990s had the lowest oak seed rain, highest small-mammal populations, and highest seed -removal rates; yet, they had the highest oak seedling establishment. Seedling survival was highest in the pre-1950 sites, and was most influenced by intermediate light levels and high soil moisture. We conclude that biotic factors, specifically, seed removal by small mammals, are less important to seedling recruitment than abiotic factors in these forests. Further, the assumption that longleaf pine forests will eventually undergo to succession to hardwoods in the absence of fire is complicated by abiotic conditions associated with landscape position.
4541047|Invasive plant species can have substantial negative impacts on native flora and fauna. We investigated the effects of the invasive shrub Ligustrum sinense (Chinese privet) on the abundance and diversity of songbirds in a southeastern forest during summer, fall, and winter. We sampled 15-m x 15-m plots assigned to one of three privet density categories (low, n = 5; medium, n = 4; high, n = 5). In addition, we sampled all flora in each plot. Bird abundance and species richness varied only during the winter, both increasing in high privet density. In general, the behaviors and types of birds did not differ among privet-density categories. In contrast, abundance and richness of native plants were reduced in high privet-density plots. Our results suggest that removal of privet would improve native plant communities, while having no substantial impact on songbird populations.
4541048|In 2000, an adult pair of non-migratory Grus americana (Whooping Crane) left Florida and settled in Michigan for the summer. On 21 November, the pair left Michigan and was radio-tracked south to the north shore of Lake Erie. The next day, only the female was detected. She was tracked to Kissimmee Prairie, FL, her release site as a subadult. This female flew from Michigan to Florida in 11 days, only stopping for 2 of those days. Her movement and flight behavior approximated natural Whooping Crane migration behavior. That this adult female could return to her release area and physiologically prepare for a long flight suggests migration is both learned and innate. Our conclusions help refine reintroduction techniques possible for migratory cranes.
4541049|On April 28, 2001, we found an unidentified egg in an artificial nest in Highlands County, FL. The artificial nests used in this study contained one Coturnix japonica (quail) egg and one tethered clay sham egg. The unidentified egg was added to the nest between days 12 and 18 of exposure. The quail egg was unmarked, but the sham was covered in small beak markings suggesting that a bird had manipulated it. Molothrus ater (Brown-headed Cowbirds) and M. bonariensis (Shiny Cowbirds) occur in the area, but Brown-headeds are far more common; however, we never observed either species near this particular artificial nest. An mtDNA sequence (300 base pairs of cytochrome b) amplified from this egg was compared to DNA sequences from GenBank, and we found a nearly perfect sequence match with the Brown-headed Cowbird. Parasitism by these birds in unattended and artificial nests is unusual, especially when host activity is not mimicked by researchers. This is the first record of Brown-headed Cowbird parasitism in Highlands County.
20203948|Terrapene carolina triunguis (Three-toed Box Turtle) and Terrapene ornata ornata (Ornate Box Turtle) are sympatric in areas of eastern Texas. Usually, these species are easily distinguished by shell shape and pigmentation. However, many turtles from areas of eastern Texas have characteristics of both Three-toed and Ornate Box Turtles, which we presume to be a result of hybridization. We collected, marked, and measured 103 box turtles from Walker County for morphometric analyses. Because of our limited number of Ornate Box Turtles sampled (n = 6), an additional 68 specimens from eastern Texas in the Texas Cooperative Wildlife Collection (TCWC) were examined, and the carapace and plastron measured to characterize species-specific shell morphology for Ornate Box Turtles. Multivariate analyses indicated that all morphometrics of carapace shape (length, width, curvature length, and curvature width) loaded heavily (r = 0.929, 0.897, 0.936, and 0.955, respectively) on the first principle component (Factor 1) and explained 86.41% of the variation in shell morphology and best distinguished observed differences between species and putative hybrids. Putative hybrids demonstrated a shell morphology similar to that of Three-toed Box Turtles and differed significantly from that of Ornate Box Turtles. Of the total 177 turtles examined, we considered 78 to be Three-toed Box Turtles, 74 to be Ornate Box Turtles, and 25 to be hybrids between the two parent species.
20203949|There is a paucity of data on mammal species richness in the Piedmont physiographic province of the Carolinas, especially in north-central South Carolina. Over the last 12 years, I conducted field surveys, searched the literature, and queried numerous museums and agencies to locate records of mammals from the Piedmont province of South Carolina. I recorded 43 species of mammals, four of which are listed as species of state concern, from six counties in north-central South Carolina. Baseline information on mammal species occurrence is critical to future studies and issues of management and conservation.
20203950|The primary resource of temperate forest treeholes is leaf litter, and different insects specialize on particular stages of decay. Helodes pulchella (scirtid beetle) takes part in a processing chain by shredding leaf litter and creating material for other consumers. We hypothesized that variation in scirtid density and resources influences the insect community. To test this, we manipulated scirtid beetle and resource densities in field mesocosms. We used a two-factor design (3 litter levels by 3 scirtid densities), and monitored insect communities from April 2004 to June 2005. We detected no statistically significant effects of scirtids on leaf decay. However, during the first season, species richness was higher in mid-summer in the presence of low scirtid density compared to treatments with high scirtid densities or those with no scirtids. The dominant species was Aedes triseriatus (eastern treehole mosquito) and its abundance was unaffected by either scirtid or leaf litter. However, mean pupal mass of mosquitoes was greater at low scirtid densities. Facilitation is suggested by the combination of high mosquito densities and large pupal mass. Densities of Culicoides guttipennis (ceratopogonid midge) were higher at intermediate and high resource levels without scirtids, compared to treatments with any scirtids, suggesting a negative interaction between midges and scirtids. We demonstrated strong, and not always positive, effects of scirtid beetles on insect communities in water-filled treeholes.
20203951|The assemblage of bacteria and fungi from black (Solenopsis richteri)/hybrid imported fire ant (BIFA/HIFA) mounds were obtained from four counties in northeast Mississippi. These locations were selected due to high concentrations of BIFA/HIFA that were free from red imported fire ants (RIFA). Mound samples were obtained during October, November, and December in 2003 and January 2004. Patterns of species composition and diversity (species richness) were evaluated from mound soil, mound plant debris, and ant bodies. A total of 5742 isolates consisting of 58 bacterial and 35 fungal taxa were obtained. The most common bacteria identified included Chryseobacterium indolegenes, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Actinomadura yumaensis, and Arcanobacterium haemolyticum. Approximately 66% of the fungi cultured belonged to the artificial assemblage Fungi Imperfecti, including Curvularia geniculata, Penicillium spp., Nigrospora sphaerica, and Monoacrosporium leptosporium. The insect pathogen Beauveria bassiana was obtained from mound soil, mound plant debris, and ant bodies, with the greatest percentage from ant bodies. Species richness for bacteria and fungi were both highest from mound soil at 53 and 30 taxa, respectively, and lowest, with 8 bacteria and 25 fungal taxa, from mound plant debris. Species diversity for bacteria was also highest from mound soil, and highest for fungi from ant bodies than the other two isolation conditions. Evenness values for bacteria (0.72-0.80) and fungi (0.74-0.77) during each sampling date had moderate to high relative abundance (1.0 = highest level possible), indicating similarity of taxa among bacteria and among fungi from the four sampling dates. Coefficient of community values comparing sampling dates for bacteria and fungi were greatest between the first and last sampling date (October and January). Temperatures during those dates ranged from 14.4 C to 28.9 C in October and -2.8 C to 10.0 C in January. As a continuation of this research, cultures of the different bacteria and fungi obtained in this study are currently being evaluated for their potential as biological control agents of BIFA/HIFA and RIFA that occur in Mississippi.
20203952|Gap-analysis models of vertebrate species richness are primarily created based on literature and expert review to predict individual species' occurrences and overall richness of vertebrates. Such models need validation based on empirical data to assess their accuracy. We describe and apply a new technique for assessing the accuracy of spatially explicit models. We evaluated the accuracy of South Carolina gap-analysis vertebrate models of predicted occurrence for reptile, amphibian, and mammal species on the Savannah River Site, SC, by comparing the agreement between gap-analysis models with models derived from multi-year monitoring data. We determined the species model agreement, commission and omission errors, and spatial correspondence in both single-species and richness models, and spatial correspondence of nodes of high richness. Average species agreement (accuracy) between models was 63%, with similar commission and omission error rates. Where there was spatial correspondence in single-taxon analyses, up to 15% of species identities differed in richness maps. Further refinement of vertebrate models will improve their accuracy, critical for the application of gap analyses to conservation decision-making.
20203953|Pteronotropis welaka (Bluenose Shiner) has a fragmented range throughout the Southeast, but its apparent rarity may reflect a low probability of detection during surveys. Our objectives were to obtain up-to-date status information for populations in southwest Georgia and to account for incomplete detection in our estimate of the proportion of sites occupied. We detected Bluenose Shiner at 5 of 39 sites (13%) sampled during 2004 and 2005 and estimated detection probability (p) and the proportion of sites occupied (psi) from seine-haul data. Models containing habitat covariates as predictors of p and psi provided a better description of the data than models without covariates for Bluenose Shiner and three other minnow species. Regardless of the model structure, the probability of detecting Bluenose Shiner during a single seine haul was substantially lower than for the other minnow species (3-8% vs. 13-33%). However, estimates of the proportion of sites occupied (corrected for incomplete detection) were similar to observed occupancy rates for all four species because of the large number of seine hauls we made at each site. The modeling approach we followed increased our confidence in survey results and provided information on where and how much to sample in future surveys. It has broad application to future surveys and monitoring programs for rare aquatic species in the southeastern United States.
20203954|Forestiera acuminata (swamp privet) is a common wetland shrub/small tree native to the southeastern United States. We examined several possible dispersal avenues for the plant. We tested germination of seeds exposed to various treatments, including passage through Ictalurus punctatus (Channel Catfish) guts, and conducted other tests and observations to infer seed-dispersal pathways. Channel Catfish consumed swamp privet drupes and defecated viable seeds, confirming that they are seed dispersers. Bombycilla cedrorum (Cedar Waxwings) ate the carbohydrate-rich drupes, and we predict that they disperse the seeds. We also inferred passive seed dispersal by water. Diverse dispersal pathways may allow for effective seed dispersal under a wide range of environmental conditions. Growing in wetlands and riparian areas, the plant experiences extreme annual variation in hydrologic conditions, which should influence the importance of the various dispersal pathways among years.
20203955|A survey of the vascular flora of Mason Mountain Wildlife Management Area, located in the Llano Uplift of Central Texas, was conducted between spring of 2001 and spring of 2006. A total of 693 species and infraspecific taxa in 103 families and 376 genera were documented from 14 plant associations. Poaceae (117 species), Asteraceae (102 species), Fabaceae (46 species), and Euphorbiaceae (31 species) were the families with the largest number of species. Five taxa, Campanula reverchonii (basin bellflower), Eriogonum tenellum Torr. var. ramosissimum (tall buckwheat), Isoetes lithophila (rock quillwort), Packera texensis (Llano groundsel), and Tradescantia pedicellata (Edwards Plateau spiderwort) are endemic to the Llano Uplift, while 24 others are endemic to Texas. Other noteworthy taxa included Isoetes piedmontana (Piedmont quillwort), Pilularia americana (American pillwort), and Senecio ampullaceus (Texas ragwort).
20203956|Important details of the reproductive ecology of many freshwater fishes of the species-rich southeastern USA are still poorly known. Two such species are Notropis asperifrons (Burrhead Shiner), and Notropis stilbius (Silverstripe Shiner). Both are endemic to the Mobile Basin, AL. To determine timing and patterns of reproductive effort, collections were made of as many as 20 individuals of each species at roughly four-week intervals from March through September. Female gonadal somatic index (GSI) data averages for each collection indicate that both species peak in reproductive activity in April. Both species still had reproductively competent female GSI values as late as July 31. Examination of ovarian tissue indicates that Burrhead Shiner oocytes are usually larger at equivalent developmental stages. Burrhead Shiners exhibit sexual size dimorphism with larger females, while Silverstripe Shiners do not.
20203957|We sampled fishes from nearshore, continental shelf (30 m) to shelf-slope, deep-water habitats (100 m) in the Mid-Atlantic Bight (MAB) and South Atlantic Bight (SAB) during winter (2005) to explore compositional differences among temperatures and depths. Trawl surveys conducted by the National Marine Fisheries Service do not typically sample winter fish assemblages concurrently from both the MAB and SAB, although increased concern over changes in distribution of species such as Pterois volitans (Lionfish) may warrant such studies. We collected 41 families and 68 species of fish, and found that temperature and depth influenced their distribution. More species were collected in the SAB where temperature was 10 C higher. At nearshore sites of SAB, we collected reef fishes (Chaetodontidae; Fistulariidae) and Stenotomus chrysops (Scup). At deep water sites of SAB, we collected Ophichthidae, Acropomatidae, and Scorpaenidae. Assemblages of the MAB were dominated by Squalus acanthias (Spiny Dogfish), particularly at nearshore sites. Pomatomus saltatrix (Bluefish) and Scomber scombrus (Atlantic Mackerel) were also abundant in the MAB. Our results highlight distributions of some fish species during winter. However, more data are necessary for understanding macroecological patterns of marine fish distribution in the northwestern Atlantic Ocean, especially as they relate to the interactive effects of temperature and depth on populations.
20203958|Endemic species with limited geographic ranges are particularly sensitive to habitat loss and degradation. In order to conserve such species, we tend to focus on optimal habitats (e.g., for land acquisition), but human-altered habitats may also be of conservation value if species can persist in these environments. We evaluated the occurrence of a lizard endemic to scrub and sandhill habitats in Florida, the threatened Plestiodon reynoldsi (Sand Skink), to determine whether it occurs in human-altered vegetation types. From 2003-2004, we quantitatively sampled 46.5 ha (composed of 7 vegetation and 10 soil types) for the distinctive trails this fossorial lizard leaves in sandy areas. The Sand Skink was present in equal relative densities across all vegetation types, including disturbed areas such as pastures and abandoned citrus groves. Further, we detected Sand Skinks on all well-drained sandy soils we sampled. Thus, Sand Skinks can persist in human-altered habitats, at least when underlying soils are suitable for their presence and have not been modified. In general, more Sand Skinks were found in larger habitat patches, regardless of whether patches were characterized by vegetation or soil. Our results suggest that anthropogenically altered habitats have conservation value for Sand Skinks (and possibly other ecologically similar species) and that future studies should focus on the effects of restoring these habitats on resident populations of this species.
20203959|Until recently, two surface-dwelling species of multi-ribbed brook salamanders (i.e., the metamorphic Eurycea multiplicata griseogaster [Graybelly Salamander], and the strictly paedomorphic E. tynerensis [Oklahoma Salamander]) were recognized as living in the Missouri Ozarks. The current understanding is that a single species (Oklahoma Salamander) is resident in the Ozarks, and that this species is polymorphic for life-history mode from population to population. We recently discovered that multi-ribbed salamanders at two locations in Christian and Barry Counties, MO, show striking polymorphism in eye-coloration, with individuals possessing either gold or black irises. To test whether the gold- and black-eyed forms may be different species, we conducted a phylogeographic analysis of mtDNA variation in multi-ribbed salamanders across the Missouri Ozarks. We present sequence data from the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene that show that transforming and paedomorphic individuals, and the alternative eye-color morphs can all arise from the same mitochondrially defined matriline, and thus seem to comprise a single species. We hypothesize that color-pattern variation in multi-ribbed salamanders is under simple genetic control.
20203960|West Nile virus (WNV) is an endemic arboviral pathogen that occurs throughout most of the United States and is typically maintained through a bird-mosquito-bird transmission cycle. The ecological significance of the virus is high due to its ability to infect and cause disease in humans, livestock, and wildlife. West Nile virus infection of many vertebrate species causes signs of viral illness, including encephalitis that may result in mortality. Infection by WNV has recently been detected in captive Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligators) in Georgia and Louisiana, and in both captive and free-ranging alligators in Florida. However, additional surveys for WNV in populations of free-ranging alligators within the southeastern USA have not been conducted. The purpose of this study was to survey free-ranging alligators in south Louisiana for active WNV infection. Blood samples were collected from 93 alligators captured at Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge in Cameron Parish, LA, during May 2006 and were screened for WNV using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). All samples (100%) tested negative for WNV, indicating a lack of detectable active infection in these animals. Additional surveys of the occurrence of WNV in alligators throughout the southeastern USA are needed to determine the susceptibility of these reptiles to the virus, effects on the health of infected populations, and the potential role of alligators in the maintenance and transmission of the virus.
20203961|We examined predator-prey relationships of young Bairdiella chrysoura (Silver Perch) collected in Mississippi Sound by comparing the diet to fish standard length (2.5-30.0 mm SL) and mouth width (MW). Silver Perch displayed a diel feeding pattern, with the most active feeding occurring from midnight until noon. As Silver Perch SL increased, prey number, frequency, and volume plus prey width increased. Calanoid copepods and mysid shrimp were the dominant prey, with mysids becoming prominent as Silver Perch SL increased. Cluster analysis supported this pattern as Silver Perch 5 mm SL consumed a homogenous material and a few copepods, fish 5-10 mm SL preyed upon calanoid copepods, and then fish in larger size classes shifted their diet to mysid shrimp as MW increased and fish became more robust. Silver Perch SL was linearly related to MW (MW = 0.097 [SL] + 0.245; r = 0.891).
20203962|Shrews are insectivorous opportunistic foragers occupying moist habitats characterized by high vegetative composition. Shrews characteristically have poorly developed eyesight and rely on olfactory and auditory senses for efficient foraging. Two Blarina hylophaga (Elliot's short-tailed shrew) recently trapped in East Texas did not have externally visible eyes. Further examination during specimen preparation revealed both had developed eyes, but lacked developed, opened, or functional eyelids. A third shrew, collected in Bastrop County, TX, had developed eyes and eyelids, however, the external openings were abnormally small. All three shrews were adults and alive in traps, suggesting no ill effects due to the reduction or absence of eye openings and further suggesting little or no effect on the survival of these individuals.
4540997|In 1998, Great Smoky Mountains National Park embarked on a project to determine all life forms in the Park. This ongoing project, an All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory, or ATBI, has resulted in a wealth of information about Park resources. A science plan has been adopted and a pilot study has been completed; further testing of protocols is now being conducted to further refine sampling techniques within a plot structure throughout the Park. Traditional sampling methods continue to be used as well. Education, at all levels, has been an integral part of this project. To date, over 200 scientists have been involved and over 5500 species discoveries have been made, which includes 4740 new distribution records for known species, and 829 species new to science. In addition to species identifications, ecological information is being gathered that greatly benefits Park management with regard to resource stewardship.
4540998|Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) contains one of the most diverse assemblages of vegetation communities in North America. Over 70 unique community associations comprised of over 1300 native plant species have been identified in the Park. This wide array of communities provides habitat for unknown multitudes of other taxa whose abundance, distribution, and ecological importance remain largely unknown. The All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI) underway in the Park is the first comprehensive attempt to better understand the vast array of species present in the Park. This paper discusses the composition, structure, distribution, and extent of vegetation communities in GSMNP. Detailed assessments of the vegetation, site, and soil characteristics of the 19 ATBI plots are also included.
4540999|Soils and waters were collected from Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP), and bacteria were cultured or DNA cloned from the samples. Oconaluftee Visitors Center and Kephart Prong Trail were sampled to examine distributions of heterotrophs inhabiting streams and riparian soil. Soil from All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory plots at Albright Grove, Cataloochee, and Purchase Knob were also sampled. A total of eleven phyla were detected, of which six were only found via culture-independent techniques. Overall, 69 genera were documented, with differences in their detection in soil and water and by methodology. Firmicutes dominated cultures from soil, while Acidobacteria dominated clone libraries; Bacteroidetes was the dominant phylum in water. Three classes of the phylum Proteobacteria were commonly seen as isolates or clones. Prokaryotic diversity is extraordinary; this is the first inventory examining non-photosynthetic bacteria inhabiting GSMNP and it lays the groundwork for investigations exploring the true breadth of diversity in the park and what this diversity means to the broader ecosystem.
4541000|We present an update on efforts to catalog the basidiomycete taxa, particularly the mushroom-forming fungi, of Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) for the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory. The goals of this project are to: 1) collect, identify, and voucher specimens with the help of visiting mycologists and volunteers; 2) extract DNA, amplify and sequence the nrITS region for barcoding, and deposit these sequences on GenBank; and 3) create species web pages for general public use. At present (April 2006), approximately 2000 specimens comprising about 770 species have been collected. As many as 45% are new Park records, and several may represent species new to science. DNA has been extracted from about 1000 specimens, and the nuclear ribosomal ITS region has been amplified and sequenced for about 500 of those. A surprising amount of genetic heterogeneity has been found, in part due to population migration patterns in response to glacial cycles. Studies with Artomyces pyxidatus support this hypothesis, showing distinct contributions from Central America and a second unidentified refugium.
4541001|Great Smoky Mountains National Park is an area known for its incredible species diversity. This study was conducted in order to determine the vertical distribution of lichen growth forms and overall lichen species richness on selected host-tree species in the Park. Specifically, lichens were collected from Tilia americana var. heterophylla (basswood), Abies fraseri (Fraser fir), Liquidambar styraciflua (sweet gum), and Fraxinus americana (white ash) at different canopy heights. A total of eight trees (two for each species) were sampled using the double-rope climbing technique. Overall, our results indicate that both host-tree species and canopy height influence lichen species richness and distribution of growth forms. Three lichen species are reported as candidates for new records in the Park: Gyalecta flotowii Korber, Lecanora miculata Ach., and Pyrenula pseudobufonia (Rehm) R.C. Harris.
4541002|The first Lichen Bio-Quest was held at the Great Smoky Mountains Institute at Tremont near Townsend, TN, on 19-20 June, 2004. More than 30 participants included high school teachers and students, Park volunteers and staff, area residents, and professional lichenologists. The primary goal was first to provide an educational component, including lichen morphology, growth forms, terminology, and identification using lecture and video-microscopy presentations, followed by a field component collecting lichens in different habitats. H. Thorsten Lumbsch, an expert on crustose lichens, and Steven B. Selva, an expert on calicioid (stubble) lichens, served as instructors, foray captains, and helped identify specimens. Lower-elevation collection sites were located in the Tremont area (Lumber Ridge Trail and Spruce Flats Falls Trail) and ranged from 405-550 m. High-elevation sites (Indian Gap, Spruce-Fir Nature Trail, and the Balsam Mountain Road area) ranged from 1094 to 1706 m. Eighty-eight lichen and lichenicolous fungi species were identified, including 10 new published Park and Tennessee records. The new lichen records were: Aspicilia caesiocinerea, Calicium glaucellum, Chaenotheca brunneola, Placynthiella icmalea, Trapelia glebulosa, T. placodioides, and Trapeliopsis flexuosa. The new lichenicolous fungi records were: Mycocalicium subtile, Phaeocalicium polyporaeum, and Sphinctrina turbinata.
4541003|Great Smoky Mountains National Park, which straddles the Tennessee-North Carolina state-line is a biologically diverse region which has recently become the site of an All Taxon Biodiversity Inventory, an effort to chronicle species diversity by documenting all species in all phyla present within park boundaries. As a result of studies within the last two years, we have added 415 new algal taxa records. With records reported in 2004, we now have documented a total of 1000 taxa in the park. This paper summarizes all algal species found to date.
4541004|Diatoms and other algae were collected and identified from subaerial habitats (wetwalls) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park as part of a larger biodiversity survey of the Park. Algal collections were made across a range of moisture gradients and bedrock mineralogies with pH ranging from 3.8 to 7.7. None of the communities collected were entirely submerged in water, but were often associated with moist bryophytes, cyanobacterial mats, and dripping groundwater seeps. Some of the collections were from cliff faces wetted only periodically. To date, 41 diatom genera and over 223 species have been identified from these habitats. Several of these genera are widely distributed across aquatic habitats; however, several of the genera are "subaerial specialists" and possess morphological features such as reduced size, reduced external openings in the cell wall, or additional external siliceous membranes that allow them to survive in relatively dry habitats. Widely distributed species with high fidelity to subaerial habitats occur in the genera Achnanthes, Cymbopleura, Decussata, Diadesmis, Luticola, Melosira, Microcostatus, Nupela, Psammothidium, and Orthoseira. Many of the species constitute new Park records, national records, or are new to science.
4541005|Surveys for freshwater oligochaetes (Annelida, Clitellata) conducted during the years 1999-2006 increase to 19 the number of species (representing four families and 13 genera) recorded from Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) in North Carolina and Tennessee. Three of these species-Pristina aequiseta, Pristina osborni, and Spirosperma ferox-are new state records for Tennessee, and all but one represent new records for GSMNP. Prior to this study, only one freshwater oligochaete, Stylodrilus wahkeenensis, had been reported from GSMNP.
4541006|Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP), situated on the mountainous border of North Carolina and Tennessee, is recognized as one of the most highly diverse protected areas in the temperate region. In order to provide baseline data for the scientific management of GSMNP, an All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI) was initiated in 1998. Among the goals of the ATBI are to discover the identity and distribution of as many as possible of the species of life that occur in GSMNP. The authors have concentrated on the orders of completely aquatic insects other than odonates. We examined or utilized others' records of more than 53,600 adult and 78,000 immature insects from 545 locations. At present, 469 species are known from GSMNP, including 120 species of Ephemeroptera (mayflies), 111 species of Plecoptera (stoneflies), 7 species of Megaloptera (dobsonflies, fishflies, and alderflies), and 231 species of Trichoptera (caddisflies). Included in this total are 10 species new to science discovered since the ATBI began.
4541007|Collembola are the most abundant hexapods, sometimes numbering <tex-math>$50,000 individuals/m^2$</tex-math> in temperate deciduous forest. Prior to the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory, 55 species had been reported from Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP), some of which were misidentifications. Currently, more than 200 species are recognized in GSMNP, including at least 60 species new to science and more than 100 new records. In addition, reexamination of type specimens in collections dating to the 1940s has validated a number of species that had been synonymized with other taxa, such as in the genus Morulina. One new genus has been collected, and three new species belonging to previously non-North American genera have been found (two South American, one Mediterranean). Several new records are major range extensions, such as Folsomia fimetaria, known previously from the Canadian Maritime provinces, and Hypogastrura tooliki, described from Alaska. Digital imaging and videography of live springtails is being used to more accurately render appearance and coloration and to document behaviors and interactions with other soil and litter biota. Molecular differentiation of Tomoceridae is underway in order to more reliably separate the many similar species of this common family A Lucid-based online key for identification of southern Appalachian Collembola is under construction; where possible, this key will use characters visible with a dissecting microscope to distinguish species.
4541008| The current Coleoptera (beetle) Taxonomic Working Group of the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI) has been active since June 2001. It consists of a core group of students and researchers, headquartered at the Louisiana State Arthropod Museum (LSAM), Baton Rouge, LA and is supported by a network of 42 specialists worldwide. Our starting point was 700 species based mainly on specimens collected prior to 2001 and deposited in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) museum. Our current beetle count for GSMNP is 2131 species from 103 families. Using periodic species accumulation analyses plus independent work by cooperators, we have documented 1400 new species records for the park and 16,370 specimen records in our Biota relational database. This includes 42 species new to science. We predict the total beetle diversity for the park will be 3000 species based on extrapolation of data for the 15 largest families in eastern North America. Most additional records are expected from taxonomic work on the following families: Staphylinidae (rove beetles), Curculionidae (weevils, bark, and ambrosia beetles), Tenebrionidae (darkling beetles), Scarabaeidae (scarab beetles), Latridiidae (minute scavenger beetles), and Ptiliidae (feather-winged beetles). Progress has been hampered by a lack of taxonomic expertise and logistical problems associated with large specimen volumes. The former problem is society-wide and the latter has been partially solved. The vast majority of specimens processed to date were derived from structured protocols conducted during the initial phase of the ATBI. Current and future efforts will be focused on samples collected during organized beetle bioblitzes and/or using specialized techniques targeting taxa that cannot be obtained using mass-collecting methods. 
4541009|As a part of an All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory, we documented 1843 Lepidoptera species from Great Smoky Mountains National Park. This total is based on previous survey efforts plus recent intensive sampling using bioblitzes. Various statistical estimators put the total number of species in the park between 1950 and 2340. The difference between actual and estimated numbers is mainly due to under-sampled Microlepidoptera groups. As a part of recent efforts, the mitochondrial COI gene has been sequenced from more than 940 species from the Park. DNA barcoding has already led to taxonomic insights in several groups, and is believed to be at least 95% accurate for identifications. Our samples include more than 20 undescribed species in the Park, including a park-endemic geometrid moth. Because of threats to their habitats, high-elevation species make up the largest group of species of special concern.
4541010|The fauna and flora of Great Smoky Mountains National Park is being systematically studied and documented for the first time as part of the Smokies' All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI). With direction from scientific authorities and Park staff, a team of citizen volunteers has undertaken a survey of odonates (dragonflies and damselflies). The survey is focused on adults and includes curated specimens, catch-and-release records, and reliable sight identifications. To date, 93 taxa (63 dragonflies, 30 damselflies) are reported from the Park. However, the habitat-, geographic-, and temporal-survey coverage is far from complete, and records from neighboring areas suggest the Park may contain more than 130 odonate species. All of the information is being stored in the online ATBI database.
4541011|We report on a systematic survey of the ant fauna occurring in hardwood forests in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. At 22-mixed hardwood sites, we collected leaf-litter ant species using Winkler samplers. At eight of those sites, we also collected ants using pitfall and Malaise traps. In total, we collected 53 ant species. As shown in other studies, ant species richness tended to decline with increasing elevation. Leaf-litter ant assemblages were also highly nested. Several common species were both locally abundant and had broad distributions, while many other species were rarely detected. Winkler samplers, pitfall traps, and Malaise traps yielded samples that differed in composition, but not richness, from one another. Taken together, our work begins to illuminate the factors that govern the diversity, distribution, abundance, and perhaps rarity of ants of forested ecosystems in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park.
4541012| As part of the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP), we have collected nearly 600 samples from soil/decomposed leaf litter, lichens and mosses on trees, and stream sediment and periphyton within all 19 permanent ATBI plots, with additional samples from caves, rock lichens, seeps, and bird nests. Tardigrades have been extracted from samples using centrifugation with Ludox AM and mounted on individual microscope slides in Hoyer's medium for identification under phase and DIC microscopy. Prior to our study, only three species of tardigrades had been reported from a few samples in the park. We have now examined over 9000 slides from 401 samples and recorded 73 species, 14 of which we believe may be new to science. Using Estimates 7.5 software for each of the major tardigrade habitats, we estimate a total species richness of 96 limno-terrestrial species in the park. In this paper, we discuss challenges inherent in tardigrade taxonomy and the need for revisions of species groups. 
20203967|Current procedures for reclaiming surface mines have produced many hectares of open grasslands. Asio flammeus (Short-eared Owl) and Circus cyaneus (Northern Harrier) are regularly found in such grasslands, but little is known about the suitability of these areas as raptor habitat. Our objective was to quantify the hunting behavior of Short-eared Owls and Northern Harriers, and characterize the vegetation in areas used by foraging Short-eared Owls during the non-breeding season on a reclaimed surface mine in Muhlenberg and Ohio counties, KY, from 1 January-1 May 2002. Northern Harriers and Short-eared Owls foraged in flight during our study, with no instances of perch-hunting observed, and initiated attacks primarily in areas dominated by either Lespedeza sp. (sericea) or Festuca sp. (fescue). Attack success rates were 7% and 10.9% for Harriers and Short-eared Owls, respectively, both within the range of success rates previously reported. Analysis revealed that areas used by foraging Short-eared Owls had shorter, less-dense vegetation than unused areas. The use of areas with shorter, less-dense vegetation by Short-eared Owls might increase prey detectability and increase attack success. The use of hunting behaviors and attack success rates similar to those reported in previous studies conducted in unmined habitats suggest that reclaimed surface mine grasslands in Kentucky provide suitable habitat for Northern Harriers and Short-eared Owls during the non-breeding season.
20203968|We compared 2 survey methods for assessing winter bird communities in temperate grasslands: Winter Bird Population Study surveys are area-searches that have long been used in a variety of habitats whereas Project Prairie Bird surveys employ active-flushing techniques on strip-transects and are intended for use in grasslands. We used both methods to survey birds on 14 herbaceous-reforested sites and 9 coastal pine savannas during winter and compared resultant estimates of species richness and relative abundance. These techniques did not yield similar estimates of avian populations. We found Winter Bird Population Studies consistently produced higher estimates of species richness, whereas Project Prairie Birds produced higher estimates of avian abundance for some species. When it is important to identify all species within the winter bird community, Winter Bird Population Studies should be the survey method of choice. If estimates of the abundance of relatively secretive grassland bird species are desired, the use of Project Prairie Birds protocols is warranted. However, we suggest that both survey techniques, as currently employed, are deficient and recommend distance-based survey methods that provide species-specific estimates of detection probabilities be incorporated into these survey methods.
20203969|Kleptoparasitism, the stealing of food from individuals of either the same or a different species, is a common behavior among seabirds. Little is known about the age-related differences in kleptoparasitism behaviors, which may elucidate how this behavior emerged and is maintained in populations. We observed the kleptoparasitic behavior of Fregata magnificens (Magnificent Frigatebirds) on the Dry Tortugas, a group of islands west of Key West, FL. For each kleptoparasitic event, we recorded whether an adult or a sub-adult frigatebird made the attack; whether the potential host was approached while it was in the air, in the water, or on the ground; the duration of the chase; and whether an individual or group of hosts was approached. Adult females most often approached potential hosts in the air (92% of recorded encounters), while sub-adults approached more potential hosts on the ground (61% of recorded encounters). Water approaches were rarely performed by sub-adults and never by adults. Adult females tended to spend significantly more time on each chase than did sub-adults, and adult females sought out individual hosts (69% of recorded encounters), while sub-adults seemed to prefer groups of hosts (78% of recorded encounters). These age-related differences in feeding behaviors may represent a period of learning in young birds that will make them more effective kleptoparasites as adults. In general, these age-related differences in behavior may lead to a better understanding of the pressures that have led to the development and maintenance of kleptoparasitic feeding strategies in frigatebirds.
20203970|Comparisons of current and historical tree species composition and size structure along natural productivity gradients are useful for inferring effects of disturbance regimes and productivity on patterns of succession. We tabulated occurrences and estimated diameters of 3483 General Land Office bearing trees across 19 survey townships along an upland soil texture and organic matter gradient in north Mississippi. We then contrasted this presettlement composition and structure with that of 2998 trees in sampling plots within present-day mature (&gt;100 years old) upland forests contained within the survey townships. Presettlement upland communities appeared to consist of non-successional communities, in which the most abundant trees were shade-intolerant, fire-tolerant trees (e.g., Quercus marilandica [blackjack oak]) in both large and small size classes across the entire soil gradient. These fire-prone presettlement assemblages differed greatly from present-day mature uplands, which were transitional assemblages of upland and floodplain trees, with mesophytic floodplain species (both early and late-successional) dominating the smaller size classes.
20203971|A total of 53 fire-scarred Pinus echinata (shortleaf pine) trees were examined to reconstruct a ridgetop fire chronology of an oak-pine forest in the Ozark Mountains of north-central Arkansas. This process yielded 104 fire scars dating to 61 separate fire years. Fire frequency was greatest during the Euro-American Settlement Period (1820-1900), when the median fire interval (MFI) was 1.9 years. Most of the sample trees established during this period. Fire remained prevalent through the Regional Development (1901-1930) and Modern (1931-2003) Periods, when the MFI was 2.1 and 2.6 years, respectively. Palmer Drought Severity Index mean values from 1823-2003 did not differ (p = 0.76) between fire years and non-fire years, suggesting that fires in the study area were predominantly anthropogenic in origin.
20203972|Rhus michauxii (Michaux's sumac) is a federally endangered species native to the lower piedmont and upper coastal plain of the Southeastern United States. Fort Pickett, VA, has the largest known population and is unusual because the majority of the colonies are located in habitats maintained by frequent fire caused by military training. Our objectives were to investigate the relationship between woody competition and Michaux's sumac density. The strongest correlations were between woody competition and pistillate density. In the 2-5 m strata, the influence of woody density, total density, and DBH on pistillate Michaux's sumac density were significant (P &lt; 0.05) and strongly correlated with r of 0.558, 0.488, and 0.511, respectively. Based upon the results of our study, reducing woody competition in the 2-5 m strata would improve habitat conditions for sexual reproduction, which could increase the potential for recovery of Michaux's sumac.
20203973|Relatively little is known about the life history of Cyprinella trichroistia (Tricolor Shiner), a species endemic to the Coosa and Cahaba rivers in Alabama, Georgia, and Tennessee above the Fall Line. The life history of this species was investigated using a series of collections obtained through the University of Alabama Ichthyological Collection spanning 27 months and collected from Hubbard Creek in the Coosa River System. A total of 6366 specimens were examined for age and growth, reproductive cycle, food habits, parasites, habitat, and associated species. Males and females have similar length-weight relationships, but males attain a larger size. Data analysis and field observations indicate that the species has a single reproductive season beginning in April and ending in August with peak activity in June. Numbers of mature ova of females ranged from 32 to 148, and was highly correlated to female size and weight. At any given time in the population, there were three (possibly four) age classes noted. The habitat for the Tricolor Shiner was primarily clear, flowing streams with a rocky substrate suitable for crevice spawning to occur. The diet consisted mainly of aquatic insects; the only parasites observed were internal nematodes and external trematodes.
20203974|The purpose of this study was to test for interference competition for shelter between adult Cottus carolinae (Banded Sculpin) and adult Orconectes placidus (bigclaw crayfish) in stream-pool habitats. Both species co-occur naturally in high densities in Brawley's Fork (Cumberland River Basin, TN), creating a potential for strong interactions over shared resources. In-stream enclosures containing one rock shelter were used to test for depth preference by adult crayfish (preference for pool habitats has already been demonstrated for the sculpin), test for shelter preference by both species and, determine if presence of one species affects shelter use of the other species. Adult bigclaw crayfish displayed a strong preference for deep water over shallow water in the enclosures, and both species used the shelter at a significantly higher rate than expected from the null hypothesis of random habitat use. Neither species, however, affected the shelter use of the other in sympatric trials, (in fact, both species shared the shelter in about one third of the trials), indicating that these species may not compete for shelter in this system. Although both species use rock shelters in the pool habitat, the lack of predators in the pool habitats of this stream may reduce the importance of shelter to the sculpin and crayfish, thereby reducing the likelihood of strong interactions over shelter.
20203975|The distribution of terrestrial tardigrades in the Gulf Coast states of the United States in poorly known. Only one species has been reported in Florida. In this study, bryophyte samples (47 identified species) from trees and shrubs were collected from all 67 Florida counties. Twenty tardigrade species were found: Echiniscus cavagnaroi, E. kofordi, E. virginicus, Pseudechiniscus suillus, Ramazzottius baumanni, Diphascon (Diphascon) pingue, Macrobiotus echinogenitus, two species of Macrobiotus cf. harmsworthi, Macrobiotus cf. hibiscus, Macrobiotus hufelandi, two species of Macrobiotus cf. hufelandi, Macrobiotus islandicus, Macrobiotus occidentalis, Macrobiotus richtersi, Macrobiotus tonollii, Minibiotus fallax, Minibiotus intermedius, and Milnesium tardigradum. The distribution of tardigrade species was not correlated with Florida's ecological regions. Tardigrade species richness declined from north to south in peninsular Florida.
20203976|We examined the dynamics of a dung beetle community over the course of a year in a forested urban park in Baton Rouge, LA. Dung beetle volume per trap-day and abundance peaked during March and the months of August through November, with species richness highest during March. The subfamily Aphodiinae dominated the community during the cold months, and Scarabaeinae dominated it during the warm months. The relationship of these patterns to local temperature and precipitation is discussed.
20203977|Habitat selection influences many aspects of a species' ecology, and can have substantial management implications. We studied habitat selection by female Ursus americanus floridanus (Florida black bears), a threatened species in Florida, at two different scales: selection of home ranges within the population range and selection of habitat types within home ranges. At the scale of home range selection within the population range, bears showed preference for xeric habitats (xeric oak scrub and Pinus clausa [sand pine] forest) during summer; there was no evidence of habitat selection during fall. At the scale of habitat selection within the home range, bears showed preference for mesic (pine flatwood and swamp forest) and preference against xeric (xeric oak scrub and sand pine forests) habitats; again, there was no evidence of habitat selection during fall. Contrary to expectations, bears did not show preference for habitats that contained hard mast-producing plants. This was at least in part because habitats rich in mast producing plants composed 68% of the total habitat area. Strategies for management of Florida black bears should encourage management practices that enhance quality and diversity of mast- and berry-producing plants.
20203978|We analyzed intraspecific and sexually dimorphic osteological variation within the Baldwin County, GA, population of Didelphis virginiana (Virginia opossum). Where possible, 20 measurements (11 cranial/mandibular and 9 postcranial) were obtained from each of 59 road-killed adult opossums (47 males, 12 females). Although range overlaps exist between the sexes for all measurements, males are significantly larger (P  0.05) for the following characteristics: greatest length of skull, condylobasal length, basal length, postpalatal length, nasal length, bicanine width, zygomatic breadth, length of mandible, scapula length, humerus length, radius length, femur length, and fibula length. Males exhibit significantly less (P  0.05) variation in mandibular tooth row length and significantly greater (P  0.05) variation in scapula length and fibula length. Intraspecific variation ranges from 14-54% for cranial/mandibular and 29-73% for postcranial measurements. Sexual dimorphism is most pronounced in cranial/mandibular dimensions. Comparisons with multi-state samples indicate that the continent-wide population of the Virginia opossum is very similar in terms of osteological dimension. The combination of low variation index and nonsignificant difference between the sexes in mandibular tooth row length suggests that this measure may be useful for distinguishing fossil opossum species.
20203979|Spatial and temporal plasticity in Canis latrans (coyote) diets require regional studies to understand the ecological role of this omnivorous canid. Because coyotes have recently become established in South Carolina, we investigated their food habits by collecting 415 coyote scats on the Savannah River Site in western South Carolina from May 2005-July 2006. Seasonally available soft mast was the most common food item in 12 of the 15 months we sampled. Odocoileus virginianus (white-tailed deer) was the most common food item during December (40%) and March (37%). During May-June, fruits of Prunus spp. and Rubus spp. were the most commonly occurring food items. Fawns were the most common mammalian food item during May and June of both years despite low deer density.
20203980|Gopherus polyphemus (Gopher Tortoise) is a threatened species in Florida and is heralded as a keystone species throughout its range in the southeastern United States. However, this species has faced drastic population declines due mainly to habitat loss, and now disease is threatening the species. Upper respiratory tract disease (URTD) is a highly contagious disease first observed in Gopher Tortoise populations in Florida as early as 1989. URTD may be caused by multiple pathogens, such as Mycoplasma agassizii, which has been documented in Gopher Tortoise populations (Berish et al 2000). The long-term effects of URTD are unknown, as are the effects of the disease on the demographics of the species. In this study, 40 plasma samples were collected from a Gopher Tortoise population to determine the exposure of Mycoplasma agassizii among different age classes and genders. There was not a significant difference in number infected when comparing adult males and adult females. The results suggest adults are exposed to the pathogen at a greater rate than subadults, and exposure may be dependent on age. All subadults tested in this population tested seronegative, indicating they had no previous exposure to Mycoplasma agassizii. Knowledge of the effects of this pathogen is necessary for wildlife management agencies to assess the options available for managing Gopher Tortoise populations. The results of this study suggest a zero known mortality rate due to the pathogen over a 4-year period; however, additional pathological research is required to determine if Mycoplasma agassizii is causing URTD in this population. These results may have implications for the "take" policy in Florida: if Mycoplasma agassizii is not causing URTD in this population, and if the pathogen is not leading to a high mortality rate, then "take" permits based solely on seropositive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) results may not be justified.
20203981|Mark-recapture studies for investigating migration patterns and population dynamics of large numbers of individuals require an effective, non-lethal marking technique. Our goal in the present study was to determine the suitability of visible implant elastomer (VIE) for a species in nominal decline, Etheostoma moorei (Yellowcheek Darter). Mortality and mark retention were initially studied in a laboratory setting using a surrogate species, Etheostoma caeruleum (Rainbow Darter) due to Yellowcheek Darter's conservation status (candidate species for listing as endangered). There was 100% survival and mark retention over the 58-day period for the fourteen Rainbow Darters injected with VIE marks, and there were no observable lesions or scars resulting from marking. Adult Yellowcheek Darters30 mm (n = 385) were individually marked with VIE, and their soft dorsal fins were clipped. They were then returned to their original riffle sites on the Middle and South forks of the Little Red River, AR. There were a total of 26 recapture events, with a mark retention rate of 88% (12% of recaptures had evidence of fin clips, yet no VIE marks). The interval between initial capture and last recapture ranged from 13-401 days. We identified no relationship between position of injection, color marked, or darter size at injection and mark retention. The duration of the present study (13 months) appears suitable for VIE mark retention in Yellowcheek Darter. Adults are both slow-growing and short-lived, characteristics which enhance the suitability of VIE for mark-recapture use.
20203982|Much of what is known about sea turtle biology is attributed to research conducted on nesting females, due to the accessibility of these animals when on the beach. Long-range tag-return data obtained from individual loggerheads are helpful when determining population estimates, nesting ranges, seasonal dispersal patterns, and possible foraging areas. The Caretta Research Project has run a saturation-tagging project on Wassaw National Wildlife Refuge, GA since 1973. Tag returns received from the east coast of the United States to the Gulf of Mexico provide evidence that while some female turtles demonstrate site fidelity, others utilize multiple beaches during a nesting season as well as throughout their reproductive lifetimes and travel extensively between nesting seasons.
20203983|In response to their strikingly similar coloration, we tested for a mimetic relationship between Notophthalmus viridescens louisianensis (Central Newt) and Macrobdella diplotertia (Ozark Highlands leech). Early observations took place in a south-central Missouri woodland pond. Later, feeding experiments involving ducks, geese, and native fishes were conducted. Our results support a mimetic relationship between these 2 species that is not a simple classification. More in-depth study may be needed to elucidate the true nature of this relationship.
20203984|Long known only from three populations along a 32-kilometer stretch of SR 65 in Franklin and Liberty counties, FL, a new population of Harperocallis flava (Harper's beauty) has been discovered in Bay County, FL. Observations on some aspects of its natural history are included.
20203989|Video footage recorded from 14 submersible dives on the continental shelf edge was used to describe and categorize reef morphology and quantify density and number of morphotypes of large sponges and corals. Significant variation in number of morphotypes and density of three dominant species among temperature classes, depth classes, and reef morphology categories was tested using a multiple response permutation procedure. The greatest densities of Ircinia campana, Stichopathes sp., and Muricea pendula, and the largest numbers of morphotypes were found between 18.1 and 21.0 C and at depths between 51.0 and 60.9 m. Among reef morphology types, those that contained unconsolidated sediments such as "sand" and "large boulders with sand" exhibited the lowest densities and richness of morphotypes, while "block-shaped boulders," "buried block-shaped boulders," and "low-relief bioeroded" reefs had the greatest densities and largest numbers of coral and sponge morphotypes. Rocky reefs along the shelf edge with rough texture, complexity, and relief provide favorable conditions for epibenthic invertebrates. The warming and stabilizing effect of the Gulf Stream along the continental shelf edge allows some sessile macrofauna to inhabit deeper waters and more northern latitudes.
20203990|Living, freshly collected individuals of three species of snapping shrimps were studied to determine any differing morphological, developmental, and ecological features: Alpheus heterochaelis, collected from Beaufort, NC; A. angulosus, found mainly in Jacksonville, FL, but also at one site in Beaufort; and A. estuariensis, collected at another Jacksonville site. Structural characteristics of these superficially similar species are summarized, with particular attention to coloration. Adult A. angulosus individuals have blue-green 2nd antennal flagella (vs. tan in the other two species) that are significantly shorter than those of A. heterochaelis. Alpheus angulosus and A. estuariensis bear smaller eggs (&lt;1 mm, regardless of embryonic stage) than A. heterochaelis (&gt;1 mm), and the former species displays the zoea larval form typical of alpheids (vs. abbreviated larval development in A. heterochaelis).
20203991|New records of copepods are listed from artificial containers and shallow waterbodies in the Florida Keys. Mesocyclops ogunnus is reported from the United States for the first time. Metacyclops cf. gracilis is reported from the Florida Keys for the first time. New collection records are presented for 12 other species. Mesocyclops ogunnus is an Old World species, and this is the third record in the Neotropics; it may have the potential to compete with the North and Central American native Mesocyclops edax. The non-native copepod species found in central and southern Florida are generally associated with plants and soils. A review of literature on introduced copepods found in South Florida is presented.
20203992|Epiphytic algae may be responsible for a significant amount of primary productivity in aquatic ecosystems, but also reduce available light, compete for nutrients, and increase drag on their living substrates. A survey of the epiphytic algal community of the submersed aquatic macrophyte Vallisneria americana Michx. (Hydrocharitaceae) in the lower St. Johns River, FL was conducted over a 17-month period. A total of 122 infrageneric taxa were collected at four sites along a 93-km stretch of the river, yielding 32 diatoms (Bacillariophyta), 42 green algae (Chlorophyta), 45 blue-green algae (Cyanobacteria), 2 euglenoids (Euglenophyta), and 1 dinoflagellate (Pyrrophyta) taxa identified over the study period. However, only diatoms and cyanobacteria were seen at all sampling dates, and only a Cocconeis sp. was identified at all sites on all dates. This study provides baseline survey data of the epiphytic algal community in order to assess future anthropogenic effects.
20203993|General Land Office (GLO) survey data from the Ackerman Unit of the Tombigbee National Forest, MS are used to characterize early 19th-century tree cover in a part of the North Central Hills physiographic province. Archaeological settlement-pattern data indicate that the area was abandoned ca. A.D. 1000 and that early Historic-period settlement was minimal by the time the GLO surveys were done. The GLO data therefore represent forest conditions as they developed in the absence or near-absence of human influence. Tree cover consisted of oak-dominated hardwoods with a non-clustered pine component. The distributions of some hardwood species were related to geological controls. Based on previous archaeological work, the argument concerning minimal human impact can be extended to the entire North Central Hills province, with consequent implications for forest management on federal lands.
20203994|Imperata cylindrica (cogongrass) is an invasive weed long established in the southeastern US, and considerable effort is devoted to its control. Two native species, I. brevifolia (California satintail) and I. brasiliensis (Brazilian satintail), also occur in the US, and the latter is sympatric to cogongrass. Certain Imperata morphotypes growing in the field are difficult to identify. To clarify their identity, inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSRs) were used to assess genetic differentiation among eight populations in the US representing Brazilian satintail, California satintail, three potential morphotypes of cogongrass, and three unknowns. Samples preserved in 95% ethyl alcohol and silica-gel did not produce repeatable band patterns, so DNA from fresh leaves was extracted and analyzed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. Results indicate that California satintail (D = 0.67), a commercial cogongrass cultivar (D = 0.66), and a short-hairy morphotype of cogongrass (D = 0.65) were the most distinctive operational taxonomic units (OTUs) compared. The unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA) dendrogram showed two well-supported clusters of taxa containing Brazilian satintail (Bootstrap value = 96%) and the tall morphotypes of cogongrass (Bootstrap value = 83%), respectively. Among the morphotypes of cogongrass analyzed, the tall-hairy and tall-glabrous plants formed a cluster from which the short-hairy morphotype and the cultivar were genetically divergent. Our results refute taxonomic arrangements placing Brazilian satintail as a synonym of cogongrass.
20203995|Riparian buffers can be valuable refuge areas for wildlife in otherwise homogeneous agricultural landscapes. Government sponsored programs like the Cropland Reserve Program generally require the planting of specific vegetative species during buffer restoration, although the effectiveness of such an approach when compared to restoration by volunteer species is unknown. We studied the effect of differences in vegetation structure on avian habitat in riparian buffer zones. A 25 m (82 ft) wide planted woodland buffer, 30 m (98 ft) wide grass, shrub, and woodland three-zone buffer, and a 9 m (30 ft) wide shrub buffer were evaluated for habitat potential using breeding-bird counts and vegetation surveys. Bird density and species richness varied with the structure of the vegetative communities present at the three sites. Avian species richness and total detections were higher in the three-zone buffer than in both the shrub and planted buffer, likely a result of the diversity of vegetation at the site. These data suggest that restoration of riparian areas by allowing fallow vegetation to recolonize is at the very least equally beneficial to avian wildlife as is restoration by planting specific grass, shrub, and tree species. Buffer restoration by natural revegetation using this method could be recommended as an alternative to implementation by planting riparian species due to its simplicity and cost effectiveness.
20203996|The effects of a transmission line right-of-way (TROW) on the distributions of mammalian predators were investigated by placement of track plates at specific locations. A total of 50 tracks were detected. The large-bodied carnivores exhibited a strong preference for the TROW ( = 8.652, 2 df, p = 0.013). In contrast, the small-bodied predators were distributed more uniformly, exhibiting no significant differences in their distributions ( = 1.927, 2 df, p = 0.382). The TROW likely facilitates the travel of the large-bodied carnivores by offering an area that is relatively free from obstruction. The higher-than-expected occurrence of the small-bodied predators in the TROW may have been due to temporal variations caused by dietary enhancements available at particular times of the year.
20203997|Increased road construction associated with urbanization may result in fragmentation and loss of fish populations in streams. In this study, we documented frequency of movement of fishes through three separate types of road-crossings (clear-span bridges, box culverts, and tube culverts) in six small streams using mark-recapture sampling. Upstream movement between areas separated by either box or tube culverts was lower than upstream movement between similar areas not separated by a road crossing. Downstream movement between areas separated by box culverts was also lower than downstream movement between areas without obstructions. Upstream and downstream movement between areas separated by clear-span bridges was generally similar to patterns of movement between areas not separated by a road crossing. Our results indicate that culverts may limit, to some degree, movements of fishes in small streams.
20203998|Effective sampling of pond-dwelling larval stages of the federally listed Ambystoma cingulatum (Flatwoods Salamander) requires sufficient knowledge of when larvae are present and how best to sample them. Through systematic sampling with active and passive sampling techniques, we found dipnetting to be significantly more effective than three types of passive traps. During surveys for Flatwoods Salamander larvae at Fort Stewart Military Installation, GA in 2005 and 2006, we found that pond residency varied by at least 1.5 months between the 2 years due to the timing of pond filling. In addition, our latest capture on 23 May 2005 was about 2 weeks later than previously recorded at any site range-wide. A simple growth model was used to evaluate likely hatching dates based on significant rain events, observed sizes at capture, and likely growth rates. This analysis suggested that the primary dates of hatching occurred in late February 2005 and early January 2006, a difference that corresponds to that seen in the residency of the latest larval stages. A review of the survey records for Fort Stewart for the past 13 years shows a steep decline in the number of occupied ponds from near 20 to a single pond for the past two years (the only documented breeding success in a natural pond since 1999).
20203999|We identified stomach contents of 80 Plethodon albagula (Western Slimy Salamander) from two mountain ranges in Arkansas (Ozark and Ouachita) to examine if regional differences in diet occur. Museum specimens from 1985 to 2005 were used from locations throughout each mountain range. Although a wide variety of prey were found in stomachs, Hymenoptera: Formicidae and Coleoptera: Carabidae were found to be the most important food items in the diet of P. albagula. Ants and beetles constituted 85% abundance of their total diet (79.6% Ozark and 90.1% Ouachita) and 52.2% of their total biomass (42.6% Ozark and 64.1% Ouachita). Seventy-eight and 87% of individuals examined from the Ozark and Ouachita Mountains, respectively, consumed ants (65% total, 83% for animals with food items in their stomachs), whereas 55% in the Ozarks and 58% in the Ouachitas consumed at least one family of beetle. Occurrence and biomass of prey items that did not include ants and beetles showed P. albagula to be a euryphagic predator, with 9.7% of diet being comprised of other prey types (27.3% biomass). Furthermore, importance values indicate ants were the most important prey item for P. albagula in both the Ozark and Ouachita samples, with carabid beetles (Ozark) and all beetles (Ouachita) being second most important. Jaccard Index indicated Ozark and Ouachita specimens shared 80% similarity in diet. Our data suggest P. albagula in Arkansas have high dependence upon ants and beetles, yet appears to be an opportunistic and euryphagic predator.
20204000|Macrochelys temminckii Harlan (Alligator Snapping Turtle) is a large aquatic turtle species that has been experiencing population declines throughout its range. Unfortunately, little is known about the species' basic biology or historic status throughout the majority of its range. In order to better understand the status and distribution of M. temminckii in southeastern Missouri, we visited 50 sites with suitable habitat and trapped at 19 of them in Dunklin, Mississippi, New Madrid, and Pemiscot counties, MO in 1994. We captured 37 M. temminckii at four sites in Pemiscot and Dunklin counties. The Dunklin County site was resampled in 1997, and radio transmitters were attached to 11 Alligator Snapping Turtles (6 males: 4 females: 1 unknown sex). Telemetered turtles were found at microhabitats consisting of more cover, high-density canopy, and lower gradient banks than random locations. We noted a significant difference in turtle size between sites that have and those that have not experienced historical take of Alligator Snapping Turtles.
20204001|The impact of roads on amphibian and reptile numbers at Texas Parks and Wildlife Department's Old Sabine Bottom Wildlife Management Area (OSBWMA), a bottomland hardwood forest was studied from 1 June 2003 to 1 June 2004 by vehicular and pedestrian surveys. One weekly survey was conducted in the morning and the other in late afternoon. Vehicular surveys were conducted by driving 16.1 km/hr over the roads (9.5 km) through the bottomland twice per week. Pedestrian surveys were conducted on 6 sections of those roads (1.3, 1.3, 1.3, 1.1, 0.3, and 0.3 km), three on the larger main gravel road, and three sections on smaller dirt tributaries, twice weekly. One section of the main road (1.3 km) was located near three operating oil rigs. The other 5 sections of the survey route traversed forested regions of the management area. The 3 sections located along the main gravel road were subject to regular vehicular traffic by the public and OSBWMA staff. The three sections located along the dirt trail tributaries had primarily foot travel with much less and slower vehicular traffic. GPS coordinate, date, and condition (alive or dead) of the specimens were recorded. In the summer, 10.5% of the amphibians and reptiles were found dead on the road (DOR). The number of DORs in the fall was 47.1%, and 64.3% in the spring. For amphibians, 28.1% were DOR (summer), 20% in the fall, and 83.3% in the spring. In the winter months, no specimens were observed on the roads. Road traffic in this bottomland impacts reptiles extensively in the fall and amphibians in the summer, whereas both reptiles and amphibians are affected by road traffic in the spring. Smaller roads and the section of road with oil rigs had lower mortality rates, while areas with adjacent borrow pits had higher mortality rates.
20204002|Relatively little is known about the ecology and population biology of Virginia striatula (Rough Earth Snake) and Virginia valeriae (Smooth Earth Snake), especially in the southeastern portion of their geographic ranges. We studied populations of the two species on the Savannah River Site (SRS) in Aiken, SC from 1971 to 2007. We found sexual size dimorphism in both species, in which females were longer and heavier than males, but had relatively shorter tails. Overall, Rough Earth Snakes were longer and heavier than Smooth Earth Snakes, but maximum sizes of both species were smaller on the SRS than at other localities from which data are reported. Additionally, all gravid female Smooth Earth Snakes that we captured on the SRS were smaller than their reported size at sexual maturity from other parts of their range. Seasonal activity of Smooth Earth Snakes peaked in May and October, but both Smooth Earth Snakes and Rough Earth Snakes were frequently captured during all warm months. Distinct age classes in the two species were not readily apparent other than several neonates that we captured. We strongly encourage future studies to determine growth rates, longevity, and minimum size at sexual maturity of earth snakes in the Southeast.
20204003|We present information on the use of trees by Elaphe obsoleta (Texas Ratsnake) in a mesic pine-hardwood forest in eastern Texas. Using radiotelemetry, seven snakes (3 females, 4 males) were relocated a total of 363 times from April 2004 to May 2005, resulting in 201 unique locations. Snakes selected trees containing cavities and used hardwoods and snags for a combined 95% of arboreal locations. Texas Ratsnake arboreal activity peaked during July and August, well after the peak of avian breeding activity, suggesting arboreal activity involves factors other than avian predation.
20204004|Geranium molle and Erodium cicutarium are reported here as new to the flora of Mississippi. Other collections representing new county records and disjunct populations also are reported. Several of these species are either rare or introduced, which make these findings significant for the Mississippi flora.
20204005|After more than five decades of intensive research on a wide variety of reptiles and amphibians at the Savannah River Site, the known occurrence of some members of the herpetofauna remains unresolved. One such "problem species," Pseudacris brimleyi (Brimley's Chorus Frog), was recently found for the first time in over 50 years. The rediscovery of this cryptic species shows how the concept of hidden biodiversity not only applies to the general public, but to the scientific community as well.
20204010|The occurrence of Puma concolor (Cougar) can be confirmed by detecting physical evidence (i.e., tracks, urine markers). However, determining the number of pumas responsible for creating this sign is problematic. We addressed this difficulty by categorizing physical evidence (sign) and applied this method during the Puma concolor coryi (Florida Panther) project. Three rules were used to distinguish individuals. (1) Gender was determined by track size or stride length; (2) time (freshness) was determined by known events within the past 24 hours, such as wind or rain; and (3) distance between individual track sets was used as an exclusionary tool to avoid over-counting. We evaluated accuracy by capture and by comparison to 3 other indices. This method can be adapted to count other large felines.
20204011|Ecologically effective mine reclamation is characterized by the return of pre-mining floral and faunal communities. Excessive soil compaction typically results in delayed succession and low species diversity on reclaimed mine lands. We compared small mammal abundance and diversity among three levels of compaction in reforestation plots on an eastern Kentucky surface mine during 2004 and 2005. Compaction levels included 1) no compaction (loose-dumped), 2) light compaction (strike-off), and 3) high compaction (standard reclamation). Peromyscus leucopus (White-footed Mouse) made up 98% (295 of 300) of all individuals captured. In 2004, loose-dumped plots had more White-footed Mice (n = 108, mean = 36, SE = 0.58) than high-compaction plots (n = 62, mean = 20.6, SE = 3.10). Strike-off plots had more White-footed Mice (n = 59; mean = 19.6, SE = 0.66) than loose-dumped (n = 46, mean = 15.3, SE = 1.45) or high-compaction (n = 20, mean = 6.6, SE = 2.19) plots in 2005. Canopy cover and large rocks that created crevices appear to have been the factors that most influenced White-footed Mouse abundance on our study sites. Low small-mammal species diversity across all treatments was likely due to the presence of low quality habitat resulting from a poorly developed ground layer and soil compared to that found in undisturbed forest. Additionally, an insufficient amount of time since reclamation for small-mammal colonization from surrounding forests and a relatively large matrix of non-forested reclaimed mineland between our plots and potential source habitats may have also limited small-mammal diversity. To promote biodiversity and provide better wildlife habitat, we suggest that mine operators consider using reclamation methods that promote surface and vegetation heterogeneity and connectivity to source habitats.
20204012|This study quantified the reproductive and early life-history characteristics of nonindigenous populations of Cyprinella lutrensis (Red Shiner) introduced into two tributaries of the Chattahoochee River, GA. Red Shiners had a maximum age of at least two years and a peak breeding season from May through July, with intermittent spawning in both populations. The presence of small individuals late in the year suggests the potential for Red Shiners to spawn in their first summer of life in both study streams. Whereas these life histories are similar to those previously described for this species, these results suggest the potential for nonindigenous Red Shiners to successfully expand and establish populations in additional areas within the Chattahoochee River drainage.
20204013|Military training, soil texture, and ground cover influence ant communities at Fort Benning, a military installation in west-central Georgia. We sampled 81,237 ground-dwelling ants (47 species in 20 genera) with pitfall traps at 40 sites on a continuum from nearly pristine forest to highly disturbed training areas. We also measured 15 environmental variables related to vegetation and soil. Sites disturbed by military training had fewer trees, less canopy cover, more bare ground, and more compact soils with shallower A-horizons than comparable undisturbed sites. Pheidole bicarinata, Dorymyrmex smithi, and Pogonomyrmex badius dominated the most highly disturbed sites. Competitively submissive myrmicines, such as Aphaenogaster and Crematogaster, and formicines, such as Camponotus and Formica, were abundant in the undisturbed sites. Solenopsis invicta occurred in all but the least disturbed sites. Ant community composition was a useful indicator of disturbance at Fort Benning.
20204014|The biology of Notropis xaenocephalus (Coosa Shiner) was investigated using 12 monthly collections from Moore Creek (Etowah River Drainage) in Cherokee County, GA. Specimens were collected primarily from pools with slow current and examined to determine age, growth, food habits, and reproductive cycle. The bulk of the diet consisted of Diptera adults, Chironomidae larvae, Hymenoptera, and unidentified insect parts. Feeding was greatest in the spring and lowest during winter months. Spawning occurred in spring to early summer, with 86-540 mature oocytes ranging from 0.9 to 1.3 mm in diameter present in specimens collected from March to June. Sexual maturity occurred at 1 year of age. The largest specimen collected was a female 63.8 mm SL and 4.4 g total weight. Two specimens estimated to be 38 months of age were the oldest specimens collected. As one of the most abundant minnows in the upper Alabama River Drainage, these findings provide a greater understanding of the ecology of this imperiled ecosystem.
20204015|Noturus munitus (Frecklebelly Madtom), is a diminutive catfish restricted to large rivers in the Mobile Basin and Pearl River drainages in the southeastern United States. We conducted surveys of 13 major tributaries of the Alabama, Cahaba, and Tombigbee river systems in the Mobile Basin to determine use of tributaries by N. munitus. Our surveys found only one specimen in Oakmulgee Creek, a large tributary to the Cahaba River and one of the few rivers in which stable populations of N. munitus remain. We combine results from our recent survey with a review of the literature and museum records for N. munitus throughout its range to present a consolidated status report. Our review indicates that N. munitus is currently greatly reduced from its former range, and is in decline in most of the drainages it still inhabits. We recommend federal protection for the species under the Endangered Species Act. We also provide suggestions for future research and management actions for the species.
20204016|Little is known about the behavior of individual fish in a spawning aggregation, specifically how long an individual remains in an aggregation. We monitored Moxostoma robustum (Cope) (Robust Redhorse) in a Savannah River spawning aggregation during spring 2004 and 2005 to provide an estimate of the total number of adults and the number of males comprising the aggregation and to determine male residence time and movements within a spawning aggregation. Robust Redhorse were captured using prepostioned grid electrofishers, identified to sex, weighed, measured, and implanted with a passive integrated transponder. Spawning aggregation size was estimated using a multiple census mark-and-recapture procedure. The spawning aggregation seemed to consist of approximately the same number of individuals (82-85) and males (50-56) during both years of this study. Individual males were present for a mean of 3.6  0.24 days ( SE) during the 12-day spawning period. The mean distance between successive recaptures of individual males was 15.9  1.29 m ( SE). We conclude that males establish spawning territories on a daily basis and are present within the spawning aggregation for at least 3-4 days. The relatively short duration of the aggregation may be the result of an extremely small population of adults. However, the behavior of individuals has the potential to influence population estimates made while fish are aggregated for spawning.
20204017|Over the past 30 years, cold events and disease have reduced much of the live Acropora cervicornis (Staghorn Coral) in Dry Tortugas National Park (DTNP), FL to fields of coral rubble. It is unclear how the resulting loss of three-dimensional reef structure has affected density and distribution of reef-dependent damselfishes. We compared densities of Stegastes adustus (Dusky Damselfish), Stegastes leucostictus (Beaugregory Damselfish), Microspathodon chrysurus (Yellowtail Damselfish), Stegastes planifrons (Three-spot Damselfish) and Stegastes variabilis (Cocoa Damselfish) inhabiting DTNP's last live Staghorn Coral formation with densities from surrounding coral rubble. Live Staghorn Coral supported a 65% higher damselfish density compared to coral rubble. Density of Dusky, Cocoa, Beaugregory, Yellowtail and Three-spot Damselfish on coral rubble (0.11, 0.58, 0.74, 0.02, and 0.06 fish/m, respectively) was less than that found on living Staghorn Coral colonies (2.03, 0.45, 0.25, 0.50, and 0.96 fish/m, respectively). Dusky Damselfish dominated the live Staghorn Coral site, while Cocoa and Beaugregory Damselfish dominated the coral rubble site. Juvenile density was ten times greater on coral rubble than on live Staghorn Coral, whereas adults had highest densities on live Staghorn Coral.
20204018|As a first step toward elucidating the current status of Alabama's crayfish fauna, museums known to have significant crayfish collections were queried for their holdings from that state. A total of 4649 records of Alabama crayfishes were obtained from seven museums. Three-hundred thirty of the records did not have suitable information for geo-referencing. The largest holdings were in the National Museum of Natural History (2544 records). Specimen identifications were verified, and all records were geo-referenced. Geographic distribution strongly favored upland drainages in the northern and central portions of the state. The Tennessee River drainage was the most collected drainage (1018 records, 23.6% of records). A total of 85 species of crayfishes are reported for the state of Alabama; only Orconectes virilis (Virile Crayfish) is deemed to be non-native. Even with the extensive collection of crayfish records in museums, there is a need for crayfish inventory work in Alabama. A total of 3107 records (76.3%) were collected prior to 1987, and 1379 (33.8%) were collected prior to 1970. In addition, there is a paucity of records from the coastal drainages of SE Alabama. There is also an under-representation of burrowing crayfishes, especially those classified as either primary or secondary burrowers. Only 212 (4.9%) of all records are of burrowing species. Lastly, a limited amount of fieldwork in Alabama has documented the presence of a species previously unreported for the state.
20204019|Aquatic and semiaquatic beetles in the families Dytiscidae, Gyrinidae, Haliplidae, Helophoridae, Hydraenidae, Hydrophilidae, and Noteridae of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) were sampled from 2003 to 2006. Current and historic literature as well as the insect collections at GSMNP, Illinois Natural History Survey, Smithsonian Institution, and University of Tennessee were examined for GSMNP records. This is the first comprehensive effort at surveying the aquatic and semiaquatic beetles of GSMNP. A total of 115 species were recorded: 46 Dytiscidae, 7 Gyrinidae, 5 Haliplidae, 2 Helophoridae, 2 Hydraenidae, 2 Hydrochidae, 49 Hydrophilidae, and 2 Noteridae. Eighty species are reported from GSMNP for the first time. Hydaticus aruspex Clark, Hydrocolus deflatus, H. paugus, Liodessus affinis (Dytiscidae), and Dactylosternum abdominale (Hydrophilidae) are reported from Tennessee for the first time.
20204020|We surveyed 3 populations of Scutellaria montana (Large-flowered Skullcap), a federally threatened mint, in southeastern Tennessee, and measured microsite characteristics between Large-flowered Skullcap present and absent plots in close proximity. Large-flowered Skullcap plots were typically associated with relatively open areas in forests. Further, some woody plants were positively associated with Large-flowered Skullcap (e.g., Calycanthus floridus [Common Sweetshrub], Carya glabra [Pignut Hickory]), while others were negatively associated (e.g., Vaccinium stamineum [Gooseberry], Pinus virginiana [Virginia Pine]). Linear regression revealed that Large-flowered Skullcap density increased with percent horizontal cover of grass (i.e., Poaceae) and decreased with percent vertical cover of vegetation. Our results suggest that suitable Large-flowered Skullcap sites may be characterized by secondary forests with an open understory containing grass.
20204021|The Coon Creek Forever Wild Tract (CCFWT) is an area of approximately 130 ha that was purchased by the State of Alabama Forever Wild Program on February 1, 1995. The CCFWT lies 45 km west of Auburn, AL with the main tributary, Coon Creek, dissecting the tract and eventually emptying into the Tallapoosa River. The site is managed by the Alabama Department of Conservation and Natural Resources with an emphasis on recreational use, habitat management, and rare species protection. A floristic study of this area was conducted from March 2006 through May 2007. A total of 503 species from 319 genera and 114 families were collected, with 195 species being county records. Asteraceae was the largest family with 74 species. Poaceae, Cyperaceae, and Fabaceae were the next largest families with 45, 31, and 31 species, respectively. Carex was the largest genus represented with 15 taxa.
20204022|Since removal from the endangered species list, Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator) populations have recovered to allow regulated harvest throughout most of their range. However, harvest/population management is complicated since alligators are long-lived, reach sexual maturity at a minimum size rather than age, and experience differential growth rates depending on geographic location, growing season length, local environmental conditions, habitat, and population density. To date, few data exist on age, sex, growth, and size structure of inland alligator populations. In this study, alligator growth rate and condition were quantified through an intensive mark-recapture study conducted at Angelina-Neches/Dam B Wildlife Management Area. Between May 2003 and October 2004, 279 alligators ranging in size from 29.7 cm to 348.0 cm (total length [TL]) were captured, and 48 subadult alligators were recaptured (&lt;125 cm TL). As recaptured individuals were biased towards smaller individuals, recaptured subadult alligators were divided into two size classes: size class 1 (&lt;50 cm) and size class 2 (50-125 cm). Mean growth rates for size class 1 were 32.4 cm/year and for size class 2 were 27.6 cm/year. For both size classes, mean body condition was 1.8. Overall, subadult alligators within our inland study area exhibited faster growth rates and lower body condition than most other populations studied throughout their range.
20204023|Several pathogens affect amphibians, but a chytridiomycete fungus, Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, is of particular interest because this pathogen is linked to localized amphibian population declines and extinction of species. Species-specific infections and pathogen distribution are poorly understood, particularly in members of Caudata. We found B. dendrobatidis in adult Eurycea cirrigera (Southern Two-lined Salamander), a species not previously reported as susceptible to this fungal pathogen, and this report is the first record of B. dendrobatidis occurrence in Alabama.
20204024|While the occurrence of canine distemper virus (CDV) in Procyon Lotor (Raccoon) is well documented, detailed descriptions of the behavior of CDV-infected individuals are scant. Here, we report a sequence of particularly odd behaviors of a CDV-infected Raccoon encountered in rural Arkansas. These behaviors included lack of fear, apparent loss of coordination and other actions consistent with a neurologic abnormality. CDV associated encephalitis was confirmed by histological examination and polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
20204025|A juvenile Acipenser oxyrinchus desotoi (Gulf Sturgeon) was collected from the Santa Fe River, a major tributary of the Suwannee River, FL, on 6 December 2006. The Suwannee River is believed to contain the largest existing population of Gulf Sturgeon; however, our specimen is only the third Gulf Sturgeon collected from the Santa Fe River. Based on these observations, we believe that the Santa Fe River should be studied further to determine its importance as Gulf Sturgeon habitat, especially in the face of future management plans that may alter the hydrology of the system.
20204026|Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) were videotaped depredating two Colinus virginianus (Northern Bobwhite) nests during a nest-predator study in south Georgia in 2002 and 2003. Deer ate eggs from the nests, leading to the failure of one of the two nests.
20204032|We characterized the tree community of a mesic hardwood hammock in south-central Georgia as an oak-pine-hickory forest, with Liquidambar styraciflua (Sweetgum), Magnolia grandiflora (Southern Magnolia), and Ilex opaca Ait. (American Holly) as subdominants. We surveyed this forest for colonies of the most northerly distributed epiphytic orchid in the Western Hemisphere, Epidendrum magnoliae (Green Fly Orchid), and recorded the species and trunk diameter of 112 host trees (phorophytes) as well as the height and size of each orchid colony. We calculated a selectivity index (SI) to compare phorophyte frequency with availability, based on a point-transect survey. Green Fly Orchid occurred on 8 species of hardwood trees, but had a strong preference for Southern Magnolia as a host and a moderately strong preference for Quercus virginiana (Live Oak). Host trees were much larger (presumably older) than the average of available trees, and that effect was strongest for the most preferred host. Orchid colonies also occupied significantly greater areas on individual Southern Magnolia than on other phorophytes. It is likely that old-growth Southern Magnolia and Live Oak trees are critical to the viability of this population of Green Fly Orchid, which is rare in inland forests in Georgia. In addition to being the most persistent epiphyte substrates in this environment, their broadleaf evergreen canopies--which would be especially true of Southern Magnolia--may provide the most favorable microclimates in terms of shade, humidity, and frost protection.
20204033|This paper reports the results of an inventory of the vascular plants from an Ozark Plateau Site in Ottawa County, northeastern Oklahoma. A total of 318 taxa in 219 genera and 81 families were collected. The families with the greatest number of species were the Asteraceae (with 37 taxa), Poaceae (36), and Fabaceae (31). Ninety-one species were annuals, three were biennials, and 224 were perennials. Fifty-eight species of woody plants were present. Thirty-three non-native species, representing 10.4% of the flora, were collected. Three species tracked by the Oklahoma Natural Heritage Inventory were found.
20204034|Body mass and antler development of Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) vary by soil resource region in Mississippi, but a causative link from soil to deer morphology has not been established. We investigated crude protein (CP) content of 8 important deer forages in 5 soil-resource regions to determine if regional differences in available nutrition could potentially explain some variation in morpho-metrics. Crude protein levels of a species composite and all but 1 individual forage species decreased from spring to summer. Every species exhibited regional differences in spring, and only 1 species did not vary by region in summer. Composite CP also differed by region. Differences in potential nutritional planes among regions may be substantial enough to impact lactation success, fawn recruitment, and body growth. Directly sampling seasonal diet quality among regions and comparing nutritional planes among deer herds of different densities may further explain regional morphometric differences.
20204035|Although Eptesicus fuscus (Big Brown Bat) has been widely studied, information on tree-roosting in forests by males is rare, and little information is available on tree roosting in the southeastern United States. Our objectives were to characterize diurnal summer roosts, primarily for male Big Brown Bats, and to determine relationships between forest structure and roost selection. We quantified 25 male roosts located via radiotelemetry, and describe an additional 9 maternity roosts for females. All roosts for both sexes were in Pinus echinata (Shortleaf Pine) snags, and 82% of roost snags were 15-25 cm diameter at breast height (dbh). Most (94%) roosts for both sexes were under loose bark. A logistic regression model differentiating male roost sites from random locations indicated males were more likely to roost in recently thinned, open-forest conditions (less canopy cover, more cut stumps, and fewer understory stems) that contained abundant overstory pines 25 cm dbh and abundant snags. Males roosted primarily (84%) in stands that had recently undergone partial harvesting. Maintaining a supply of pine snags 15 cm dbh in relatively open forest habitats, including areas undergoing partial harvest, would provide roosting habitat for male Big Brown Bats in the Ouachita Mountains.
20204036|On the basis of published records, 16 bat species occur in Georgia. Of these, only one species is documented from Baldwin County in central Georgia, but records from surrounding counties suggest the likelihood of additional species inhabiting the county. On the basis of museum specimens in the mammal collection of Georgia College and State University, we report seven species of bats inhabiting the county: Perimyotis subflavus (Eastern Pipistrelle), Nycticeius humeralis (Evening Bat), Lasiurus borealis (Red Bat), Lasiurus seminolus (Seminole Bat), Eptesicus fuscus (Big Brown Bat), Myotis austroriparius (Southeastern Myotis), and Tadarida brasiliensis (Brazilian Free-tailed Bat). With the exception of the Brazilian Free-tailed Bat, the specimens represent first records from Baldwin County. Moreover, the records significantly add to the general baseline information of species richness and distribution of bats in central Georgia, and they help fill distribution gaps in this part of the southeastern United States.
20204037|Introduced plants and animals have been a prominent worldwide environmental issue for decades; however, considerable debate and confusion remain over how to list and otherwise categorize these species. This paper describes a process for categorizing exotic freshwater fishes that have been found in public waters. The basis of this process has been used by the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission for nearly 30 years. Reproducing exotic fishes are grouped into three subcategories (established, possibly established, and localized) using species-specific biological and population characteristics resulting in a list that is helpful for prioritizing research and management activities. The purpose of this paper is to stimulate interest in standardizing processes for categorizing introduced species based on how well they adapt to new environments.
20204038|Cyprinella caerulea (Blue Shiner) is a federally threatened minnow endemic to the Mobile Basin that is currently restricted to four disjunct populations. We examined the population structure in the Blue Shiner by sequencing the mitochondrial ND2 gene in 37 individuals. We recovered eleven haplotypes, with only one shared between populations, for an overall haplotype diversity of 0.768. Genetic differentiation between populations was significant, accounting for 26% of the variability found within the species. One individual morphologically identified as a Blue Shiner had a haplotype resolved with the sympatric Cyprinella trichroistia (Tricolor Shiner) in our phylogenetic analysis. Long-term management of the Blue Shiner should focus on restoring connectivity between populations in order to restore natural patterns of gene flow.
20204039|Epinephelus morio (Red Grouper) is an important component of commercial fisheries for the United States and Mexico. Fishery-independent long-line surveys that utilized standardized sampling designs were conducted along the west Florida shelf, Florida and Campeche Bank, Mexico (2001-2002). Detecting true differences in abundance and sizes are difficult, but by using standard collection and aging methodologies, the level of bias was kept at a minimum. Relative abundance was higher in the Campeche Bank compared to the west Florida shelf (1.74 and 0.63 Red Grouper/100 hook hr, respectively). Fish from the Campeche Bank were also significantly smaller at length and weight. Differences in length, weight, and relative abundance of Red Grouper may be because of historical fishing pressure and management regulations, or the available carrying capacity of each area for Red Grouper. These differences have a substantial impact on how an overfished population can recover and be sustained.
20204040|Etheostoma moorei (Yellowcheek Darter), a candidate species for federal listing, is endemic and obligate to headwater riffles of the upper Little Red River drainage in north central Arkansas. Downstream segments of these tributaries were inundated in 1964 as a result of filling of Greers Ferry Reservoir. We compared riffle densities during drought (1999-2001) and non-drought periods (2003-2004), and to historic data (1979-1980). Upstream sites dried periodically during the drought of 1999-2001, and Yellowcheek Darters occupying those sites were extirpated; even at downstream sites, densities were significantly lower than historical levels. During normal precipitation levels during 2003-2004, densities increased significantly, yet several upstream sites and one complete stream remained extirpated. The loss of downstream refugia as a result of the construction of Greers Ferry Dam in 1964 may exacerbate natural climatic cycles, which include drought, resulting in stream-wide extirpations.
20204041|Cyprinella venusta (Blacktail Shiner) were studied at four sites to investigate life-history parameter variation in Alabama streams. Consistent with life-history theory, fish from a perceived degraded site were significantly smaller than fish from sites that had less apparent environmental disturbance. Fish from the degraded site had the smallest size at maturity and the smallest propagule size. Egg diameters were not related to standard length of fish among sites. There was no significant difference in mature egg diameters; however, ripening egg diameters differed among sites. Clutch sizes adjusted for standard length varied among sites. There was no difference in gonad mass in females for all spawning months; however, there were differences in gonad mass in males in July. The gonadosomatic index peaked in July for both males and females. Reproductive males were still present in September for three sites, but all females from all sites had become latent by September, indicating that the spawning season had ended. The results of this study suggest that Cyprinella venusta has the ability to alter life-history parameters and this may be a factor contributing to its persistence in habitats where other species are declining.
20204042|We sampled five stream reaches within an agricultural landscape in southwestern Georgia for benthic macroinvertebrates and larval amphibians from 2002 to 2003 to determine whether cattle grazing impacts these faunal components. Two of the stream reaches had been fenced to exclude cattle (buffered), whereas the other three were not, allowing cattle access to the streams (unbuffered). We captured larval Eurycea cirrgera (Southern Two-lined Salamanders) incidentally in our benthic samples and compared salamander capture rates between buffered versus unbuffered streams. We also examined salamander stomach contents relative to the composition and abundance of benthic macroinvertebrates, comparing these data by stream type as well. Overall, capture success for larval salamanders was higher at buffered sites. Midge larvae (family Chironomidae) were the most frequent invertebrate taxon detected, both in the benthic and stomach content samples; however, we also observed cladocerans, copepods, and ostracods in each sampling regime. A linear electivity index revealed that larval Southern Two-lined Salamanders showed slight dietary selection for midge larvae in the subfamily Tanypodinae. This finding, coupled with the observation that chironomid larvae composed over half of Southern Two-lined Salamanders stomach contents, suggests some preference or selection for this benthic group. However, larval Tanypodinae were found at all sites, suggesting that their identification to species level may be necessary to determine whether differences in the prey base explained differences in salamander selectivity between buffered versus unbuffered streams. Factors other than prey selectivity, such as instream habitat quality, may also have influenced larval salamander abundance.
20204043|The plethodontid salamanders Stereochilus marginatus (Many-lined Salamander) and Pseudotriton montanus (Mud Salamander) have overlapping distributions in the southeastern Atlantic Coastal Plain, where they often co-occur in low, swampy habitats. The main objective of this study was to document life-history traits of S. marginatus at Cool Springs in eastern North Carolina, and compare these findings with life-history parameters of a population surveyed in the late 1960s at a nearby locality (Croatan Forest). A second objective was to compare larval development of S. marginatus and P. montanus at Cool Springs. I found that S. marginatus has a larval period of 13-14 months, hatching in early spring and undergoing metamorphosis late in the second spring. Males may breed initially as early as the autumn following metamorphosis, at 19-21 months of age; females probably require an additional year to attain maturity, ovipositing initially at 3 years. Clutch sizes, based on counts of yolked ovarian follicles of dissected females, ranged from 42 to 60. Compared to S. marginatus, the larval period of P. montanus is slightly longer (14-17 months), extending from hatching in winter to metamorphosis in the second spring. Although larval body sizes of S. marginatus and P. montanus overlap considerably, larvae of the latter species tend to grow larger and metamorphose at slightly larger sizes. The phenologies of the life cycles of both species corroborate earlier studies, both across years and across southeastern localities. However, growth and developmental rates of S. marginatus at Cool Springs appear to be accelerated relative to those reported previously for the Croatan Forest population.
20204044|Populations of hydrobiid snails and their larval trematode parasites in salt marsh along the Skidaway River were studied to determine their distribution. Additionally, the prevalence of larval trematodes infecting the snails was examined to investigate definitive host distribution patterns on the Skidaway River and to identify sites for future studies on second intermediate host susceptibility to trematode infection. To do so, surface sediment and vegetation were collected at low tide from 0.5-m quadrats along 20 vertical transects beginning in high marsh at the forest edge and salt meadow, passing through high, medium, and low Spartina alterniflora zones, and ending in the low marsh at creekbed level. Samples were filtered through sieves to concentrate snails, which were then counted and identified. Two species of hydrobiid snails, Spurwinkia salsa (4201 specimens) and Onobops jacksoni (136 specimens) were collected. Hydrobiid snails were found in sediments and on plant stems throughout the S. alterniflora zones, and snail density was greatest in the higher Spartina zones. Sediments from the 3 Spartina zones differed with respect to percent sand, but not percent silt or clay. Salinity and chlorophyll-a levels did not differ between the 3 Spartina zones, and there was no relationship between hydrobiid abundance and the abundance of other snail species. The mean prevalence of trematode infection in S. salsa and O. jacksoni snails was 5.5% and 7.5%, respectively. Snails were infected most commonly with either an oculate monostome, possibly the heterophyid Phagicola diminuta, or 2 types of xiphidiocercariae, one of which likely includes the microphallid Microphallus turgidus. No infected snails were found in over half of the collection sites, and the distribution of infected snails was patchy and unpredictable.
20204045|Qualitative sampling for Marstonia pachyta (Armored Snail) and Campeloma decampi (Slender Campeloma), two federally endangered species, was conducted at road crossings on Limestone (n = 13), Piney (n = 10), and Round Island (n = 7) creeks, AL, to determine their distribution. Marstonia pachyta was observed at 9 sites on Limestone Creek and 3 sites on Piney Creek. The species extended upstream to river mile 31 on Limestone Creek and river mile 15 on Piney Creek. Haphazard sampling also yielded a greater overall number of individuals from Limestone Creek than Piney Creek. Marstonia pachyta was not found in Round Island Creek, where it is replaced by M. arga (Ghost Marstonia). Live C. decampi were observed at 12 of the sampled sites (n = 30) in the three streams. Round Island Creek had the greatest percentage of sites with the species (4 of 7) and the highest catch per unit effort. Campeloma decampi extended up to river mile 14.5, 19.3, and 7.8 on Limestone, Piney, and Round Island creeks, respectively. Results extended the known occurrence of M. pachyta and C. decampi upstream of their previously known ranges. However, careful monitoring and more in-depth studies seem warranted considering the rapid urban and industrial growth within the watersheds of the three streams that they inhabit.
20204046|Little is known about nest-site fidelity in wild Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator). As part of a long-term study on multiple paternity and mate fidelity that required capture and marking of nesting female alligators, we documented several instances of nest-site reuse by individual females. In one case, the female nested at the same site seven years after initial capture, demonstrating long-term nest-site fidelity. Another female used one nest site in 2000, 2002, and 2004. Herein, we provide data on minimum nesting intervals for recaptured alligators, including three cases of females nesting in two consecutive years. Despite tremendous habitat alteration and storm surge from Hurricane Rita in 2005 and a catastrophic drought precluding nesting in 2006, we found female alligators in 2007 at nests within 20 m and 170 m of their nest sites from seven years and three years, respectively, prior to those events.
20204047|Larvae of Hydropsyche carolina were collected from Doe Creek, Johnson County, TN in 2005 during a qualitative benthic survey conducted by the Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency. This finding represents a new distribution record for this species, and its first reported collection in Tennessee. A revised distribution for H. carolina is presented.
20204048|I describe terrestrial foraging behavior in Trachemys scripta elegans (Red-eared Slider) and Graptemys pseudogeographica kohnii (Mississippi Map Turtle), two species of semiaquatic turtles. I observed specimens of Red-eared Slider on two occasions in two different locations climbing onto the bank of a stream and consuming grass blades (Luziola fluitans [Southern Watergrass] and Eragrostis hypnoides [Teal Lovegrass]), which were swallowed when the turtles returned to the water. These observations included both adult males and females. In addition, I observed on one occasion two juvenile Mississippi Map Turtles leave the water and forage on plants on a stream bank also used by Red-eared Sliders. Individuals of Mississippi Map Turtles passed by grass and consumed the sprouts of a dicot (Ludwigia decurrens [Wingleaf Waterprimrose] and/or Pentodon pentandrus [Hale's Pentodon]).
20204049|We report the depredation of a Picoides borealis (Red-cockaded Woodpecker) nest by an Elaphe alleghaniensis (Eastern Rat Snake). Of 38 banded woodpecker groups monitored by video surveillance during 1998-2000, we documented one nest depredation by an Eastern Rat Snake. Woodpecker visitation to the nest area during the depredation event increased substantially compared with pre-depredation nesting behavior. Woodpecker visitation to the nest cavity was minimal during the first six hours after the snake was discovered by the adult woodpeckers. Visitation levels by woodpeckers remained higher than pre-depredation levels while the snake remained in the nest cavity. After the snake's departure from the nest, visitation rates dropped below pre-depredation levels. Woodpeckers continued to visit the cavity during the day and roost in the cavity at night for the remaining seven days of surveillance post-depredation. This same banded woodpecker pair nested in the same cavity in 1999 and fledged 1 female. Overall, we observed a low rate of nest depredation by rat snakes during this study; only one instance was recorded during more than 15,000 hours of video surveillance. Based on the proclivity of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers to re-nest in previous nest cavities, and the potential for snakes to re-climb trees based on past successes, resource managers may want to prioritize placement of snake excluder devices or use of bark-shaving at active cavity trees where snake depredation has occurred, especially if funding is limited. We urge ornithologists to continue to incorporate snake research into their avian research to achieve a greater understanding of predator-prey relationships that impact cavity-nesting birds, especially threatened and endangered species such as Red-cockaded Woodpeckers.
25599291|Previous freshwater mussel surveys conducted in Copper Creek showed a decline in the fauna from 1980 to 1998. In 2004 and 2005, we sampled 47 sites acquiring relative abundance estimates (measured in catch-per-unit-effort) to assess the current status of the mussel fauna relative to previous surveys. We also obtained absolute density estimates for 4 select sites for comparison with future and past surveys. Of the 25 mussel species reported from this and previous surveys, 16 were represented by living specimens, 5 are extant but may soon be extirpated, and 8 are likely extirpated from the creek. Presence-absence analysis showed a significant decline in species per site since 1980. Absolute density estimates (at Copper Creek river km 3.1) decreased significantly from 4.07 mussels/m in 1981 to 0.63 mussels/m in 2005. The cause of this faunal decline is likely due to several factors, including, most notably, the loss of riparian buffers. Nearly half of the stream banks in Copper Creek have inadequate riparian vegetation to provide even minimal sediment control. Precipitous declines of the Clinch River fauna (a likely source population for several species) may be another significant factor influencing the faunal decline in Copper Creek. Despite these declines, populations of several species may be in a state of recovery. Based on 18 comparable sites, average catch-per-unit-effort in 2005 was 25.16 mussels/hr, significantly higher than the 1998 survey (12.92 mussels/hr).
25599292|Little information exists on the life history of Pleurobema rubrum (Pyramid Pigtoe). We determined fish hosts and made observations on the conglutinate release of Pyramid Pigtoe. From 2003 to 2005, fourteen Pyramid Pigtoe individuals were collected during mussel sampling on the Green River, KY and held in captivity. In June of 2006, one captive female was observed releasing conglutinates (water temperature was 22.5 C). Nine fish species were exposed to Pyramid Pigtoe glochidia. After 12-15 days, transformation of glochidia to juveniles occurred on 4 species from the family Cyprinidae: Cyprinella spiloptera (Spotfin Shiner), Erimystax dissimilis (Streamline Chub), Lythrurus fasciolaris (Scarlet Shiner), and Notropis photogenis (Silver Shiner). All 4 are potentially natural hosts and Spotfin Shiner appears to be the most suitable host fish for propagation purposes.
25599293|We surveyed the habitat and fish assemblages of four impounded and three unimpounded neighboring headwater streams, separated longitudinally into multiple upstream and downstream reaches. Instream habitat characteristics were similar between reaches of unimpounded streams and reaches above impoundments, and differed significantly from reaches below impoundments that included deeper water and more stable flows. Species richness was similar above and below impoundments, and between impounded and unimpounded streams, but fish assemblage composition and structure differed. Stream reaches above impoundments supported higher percentages of centrarchids compared to upper reaches of unimpounded streams, which had more obligate stream cyprinids. Reaches below impoundments supported mainly centrarchid species whereas lower reaches of unimpounded streams supported a balanced mix of cyprinids and centrarchids. Percina maculata (Blackside Darter) occurred throughout the study area except in upper reaches of impounded streams, illustrating how stream fragmentation can lead to localized extirpations. Changes to the fish assemblages in reaches above impoundments were due to the loss of downstream connectivity, and changes to the fish assemblages below impoundments were due to alterations of instream habitat caused by the impoundments. Small impoundments can have important effects on fish faunas of small geographical areas, but also potentially large cumulative effects if distribution of impoundments is not administered strategically at the scale of the river basin. We caution that continual population increase, recent droughts, and projected changes in climate patterns are prompting a renewed interest in impoundment construction, and urge close regulatory oversight over such projects.
25599294|Populations of Ambystoma barbouri (Streamside Salamander) have recently been identified in the Central Basin of middle Tennessee. Little is known regarding the distribution, natural history, and health of populations in Tennessee, resulting in the salamander being "deemed in need of management" by state agencies. Here we provide information regarding reproduction for the only known extant populations in Rutherford County, TN. In February 2005, fifty-one egg masses from three first-order streams were digitally photographed and analyzed to determine size of egg mass, stage of development, ovum diameter, and embryo length. Number of eggs per mass, size of ova, and size of embryos were comparable to that reported in the literature. Egg masses varied noticeably in stage of embryonic development; we estimate that oviposition in 2005 occurred between early December and early February. Eurycea cirrigera (Southern Two-lined Salamanders) oviposited in the same first-order streams and during the same time period as Streamside Salamander. Continued deforestation and land development associated with urban sprawl from the city of Murfreesboro threaten existing populations of Streamside Salamander. The information in this study can be used to provide a basis for developing conservation plans for the Streamside Salamander in middle Tennessee and for scheduling construction activities such that they least affect breeding activities.
25599295|We answer a longstanding question pertaining to Florida's exotic herpetofauna-are the colorful lizards (Sauria: Teiidae, Cnemidophorus lemniscatus [Rainbow Whiptail]), introduced to Florida from the pet trade, representative of one or a complex of species? We performed detailed analyses of color pattern, scutellation, and meristic characters using 16 specimens from Miami-Dade County and compared these data to those based on samples of all members in the widely distributed neotropical Cnemidophorus lemniscatus complex comprising both parthenogenetic (C. cryptus and C. pseudolemniscatus) and gonochoristic (C. arenivagus, C. gramivagus, C. lemniscatus lemniscatus, C. lemniscatus splendidus, and C. nigricolor) species of lizards. We concluded that only the most widely distributed taxon in the complex, C. lemniscatus lemniscatus, is established in Miami-Dade County. A population of this form has existed in an area of the City of Miami for several decades near and in a human-created domain of buildings, houses, swales, railroad right-of-way, and untended areas with litter/debris, introduced plants, and variable substrate mixtures of soil/pebbles/concrete/asphalt. Based on comparisons of color pattern and morphological characters, the founders of the population of C. lemniscatus in Florida were most likely imported from Venezuela, Colombia, or an island in the Caribbean Sea.
25599296|Fenestraja plutonia is an abundant member of the slope community in the western North Atlantic, occurring at depths of 293-1042 m. Aspects of the reproductive biology of F. plutonia were examined for specimens collected off North Carolina, in the summer-fall of 2001, 2002, and 2006. Male-to-female sex ratios were not significantly different from 1:1. The smallest mature male was 215 mm TL, and the smallest mature female was 230 mm TL. Length at 50% maturity was estimated at 231 mm TL for females and 233 mm TL for males, 89 and 90% of maximum TL, respectively. Deposited egg cases (n = 107; six containing embryos), three egg-bearing females, and 11 newly hatched juveniles were collected. It appears that the upper slope off Cape Lookout, NC, at the northern end of the species range, constitutes both an egg-laying area and possibly a nursery area for this species.
25599297|Two partial skeletons of baleen whales have been recovered from Coastal Plain deposits of South Carolina. One specimen, from the lower Pliocene Goose Creek Limestone, consists of a partial skull (including mandibles) and some incomplete ribs; the other was collected from Pleistocene-Holocene mud and includes numerous post-cranial elements in addition to fragmentary premaxillae and maxillae. These whale skeletons preserve compelling fossil/sub-fossil evidence, in the form of bite marks and shed/embedded teeth, that the elasmobranchs Galeocerdo cuvier, Carcharhinus falciformis, C. longimanus, C. obscurus, and C. plumbeus fed on cetacean carcasses.
25599298|One of the most successful conservation stories in United States' history resulted in Haliaeetus leucocephalus (Bald Eagle) being removed recently from the federal endangered species list. Few studies, however, have documented regional long-term recovery trends for Bald Eagles. We quantified Bald Eagle nesting density, distribution, and productivity trends by using aerial surveys of nests located in 69 counties in eastern Texas from 1971-2005. The total number of occupied nests, productive nests, and offspring produced increased exponentially during that time, with the most dramatic increases occurring from 1995-2005. Since 1971, the total number of occupied nests increased 13% per year, from 5 in 1971 to 157 in 2005, and the total number of young produced also increased 13% per year, from 6 in 1971 to 195 in 2005. Apparent nest success estimates (50-100%) and mean brood size (1-2 young/nest), however, remained relatively consistent from 1971 to 2005. By 1989, Bald Eagles in Texas exceeded recovery goals set by the Southeastern States Bald Eagle Recovery Team (i.e., >0.9 young produced/occupied nest, >1.5 young produced/successful nest, and >50% of nests successful in raising at least 1 young). Continued regional increases in Bald Eagle nesting activity may warrant specific attention, particularly as related to anthropogenic pressures and interactions in increasingly fragmented and urbanized habitats.
25599299|To assist with recovery of Falco peregrinus (Peregrine Falcon) in the southeastern United States, we compared pre-dispersal activity budgets between falcons reintroduced at sites chosen for their contrasting habitats (agriculture vs forest). We also compared behavior of our hacked birds with nearby wild-produced juveniles. We classified pre-dispersal behavior into nine activities depicting flight and non-flight. We logged 901 hr of observation and found that wild-produced falcons spent more time in low flight, soaring, and mock combat during a 4-wk post-fledging period (mean  95% CI) than hacked birds. Peregrine Falcons hacked in mixed agricultural habitat spent more time soaring and perching alertly than those hacked in forest habitat; falcons in forest habitat perched inactively with higher frequency. Dispersal time (mean  SD) differed among groups (
25599300|Microclimate may influence use of early successional habitat by birds. We assessed the relationships between avian habitat use and microclimate (temperature, light intensity, and relative humidity) in experimentally created canopy gaps in a bottomland hardwood forest on the Savannah River Site, SC. Gaps were 2- to 3-year-old group-selection timber harvest openings of three sizes (0.13, 0.26, 0.50 ha). Our study was conducted from spring through fall, encompassing four bird-use periods (spring migration, breeding, post-breeding, and fall migration), in 2002 and 2003. We used mist netting and simultaneously recorded microclimate variables to determine the influence of microclimate on bird habitat use. Microclimate was strongly affected by net location within canopy gaps in both years. Temperature generally was higher on the west side of gaps, light intensity was greater in gap centers, and relative humidity was higher on the east side of gaps. However, we found few relationships between bird captures and the microclimate variables. Bird captures were inversely correlated with temperature during the breeding and post-breeding periods in 2002 and positively correlated with temperature during spring 2003. Captures were high where humidity was high during post-breeding 2002, and captures were low where humidity was high during spring 2003. We conclude that variations in the local microclimate had minor influence on avian habitat use within gaps. Instead, habitat selection in relatively mild regions like the southeastern US is based primarily on vegetation structure, while other factors, including microclimate, are less important.
25599301|The pine forests of the southeastern United States support a number of cavity-nesting birds as well as several species of rat snakes (Pantherophis spp.). Rat snakes are well-documented nest predators, and nest predation of some of the region's cavity nesters is higher than in other areas. Picoides borealis (Red-cockaded Woodpeckers) and Melanerpes eyrthrocephlus (Red-headed Woodpeckers) invest substantial energy in excavating nest and roost cavities in particular trees, presumably to reduce snake predation. The abandoned cavities of these woodpeckers are important nest sites for many other cavity nesters and may provide protection from snakes. I examined the climbing ability of P. guttata (Red Cornsnake) on abandoned Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity trees and on barkless snags similar to those used by Red-headed Woodpeckers for nest cavities. Compared to snakes climbing on control trees, snakes (n = 9) either took longer to climb to abandoned Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavities, or where unable to climb past the resin barrier. Snakes were unable to climb barkless pine snags. Despite the fact that populations of both woodpeckers have declined, the concomitant reduction in cavities has not resulted in declines of generalist secondary cavity nesters.
25599302|Adelges tsugae (Hemlock Woolly Adelgid [HWA]), an introduced pest, is impacting Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock), and T. caroliniana (Carolina Hemlock) stands throughout the eastern United States. Currently, hemlock stands in the southeast US are on the leading edge of the infestation. This study investigated HWA distributions in the Chattooga River watershed, and examined relationships between site and stand variables and hemlock susceptibility to HWA attack. The following variables were examined: latitude, longitude, elevation, slope, aspect, terrain shape index (TSI), landform index (LFI), percent infestation, quadratic mean diameter, total basal area (BA), hemlock BA, non-hemlock BA, hemlock BA(%), non-hemlock BA(%), and tree height. Multiple regression with backward selection showed statistically significant relationships of HWA infestation to latitude (P = 0.0006), longitude (P < 0.0001), and TSI (P = 0.0316). The proximity of a hemlock stand to existing HWA infestations appears to be the primary factor influencing its susceptibility to attack.
25599303|Microstegium vimineum (Japanese Stiltgrass) is an exotic shade-tolerant C grass that invades open and forested habitats throughout the southeastern United States. Studies suggest that invasive plants can alter ecosystem biogeochemistry by changing soil chemistry and biota. The objective of our study was to determine if M. vimineum invasion induces soil chemical changes that alter litter microarthropod communities in acidic, nutrient-poor upland forests of the Cumberland Plateau. In a greenhouse experiment comparing forest soil in tubs seeded with M. vimineum to those left unseeded over 1 year, we found that after 6 months, soil pH under M. vimineum was significantly higher than that in the unseeded tubs. We compared A-horizon chemistry, litter nutrients, and microarthropod community diversity in 3 forested sites with and without M. vimineum. We found higher pH, phosphorus (P), and base cations, and lower aluminum (Al) in soil under dense M. vimineum growth compared to soil under surrounding uninvaded understory. M. vimineum litter was more P-rich and had a higher abundance of mites than the surrounding forest floor over 3 sampling periods. However, microarthropod community evenness was lower in M. vimineum litter, indicating a decrease in diversity. These results suggest that a rapid rise in soil pH and P availability following M. vimineum colonization may reduce litter microarthropod community diversity by favoring mites.
25599304|We determined seasonal macro- and microhabitat preferences of radio-collared Sciurus niger niger (Southern Fox Squirrel) in a high-density population. Fox squirrels preferred hardwood, live oak, and mixed hardwood-pine macrohabitats to pine, early successional, and turf macrohabitats. During winter, early summer, and late summer, they preferred mixed hardwood-pine, live oak, and hardwood micro-habitats to pine microhabitats. Fox squirrels preferred an open or moderate crown spacing to a dense crown spacing during all seasons, and during the summer, they preferred microhabitats with at least 1 cone-bearing pine tree. Preferred microhabitats had a short-open or leaf-litter understory structure. Although the hardwood and hardwood-pine habitats on our barrier island study site differed from typical pine-dominated southeastern fox squirrel habitat, our results demonstrating preference for these types indicated that they are capable of supporting an abundant fox squirrel population when managed by mowing, burning, and light timber harvesting.
25599305|We examined external parasites of Neotoma magister (Allegheny Woodrat) from the Royal Blue Wildlife Management Area in the Cumberland Mountains and Big South Fork National River and Recreation Area on the Cumberland Plateau of Tennessee from November 2003 to August 2005. Typically associated with rocky habitats such as clifflines and cave entrances, the Allegheny Woodrat is considered a species of concern in Tennessee. We found external parasites on 26 out of 40 Allegheny Woodrats (prevalence = 65%), including 2 Epitedia cavernicola Traub (woodrat fleas-from 2 separate woodrats; prevalence = 5%), 63 Orchopeas pennsylvanicus Baker (woodrat fleas-collected on all 26; prevalence = 65%, intensity = 2.4/woodrat), and 5 Ixodes woodi Bishopp (Woodrat Ticks-collected from 1 woodrat; prevalence = 2.5%). Our collection represents a state record for Woodrat Ticks in Tennessee. The external parasites collected from Allegheny Woodrats in east Tennessee were considered woodrat-specific parasites and exhibited low species diversity.
25599306|An individual of Agonostomus monticola (Mountain Mullet) was collected in southern Mississippi while conducting a series of community surveys on 7 November 2007. This is the first documented report of Mountain Mullet in Mississippi freshwaters, even though there are reports of three specimens collected in Mississippi estuarine waters in 1937. Given its life history and difficulties in sampling, it is likely that Mountain Mullet has a broader distribution and more frequently occurs in Gulf Coast drainages in the southern US than was previously thought.
25599307|We report on mist-net captures of three individual Nycticeius humeralis (Evening Bat) with anterior portions of Camponotus floridanus (Florida Carpenter Ant) attached by the mandibles. Based on head morphology, the ants were most likely alate queens captured as prey during the ants' nocturnal mating flights. No similar interaction between evening bats and ants has previously been documented.
25599308|Two new locations were documented for Leptoxis plicata (Plicate Rocksnail), listed as endangered by the US Fish and Wildlife Service in 1998. Plicate Rocksnail is endemic to the Black Warrior River system in Alabama and was thought to be restricted to 15 shoals in a 30-km reach of Locust Fork, all upstream of the US Highway 78 crossing. During a routine biological survey, Plicate Rocksnail was found at two additional shoals downstream of the Highway 78 crossing: one 3.5 km (8701'00"W, 3341'30"N) and the other 5.2 km (8700'30"W, 3339'20"N) downstream. The rocksnails were extremely abundant at each of these locations and varied in size from small, apparently young of the year, to large adults. These two new locations extend the intrabasin range of this species over 5 km farther downstream than previously reported.
25599313|Ants of the tribe Dacetini are especially diverse in Southeastern North America, with 40 known species, all in the genera Pyramica and Strumigenys. The 30 native Pyramica may represent a remnant Arctotertiary forest ant fauna. The 9 introduced species of Pyramica and Strumigenys come from both Old and New World tropics. Surveys of the southeastern fauna appear incomplete, and there may be additional undescribed species. All species are predatory, capturing small arthropods, especially Collembola, by means of a specialized jaw-snapping mechanism. The notable diversity in mandibular structure among species is unexplained in a functional sense. Arrays of specialized clypeal hairs, usually species-specific, may possibly lure prey. Specialized "spongiform bodies" in the petiolar area may be defensive. Local populations may be threatened by habitat loss, invasive exotic species, and climate change.
25599314|Maps of wild or roadless areas in North America show that most lie west of the Mississippi River. The Everglades is one exception. Yet there are others. Using existing data, I draw attention to four large areas in the southeast that are worthy of national as well as regional attention. These four (Eglin: 187,000+ ha; Apalachicola: 228,000+ ha; Okefenokee-Oceola: 289,000+ ha; De Soto: 200,000+ ha) have nearby lands that offer the potential to expand the total protected territory for each area to well beyond 500,000 ha. From the North American perspective, these areas are essential elements of a national conservation plan. These areas urgently need (1) land acquisition to link with nearby protected lands and establish ecologically meaningful boundaries, (2) restoration of natural forces (particularly flooding and fire), and (3) forestry practices focused upon restoration.
25599315|The limits of species ranges can be determined by a number of biotic and abiotic interactions, and in areas where closely related species overlap, some degree of reproductive isolation must exist in order for them to remain distinct. Understanding these interactions is essential for understanding what limits species distributions or causes hybridization. Fundulus heteroclitus (Mummichog) and Fundulus grandis (Gulf Killifish) are two closely related species with similar morphologies and ecological niches. Both species have widespread distributions that overlap in northeastern Florida. In the present study, two highly divergent loci (one nuclear and one mitochondrial) were utilized to distinguish these fundulid species in order to identify their ranges and to detect hybrids. Analysis of specimens collected along a north to south gradient in northeastern Florida salt marshes established that a relatively sharp transition (38 km) from relatively pure Mummichog populations to relatively pure F. grandis populations existed south of Jacksonville, FL, centered near Flagler Beach, FL. Putative hybrid genotypes were detected at moderate frequencies within the contact zone, suggesting that successful hybridization is likely occurring between the two species, but is relatively uncommon. These results provide a stepping stone to investigate the types of reproductive barriers that are involved in maintaining species distinctions in this system and their effects on the species' ranges and ecological interactions.
25599316|Ptychobranchus jonesi (Southern Kidneyshell) is one of the most imperiled freshwater mussels in North America. It is endemic to eastern Gulf of Mexico drainages from the Escambia to the Choctawhatchee River basins. Numerous recent surveys considered it restricted to a single population in the West Fork Choctawhatchee River in southeastern Alabama. We conducted comprehensive (9-15 hr per site) mussel searches in three high-quality reaches of the Pea River, a Choctawhatchee River tributary, to assess microhabitat associations for the Southern Kidneyshell. Habitat features were later used to identify subsequent search localities. We found undetected Southern Kidneyshell populations at a total of seven localities in the Choctawhatchee River Basin, AL. Although widely-distributed, the Southern Kidneyshell is extremely rare (n = 13) and comprised <0.3% of all mussels encountered. Prior surveys may have underestimated the distribution of the Southern Kidneyshell because they were broadly focused and thus did not expend the necessary effort to detect this rare mussel. Targeted searches in preferred microhabitats greatly increased Southern Kidneyshell catch rates and were used to detect four of the seven new populations. These results suggest that extensive searches within high-quality habitats are critical to detecting rare mussels in patchy habitats.
25599317|Water column turbidity, chlorophyll-a content, and dissolved inorganic macronutrients were measured in Ross Barnett Reservoir, a turbid, artificial water body located in central Mississippi. Measurements indicated that abundant nutrients were present, whereas levels of chlorophyll-a were substantially below expectation. Significant inorganic turbidity and the resulting low transparency suggested rapid extinction of light within the water column. Sediment settling in an experimental microcosm led to rapid increase in chlorophyll-a, consistent with the notion that algal biomass abundance was limited by light, rather than nutrients. Based on our results, an antagonistic relationship between the inorganic turbidity and inorganic nutrients exists in the reservoir, the former modulating effects of the latter and thus limiting the potential for algal blooms. Should suspended sediment be removed without addressing nutrients at the same time, algal biomass is expected to increase dramatically. Likewise, high levels of dissolved inorganic nutrients, together with limited competition from the planktonic algae create an ideal set of conditions for floating macrophyte mats to develop.
25599318|In 2002 and 2006, we conducted a survey of historical collection localities for Enneacanthus chaetodon (Blackbanded Sunfish) in Maryland. Blackbanded Sunfish were detected at only one of six historical localities. This locality consisted of 17 quarry ponds, but the Blackbanded Sunfish was collected in only three of these. These ponds were characterized by low pH (<4.9), dense submerged and overhanging vegetation, and the absence or low abundance of non-native piscivores. The acidic nature of these ponds may provide refuge from predation for Blackbanded Sunfish by limiting numbers of non-native piscivores such as Micropterus salmoides (Largemouth Bass) and Pomoxis nigromaculatus (Black Crappie). As a result of the surveys described herein, the Blackbanded Sunfish state status in Maryland was elevated from Threatened to Endangered.
25599319|Point-count surveys targeting Ixobrychus exilis (Least Bittern), Laterallus jamaicensis (Black Rail), Rallus longirostris (Clapper Rail), Rallus elegans (King Rail), Porphyrio martinica (Purple Gallinule), and Gallinula chloropus (Common Moorhen) were performed using a standardized marsh-bird monitoring protocol along tidally influenced emergent marshes of coastal Alabama during the 2004 breeding season. We compared the number of target species detected during an initial passive-listening period to those detected during a subsequent multiple-species call-broadcast period to evaluate the effectiveness of the call-broadcast period for increasing detections. Additionally, we examined the number of responses of each target species to conspecific and heterospecific calls to determine how marsh birds respond to multiple species call-broadcast sequences. Numbers of new individuals detected during call-broadcast periods were significantly greater (P < 0.05) than those detected during the initial passive-listening period for Clapper Rail, King Rail, and Purple Gallinule, but not for Least Bittern and Common Moorhen. Black Rails were not detected during this study. Conspecific calls were more effective at eliciting responses than heterospecific calls for each of the target species except Least Bittern. Although the calls of Clapper Rail and King Rail are very similar, our data indicate that the advertisement calls of both species should be incorporated within multiple species call-broadcast sequences where populations are sympatric. We also recommend that Purple Gallinule call-broadcasts be applied to marsh-bird inventories or monitoring programs throughout this species' range as a result of its effectiveness, which was previously uncertain.
25599320|Baccharis halimifolia (Eastern Baccharis, Silverling, Groundsel-bush, or Salt-bush) (Asteraceae), a weedy shrub native to the US Gulf and Atlantic Coastal Plains, is believed to be expanding its distribution throughout much of its native range and in other regions of the globe to which it has been introduced (e.g., Australia and Mediterranean Europe). The present survey represents an effort to document the current distribution of this species across a portion of its apparent interior range limit in the south-central United States and to record habitat associations of B. halimifolia within this region. Data support previous research suggesting that B. halimifolia associates with various forms of canopy-removing anthropogenic disturbance, and that the limit of this species' present distribution in the mid-South lies primarily along the southern half of counties in Tennessee. However, habitat associations did not appear to vary across the study area, suggesting potential for further expansion into human-altered habitats throughout Tennessee and possibly further northward.
25599321|In stream ecosystems, bryophytes greatly increase substrate heterogeneity and support a high density and diversity of lotic primary producers, such as epiphytic algae. However, there is little information about how the spatial distribution and density of epiphytic diatoms varies with respect to bryophyte morphology. This study examined epiphytic diatom communities from the contrasting bryophyte morphologies of mosses and liverworts. We predicted that mosses, with morphologies that create more crevices, would have a higher density of epiphytic diatoms than liverworts, with leaves highly exposed to the turbulence of the stream current. Six species of bryophytes (two mosses and four liverworts) were collected from streams in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, and 37 species of epiphytic diatoms were identified on these bryophytes. Diatom density was significantly higher on the adaxial leaf surface of mosses compared to the abaxial leaf area (ANOVA, df = 29, P < 0.001). There was no difference in diatom density on either the adaxial or abaxial leaf surfaces of liverworts, and these diatom densities were statistically identical to the density observed on the abaxial surface of moss leaves. The findings of our study support our hypothesis that the morphology of mosses, comprised of leafy whorls, provides a greater level of protection from disturbance than the open, flat nature of leafy liverworts. These findings emphasize that differences in microscale habitats can result in varying diatom distribution and density that may be critical to food-web interactions, such as grazing.
25599322|During the period of 1998 to 2004, surveys for dictyostelids (cellular slime molds) and myxomycetes (plasmodial slime molds or myxogastrids) were carried out at numerous study sites throughout the Great Smoky Mountains National Park as one component of the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI) project. As a result of these surveys, some general patterns have emerged relating to the occurrence and distribution of these two groups of organisms in the Park. Since the surveys began, the number of dictyostelids known from the Park has increased from 12 to at least 30, the highest total known for any comparable region outside of the tropics. Ten of the 30 species were described as new to science from material collected in the Park. Many of these are "small" species (<2 mm total height) that seem to be confined to marginal habitats at high elevations. The number of myxomycetes known from the Park has increased from 88 to approximately 220, but there are likely to be many additional records as the surveys continue. A number of myxomycetes appear to be restricted largely or exclusively to the Picea rubens (Red Spruce)-Abies fraseri (Fraser Fir) forests found at the very highest elevations in the Park. These forests are currently under considerable environmental stress as the result of industrial pollution and possible global climate change.
25599323|Field observations indicate an invasion by the non-native, Asian earthworm species Amynthas agrestis (Goto and Hatai 1899) in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP). The aim of this study was to determine if A. agrestis was capable of surviving in the ridge-top soil along an invasion front in a mesic-xeric habitat gradient in GSMNP. Additionally, this study sought to determine optimum and tolerance conditions for A. agrestis within a range of soil moistures and temperatures. Investigating soil temperature and moisture as parameters of earthworm survivability will allow for more predictive power when investigating the GSNMP invasion. Although A. agrestis invasions are widespread in eastern North America, few studies have addressed factors that may influence their distribution and their potential impacts on ecosystem processes. Using incubators and PVC tube microcosms, it was determined that A. agrestis was able to survive in the GSMNP ridge-top soil at temperatures of 12 C and 25 C. No survival was observed at temperatures of -5, 5, or 35 C at any soil moisture level. No survival occurred in 25 C dry (8% gravimetric water) treatments. Of the conditions tested, maximum survival plus fresh-weight maintenace occured at 12 C and mid-moisture (24% gravimetric water), but highest activity and effects on litter and soil structure occurred at 25 C and high soil moisture (57% gravimetric water; field capacity). Soil moisture contributed to the success of A. agrestis at higher temperatures within the tolerance conditions; more moisture increased the survival rate and decreased weight-loss.
25599324|We studied the wet-season food habits of adult Terrapene carolina bauri (Florida Box Turtles) on National Key Deer Wildlife Refuge, Big Pine Key, FL. Feces were collected from 112 Box Turtles (64 females, 48 males) and analyzed to determine diet. Based on percent occurrence (number of samples in which a particular dietary item occurs divided by the sample size), terrestrial gastropods and fleshy fruits were the principal foods consumed. Lesser amounts of leafy vegetation were recovered, whereas insects and other invertebrates, vertebrates (most likely consumed as carrion), and fungi composed a minor portion of the diet. The occurrence of deer feces in a single scat constitutes the first report of coprophagy by box turtles. Our fecal analysis provided little evidence of dietary specialization by either sex, which is consistent with earlier descriptions of box turtles as generalist omnivores. Male Florida Box Turtles were significantly larger than females, but there was no indication that larger body size in males provides access to an expanded resource base; the near-complete dietary overlap between the sexes suggests they consume the same foods.
25599325|In southern Louisiana, high population densities of exotic Myocastor coypus (Nutria) have been implicated in causing significant coastal marsh damage through extensive herbivory. Wildlife officials instituted a Nutria removal program in 2002 to reduce this marsh loss. Because Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator) frequently consume Nutria, concern arose regarding the program's impacts on alligator food habits. Therefore, we conducted our study to determine if the Nutria removal program affected the frequency of occurrence of Nutria remains in alligator stomachs collected from five parishes in southern Louisiana. Three parishes had high Nutria densities and removal programs; two parishes had low Nutria densities and no Nutria removal. We collected >550 alligator stomachs during three September trapping seasons and examined the contents of each. We used logistic regression to model effects of year (1 year prior to the removal program compared to two years during removal) and parish (three with Nutria removal programs compared to two without) on the probability that an alligator stomach contained Nutria remains. Overall, about one-third of the alligator stomachs contained Nutria remains. Nutria removal appeared to have no effect on the probability of a stomach containing Nutria remains even after two years of Nutria removal. In addition, the probability that an alligator stomach contained Nutria remains was similar among all parishes regardless of whether Nutria removal occurred or not. We recommend that continuance of the Nutria removal program be based on its effectiveness in reducing marsh damage and not on perceived impacts to alligator food habits.
25599326|Myotis septentrionalis (Northern Long-eared Bat) is a small, insectivorous bat found in the eastern United States and Canada. Along the east coast, its range is thought to extend as far south as the Great Dismal Swamp in coastal Virginia. We captured six M. septentrionalis in the norther coastal plain region of North Carolina. Field identification was based on characters of ear and tragus length and confirmed with mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I sequences. These captures signify the presence of a resident population of M. septentrionalis in the northern coastal plain of North Carolina. Future work is needed to document range limits and hibernation behavior of this species in the piedmont and coastal plain of North Carolina.
25599327|We examined site characteristics and prey abundances where wintering Aythya affinis (Lesser Scaup; hereafter scaup) foraged within three regions of the Indian River Lagoon system in central Florida. We observed that scaup concentrated in the Indian and Banana rivers; however, density of prey items did not differ between foraging sites and random sites. We also found that site characteristics were similar between foraging and random sites. Differences in site characteristics between random points across all three regions did not explain the distribution of foraging scaup (no scaup foraged in the Mosquito Lagoon); however, prey densities were approximately 3 times lower in the Mosquito Lagoon region. Our study suggests that current habitat conditions within the northern Indian River Lagoon system meet the overwintering requirements of scaup; however, prey densities in the Mosquito Lagoon may have been too low to be profitable for foraging scaup during the period of our study.
25599332|Small mammals serve many ecological roles and contribute to wildlife diversity in wetlands. We investigated a small-mammal community on a southeastern Arkansas wetland-restoration site by trapping monthly from February through October 2007. During 8675 trap nights, 886 captures of six species and 615 individuals were recorded. The numbers and proportions of individuals captured varied monthly by species. Documentation of monthly fluctuations in the composition and numbers of this small-mammal community provides a basis by which to evaluate future restoration activities.
25599333|We compared prebaiting versus non-prebaiting of small mammal live traps during autumn (i.e., when food resources were abundant) and during spring (i.e., when food resources were scarce). Trapping was conducted within 10 experimental grids (0.21-ha each) located in upland and bottomland (5 each) habitats. Four species of small mammals were captured 10 or more times during this study: Peromyscus leucopus (White-footed Mouse; 543 captures), Galucomys volans (Southern Flying Squirrel; 94 captures), Tamias striatus (Eastern Chipmunk; 53 captures), and Ochrotomys nuttalli (Golden Mouse; 12 captures). The White-footed Mouse, because of its abundance during both seasons, was the primary species of analysis. White-footed Mice had a significantly higher probability of capture (1.29 times [or 29 percent]) in the prebaiting treatment than in the non-prebaited treatment. Prebaiting did not have a significantly different effect on males compared to females or on juveniles versus adult White-footed Mice. The practice of prebaiting, or luring small mammals, is discussed across levels of organization.
25599334|Sixteen Myocastor coypus (Nutria) were implanted with radiotransmitters and monitored on a freshwater floating marsh. Mortality and/or transmitter failure was high, with 5 transmitters failing or being destroyed through predation within 3 days of release. Predation mortality was common, with an additional 5 transmitters recovered from carcasses within 35 days of implantation. The remaining 6 animals survived for a mean of 182 days. After removing first movement distances from the analyses, the mean distance traveled between locations for surviving animals was 77.4 m. Distances varied significantly between seasons, but not between the sexes. The average minimum convex polygon (MCP) for individuals with sufficient data was 28.8 ha and the 95% fixed kernel (FK) estimates averaged 32.7 ha. There was no significant difference between home-range estimates overall or between the sexes.
25599335|Sus scrofa (Feral Hog) can cause extensive damage to agricultural crops and native vegetation, is a potential disease vector, and competes with other wildlife for food resources. Without site-specific information about survival and habitat use, habitat management and control efforts may not be effective. We examined home-range size, habitat use, and survival of 29 Feral Hogs in central Mississippi using radio telemetry. Dry-and wet-season survival rates were 80.8% and 41.4%, respectively. Hunting (primarily during the wet season) was the major cause of mortality. Dry-season home ranges were larger (6.4 km) than wet-season home ranges (3.0 km). During the dry-season, Feral Hog home ranges (2nd-order selection) were associated with dense vegetation types (seasonally flooded old fields, old fields, and managed openings). During the wet season, old fields and agricultural fields were selected, but seasonally flooded old fields and managed openings were not. Within home ranges (3rd-order selection), hogs selected old fields and managed openings during the dry season. All habitats were used randomly within home ranges during the wet season. Flooding of preferred habitats, changes in food availability, and hunting pressure likely caused these changes in habitat use and home-range placement.
25599336|Free-ranging Felis catus (Domestic Cat) and Canis familiaris (Domestic Dog) can greatly impact native prey populations, but little is known about their occurrence in urban forest fragments. In this study, we used camera traps to photograph (capture) cats, dogs, and native wildlife in a 409-ha urban forest in Birmingham, AL from Jan-Apr 2007. Habitat treatments included forest interior and forest edges by industrial lands, neighborhoods with higher house values, and neighborhoods with lower house values. We employed both conservative (n = 31) and liberal (n = 64) methods of tallying the number of individual dogs, cats, and native mammals captured. Dogs and cats combined comprised 19% (conservative) and 26% (liberal) of all photographic captures. Procyon lotor (Raccoon) were the most abundant of the 7 native species at 32% (conservative) and 53% (liberal) of all captures. Dogs were more abundant in neighborhood edges, and cats were more abundant in the forest interior. Cats and dogs combined were 75% (conservative) and 86% (liberal) of captures from the forest interior. Captures of native species were far more frequent in neighborhood edges (conservative = 86.9%, and liberal = 92.3%) than in other treatments. These findings demonstrate that exotic predators can be an important ecological presence in certain portions of urban forest fragments, and more extensive studies of their impact are needed.
25599337|The active component (e.g., bait or scent lures) common to mammal survey techniques can bias detectability (e.g., aversion or attraction) and reduce their efficacy for spatially explicit, habitat-use research. We overcame this obstacle with 1-m mud track plots, which use natural ground substrates to sample mammalian species' occupancy with minimal bias of natural movements. Performance of this method was based on criteria that included implementation effort, cost, species detection, proportion of plots to capture tracks, and species identification by track capture. Mud track plots were quickly established, maintained, and monitored with minimal effort and cost. We recorded tracks in 85% of plots over 8 nights, documented all visually confirmed medium and large-sized mammals (>800 g), and captured identifiable (>98%) tracks on a row-crop farm in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley. Drawbacks included limited application for small mammals, potential ambiguity of using track imprints for species identification, and weather-dependent, spatio-temporal restrictions. Mud track plots are an inexpensive, simple approach to noninvasive mammal detection.
25599338|This study describes the composition and structure of a mature, second-growth Pinus taeda (Loblolly Pine) and Pinus echinata (Shortleaf Pine)-dominated old-field stand. Now owned by the University of Arkansas, this 22.5-ha parcel just outside of the city of Monticello, AR, has been protected as a de facto natural area since the 1950s. Many of the overstory pines exceeded 75 cm in diameter at breast height (DBH) and some have reached 100 cm. Increment cores indicated that most of the pine overstory originated between 80 and 100 years ago, probably following agricultural abandonment. Pine recruitment occurred somewhat gradually until the canopy closed, after which tree species establishment became dominated by hardwoods. Of the nearly 6000 tree seedlings/saplings per hectare in the interior of this stand, just under 4% were pine-the under- and midstory were dominated by shade-tolerant hardwoods. No obvious evidence of past land-management practices remained, save the rare old stump or formerly open-grown pine or oak. Coarse woody debris is beginning to accumulate in some portions of the stand, primarily from the senescence of short-lived hardwoods. Comparisons with other tracts in southern Arkansas suggest that this stand differs from other contemporary examples of mature pine-dominated timber, with a richness in composition and structure not apparent in managed stands of natural or planted origin.
25599339|During 1996-1998 and 2002-2003, field surveys were conducted within the Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge, located on the Atlantic coast of South Carolina, to determine if refuge vegetation exhibited foliar symptoms (stipple) induced by ambient ozone. Foliar stipple was observed on Rhus copallina (Winged Sumac), Sapium sebiferum (Chinese Tallowtree), and Vitis sp. (wild grape). Grape had the greatest frequency of stippled plants, followed by Winged Sumac and Chinese Tallowtree. Chinese Tallowtree produced the most classic ozone-induced stipple, and may have the most potential as a useful ozone-sensitive bioindicator. Percentage of plants with ozone-induced symptoms varied among species and years. The threshold value of CUM60 ambient ozone needed to induce symptoms on ozone-sensitive plants in the refuge was estimated to be approximately 9000 ppb-hrs.
25599340|The life history of Cambarus halli, a crayfish endemic to the Tallapoosa River Basin, GA, was studied at four sites within the Tallapoosa River. Two sites had allopatric populations of C. halli, and two sites had populations of C. halli sympatric with C. englishi. Three age classes existed across sites. For Cambarus halli, total number of pleopodal eggs was positively related to carapace length, but egg size was only weakly positively related to carapace length. Cambarus halli were smaller across age classes at sympatric sites, but had greater growth rates than at allopatric sites. Cambarus halli density estimates were lower at sympatric sites, while proportions of reproductively active age-1 and age-2 individuals were higher at allopatric sites (63% vs. 33%).
25599341|Larvae and juveniles of Fundulus heteroclitus (Mummichog), commonly occur in small, water-filled depressions on the intertidal marsh surface during low tide. Previous work has shown that larger juveniles are typically found at lower elevations on the marsh surface, while small larvae are more abundant in the high marsh. The present study compared the abundance and size distributions of larval and juvenile Mummichog between relatively low- and high-elevation sites on the marsh surface at three locations in Northeastern Florida. Fundulus heteroclitus were both more abundant and larger in size at low-elevation sites than at high-elevation sites following the size-selective marsh-use pattern shown in other locations.
25599342|We compared the density and biomass of resident fish in vegetated and unvegetated flooded habitats of impounded salt marshes in the northern Indian River Lagoon (IRL) Estuary of east-central Florida. A 1-m throw trap was used to sample fish in randomly located, paired sample plots (n = 198 pairs) over 5 seasons in 7 impoundments. We collected a total of 15 fish taxa, and 88% of the fishes we identified from the samples belonged to three species: Cyprinodon variegatus (Sheepshead Minnow), Gambusia holbrooki (Eastern Mosquitofish), and Poecilia latipinna (Sailfin Molly). Vegetated habitat usually had higher density and biomass of fish. Mean fish density (and 95% confidence interval) for vegetated and unvegetated sites were 8.2 (6.7-9.9) and 2.0 (1.6-2.4) individuals m, respectively; mean biomass (and 95% confidence interval) for vegetated and unvegetated sites were 3.0 (2.5-3.7) and 1.1 (0.9-1.4) g m, respectively. We confirmed previous findings that impounded salt marshes of the northern IRL Estuary produce a high standing stock of resident fishes. Seasonal patterns of abundance were consistent with fish moving between vegetated and unvegetated habitat as water levels changed in the estuary. Differences in density, mean size, and species composition of resident fishes between vegetated and unvegetated habitats have important implications for movement of biomass and nutrients out of salt marsh by piscivores (e.g., wading birds and fishes) via a trophic relay.
25599343|Microstegium vimineum (Japanese Stiltgrass) is an exotic, annual grass that has invaded hardwood forests throughout the Southeastern United States. Four forests, in four Tennessee counties, were selected, and insects and plant communities were sampled along transects with and without M. vimineum. Insects were sampled using a terrestrial vacuum sampler. Percent plant cover was measured using a point-intercept technique, and plant species richness and diversity were calculated. Of the 60 families collected, significantly more individuals in the families Acrididae, Cicadellidae, and Gryllidae, were collected in areas with M. vimineum, whereas areas without M. vimineum resulted in significantly more individuals in the families Blattellidae and Chrysomelidae. Herbaceous plant richness and diversity did not significantly differ between areas with and without M. vimineum. Areas without M. vimineum had significantly lower percent vegetation cover (30.41%) than areas with M. vimineum (91.48%). The overall herbaceous plant community diversity and structure may be more influential factors in the abundances of insect families in central hardwood forests than the invasion of M. vimineum.
25599344|Fishes were sampled from Gillam Park Wetland, a small cypress swamp located within the city limits of Little Rock, AR during Fall 2005. The objectives of this research were to contribute to our knowledge of understudied wetland habitats in Arkansas, determine the status of the fish community in an urban wetland, and provide baseline data for future monitoring of this unique site. We collected 20 total species from three wetland sections (lower, middle, upper). Although fish community composition varied among the sections, species richness was similar across wetland sections. Fyke nets were more effective at capturing fish along the heavily vegetated and structured shorelines than either seines or funnel traps. The fish community residing in Gillam Park Wetland indicates that this "urban wetland" is functioning and seemingly healthy despite its proximity to anthropogenic impacts. Furthermore, Gillam Park Wetland is located along a major physiogeographic boundary that may play an important role in the distribution and conservation of several swamp specialist species in Arkansas.
25599345|We documented one Seiurus noveboracensis (Northern Waterthrush) exhibiting stopover-site fidelity by returning to a near-coastal stopover site at the Butler Island Auxiliary Station (BIAS) on the Altamaha Waterfowl Management Area in southeast Georgia during banding operations from 1995-2000. The Northern Waterthrush was recaptured in fall 2000 after being banded at BIAS in fall 1997. Although few individual passerine migrants have exhibited stopover-site fidelity, the majority were recaptured at banding stations nearer (<500 km) breeding populations of the respective species. Stopover-site fidelity is rarely documented in the southeast, as migration banding stations are generally located at coastal migrant traps, which primarily capture hatching-year birds that likely migrate to inland locations in subsequent fall migrations and do not return to coastal migrant traps. High percentages of hatching-year migrants at our near-coastal site suggest that this area is used by migrants in a similar fashion to coastal sites; however, we found possible benefits received by young birds returning to this site in subsequent years. Although rarely documented, passerine migrants may encounter some of the same benefits that wading birds, waterfowl, and shorebirds encounter in using the same stopover locations annually.
25599346|Breeding records of Accipiter striatus (Sharp-shinned Hawks) in the southeastern US are scattered and isolated. We documented a Sharp-shinned Hawk and Accipiter cooperii (Cooper's Hawk) nest while conducting a telemetry study on Melanerpes erythrocephalus (Red-headed Woodpeckers) in Barnwell County, SC in 2006 and 2007. We report the first known nest of a Sharp-shinned Hawk in Barnwell County, SC and the first report of Sharp-shinned Hawks preying upon Red-headed Woodpeckers. Thirteen of 93 (13.9%) woodpeckers were killed by accipiters in the summers of 2006 and 2007. Large, contiguous forests managed for Picoides borealis (Red-cockaded Woodpeckers) may be used by breeding Sharp-shinned Hawks. The bright plumage, loud calls, and behavior of Red-headed Woodpeckers, particularly during the nestling stage, may make them conspicuous prey for accipiters.
25599347|In the course of conducting a radio-telemetry study of Lampropeltis getula getula (Eastern Kingsnake) within a ca. 3000-ha area in southwestern Georgia, we observed that adjacent home ranges of individuals infrequently overlapped. To quantify this overlap, ten interactions were compared; male/female overlap averaged 25%, while male/male overlap averaged 13%. Although we lack corroborative data, the limited overlap we observed is consistent with what would be expected from a territorial animal.
25599348|We report range extension in North America by a nonindigenous midge, Polypedilum nubifer (Skuse), based on larval specimens collected during September 2007 from reaches of two streams in the Southeastern Lowlands physiographic region of Missouri. Endemic midge composition and water quality characteristics from the reaches are also presented. Polypedilum nubifer could become a rice crop pest and human nuisance across the Coastal Plains Ecoregion if it is able to persist in this ecoregion.
25599349|Surface nesting is common among tropical turtles, but is an uncommon and poorly documented event in temperate species. Here we report two separate instances of surface nesting in Kinosternon subrubrum (Eastern Mud Turtle), in a Louisiana swamp in November, 2001 and March, 2002. The clutches, each consisting of a single egg, were found on man-made earthen structures within a Dwarf Palmetto-hardwood floodplain. The adaptive significance of ovipositing eggs on the surface of compact clay soils is possibly related to the need for oxygen exchange between the eggshell and embryonic membranes as well as avoidance of high water-table conditions. The two nests were laid in winter months, unlike the typical May or June nesting of northern females.
25599354|We examined seasonal diets of an introduced population of Dama dama dama (European Fallow Deer) on Little St. Simons Island, GA. We analyzed rumen contents from hunter-harvested deer during fall and winter of 2004-05 and 2005-06. Fecal pellets also were collected monthly from November 2004 to December 2005 and examined microscopically for unique plant-cell characteristics. Fallow Deer utilized a variety of food items based on seasonal availability, although mast and browse were the most abundant food items in the rumens examined. Fallow Deer preferred Quercus spp. (oak) acorns, but consumed more Sabal palmetto (Cabbage Palm) fruit when acorns were less abundant. Microhistological techniques underestimated the occurrence of highly digestible items such as mast, but were more effective at identifying grasses and browse. Grasses were the most common and abundant forage class in feces, with peak grass use in the summer (67%). Fallow Deer's ability to utilize a wide variety of food items including low-quality forage has contributed to their success in this barrier island ecosystem. However, low productivity, suppressed body weights, and small antler characteristics are likely due to a low-quality diet and over-population.
25599355|Dasypus novemcinctus (Nine-banded Armadillo) produces litters of genetically identical quadruplets and, because of this, has long been considered a potential model system for the study of kin selection. However, long-term field studies have failed to reveal any obvious instances of kin-selected altruism in this species. Social interactions, such as altruism, require time and energy. The time-constraints hypothesis proposes that, because of certain aspects of their biology, Nine-banded Armadillos may have to devote most of their active time to foraging, thus precluding any opportunity for the evolution of kin-selected social behavior. To determine the potential validity of this conjecture, we recorded time budgets of wild Nine-banded Armadillos at a study site in western Mississippi during two summers. Both focal and instantaneous sampling showed armadillos allocated 77-90% of their above-ground active time to foraging. A search of the literature indicated that this is among the highest values reported for any mammal. We interpret these findings as consistent with the time-constraints hypothesis.
25599356|The trematode Alloglossidium renale was commonly observed in the freshwater shrimp Palaemonetes kadiakensis in Pike County, AL, with a prevalence of 30.2% and 12.7% at two different collection sites. Sectioned antennal glands demonstrated tissue damage near the parasite, including antennal gland tubule cell compression and destruction of host cells. Normal tubules as well as those showing cellular changes were functional and contained parasite ova. Grass shrimp outlive this infection, as evidenced by masses of ova and debris within infected antennal glands, but no viable parasite. The non-lethal nature of the parasite helps to explain the high intensity of infection observed at one of the collection sites. This study furthers our understanding of the effect of this parasite on its host, and extends the reported range of Alloglossidium renale to Alabama.
25599357|As part of an All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, an assemblage of microfungi associated in litter samples from healthy Fagus grandifolia (American Beech), Abies fraseri (Fraser Fir), and Tsuga canadensis (Eastern Hemlock) trees was determined in 2005 and 2006. Additionally, litter samples from the collection sites were assayed for pH, nutrient content, ash, crude proteins, and levels of organic matter to determine their impact on the mycobiota. Species richness, diversity, and evenness patterns were evaluated from the litter samples collected in May, July, and September of each year. A total of 6249 isolates of fungi were obtained, with greater than 90% belonging to the Deuteromycota. Over 100 species of fungi were identified from litter of the three tree species, with 55 being new records from the Park. As in previous studies, the most common fungi isolated from the three tree species were 13 species of Trichoderma during the two-year study. Other common fungi included Virgaria nigra and Penicillium spp. Species richness and diversity values pooled across sampling dates and years were significantly greater from American Beech litter, followed by Eastern Hemlock and lowest for Fraser Fir. Species richness and diversity values compared by sampling dates for each year were generally greater in May than July or September, but evenness values showed a reverse trend for each year. When species richness and diversity were compared between sampling dates per year and among or by tree species, significant differences often occurred, but no trends were determined. Data from the litter tissue assay showed that Fraser Fir, which had the lowest species richness and diversity, may have been impacted by having significantly lower pH and percent litter chemical compositions of ash, crude protein, and N than the other tree species. All other comparisons of species richness were similar.
25599358|Biologists handled Canis lupus rufus (Red Wolf) pups from 12 wild litters over 3 years to determine if den interference and handling negatively impacted neonatal survival. Litters were handled for blood collection and transponder placement on one of 2 den visits approximately 13 days apart when pups were approximately 5 days and 19 days old, respectively. No biologically important difference in the proportion of pups surviving was observed between subsequent visits, nor in comparison to historical data from dens where pups were not handled but rather documented based on autumn trapping surveys.
25599359|The Camp Shelby Joint Forces Training Center (CSJFTC) is a 54,315-ha National Guard training installation located in the Piney Woods subprovince of the Gulf Coastal Plain physiographic region of south-central Mississippi. A list of 108 native amphibian and reptile species possibly occurring on the CSJFTC was generated using known geographic distribution ranges and museum records. General herpetofaunal field-collecting techniques were used to survey the CSJFTC's aquatic and terrestrial habitats from April 2004-April 2007. Eighty-three native and one introduced species were identified, comprising 59% of the state's known (excluding marine species) and 77% of the CSJFTC's suspected herpetofauna. Ten species listed as needing special protection by state or federal agencies occur at the site, including Crotalus adamanteus, Gopherus polyphemus, Lampropeltis calligaster, Masticophis flagellum, Micrurus fulvius, Ophisaurus attenuatus, Pituophis melanoleucus, Pseudacris ornata, Pseudotriton ruber, and Regina rigida. This information will be useful in directing future monitoring efforts and when developing management plans on the CSJFTC.
25599360|We report the longitudinal distribution and population characteristics of Micropterus dolomieu (Smallmouth Bass), M. salmoides (Largemouth Bass), and M. punctulatus (Spotted Bass) of the lower Eleven Point River of Arkansas. Smallmouth Bass were the most abundant species collected, followed by Largemouth Bass and Spotted Bass. Abundance of Smallmouth Bass was greatest upstream and declined significantly downstream; abundance of Spotted Bass was significantly greater downstream. Largemouth Bass were evenly distributed throughout the river. Associated with these species distribution trends were a downstream decline in stream slope and velocity, and an increase in the proportion of pools relative to riffles and runs. Proportional stock structures were similar and relatively low for each species (range = 22.9-32.3). Growth rates of Smallmouth Bass and Spotted Bass were high relative to other study populations, with age-3 fish reaching 300 mm total length. Diets of adult Smallmouth Bass and Spotted Bass were similar. Diets of Smallmouth Bass varied by season (increased feeding on insects during the summer months) and length group (transition of feeding on insects to fishes to crayfishes). Relative weight was greater for Largemouth Bass
25599361|Microsatellite multiplexing is a useful technique that minimizes the time, reagents, and cost associated with genetic studies in fisheries biology. Striped Bass is an important sport and aquaculture species commonly stocked throughout the United States. We have developed three multiplexed panels that collectively incorporate twelve different established microsatellite loci. All loci were tested for Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium, linkage disequilibrium, Mendelian inheritance, and null alleles in two populations. Loci were comparably polymorphic in two river systems with similar allele size ranges observed; therefore, these multiplexed panels should be useful for genetic population studies of Striped Bass both within and between disparate geographic distributions.
25599362|Fish assemblages within Choccolocco, Shoal, and Scarbrough creeks (Shoal Creek District, Talladega National Forest, AL) were surveyed each July from 2003-2007. Mean species diversity (Shannon Index) was 2.3 or higher for all sites except Scarbrough Creek (headwater site). Calculated IBI's for all sites scored were "good" with the exception of Scarbrough Creek which scored "poor." At all sites except Scarbrough creek, fish communities were dominated by Cyprinella trichroistia (Tricolor Shiner), Semotilus atromaculatus (Creek Chub), Hypentelium etowanum (Alabama Hogsucker), Campostoma oligolepis (Largescale Stoneroller), and Notropis xaenocephalus (Coosa Shiner). At one site near a large lake (Shoal Creek), sunfish were also predominant. Limited numbers of the state-listed Etheostoma brevirostrum (Holiday Darter) were also observed in Shoal Creek. The Creek Chub was the only fish species observed in Scarbrough Creek at its headwaters. Although species diversity may be reduced relative to historical data, those fish populations observed in the streams currently appear stable.
25599363|Big and Cowarts creeks lie in extreme southeastern Alabama and form the headwaters of Chipola River. Qualitative and quantitative sampling for freshwater mussels in these reaches during 2006 and 2007 revealed an intact fauna, relative to historical reports. A cumulative total of 17 species, including federally protected Elliptio chipolaensis (Chipola Slabshell), Lampsilis subangulata (Shinyrayed Pocketbook), Medionidus penicillatus (Gulf Moccasinshell), and Pleurobema pyriforme (Oval Pigtoe), was encountered. A total of 3382 mussels (density 5.84 per m) was estimated for one 65-m reach of Big Creek and 9627 mussels (density 8.09 per m) were estimated to occur in one 170-m reach of Cowarts Creek. Tributaries had depauperate faunas, apparently due to substrate instability.
25599364|Type, level, and intensity of human activities may facilitate establishment and spread of invasive plant species. A better understanding of how human activities influence invasion can assist land managers in developing strategies for control and monitoring of invasive plants. Spread of the invasive species Imperata cylindrica (Cogongrass) has been attributed to human activities. During 2002-2004, on Camp Shelby Training Site, MS, we investigated relationships between military activity and establishment and growth of Cogongrass. In areas of soil disturbance from military equipment, vegetative linear growth rates of 7-10 m yr were recorded on firing points. There was a positive relationship between military troop use and Cogongrass establishment on firing points for one of the 2 years of the study (P = 0.023). Thus, steps to minimize soil disturbance in and near Cogongrass may reduce spread. We examined frequency of Cogongrass infestation and vegetative growth rates for roadside areas along gravel roads subject to at least annual mowing and grading, and dirt tracks receiving infrequent maintenance. Cogongrass spread and establishment on roadsides did not differ for the two road types (P  0.116). These results may reflect activities already in place to reduce disturbance of Cogongrass patches.
25599365|To investigate the possible role of landscape connectivity on the genetic structure of isolated populations, we examined the effects of habitat corridors on the population genetics of a vagile butterfly species, Junonia coenia, within a large-scale, experimental system. Using allozyme electrophoresis, a total of nine loci were identified and scored, six of which exhibited polymorphism. Our data demonstrated consistently higher levels of expected (H) and observed (H) heterozygosity in butterflies sampled from patches connected by corridors compared to unconnected patches. A t-test comparing H and H in connected versus unconnected patches found a marginally significant difference in one locus, the glycolytic enzyme phosphoglucose isomerase (PGI). Connected patches exhibited overall lower
25599366|Milkweed bugs are aposematically colored, with orange and black on their forewings, and the degree of both colors varies among individuals. Despite the attention given to the warning nature of this color, there has been little research directed at this variation. In this study, the subtle variation in wing colors of one species of milkweed bug, Oncopeltus fasciatus (Large Milkweed Bug) was measured to determine if the color variation was related to sex or body size. Fifty-eight bugs were hand-collected at three sites in northeast Georgia, and their wings scanned using a slide scanner and measured digitally using image analysis software. Wings of females were larger than those of males in general, and the color analyses showed statistically significant differences in wing hue between males and females. Females also had darker black wing sections than males, which could be evidence of a sex-related difference in immune function. Regardless of sex, wings of larger bugs had deeper orange color and darker black, which may increase the aposematic contrast. Finally, several differences in wing color were found between sites, suggesting either site-level variation in host-plant quality or relatedness among individuals within sites. This study is the first to quantify in detail the wing colors of milkweed bugs and forms the basis for future research into this little-studied aspect of this insect.
25599367|This research compared the effectiveness of red, yellow, green, and blue chemiluminescent candles and white light from an LED source in capturing water mites and aquatic insects in a macrophyte bed of a small reservoir. We sought to compare the abundance of organisms captured and to determine whether specific taxa showed a preference for certain colors. A total of 2974 organisms in 19 taxa were collected including 7 water mite genera and 12 other invertebrate taxa. The abundance of Hydrachnida (water mites) in the traps was greater than all other taxa combined. The dominant insect taxa collected were Ephemeroptera and Odonata. No statistically significant inter-taxon preferences for color were found, but overall there was a greater attraction to yellow, green, or white light than to red and blue light. Since white light from the reusable LED source performed as well as yellow or green disposable chemiluminescent candles that are typically used in aquatic traps, submersible LED flashlights could be considered a suitable alternative.
25599368|A phylogenetic analysis of 13 species of the genus Anisota was carried out using morphological data from mature larvae. Based on quantitative traits, length, and structure of scoli, 18 characters from 3 thoracic and 4 abdominal segments were characterized and coded. The phylogenetic analysis using the larval scoli yielded results in conjunction with previously proposed taxonomic relationships. For instance, the eastern North American species A. consularis, A. fuscosa, and A. manitobensis were found to share a close relationship. Similarly, A. discolor, A. virginiensis, and A. pellucida, three other eastern North American species, were found to be most closely related. However, discrepencies between expected and actual results were also observed: A. stigma and A. leucostygma fell out as sister species to all other Anisota species. This disassociation of the two species from their nearest relatives is believed to be due to the longer branched scoli found on both species and the designated outgroup, Citheronia regalis.
25599369|When Hurricane Ike made landfall near Galveston, Texas on 13 September 2008, massive debris piles were formed onshore along coastal Louisiana and Texas. A live juvenile Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator) was found on 28 September amongst debris on the beach at Padre Island National Seashore; this alligator had been marked (web tags and tail notches) and released in Johnson's Bayou, LA six weeks prior to the hurricane. We believe it was swept away from coastal Louisiana by the hurricane's storm surge and displaced some 489 km from its release site. To our knowledge, this is a record displacement for an American Alligator and demonstrates the resiliency of this species.
25599370|Conserving biodiversity in the southeastern United States begins with documenting the distribution and natural history of all taxa. Using pitfall traps between March 2005 and January 2006, we collected the first Sorex fumeus (Smoky Shrew) specimens (44) from Alabama on the Cumberland Plateau in the northeastern portion of the state. Body size of specimens was generally smaller than reported for other populations. We recommend additional surveys throughout the Cumberland Plateau region in Alabama to better document this species' range in the state.
40664853|-Prey items for the federally protected Eastern Indigo Snake {Drymarchon couper) were compiled from published and gray literature, field observations, necropsies, dissection of museum specimens, and personal communications from reliable sources. One hundred and eighty-six records were obtained for 48 different prey species. Anurans, Gopher Tortoises, snakes, and rodents comprised ca. 85% of the prey items. Most records (n = 143) that mentioned size were from adult indigos; 17 were from juveniles. Prey records were collected from 1940-2008 and were available for all months of the year. These data confirm that Eastern Indigo Snakes eat a wide assortment of prey of varying sizes. This strategy allows D. couperi to potentially forage successfully in many different types of habitats and under fluctuating environmental conditions, a valuable trait for a top-level predator that requires a large home range.
40664854|We conducted a competitive bioblitz survey in four Georgia counties to raise awareness of a unique and species rich herpetofauna in the Pine Mountain/Fall Line Sandhills Region of Georgia, and compared documented species of these counties to other herpetofaunas of the southeast that have known high richness and/or were subject to thorough collection efforts. Our results demonstrate the efficacy of bioblitzes for documenting large numbers of species in a limited amount of time (62 amphibian and reptile species in only seven days, including 36 new county records and documentation of three protected species). Compared to areas of similar size, this area is among the most species-rich herpetofaunas in North America north of Mexico, with only three areas having higher documented richness. However, all areas we compared our site to have experienced much higher collection effort and contain much larger tracts of protected land. Thus, our data suggest the Pine Mountain/Fall Line Sandhills region is among the most important regions for amphibian and reptile conservation in North America.
40664855|To better understand salamander-habitat relationships in karst sinkholes, we surveyed 25 sinkholes and three upland control sites at the Selu Conservancy (Montgomery County, VA) in the spring and summer of 2008. At each site, we measured 26 habitat parameters (e. g., number/decomposition stage of downed logs and snags, soil moisture, soil temperature, canopy coverage, leaf-litter depth). With these data, we questioned if sinkholes supported higher salamander densities than non-sinkhole habitats, if salamander densities changed throughout the spring and summer months in response to changes in soil temperature and soil moisture, and which microhabitat measures were most strongly correlated with average salamander densities. In seven rounds of surveys, we captured 292 Plethodon cinereus (Eastern Red-backed Salamanders) and 223 Plethodon glutinosus (Northern Slimy Salamanders).Although we found that capture success did vary among rounds, we found no significant differencein salamander densities between sinkholes and upland sites. We discovered a weak positive relationship between total captures per round and percent soil moisture. Non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination suggested that capture success for both species was markedly lower in sinkholes in and surrounded by early successional habitats than those within a forest matrix. Indirect indicators of soil fertility (e. g., percent organic matter, bryophyte cover, litter depth) were correlated to salamander capture success. Our study serves as a springboard for an ongoing project that examines patterns in salamander genetic diversity across a wider range of sinkholes with varying historical land-use patterns.
40664856|Each fishery presents its own challenges for observers to document bycatch. The North Carolina (NC) stop net fishery is especially challenging because it uses anchored gear (the stop net) that soaks up to 15 days to herd fish, which are then hauled to shore via another gear (a beach seine). Three Tursiops truncatus (Bottlenose Dolphin) entanglements in stop nets and six Bottlenose Dolphin strandings, each suspected of having been entangled in stop net gear based on injuries noted (lesions) and spatio-temporal overlap with the fishery, were documented by the NC Marine Mammal Network between 1992 and 2007. In 2001-2002, new observational techniques and surveys were used to observe this fishery to estimate bycatch and to document dolphin behavior around the gear. Techniques included observations from the beach during net retrievals and in situ surveys using a vessel with a sonar-video camera system. No entangled dolphins were observed, and, in fact, observations indicated dolphins were not attracted to stop nets and generally changed direction to avoid the gear. Nonetheless, characteristics of the fishery impose severe limitations on the efficacy of bycatch observer methods, rendering those results unreliable. Given low levels of known or suspected entanglements and the challenges of observing this fishery, stranding network data may be the most practical and effective method to monitor dolphin bycatch.
40664857|This study examined the relative rotation of the lower incisors of eight species of insectivorous bats from North America to test the null hypothesis that no taxonomic differences existed among the species. The lower incisors of Eptesicus fuscus, several species of Myotis, and Nycticeius humeralis (Chiroptera: Vespertilionidae) are distinctive in general shape, the degree of rotation of each tooth, and the extent of overlap of each tooth. The incisor group is wider in Eptesicus than in the other species studied. Eptesicus shows very little rotation of the incisors, but the incisors of species of Myotis show rotation up to 150 degrees from the midline of the mandible. Incisor 1 shows the least rotation and incisor 3 shows the most rotation among the three incisors in Myotis. Overlap of the incisors appears to be indirectly related to rotation, with Eptesicus showing the most overlap and Myotis the least.
40664858|Extensive areas of prairie were once found in the southeastern United States; however, in the last 200 years much of this habitat type has been destroyed. The largest of these prairie regions, the Black Belt Prairie, extends through portions of Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. The ant fauna of these endangered grasslands has not been well documented; therefore, a survey was initiated, with collections made at 23 Black Belt Prairie remnants in Alabama and Mississippi during a four-year period. A total of 53 ant species, in six subfamilies and 25 genera were collected. Six exotic species were collected, and 11 species were found to be restricted to trees within the prairie, resulting in 36 species that likely represent the true prairie fauna.
40664859|There is a widespread belief in the southern parts of the United States that Trombiculidae (Chiggers) are common in Tillandsia usneoides (Spanish Moss) (Bromeliaceae). However, no chiggers were found among the 3297 organisms collected from T. usneoides and T. recurvata (Ball Moss) in trees and from the ground on Cumberland Island, GA. The organisms included 1721 Acari (mites), and in order of decreasing abundance were Psocoptera (barklice), Collembola (springtails), Araneae (spiders), Coccidae (scales), Thysanoptera (thrips), Formicidae (ants), Isopoda (sowbugs), Diplopoda (millipedes), Coleptera, and Lepidoptera larvae. The millipede Polyxenus fascicularis (Polyxenidae) and the ensign scale insect Orthezia tillandsia (Ortheziidae) were of particular interest because of their rarity and host specificity, respectively.
40664860|Birds concentrated in riparian habitats are poorly sampled by traditional survey methods because of the difficulties associated with accessing these habitats.Our objectives were to test the effectiveness of river-based surveys to determine the status, distribution, and relative abundance for riparian bird species in Missouri and northern Arkansas, with special emphasis on Dendroica cerlea (Cerulean Warbler).Our canoe-based surveys revealed an average of 2.3 and 0.8 singing male Cerulean Warblers/river km along the Current River (128 river km surveyed), MO, and the Buffalo National River (96 river km), AR. Nonparametric estimates for repeated surveys of the same river stretches indicate that 69-79% of singing male Cerulean Warblers were detected. However, the bias associated with the estimate methodology and independent song rate data suggest those are conservative estimates. In comparison with land-based point-counts, this river-based protocol offers a quick and efficient assessment of Cerulean Warblers in riparian areas.
40664861|Archaeological research at salt springs in Clarke County, AL (Tombigbee River drainage), documented bivalve mollusk exploitation by late prehistoric American Indians. A total of 582 valves representing 19 species of freshwater mussels (Unionidae) and an estuarine clam (Mactridae) from the Lower Salt Works Site (ca. A. D. 900-1550) and 41 valve fragments representing 6 mussel species from the Stimpson Site (ca. A. D. 1200-1550) were documented. The Lower Salt Works fauna was dominated numerically by Fusconaia ebena and Quadrula asperata, the dominant species reported during recent local surveys. The mussel species represented are known from medium to large streams in sand and gravel habitats and include four federally protected species and other species of conservation concern in Alabama. Results offer comparative data for other archaeological and ecological studies in the region.
40664862|Fundulus stellifer (Southern Studfish) was studied using 12 monthly collections from Moore's Creek near Waleska, GA. Female specimens ranged from 24.72 mm to 94.29 mm SL and up to 15.90 g total weight. Male specimens ranged from 27.81 mm to 96.07 mm SL and up to 18.60 g total weight. Increases in size were greatest in spring and summer. Maximum age appears to be just over 2 years for both sexes, as the oldest specimens collected were estimated at 28 months of age. Spawning likely occurred between late April and early June. Sexual maturity was reached in the second full spawning season for both sexes, with females having a maximum ova diameter of 2.75 mm. The primary diet of F. stellifer consisted of Chironomidae, Branchiopoda, and unidentified insect parts, with other food items seasonally. The amount of food consumed is greatest in the months preceding and during spawning and lowest during fall and early winter.
40664863|Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park, Cobb County, GA, is administered by the National Park Service, United States Department of the Interior, and comprises 1183 ha (2923 acres) including three significant Civil War battleground sites of the Atlanta Campaign of 1864. A floristic survey was conducted to provide Park Service personnel with a vouchered plant species checklist, supplemented with salient information such as relative abundance, locality data, and general community type. Twelve collecting trips conducted in 2006 yielded 538 species and two varieties of vascular plants. The six largest families were Asteraceae (73 spp.), Poaceae (69 spp.), Fabaceae (39 spp.), Rosaceae (21 spp.), Cyperaceae (19 spp.), and Lamiaceae (14 spp.). According to state rankings, six rare plant species occur within the study area, including Asclepias purpurascens (rare) and Thaspium pinnatifidum (endangered). Twenty-three percent of the non-cultivated flora is nonnative. Alliaria petiolata, a serious invasive exotic, was vouchered for the first time in Georgia. Herein, we provide a vouchered checklist of vascular plants and a map and descriptions of the general plant communities. Additionally, an earlier unvouchered list prepared by Park Service personnel is included with updated nomenclature and taxonomy.
40664864|We document the discovery of Highfin Carpsucker in the Apalachicola River, FL.Three specimens were captured between river kilometer 170-171 on the Apalachicola River in the vicinity of Jim Woodruff Lock and Dam during spring 2007. The specimens were captured within a reach 0.5-1.0 km downstream from the dam and just upstream from a major spawning area for several other catostomids. This is the first record of the species east of the Choctawhatchee River, FL-AL, and is a range extension of 185 km eastward into the Florida Panhandle region of the Northern Gulf of Mexico Coast.
40664865|We report on a recently discovered population of the freshwater snail Lithasia geniculata (Ornate Rocksnail) (Gastropoda: Pleuroceridae) from the Ohio River, IL, the first documented occurrence for this species outside the Tennessee and Cumberland river basins. We collected 14 individuals on 26-27 August 2008 from the Ohio River, near Mound City, Pulaski County, IL. AU of the specimens collected were discovered on an exposed shoal after the river dropped ~ 0.5 m in a 24-hr period and had several (7-33) Dreissenapolymorpha (Zebra Mussel) attached to their shells.
40664866|We report an exceptional clutch size for Farancia abacura (Mud Snake). A large female specimen of F. a. abacura (Eastern Mud Snake), collected July 2008 in southern Georgia, deposited 111 eggs in captivity. Sixty-nine of the eggs hatched, yielding 65 (94.2%) normal hatchlings and 4 (5.8%) anerythristic (i. e., white-bellied) morphs. This clutch exceeds the previous record of 104 eggs reported in 1931.
40664867|Bubo virginianus (Great Homed Owl) and a Buteo lineatus (Red-Shouldered Hawk) were found dead in a field in Morgan County, GA following a reported mid-air attack.The birds were submitted to the Southeastern Cooperative Wildlife Disease Study (SCWDS), College of Veterinary Medicine, The University of Georgia, Athens, GA for a postmortem examination.Necropsy results disclosed multiple foci of severe hemorrhage and bone fractures in both birds, and the findings suggest that this is an apparent case of reciprocal trauma in two raptors. Documented reciprocal fatal trauma in raptors is scarce, and to the author's knowledge, this is the only report involving Great Horned Owls.
40664868|Colinus virginianus (Northern Bobwhite) respond favorably to frequent disturbances in most physiographic regions of their population distribution. These disturbances maintain the vegetative composition and structure needed for survival and reproduction. Prescribed fire is an important habitat management tool if used according to proper prescriptions and objectives.However, under certain conditions, prescribed fire may have deleterious effects on populations and individuals. We describe a single observation of an individual Bobwhite killed by a prescribed fire event. To our knowledge, this is the first observation of its kind in the scientific literature. We believe this occurrence is uncommon under most conditions while conducting prescribed fires.However, managers should consider the fuel conditions, weather variables, and scale of fire before conducting prescribed fires for Bobwhite habitat enhancement. Based on this observation, other upland birds may be susceptible to direct mortality from prescribed fire events.
40664892|During a pelagic longline pilot study conducted by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, National Marine Fisheries Service, Southeast Fisheries Science Center, Mississippi Laboratories along the US Atlantic Ocean coast (NOAA Ship OREGON II OT-06-02-269), a Caretta caretta (Loggerhead Sea Turtle) was captured with longline gear equipped with time-temperature-depth recorders attached in proximity to hooks. Time-temperature-depth data documented changes in hook depth and water temperature, and reflected behavior of the Loggerhead Sea Turtle (rates of descent and ascent, time at depth, time near surface). Sea turtle mortality mitigation recommendations for pelagic longline gear proved effective for this Loggerhead Sea Turtle capture since there were successive ascents to surface, and the viability status was good after landing.
40664893|Information is presented on 348 Trichoptera (caddisfly) species recorded from North Carolina, including 76 new state records. This information includes distribution across 4 ecoregions, occurrence by stream size, and the 1 st published North Carolina record for each species.
40664894|We measured densities of Solenopsis invicta (Red Imported Fire Ant) mounds at sites occupied by Ammodramus savannarum floridanus (Florida Grasshopper Sparrow), a federally endangered subspecies, at Avon Park Air Force Range (APAFR), Kissimmee Prairie Preserve State Park (KPPSP), and Three Lakes Wildlife Management Area (TLWMA). Our objective was to compare densities of fire ant mounds among areas with active cattle grazing programs (two areas of native dry prairie habitat at APAFR and a tamed pasture at KPPSP) and areas without active grazing programs (native dry prairie habitat at KPPSP and TLWMA). Densities of fire ant mounds differed among the five areas examined and were greater in areas with active grazing programs than in areas without active grazing programs. We measured densities of fire ant mounds inside and outside of a cattle exclosure, but the total numbers detected were insufficient for analysis. We also placed bait stations inside and outside the exclosure. Fire ants were detected at 50% fewer bait stations inside the exclosure, but these differences were not significant.
40664895|Odonates are vulnerable during emergence, when they shed their larval skin (exuvia) to take flight as adults. Emergence-site selection should adapt to the local mortality risks. Here, I characterized emergence-site selection of Epitheca spinosa (Robust Baskettails) by noting the substrate, height, and distance from water of exuviae in a 300 m x 5 m plot at Weston Lake, Congaree National Park, Hopkins, SC. Of the 82 Robust Baskettail exuviae sampled, 52 (63.4%) were found on trees with corky bark (Nyssa aquatica [Water Tupelo], Nyssa biflora [Swamp Tupelo], Fraxinus pennsylvanica [Green Ash]), while no exuviae were found on the peeling, flaky trunks of Taxodium distichum (Bald Cypress) or the smooth, platy trunks of Acer rubrum (Red Maple). However, 26 (31.7%) exuviae were on T. distichum pneumatophores. This pattern was significantly different from the relative abundances of these substrate types ( = 19.8, df = 3, P < 0.001). Most exuviae (93.9%) were on substrates touching the water, suggesting that larvae climb directly from the water to their emergence site. The mean height of exuviae on trees was 3.3  1.37 m, with a range from 1.8-7.7 m. Highclimbing by Robust Baskettail larvae may be an adaptation to flooding at Weston Lake; major flood events (> 3 m) are common (5 of the last 10 years) during their March-April emergence period.
40664896|Asclepias curtissii (Curtiss' Milkweed) is an endangered perennial herbaceous plant endemic to Florida scrub habitat. Although many scrub perennials are gap specialists, Curtiss' Milkweed is often found growing in close association with woody vegetation. We asked whether seed germination and seedling establishment are enhanced by the microsite conditions created beneath woody shrubs. In addition, we asked whether adult plants occur in association with shrubs more frequently than would be expected by chance and whether this distribution could be explained by seed dispersal patterns. Seeds were germinated, ex situ, in a factorial experiment with leaf litter and shade as main effects. In a separate experiment, to determine the effect of shrub cover on seedling establishment, 144 Curtiss' Milkweed seedlings were planted into a total of twelve fenced plots within Lyonia Preserve, Deltona, FL. Within each plot, six seedlings were planted in sandy gaps, and six were planted in close association with existing woody shrubs. We assessed survival over a five-month period. We also measured the distance to the nearest woody stem from extant adult plant locations and compared these to the distance of random points around those extant plants. Similarly, we released 70 milkweed seeds from extant plant locations and measured the distance from the spot where they landed to the nearest woody stem and compared this to the distance between random points and woody stems. We found that seed germination was significantly enhanced by shade (P < 0.0001) but not by leaf litter, and that seedlings growing in the shade of close neighboring shrubs had significantly higher rates of survival (P < 0.001) than those seedlings planted in gaps. Extant plants tended to grow close to shrubs, and seeds tended to land near shrubs, but neither of these distances were less than would be expected by random chance (P > 0.10 in both cases). The facilitation of seedling establishment by woody plants has been documented in other arid environments, but not in Florida scrub.
40664897|Knowledge of species distribution is fundamental to conservation and management efforts. Unfortunately, distribution of many mammal species in the southeastern United States, including some considered endangered, threatened, or of special concern, has been and remains poorly documented. We queried museums, reviewed the published literature, and searched state Natural Heritage Inventory databases to obtain distributional information for 13 mammal species considered rare (Global Rank G1-G3 or State Rank S1-S3) or of other conservation concern in the Southern Appalachian region. We constructed distribution maps for selected mammal species within the region based on 7 state Natural Heritage Inventory databases and 1539 county records from 26 museums and 57 published sources. Napaeozapus insignis (Woodland Jumping Mouse), Mustela nivalis (Least Weasel), and Tamiasciurus hudsonicus (Red Squirrel) exhibited large (> 150 km) geographic differences from currently accepted range maps. Sorex dispar (Rock Shrew), Synaptomys cooperi (Southern Bog Lemming), Neotoma magister (Allegheny Woodrat), and Zapus hudsonius (Meadow Jumping Mouse), exhibited small (< 75 km) geographic differences. The remaining 6 species showed little to no range differences from commonly accepted range maps. Because seven of 13 mammals showed substantial differences from known range maps, our updated maps may aide managers and others in focusing surveying and conservation efforts.
40664898|Four adult male Canis lupus rufus (Red Wolf) were monitored with GPS collars in 2006-2008 on the Albemarle peninsula of North Carolina in the first high temporal resolution (4 locations/day) study of this endangered species in the wild. The Wolves occupied home ranges during 11-18 month observation periods, and the GPS data were divided into 30-day subsets to evaluate changes in the spatial characteristics of the home ranges over time. The subset location data were then combined with landcover maps derived from Landsat satellite imagery. Proportions of different land-cover types occupied by the Wolves were seasonally cyclic, with increased use of agricultural areas when tall row crops were available from summer to autumn and increased use of adjacent grass, brush, and forest areas from winter to late spring when tall crops were absent.The spatial extents of home ranges (95% fixed-kernel probability areas) were also seasonally variable, reaching maximum sizes (73-121 km 2) in early autumn to winter and contracting by 40% to 63% during whelping and pup-rearing in the spring. Our study shows the potential for GPS collars to provide useful information about space and habitat use by Red Wolves, and that at least a full year of observation may be required to fully determine the variability of home-range characteristics.
40664899|Lynx rufus (Bobcat) cover-type selection and activity patterns have been studied in a variety of landscapes in the southeastern United States, but effects of individual activity status (active or inactive) and time of day (day, night, crepuscular) on cover-type selection have not been investigated for this species. Therefore, we investigated Bobcat habitat use in a Pinus palustris (Longleaf Pine) forest in southwestern Georgia to determine whether activity status of individuals or time of day affected seasonal cover-type selection. We monitored 43 radiocollared Bobcats from 2001-2004 and determined habitat use at Johnson's third order of selection (i. e., habitat selection within the home range) using Euclidean distance-based analysis.Bobcats selected (A = 0.017, P = 0.001) habitat within their home ranges; however, although Bobcats are typically classified as crepuscular, neither activity status (A = 0.990, P = 0.981) nor time-of-day (A = 0.972, P = 0.647) affected cover-type selection. Bobcats on our study site preferred agricultural areas and other early to midsuccessional habitats, probably because they produced abundant prey.
40664900|The Indian Mountain Forever Wild Tract (IMFWT) is a 240-ha property that was acquired in two purchases by the State of Alabama Forever Wild Program on 18 September 1997 and 31 December 2001. The IMFWT lies 55 km east of Gadsden, AL, and is in the Terrapin Creek watershed, a tributary of the Coosa River. The Alabama Department of Conservation and Natural Resources manages the site with an emphasis on recreational use and habitat management. An intensive floristic study of this area was conducted from March 2007 through May 2008. A total of 431 taxa (430 species) from 281 genera and 103 families were collected, with 157 taxa being county records. Asteraceae was the most-collected family, with 73 species. Poaceae, Fabaceae, and Cyperaceae were the families with the next highest numbers of taxa found (40, 28, and 17 species, respectively). Quercus was the most-represented genus, with 11 taxa. Fifty non-native species were collected during the surveys. Plant collections were deposited at the Anniston Museum of Natural History Herbarium, with duplicates deposited at the University of Alabama Herbarium (UNA), Auburn University Herbarium (AUA), and Troy University Herbarium (TROY).
40664901|The life history of Notropis chrosomus (Rainbow Shiner) was investigated using 12 monthly collections from Moore Creek (Etowah River Drainage) at GA Highway 140 in Cherokee County, GA. Specimens were collected by electroshocking and seining primarily from runs and flowing pools and examined to identify feeding habits, age, growth, and reproductive patterns. Notropis chrosomus are opportunistic insectivores with gut contents largely consisting of Chironomidae larvae, unidentified insect parts, unidentified Dptera adults, and Collembola. Spawning occurred in spring with 400-896 (mean 708.92, SD = 162.90) mature oocytes ranging from 0.7 mm to 1.22 mm (mean = 0.90 mm, SD = 0.167 mm) present in specimens collected in April, May, and June. Sexual maturity occurred at approximately one year of age. The maximum age of both males and females was estimated at approximately 24 months (females = 25 months, males = 23 months). The largest female collected was 66.71 mm SL and 5.515 g total weight. The largest male collected was 60.19 mm SL and 3.691 g total weight.
40664902|Aggressive interactions, differences in chela size, and the effect of chela size on outcomes 0of aggressive interactions were studied in a laboratory setting using the federally protected (endangered) Orconectes shoupi (Nashville Crayfish), and two sympatric species, O. placidus (Bigclaw Crayfish) and O. durelli (Saddle Crayfish). Orconectes placidus and O. durelli are potential threats to O. shoupi through competitive or aggressive interactions. Understanding such interactions could help explain species distributions, provide insight on additional threats, and guide management decisions regarding Nashville Crayfish translocations. Aggressive interactions were examined with 30-min videotaped trials between body-size-matched hetero-and conspecific pairs. The predicted influence of chela size on outcomes of aggressive interactions was also analyzed. Our results demonstrated that O. shoupi males and females were significantly more aggressive than O. placidus. However, O. durelli females won more encounters and were slightly more aggressive than O. shoupi females. Significant differences in chela size were detected in some body-size-matched species and gender pairings: O. shoupi males had narrower chelae than O. durelli males; and O. shoupi females had longer and wider chelae than O. placidus females, and longer but narrower chelae than O. durelli females. Although chela size appeared to play a role in dominance, it was not the only factor influencing outcomes of aggressive interactions. Our laboratory results did not identify displacement threats to O. shoupi from O. placidus, and therefore do not preclude introduction of O. shoupi into habitat occupied by O. placidus to meet recovery plan objectives. However, interspecific aggression in the presence of a vital resource (e. g., food or shelter) was not tested here and should be investigated to provide a more comprehensive evaluation of possible threats to O. shoupi.
40664903|Populations of Etheostoma tallapoosae (Tallapoosa Darter) have previously been shown to be genetically divergent for mitochondrial DNA. In this study, PCR primers were developed to amplify portions of six nuclear genes, and sequences of these genes were assessed in three of the most divergent Tallapoosa Darter populations. This analysis shows that these populations are also highly divergent for nuclear gene sequences and thus any adaptive or potentially adaptive variation is likely to be partitioned among the populations. Sequences of the six nuclear genes have also been determined in the closely related species E. coosae and E. brevirostrum, and the utility of these nuclear gene sequences to the elucidation of darter phylogeny is discussed.
40664904|Phalacrocorax brasilianus (Neotropic Cormorant) has been observed with increasing frequency in the alluvial plain (Delta region) of Mississippi. In the past 6 years, 22 individuals have been observed in 20 separate sightings during spring and summer. These sightings have occurred at breeding colonies of other colonial waterbirds and commercial aquaculture facilities of Ictalurus punctatus (Channel Catfish). Two sexually mature Neotropic Cormorants have been collected at a colonial waterbird breeding colony near the Mississippi River in the western Delta region among flocks of Phalacrocorax auritus (Double-crested Cormorants).Twice during the summer of 2008, confirmed nesting of Neotropic Cormorants were documented in the Delta region of Mississippi. The increased abundance and range expansion of Neotropic Cormorants in the Delta region of Mississippi may be a result of the readily available food source of cultured Channel Catfish.
40664905|Although open-cup nesting birds regularly experience partial prdation events, little is known about partial prdation for cavity-nesting birds. Here we report on 12 partial prdation events for 5 species of cavity-nesting birds inhabiting southern pine forests. Snakes, small mammals, and woodpeckers were the primary predators; many were documented by direct visual observation or video photography.We documented two types of outcomes from partial prdation events: partial failure, i. e., a single partial prdation event followed by successful fledging of > 1 young; and complete failure, i. e., multiple, sequential partial prdation events that result in total nest failure. We propose the "plate too full" and "eat and run" hypotheses to explain partial nest prdation in birds and discuss the characteristics of cavities that may facilitate this phenomenon.
40664906|We report an observation of shivering thermogenesis and insulation by a brooding Python molurus bivittatus (Burmese Python) just outside the northern boundary of Everglades National Park, FL. Temperature data loggers were placed in and around the brooding female's nest, and video was taken of the female performing shivering thermogenesis. Nest temperatures were maintained both warmer and cooler than ambient temperatures. This observation of thermorgulation through shivering thermogenesis and clutch insulation is the first documented instance of a Burmese Python exhibiting this behavior in the wild.
40985595|Despite global concern for the status of animal pollinators, studies on pollination systems in the southeastern United States are disproportionately low compared to the diversity of this region. For example, sphingophilous, or hawkmoth-attracting plants, occur in the southeastern US, but confirmation is lacking for the large, long-tongued hawkmoths predicted to visit these flowers by previous researchers. Hymenocallis coronaria (Shoals Spider Lily, or Cahaba Lily), H. occidentalis (Woodland Spider Lily), Oenothera biennis (Common Evening Primrose), and O. grandiflora (Large-flowered Evening Primrose) were studied to confirm this prediction. Manduca rustica (Rustic Sphinx) was confirmed as a frequent visitor to all four plant species studied. M. sexta (Carolina Sphinx) was confirmed for three of the four plants. To determine the range of animal visitors to these plants, three of the plant species were observed during day-and night-observation periods, and total visitation was compared between these times. For H. coronaria, flower-visitation rates did not differ between day and night periods. H. occidentalis and O. biennis were visited significantly more during night hours than during the day. Although hawkmoths are frequent visitors to H. occidentalis and O. biennis, and are probably their most efficient pollinators, Archilochus colubris (Ruby-throated Hummingbird) may also play a role in the pollination of H. coronaria.
40985596|Phototactic behavior toward ultraviolet light varies among nocturnal flying insects. By recording sex ratios of 28 southeastern US moth species, we tested the commonly held belief that UV light-trap collections of moths are significantly skewed toward males. Twelve species demonstrated a statistically significant male preponderance, but a wide range of sex ratios was found. Two of the 28 species demonstrated both significant male and female bias during different observation periods, illustrating the need to collect over the entire flight period. Since the sex ratio of collected organisms varies by species and by time, this must be taken into consideration when using light-trap collection to make population estimates and to gather information for conservation or control of any particular species.
40985597|Spruce-fir forests of the southern Appalachians are threatened by the widespread death of Abies fraseri (Fraser Fir) caused by the exotic Adelges piceae (Balsam Woolly Adelgid). Subsequent canopy opening, due to decimation of the fir population, has likely affected ground-layer dynamics and diversity. We sampled bryophytes on 60 randomly selected plots within the spruce-fir zone of Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) using the line-intercept method (total sampling distance of 1800 m). Our sampling revealed 97 bryophyte species (64 mosses and 33 liverworts) comprising 32 families and 60 genera on ground-layer substrates in spruce-fir forests. Our results suggest that upwards of 20% of the bryoflora of GSMNP can be found on ground-level substrates in the spruce-fir zone.
40985598|Grazing lands and rangelands are increasingly recognized as an important alternative to other developed land uses for sustaining ecological communities in Florida, the rest of the southeastern United States, and other regions. It is important to understand factors that influence ecological communities on private grazing lands, especially in areas with abundant wetlands, which are often sensitive habitats. This study examined the effects of different vegetation types and simulated grazing (clipping) on the abundance, diversity, and composition of the invertebrate community in seasonally flooded, isolated wetlands on a cattle ranch in south-central Florida. We compared invertebrate communities in wetland areas dominated by two different types of vegetation: emergent macrophytes (Pontederia cordata [Pickerelweed]) and grasses (primarily Luziola fluitans [Southern Watergrass]). There was a trend toward greater abundance and diversity of invertebrates in grass-dominated communities. Experimental removal of vegetation to simulate heavy grazing significantly decreased the abundance and diversity of invertebrates. It also shifted the community composition of invertebrates to favor members of Diptera and Ostracoda. Management practices in grazed wetlands that use light or intermediate levels of grazing, or that foster a greater diversity of vegetative cover, may support more diverse and populous wetland invertebrate communities.
40985599|The aquatic macrophyte Podostemum ceratophyllum (Hornleaf Riverweed) commonly provides habitat for invertebrates and fishes in flowing-water portions of Piedmont and Appalachian streams in the eastern US. We quantified variation in percent cover by P. ceratophyllum in a 39-km reach of the Conasauga River, TN and GA, to test the hypothesis that cover decreased with increasing non-forest land use. We estimated percent P. ceratophyllum cover in quadrats (0.09 m) placed at random coordinates within 20 randomly selected shoals. We then used hierarchical logistic regression, in an information-theoretic framework, to evaluate relative support for models incorporating alternative combinations of microhabitat and shoal-level variables to predict the occurrence of high (50%) P. ceratophyllum cover. As expected, bed sediment size and measures of light availability (location in the center of the channel, canopy cover) were included in best-supported models and had similar estimated-effect sizes across models. Podostemum ceratophyllum cover declined with increasing watershed size (included in 8 of 13 models in the confidence set of models); however, this decrease in cover was not well predicted by variation in land use. Focused monitoring of temporal and spatial trends in status of P. ceratophyllum are important due to its biotic importance in fastflowing waters and its potential sensitivity to landscape-level changes, such as declines in forested land cover and homogenization of benthic habitats.
40985600|The Barataria Preserve unit of Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve is located in wetlands of the upper Barataria-Terrebonne estuary near New Orleans, LA and subject to perturbations that affect aquatic resources. A study of submersed aquatic vegetation (SAV) was conducted to determine community composition, distribution, and abundance. Seven native speciesCabomba caroliniana, Ceratophyllum demersum, Heteranthera dubia, Najas guadalupensis, Potamogeton pusillus, Vallisneria americana, and Zannichellia palustrisand three exotic speciesEgeria densa, Hydrilla verticillata, and Myriophyllum spicatumwere present. The highly invasive, exotic, floating fern Salvinia molesta was also present. The Preserve is affected by a coastal restoration project designed to return Mississippi River flow to the upper Baratara Estuary. Preserve SAV did not conform to the general estuarine management paradigm of decline and loss with nutrient introductions. Instead, freshwater dominated the Preserve, and sufficient light was present to support robust SAV growth in ponds, canals, and Lake Cataouatche. Native and exotic species formed large surface mats that clogged waterways. Vallisneria americana may be decreasing due to the increase in nuisance SAV and floating plants. This study is the first of its kind for any wetland habitat in the states of the Northern Gulf Coast and therefore will be an important baseline to future studies both generally and specifically for the Preserve as Louisiana's coastal wetland waterways experience change brought on by the general coastal wetland loss from sea level rise and efforts to restore the wetlands.
40985601|Alligator holes are a key feature of Everglades marshes that provide refugia and foraging sites for a wide range of species. We investigated the spatial pattern of alligator holes in Water Conservation Area 3, a part of the central Everglades, and examined associations among alligator holes, canals, and hydrology. There were fewer alligator holes within 1000 m of canals than expected, supporting the hypothesis that Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator) are using canals as aquatic refugia rather than creating or maintaining alligator holes in the marsh. In addition, density of holes was associated with hydrology; specifically, areas that were drier had more than twice as many alligator holes than areas that were wetter. Analyses from this study provide a baseline for evaluating changes in location and density of alligator holes in response to canal removal and hydrologie changes that will occur as part of Everglades restoration.
40985602|Samples from Walnut Creek, upstream of the Troy Wastewater Treatment Plant (TWWTP), and the influents to and effluents from the TWWTP were assayed for mutagenicity using the Salmonella typhimurium fluctuation test. Samples were prepared with metabolic activation (channel catfish S9 and rat S9 enzymes) and without using TA 100 and TA98 strains of Salmonella. Results indicated that catfish S9 enzymes (FS9) were more capable of activating base-pair substitution mutagens in upstream samples than rat S9 enzymes (RS9). For influent samples, RS9 activated higher levels of base-pair and frameshift mutagens than FS9. The comparison of changes from influent to effluent samples showed a significant reduction in base-pair and no change in frameshift mutagens with FS9; conversely, no change in basepair and a significant reduction in frameshift mutagens with RS9 were found. For direct-acting compounds (without enzymatic activation), a significant increase in frameshift mutations was found in effluent compared to influent, while no significant change was seen in base-pair substitutions. These results indicate that Walnut Creek contains both mutagenic and promutagenic compounds, and influents to TWWTF exhibit mutagenicity that may be refractory to or created by treatment processes. The generally higher mutagenicity ratios following RS9 activation vs. FS9, suggest that current toxicity studies in fish species and water quality requirements may be inadequate to assess the hazards of water resources that receive municipal wastewater treatment discharges and that may be habitat to both fish and mammalian wildlife and may eventually become sources for human exposures.
40985603|Noturus munitus (Frecklebelly Madtom) is a diminutive catfish with a disjunct distribution across the southeastern United States in large rivers and tributaries of the Mobile Basin and Pearl River drainage. Its distribution has contracted since extensive river modification began throughout its range in the 1960s, and it is likely extirpated from the Alabama River. We collected 242 specimens of munitus from a gravel island in the Cahaba River on the Coastal Plain in Alabama from May 2005 to March 2007 to examine life-history characteristics. Adults were associated with fast flow over large gravel at depths of 0.5-1.0 m. Young (<23 mm) were found at water depths of 0.4-0.5 m. Gonad development indicated a reproductive season from May to August, with collection of young-of-the-year in June and July supporting a mid-to late-summer spawn. Stomach content analysis revealed a diet similar to other Noturus species and dominated in volume by Baetidae nymphs (31.2%), Hydropsychidae larvae (20.3%), and Simuliidae larvae (19.7%). Some seasonal and sex differences in diet were apparent. Relative fecundity data indicate that N. munitus is one of the most fecund madtoms of the subgenus Rabida (mean of 30.6 mature oocytes) studied thus far. Few males were found in riffles during summer, and no young were found in riffles outside summer, indicating potential sex and size differences in seasonal habitat use. This knowledge is important for conservation of the species.
40985604|We present new state records for 3 crayfish species in the Tennessee River basin in Mississippi, and the first drainage-specific distributional information in the state for a fourth. The speciesCambarus girardianus, Cambarus rusticiformis, Orconectes spinosus, and Orconectes wright,are all known from the Tennessee River basin in Tennessee, while all but O. wrighti are also known from Alabama. We also expand the distribution of Procambarus viaeviridis in the state to include the Tennessee River drainage in Alcorn and Tishomingo counties, MS. We briefly discuss taxonomic issues involving C. girardianus and O. spinosus. Based on their distributions in neighboring states, we suspect that several other species may occur in the Mississippi portion of the basin.
40985605|The emergence of Southern Tick-Associated Rash Illness (STARI) questions the validity of reported Lyme disease (LD) cases throughout the southern United States. Acute symptoms are identical, and an efficient method of diagnosis is currently unavailable, with the cause(s) in question. The etiologic agent of LD, Borrelia burgdorferi, is transmitted by Ixodes scapularis (Black-legged Tick), while Amblyomma americanum (Lone Star Tick) is known to carry B. lonestari, the bacterium associated with cases of STARI. Peromyscus leucopus (White-footed Mouse) is a very efficient reservoir for these bacteria and tolerant of their vectors. We sampled small (<3 ha) and large (>3 ha) forest patches in Virginia for tick densities, burdens, and infestation rates by collecting ticks by drag sampling and from mice. We also tested ticks for infection by Borrelia. Although mouse density was greater in small patches, tick densities, burdens, and infestation rates did not differ with patch size. B. burgdorferi was not detected in any tick species, but 3.4% of nymphal and 5.9% of adult Lone Star Ticks removed from vegetation were infected with B. lonestari.
40985606|Sylvilagus aquaticus (Swamp Rabbit) is of conservation concern throughout portions of its range, primarily due to habitat loss and alteration. Understanding habitat selection is requisite for natural resource managers providing suitable habitat to support populations of Swamp Rabbits. Swamp Rabbits are thought to be territorial and, as such, emphasis should be placed on males when studying habitat selection. Seasonal (dormant, growth, and senescent) habitat selection by male Swamp Rabbits was assessed at landscape, home-range, and plot scales. In each season, young (<20 yr) bottomland hardwood forests were selected in greater proportion, open field was selected intermediately, and old (>35 yr) bottomland hardwood forests were selected least relative to availability at the landscape scale. Male Swamp Rabbits selected home ranges from the landscape to include access to higher-elevation habitats, perhaps important during flood events. At the home-range scale, young bottomland hardwood forests and open fields were selected most during the dormant and senescent seasons, respectively, and old bottomland hardwood forests were selected least during the senescent season; the remaining cover types in each season were selected in proportion to their availability. At the home-range scale, locations with suitable cover were selected suggesting predation-risk was important at this scale. At the plot scale, predictor variables indicated Swamp Rabbits selected sites conducive to daytime resting, nighttime foraging, or latrine use. We present the first work that examines habitat selection of male Swamp Rabbits at multiple scales. Our results emphasize the importance of interspersion of cover types and stand age selected by male Swamp Rabbits.
40985607|Although summer roosting by Lasionycteris noctivagans (Silverhaired Bats) has been studied in various ecological regions of North America, no quantitative studies have examined winter roost selection. We radiotracked 11 bats to 31 day-roosts during winter in forests of the Ouachita Mountains, AR. We quantified roost structures and examined the association between roosts and forest stands. We also examined effects of temperature on roost use. Ninety percent of roosts were in trees (5 species): 55% of all roosts were under loose bark on the bole of live overstory Pinus echinata (Shortleaf Pine), 3% of roosts were in a rock outcrop, and 6% were at ground level (under a tree root or in a cavity at the base of a live pine). Bats selected pine or pine-hardwoods stands >50 years old, and used forest stands 15-50 years of age less than their availability Roost locations were influenced by temperature and solar radiation; most (90%) roosts were on southern topographic aspects, and bats roosted in the rock outcrop or on the ground on colder days (<5C). Retaining open pine and hardwood stands >50 years old on south slopes would likely maintain roosting habitat for wintering Silver-haired Bats in the Ouachita Mountains.
40985608|The coastal plain of the southeastern United States has experienced rapid and intense urbanization that has substantially changed the area's landscape. Much of this landscape change has been associated with the development of golf courses and associated communities, and cumulatively, these landscape units occupy thousands of hectares in the region. The opportunity for these golf courses to support native wildlife requires examination as these habitats are becoming more common and often represent some of the largest tracts of remaining open space within an area. Although declining throughout the southeastern US, Sciurus niger (Fox Squirrel) populations are still found on golf courses in this region. We investigated the relationship between Fox Squirrel presence and landscape characteristics on 98 golf courses in coastal South Carolina. Visual and telephone surveys indicated Fox Squirrels were present on 68 of the courses surveyed. The best predictor of Fox Squirrel presence on a course was the presence of a Fox Squirrel population on the nearest neighboring course. The probability of Fox Squirrels being present on a course if they were also present on the nearest neighboring course was 87.3%. Course age was the best predictor of Fox Squirrel presence on golf courses without a Fox Squirrel population on their nearest neighboring course. Our results suggest that regional Fox Squirrel populations may be stabilized by multi-patch population dynamics.
40985609|Skulls of wild Canis collected 2003-2004 in north-central Texas are morphometrically similar to a series taken there and in nearby areas in 1964-1971, which was considered to represent a population of Coyotes (C. latrans) modified through introgression from Red Wolves (C. rufus). A few of the new specimens closely resemble small examples of Red Wolves. Such affinity is supported by authoritative examination of living and videotaped animals. The persistence of influence of Red Wolves, long after presumed extirpation through hybridization and human persecution, may be relevant to wolf conservation.
40985610|Although investigators have compared radio-transmitter attachment devices and their likelihood of failure before the end of a study, few have directly evaluated the harness materials and fastening methods that are to be shed by a bird after the research period is over. We compared the likelihood of effective detachment after transmitter life of four harness materials (7-mm-and 9-mm-wide polyester ribbon tape and polyester-coated rubber elastic) and three fastening methods (polyester thread, cotton thread, and Gorilla Super Glue) using dummy transmitters exposed to the elements for > 1.5 years. Both polyester ribbon and polyester-coated rubber elastic materials resulted in similar physical wear and remained intact for longer than a typical field seasonal, but fastening harnesses using Gorilla Super Glue resulted in the earliest and most consistent harness failure. Polyester ribbon material and glue fastening resulted in the earliest failure; mean failure time for 7-mm-and 9-mm-wide polyester ribbon tape with glue fastening was 408 days  30 SE, and 249 days  29 SE, respectively. Failure times for both 7-mm-and 9-mm-wide polyestercoated rubber elastic and Gorilla Super Glue fastening treatments were in excess of one year (438 days  14 SE and 438 days  13 SE, respectively). All harnesses with sewn thread fastening treatments lasted a minimum mean of 456 days, and in the case of both 7-mm-wide polyester ribbon and polyester-coated rubber elastic, neither treatment ever failed over the period of study. Results suggest that using Gorilla Super Glue as a fastener maximized the likelihood of eventual harness failure, whereas transmitters fastened via sewing showed minimal signs of wear and were unlikely to be shed by a bird during a period of time less than two years. Additional experimental studies are warranted to examine alternative harness material types, fastening methods, and harness styles to maximize the potential of successful radio transmitter shedding.
40985611|Eastern Bluebirds inhabiting a grass-dominated agricultural environment within a northwestern Georgia land tract were examined over the course of three breeding seasons (2004 through 2006) to assess the presence of ectosymbionts. More than 90% of bluebirds examined harbored plumicolous feather mites of four species: Pterodectes sialiarum (Proctophyllodidae), Mesalgoides sp. (Psoroptoididae), Analges sp. (Analgidae), and a previously undescribed Trouessartia sp. The recovery of P. sialiarum represented the second report of this species, which had previously been recorded from Eastern Bluebirds in Guatemala. New host records for Mesalgoides sp. and Analges sp., and a description of Trouessartia sialiae sp. nov. also resulted from the study. Mite abundance did not vary among groups of birds categorized by subjective quantification, with the exception of a group of a few individuals harboring a vast number of mites. Abundance was not correlated with mean host body mass or body condition and was also independent of host sex. Feather mites were most commonly found on primary remiges, occasionally on secondary remiges, and rarely on rectrices; each mite species was located on a specific type of feather. Lice were also occasionally recovered, but were reported separately.
40985612|We report the kleptoparasitism of a Picoides borealis (Red-cockaded Woodpecker) cavity by a Melanerpes carolinus (Red-bellied Woodpecker). We believe this is the first video documenting kleptoparasitism of a Red-cockaded Woodpecker nest by a male Red-bellied Woodpecker in which both a nestling and an attending adult Red-cockaded Woodpecker adult were forcibly ejected. The Red-bellied Woodpecker was resolute in its attempt to usurp the nest, reaching into the cavity over 2000 times in an attempt to evict the cavity occupants. The male Red-bellied Woodpecker and his mate took over the cavity soon after. Adult Red-cockaded Woodpeckers continued to visit their nest cavity during diurnal hours for 2 days post-kleptoparasitism. It is important that resource managers incorporate proactive management techniques to lessen the impact of interspecific competition for cavities, especially in smaller or fragmented Red-cockaded Woodpecker populations.
40985613|Although flehmen behavior is reported in felids, this display has been rarely documented in wild pumas. On 11 Nov. 2008, we recorded a female Puma concolor coryi (Florida Panther) exhibiting the flehmen response and scent marking in reaction to a baited trail camera site in Everglades National Park. The addition of scent lures to our camera sites increased the number of exposures per panther visit, enhancing the possibility of gender identification, an essential component of our annual survey.
41262957|During the winter, Trichechus manatus latirostris (Florida Manatee) depends on long periods of rest in comparatively warm thermal refuges to help conserve energy and maintain stable body temperatures.Pterygoplichthys disjunctivus (Vermiculated Suckermouth Sailfin Catfish) has been observed attached to, and grazing algae from, Florida Manatee in Volusia Blue Spring. We hypothesized that the disturbance caused by grazing armored catfish would significantly alter Florida Manatee behavior. Analyses of 6 hours of underwater video of Florida Manatee behavior, with and without attached armored catfish, revealed that during each observation period, Florida Manatees with attached catfish demonstrated significantly higher activity levels and numbers of active behaviors. Increased Florida Manatee activity caused by the armored catfish may compound the impact of other known threat effects.
41262958|Florida springs are generally characterized as static ecosystems with unique faunal and floral assemblages that persist under relatively stable physical and chemical conditions. We sampled the fish fauna of Volusia Blue Spring to determine whether this presumption would withstand scrutiny at a higher temporal resolution and over time. We sampled by seining or snorkeling at five stations along the 320-m run weekly or bimonthly from October 2000 to September 2004.This four-year study consisted of 1152 samples that produced approximately 164,000 observations of 30 species of fish on 72 sampling trips. Concurrent water quality samples were collected at 14 sites along the center of the run and at each of the seine sites. Virtually anoxic water discharged from the spring head, but this water accumulated oxygen as it traveled the run. Fish density and species composition also changed dramatically along the length of the run. Species that tolerate low oxygen concentrations, such as poeciliids, dominated the assemblage at the spring head. Species that use patches of algae or small backwater areas, such as fundulids, were prominent in the middle reach of the run. Larger species, such as centrarchids and Lepisosteus spp., were abundant in the lower reach of the run. Within these broad patterns, most species exhibited great variability in density, probably due to the influence of variable emigration of potential predators, and also perhaps smaller species, from the St. Johns River.
41262959|The ecology of Notropis atrocaudalis (Blackspot Shiner) including habitat associations, population age structure, reproduction, and food habits were examined in two east Texas streams from November 2001 through October 2002.Blackspot Shiner were generally found in relatively shallow, slow-flowing runs, but exhibited no strong seasonal habitat associations. The population consisted of four age groups (ages 0, 1,2, and 3) present within a year, and estimated maximum life span was 3 years. Reproductively mature individuals were observed from March through August and temporal patterns in ovarian development, gonadosomatic index, and ova development indicated that Blackspot Shiner spawns multiple clutches of eggs over an extended spawning period. Blackspot Shiner diets consisted primarily of aquatic insects including Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and Coleoptera larvae.
41262960|Aspects of the life-history of Etheostoma scotti (Cherokee Darter) were investigated using 12 monthly collections from Hickory Log Creek (Etowah River Drainage) in Cherokee County, GA. Specimens were collected from riffles, runs, and pools with slow current and examined to illuminate age, growth, food habits, and reproductive characters. The bulk of the diet consisted of Chironomidae larvae, with mollusks, detritus, branchiopods, and other aquatic insects as smaller components.Peak feeding occurred in late winter and spring and immediately preceded gamete production for a single spring spawning season peaking in April. Gravid females, collected from March to June, contained 2-256 mature oocytes, ranging from 0.7 to 1.2 mm in diameter. Sexual maturity occurred at age 1, and maximum age was 2 years. The largest specimen collected was a male 49.1 mm SL and 2.0 g total weight. Males were larger than females and were outnumbered 1: 1.56. Only about half of the adult-sized males appeared to be in nuptial condition during the spawning season in the study population. These findings provide a greater understanding of the biology of this imperiled species and may allow for more focused and effective conservation efforts.
41262961|We describe physical and environmental characteristics associated with Micropterus notius (Suwannee Bass) spawning in the Ichetucknee River, FL. We located 24 Suwannee Bass nests from March to June (75% found May and June). Nests were found in relatively shallow waters (mean = 95 cm) with substrates dominated by organic material (63%). Suwannee Bass nests were located near cover, in lowflow areas (mean velocity = 0.01 m/s), and at a mean temperature of 21.7  C. We did not detect any relationships from regressions between the frequency of nesting and temperature, photoperiod, river stage, discharge or lunar cycle. Ninety-two percent of nests contained submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV), which are likely important to nesting areas as stream-velocity refuges that reduce sediment wash-in and egg disturbance during spawning. Descriptions of spawning habitat of this range-restricted species have implications for conservation and management decisions.
41262962|Translocation is often considered a viable conservation strategy, despite the absence of species-specific post-translocation data. Macrochelys temminckii (Alligator Snapping Turtle) populations have declined across their range and they may be considered candidates for translocation, but few studies have examined the response of individuals to movement events. I monitored M. temminckii with radiotelemetry in northwest Louisiana to provide baseline data regarding the species' response to translocation. I calculated average distances moved per day, measured water depths, and recorded growth of translocated and resident turtles. There was no observed mortality during the study, and translocated turtles gained mass and increased shell dimensions, indicating they effectively located resources after translocation. Resident individual shell dimensions increased, but some residents lost mass, possibly due to early recapture and reweighing dates. Movement distances were within the ranges reported by previous researchers. These data contribute baseline information concerning M. temminckii conservation biology.
41262963|The endangered Rostrhamus sociabilis plumbeus (Florida Snail Kite) has been the focus of several ecological studies emphasizing movements between and within wetland fragments. These studies have required the ability to trap and radiotag free-flying adults without significant risk of injury. We developed and tested a safe alternative to previous methods for trapping Snail Kites as part of a comparative study of VHF and satellite telemetry. The aquatic bal-chatri borrows from historical trap designs with modifications for trapping aquatic birds at the surface of the water. It consists of a square PVC frame with a series of parallel flourocarbon stringers and a mesh basket to restrain the lure species. Nooses are attached to the stringers and used to ensnare the toes of a predatory bird. The trap is held afloat by the PVC frame, with the mesh basket, stringers, and nooses positioned just beneath the surface of the water. After determining effective trap placement in relation to perched birds, we captured 11 kites in 13 days with native Pomacea paludosa (Florida Apple Snail) and exotic Pomacea insularum (Island Apple Snail) as lures. Our results indicated that the aquatic bal-chatri can be used to target specific Snail Kites and recapture previously trapped individuals. This trap design is a safe, efficient, and low-cost alternative to methods previously used for capturing Snail Kites. Additionally, the aquatic bal-chatri is relatively easy to use and appears to have minimal impact on foraging behavior and breeding performance of Snail Kites.
41262964|Throughout their range, Haliaeetus leucocephalus (Bald Eagle) have experienced dramatic population increases, and breeding productivity has returned to levels observed prior to the impacts of DDT. To effectively manage growing Bald Eagle populations, habitat and anthropogenic characteristics influencing nest-site selection need to be quantified at multiple spatial scales. In this study, we examined local and landscape characteristics and anthropogenic features influencing nest-site selection by Bald Eagles in 3 National Forests in east Texas. On a local scale, Bald Eagles placed nests in large super-canopy coniferous trees, with nest sites surrounded by shorter and smaller trees than random sites. Bald Eagle nest sites were best predicted by basal area on a local level and distance to nearest human habitation on a landscape level, as determined by logistic regression. We suggest that conservation efforts for Bald Eagles in east Texas should include allowing forests to mature and reducing disturbance around large water bodies to conserve and create suitable nesting habitat on public and private lands.
41262965|Many cooperatively breeding birds exhibit fine-scale spatial genetic structure as a result of restricted dispersal and habitat specialization. Sitta pusilla (Brown-headed Nuthatch) is a cooperatively breeding bird restricted to mature pine-dominated forests of the southeastern United States and has been undergoing population declines across most of its range. We used five polymorphic microsatellite loci developed for this species to examine fine-scale spatial genetic structure within a site in northern Florida as well as broader genetic structure among this site and two other sites (a second in northern Florida and one in southern Georgia). Spatial autocorrelation analyses within the more densely sampled site detected positive spatial genetic autocorrelation up to 1300 m in males when auxiliary males were included, but no autocorrelation was found in females or in males when auxiliary males were excluded. At the broader scale, we found small but significant genetic differentiation among all three populations, including two sites that were separated by less than 40 km of suitable habitat. Our results suggest that both sexes of the Brown-headed Nuthatch exhibit limited dispersal, with philopatric male auxiliaries contributing to more pronounced genetic structure over small geographic distances compared to females.Our sampled populations were in a region where much suitable habitat remains, yet we still observed limited dispersal. This finding suggests that in more fragmented regions, populations may become isolated and at risk of extinction.
41262966|The overlap of external morphometric measurements between Peromyscus leucopus (White-footed Mouse) and P. gossypinus (Cotton Mouse) makes species determination challenging. Peromyscus were live-trapped at Poinsett State Park, Sumter County, SC, and identified using field and laboratory techniques. Our measurements for hind-foot length, total length, and tail length overlapped with published values for both species. Body mass, as measured in the field, was a good criterion that identified our animals as Cotton Mice (n = 29). This identification was confirmed by digital radiography, microsatellite DNA markers, and glucose phosphate isomerase analysis. Our results indicated that a combination of field and laboratory techniques is a valuable approach for positively identifying morphologically similar species.
41262967|Many small mammal species experience population declines following prescribed fire, presumably resulting from increased prdation due to lack of cover. However, Peromyscus gossypinus (Cotton Mouse) typically shows a neutral or positive population response following fire. Because they typically spend diurnal hours in below-ground refuges, Cotton Mice may be less susceptible to predation following fire than other small mammals. We examined the effects of prescribed fire and exclusion of mammalian predators on selection of daytime refuges by Cotton Mice. We located daytime refuges of 12 radiotagged Cotton Mice in a fenced mesomammal-predator (hereafter, mesopredator) exclosure (23 refuge locations) and 9 Cotton Mice in an adjacent unfenced control plot (13 refuge locations) for one month prior to and one month after a prescribed fire in winter 2007. Refuge locations included Gopherus polyphemus (Gopher Tortoise) burrows (27.8%), other ground holes (44.4%), stump holes (25.0%), and holes at the base of trees (2.8%). Fire had little effect on refuge selection, likely because Cotton Mice primarily used below-ground refuges, which allowed them to avoid the direct effects of fire and predation following fire. Structure near the refuge, including burrows, stumps, and coarse woody debris, was important in selection of daytime refuges and was particularly important in the presence of mesopredators.
41262968|Discarded bottles were inspected for skeletal remains at 220 roadside sites along the southeastern Blue Ridge escarpment of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia as a technique to examine the regional distributions of shrews. Vertebrate remains were found at approximately 63% of our study sites and in 4.5% of the open bottles we examined. Bottles collected a total of 553 specimens of small mammals representing 5 species of shrews and 6 species of rodents. The Northern Short-tailed Shrew (Blarina brevicauda) and the Smoky Shrew (Sorex fumeus) were abundant and distributed throughout the region, although Smoky Shrews were more strongly associated with mesic environments and higher altitudes (x = 940.1 m  25.4 m). The Masked Shrew (S. cinereus) and the Southeastern Shrew (S. longirostris) exhibited contiguous allopatry, with Masked Shrews occurring exclusively in mesic forest habitats at high elevations (x= 1126.7  27.4 m), and Southeastern Shrews occurring only in xeric habitats at lower elevations (x = 503.7  64.9 m). Our study demonstrates the utility of discarded bottles as a quick and effective alternative method for surveying shrews, without the added mortality that occurs from pitfall-or snap-trapping.
41262969|Two endangered Microtus pennsylvanicus dukecampbelli (Florida Salt Marsh Vole) were captured at a new location, in February of 2009, at Lower Suwannee National Wildlife Refuge. Since the species discovery in 1979, only 43 Florida Salt Marsh Voles (hereafter FSM Vole) have been captured. Outside of the type locality, this is only the second documented location for the FSM Vole. Given the difficulty in trapping this species and the lack of information about its life history, its discovery in a new location lends itself to the possibility that it is more widespread in the Central Florida Gulf Coast than previously thought. Although much of the salt marsh in the area is in public ownership, a good deal of it has already been altered by logging or development and is threatened by global climate change. More research is needed to adequately protect and manage the habitat for the FSM Vole. A study of FSM Vole coastal salt marsh habitat could also serve as a valuable monitoring tool for subtle changes in salt marsh habitats as global climate change progresses.
41262970|Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) in Mississippi have been shown to respond morphometrically to soil resource area, but have not been evaluated for reproductive differences. We analyzed data from herd health checks (1978-2007) and fall harvests (1991-2007) to determine if soil resource area influenced reproductive parameters, and if assumed resource quality interacted with age. Ovulation rates approached unity and were similar across all soil resource areas and age classes, but there was some influence of soils and age class on number of corpora lutea. Pregnancy rate differed only between 2 of 8 soil resource areas, and was unaffected by age. Fetal counts increased with age class, and the incidence of twins among 1.5-year-old females was half that of females2.5 years. Lactation rates differed among 1.5-yearolds by soil resource area, and reflected assumed soil quality among 1.5-year-olds. Because lactation occurs later in the reproduction cycle than ovulation or pregnancy, it is more indicative than other metrics of reproductive success. However, because lactation is a binary indicator, age-specific recruitment data is needed to determine potential effects of soil resource area on deer population dynamics.
41262971|Reproductive success of the endangered Picoides borealis (Red-cockaded Woodpecker) is thought to be reduced by the presence of Glaucomys volans (Southern Flying Squirrels); hence, these squirrels are often removed when found inside woodpecker cavities. For this management practice to benefit Red-cockaded Woodpeckers, however, squirrel removal must both reduce the future probability of a flying squirrel re-occupying cavities and increase reproductive success for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers. In this study, using simulated Red-cockaded Woodpecker clusters (pseudo-clusters), we tested the first assumption regarding squirrels reoccupying nest cavities. We found no differences between removal and control pseudo-clusters in the amount of time that flying squirrels were present in pseudo-clusters, the proportion of nest boxes occupied by flying squirrels, or the mean number of total squirrels and individual squirrels (counting each squirrel only once in the analysis) present in the pseudo-clusters. Thus, removing flying squirrels from nest clusters did not reduce the future probability of a flying squirrel occupying either a cavity or a cluster.These results indicate a need to re-evaluate flying squirrel removal as a management technique to enhance Red-cockaded Woodpecker reproduction.
41262972|Osseus remains of Erethizon dorsatum (American or Common Porcupine) were recovered by archaeological excavations at the Charles Church Rocksheiter site in Watauga County, NC. Two specimens were successfully radiocarbon-dated to between 7670 and 7460 years before present, confirming the presence of Porcupines in the mountains of North Carolina in the middle Holocene. Climatic events and human predation may have led to its extirpation from the southern Appalachians by AD 1000.
41262973|Laurel Wilt is caused by a recently identified fungal pathogen infecting plants in the Lauraceae. Laurel Wilt is transmitted by Xyleborus glabratus (Redbay Ambrosia Beetle), which was recently introduced to the southeastern United States from Asia. As the insect expands its range in the US, so too has the disease. A query of the NatureServe Explorer database was used to identify the conservation status of native plant species and recognized plant communities that may be affected by Laurel Wilt. Laurel Wilt affects at least nine plant species, and all fifteen species in the Lauraceae currently found in North America may ultimately prove to be hosts for the disease. Four of the twelve native lauraceous species had been identified as vulnerable to extirpation or extinction, prior to the introduction of Laurel Wilt. There are 55 plant communities in the US and Canada that have a member of the Lauraceae as a dominant or diagnostic species. The majority of these plant communities have been identified as vulnerable. Agricultural industries that are based upon Persea americana (Avocado) cultivation in Florida and California are threatened by Laurel Wilt as well. Given the potential impact of this disease on lauraceous plants and their associated communities, these taxa and assemblages should be monitored for the arrival and impact of Laurel Wilt.
41262974|Flowering times of some early-season plants vary with temperature. First flowering dates of 35 native spring herbs and one shrub (Lindera benzoin [Northern Spicebush]), recorded yearly from 1976 through 2008 in a common garden in western North Carolina, were analyzed to determine if they correlate with January or spring (February-May) temperature or show a trend over time. We also asked if species that flower earlier in the season are more tightly correlated with temperature than later-season species. One early-season (average flowering date = March 6) species, Carex plantaginea (Plantainleaf Sedge) and one later-season (average flowering date = April 11) species, Geranium maculatum (Spotted Geranium), showed a significant trend of flowering earlier over time; seven April-flowering species showed weak, statistically non-significant, trends of earlier flowering over time; and one species (Iris cristata) exhibited a weak trend of later flowering over time. Four mid-season (mid-March-early April) species showed a significant trend, and seven species showed a weaker, not significant trend, of earlier flowering in years with warmer January or spring temperatures. Overall, weak seasonal and longer-term responsiveness despite variation in soil and air temperatures over the site, multiple plantings for some species, and only a modest 0.28 C increase in average January temperature over the 32-year observation period suggest flowering phenology of at least some plants in this common garden will track future climate change.
41262975|A once common butterfly found only in Florida, Cyclargus thomasi bethunebakeri (Miami Blue), declined to near extinction during the 1990s. On 26 November 2006, we discovered this species on Boca Grande Key, 76 km west of Bahia Honda Key. Previously, the butterfly was only known to survive on Bahia Honda Key. Over the following 8-month period, we searched periodically for this butterfly on islands in the Great White Heron National Wildlife Refuge (GWHWNR) and the Key West National Wildlife Refuge (KWNWR). The Miami Blue was not found on 6 islands in GWHNWR, but was present at 8 of 10 areas in KWNWR.Seven of the occupied sites were on islands in the Marquesas Keys. The number of Miami Blue adults varied greatly by island and season, but were highest at the two largest colonies when Pithecellobium keyense (Blackbead; both a larval host and adult nectar plant) was flowering and producing new leaves. Eight other plant species were visited by adult Miami Blues for nectar. Threats to the newly discovered colonies are discussed.
41262976|Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator), ranging in size from 45.7-152.4 cm, have been identified as a Puma concolor coryi (Florida Panther) prey species. On 14 March 2008, we discovered a 269.2-cm Alligator that was killed and fed upon by a male Panther; this record is the largest one reported to date.
41262980|Two of 36 forest restoration sites in the Mississippi Alluvial Valley surveyed from 20002002 harbored Quiscalus quiscula (Common Grackle). Occupied sites were in less-forested landscapes and had sparser understory vegetation due to flooding. Probability of daily nest survival (0.9077) of 169 Common Grackle nests was influenced by nest-placement, temporal, and landscape effects. Age of nest markedly affected nest survival, which increased from <0.89 during egg laying (age < 6 days) to >0.92 when nestlings were present (age > 18 days). Extrapolating daily nest survival to a 31 -day nest period resulted in 5% nest success, far less then previously estimated for this species in more northern latitudes and likely less than required to sustain populations on these sites.
41262981|Picoides borealis (Red-cockaded Woodpecker) is an endangered species inhabiting pine savannas of the southeastern United States. Because the intensity of hurricanes striking the southeastern United States is likely to increase as global temperatures rise, it is important to identify factors contributing to hurricane damage to Red-cockaded Woodpecker cavity-trees. Our objectives were to examine the effects of landscape-level factors on wind damage to cavity-trees and assess the relative risk of wind damage for different tree species and trees with different types of cavities. We evaluated wind damage to cavity-trees from Hurricane Rita on the Angelina, Sabine, and Davy Crockett national forests in eastern Texas. Basal area and number of cavity-trees in a cluster were identified as factors influencing the likelihood of damage to a cavity-tree. The likelihood of damage increased with decreasing basal area and an increasing number of cavity trees in a cluster. The increase in damage associated with an increase in the number of cavitytrees in a cluster likely reflects an increase in cluster area with more cavity-trees and the maintenance of lower basal areas in clusters to meet the habitat requirements of Redcockaded Woodpeckers. Therefore, increasing basal area is not a reasonable management option because clusters will become unsuitable for Red-cockaded Woodpeckers. A higher proportion of trees with natural cavities were damaged than trees with artificial cavities in all three forests. A higher proportion oPinus echinata (Shortleaf Pine) cavity-trees were damaged than Pinus palustris (Longleaf Pine) or Pinus taeda (Loblolly Pine) cavitytrees. Longleaf Pine cavity-trees were more likely to snap at the cavity, compared to a higher likelihood of wind throw for Shortleaf and Loblolly Pine cavity-trees. Restoring Longleaf Pine habitat and allowing stands to develop under lower tree densities could decrease the likelihood of damage to cavity-trees and the impact of hurricanes on Redcockaded Woodpeckers.
41262982|With the increase in urban development, forest fragments are becoming more prevalent. In urban areas, there is a tendency to hide power-lines within or on the edges of these fragmented forests; however, it is unknown how the maintenance of vegetation under and along power-lines impacts the forest composition and structure of an adjacent fragmented, urban forest. An urban, fragmented maple-oak-hickory forest is located on the Meredith College campus, Raleigh, NC. A 1-ha plot with a hundred 10- 10-m subplots was established in 2007 to initiate a long-term project supporting undergraduate research. An adjacent meadow is cut and maintained regularly up to the forest and plot edge for power-line clearance and access. We identified, tagged, and measured all of the trees with a diameter at breast height (DBH) 5 cm in this permanent plot, and compared the tree species richness (S), Shannon-Weiner diversity index (H), Sorenson's similarity index (S s ), DBH, stem density, and basal area along the 100-m gradient from the forest edge. We also used a non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMS) analysis to describe how species composition changed along the gradient. Our findings showed that S, H, and S s did not change along the 100-m gradient. The NMS confirmed that species composition was not different in the edge subplots (010 m from edge) compared to all other subplots and therefore was not impacted by continual, local disturbance along forest edges. However, we found that forest structure changed along the gradient with the exception of mean DBH; stem density and total basal area varied along the 100-m gradient. There was greater stem density along the edge of the forest (05 m and 1020 m from edge) compared to the other interior subplots. Some of the interior subplots (1020 m and 6070 m from the edge) had a higher total basal area than the remaining plots. As expected, we also found that there was a negative linear relationship between DBH and stem density for all subplots. Our results confirm trends found in previous studies that community structure parameters (stand density and basal area) differ between forest edges and their respective forest interiors, but did not agree with previous research, which found species composition to be affected by edges. We believe the regular pruning of the forest edge adjacent to the power-lines explains our observed differences in forest structure, but tree species richness, diversity, similarity, and composition may be determined by the disturbance of larger-scale ecological processes. Our results show how power-line placement within a fragmented urban forest can affect the structure of the adjacent forest, and we recommend that the ecological effects of power-line corridors should be further investigated and incorporated into the larger body of literature on forest fragmentation.
41262983|Although male and female Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) exhibit high site fidelity throughout the year, individuals occasionally leave their home ranges on short excursions during the fall and winter months. Although motives for these extraneous movements are difficult to discern, excursions are likely the function of the breeding season, food sources, limited escape cover, and/or human disturbances. From 20032007, we examined GPS collar locations of 32 adult male White-tailed Deer at Chesapeake Farms, MD. Seasonal excursions (n = 37), defined as movements lasting a minimum of 6 hours and venturing at least 0.5 km from 95% kernel home-range contours, were examined relative to possible motives related to food resources, breeding, and hunting pressure. Sixty-three percent (n = 20) of adult males made at least one excursion outside their home range immediately before or during breeding season. Based on the seasonal timing of excursions, breeding-season-related motives were likely the driving force behind the majority of adult male White-tailed Deer excursions, whereas hunting pressure and food resources were not a probable cause.
41262984|Cervus elaphus (Elk) were reintroduced into the Cumberland Mountains, Tennessee over a 3-year period beginning in December 2000. We radio-collared 159 Elk and monitored them by aerial telemetry from February 2001 to June 2003. Locations (n = 321) were used to develop a core herd home range (789-ha sampling area) to assess Elk seasonal forage use and availability. We monitored diet and resource availability from November 2003 to October 2004 by microhistological analysis of feces and vegetation sampling, respectively. We compared the relative availability of individual plant species (% cover) to the relative percentage of plant species found in fecal samples. A positive significant mean difference indicated plant species used in greater proportion to availability. Lolium arundinaceum (Tall Fescue) comprised 35.1% of the winter diet, and graminoids (65.9%) were the dominant forage class overall. The most selected graminoid was Andropogon gerardii (Big Bluestem). The diet shifted in the spring to a mixture of woody plants (28.1%), forbs (19.4%), and graminoids (38.4%). Carex spp. (sedges) and Juncus spp. (rushes) were the most selected graminoids. The highest seasonal use of forbs (45%) and legumes (23%) occurred during summer, with Impatiens spp. (jewelweed; 27%) as the dominant and most selected plant in the diet. The dominant fall forage class was woody plants (37.4%). Quercus spp. (oaks; vegetation and acorns 14.3%) were the most used woody plants with oak acorns comprising 9.7% of the Elk diet. We suggest that historic evidence, presence of native grasses, and Elk diets indicate that oak savannas could be an ideal habitat type for Elk in the rintroduction zone of Tennessee.
41262985|Human population growth and development reduce the area and quality of natural communities and lead to a decline of associated wildlife populations. Sciurus niger avicennia (Big Cypress Fox Squirrel), a state-listed threatened subspecies endemic to south Florida, appears sensitive to habitat fragmentation and fire regime. This research assessed the distribution and habitat use of the Big Cypress Fox Squirrel from interviews with biologists, private land owners, and golf course managers and by transect sampling in natural areas on public and private lands in southwest Florida. Our findings indicate that the distribution of fox squirrel populations is influenced by land use and understory height. Conservation of this species in natural areas will require land management practices that maintain open landscapes.
41262986|Despite the ecological importance of bats, a lack of basic data, such as spaceuse needs, hinders management efforts. Therefore, we investigated home-range size in Nycticeius humeralis (Evening Bats) by radiotracking 14 individuals (5 females and 9 males) for 711 nights each in a pine-dominated landscape in southwestern Georgia during JuneAugust 2008. We generated 95% and 50% adaptive kernel (AK) home ranges and 95% minimum convex polygon (MCP) home ranges and found that mean 95% AK home-range size was 155.7  38.3 ha, with individual values ranging from 36.9 ha to 565.9 ha. Mean 95% MCP home-range size was 118.5  29.5 ha, with individual values ranging from 33.6456.2 ha. Home-range sizes did not differ between males and females (P = 0.35), but were larger in August (P = 0.004) than in June and July. Evening Bat home-range sizes on our study area were similar to previously documented home ranges in forested and rural landscapes. Although Evening Bats may be habitat generalists relative to foraging activity at the scale of habitat patches, multiple core areas of activity indicate selection within this scale that may be related to prey and roost availability.
41262987|The reproductive ecology of male Crotalus adamanteus Beauvois (Eastern Diamond-backed Rattlesnake) from southwestern Georgia (Joseph W. Jones Ecological Research Center, Baker County) was studied from 14 August 2003 to 14 August 2006. Few studies provide information on reproduction of free-living Eastern Diamondbacked Rattlesnakes, and no information is available on the seasonal relationship of plasma sex steroids of males to changes in the reproductive organs (e.g., mass of the testis and kidney) and the mating season. Here, the main goals were to determine whether: (i) males show variation in concentrations of plasma testosterone (T) during the active season (late March through November), (ii) males have elevated (peak) concentrations of plasma T during the single mating season, which has been documented to occur from late summer through early fall in nearby populations, and (iii) there are seasonal changes in length, width, and mass of the testis and kidney during the active season, particularly during the breeding period. There was a significant difference in mean concentrations of plasma  among seasons, with levels in summer significantly greater than those of spring, and levels in spring and fall were not significantly different. Testis mass and width, but not length, varied significantly across seasons. Testis mass paralleled elevated levels of plasma T, with peak mass occurring in the summer. Similarly, testis width was significantly greater in summer than in fall, but there was no significant difference between summer and spring, nor between spring and fall. We found no significant seasonal changes in any of the kidney measurements. Bisexual pairings were coincident or followed the occurrence of elevated levels of plasma T and changes in testis size; however, despite frequent observations, copulations were not observed. Nonetheless, our results support a mating season of late summer/early fall for the present population of Eastern Diamond-backed Rattlesnakes.
41262988|Larval stream salamanders are the numerically dominant predators in many headwater stream systems. Nonetheless, little is known about their activity patterns or the extent to which their movements are influenced by prevailing environmental conditions. In this study, we used capture rates from passive trapping as an index of activity level and sought to identify the environmental variables most responsible for fluctuations in larval stream salamander activity. Over the course of two months, we captured stream salamanders in aquatic funnel traps during both day- and night-trapping sessions at a first-order stream in the North Carolina Piedmont. Using an information-theoretic approach, we constructed models to elucidate the effects of (1) water temperature, (2) cloud cover, (3) days since last rainfall, and (4) time of day on larval salamander activity. We found that the model incorporating time of day and cloud cover was the best predictor of larval salamander activity. In our study, larval salamander activity was highest at night and also demonstrated a weak positive correlation with increasing cloud cover. Using model-averaging, we further determined that our time of day and cloud cover variables demonstrated a significant correlation with observed activity levels. This pattern of peak activity under low light conditions could be a behavioral adaptation that limits prdation risk for larval salamanders.
41262989|Many crayfish species native to the southeastern United States are imperiled due to small range sizes and anthropogenic impacts such as habitat loss and introduction of non-native species. Furthermore, effective management of crayfish is limited by the scarcity of life-history and ecological data for many of these species. We report results of the first life-history study of the crayfish Cambarus hubbsi (Hubbs Crayfish). We collected 466 Hubbs Crayfish from the South Fork Spring River, AR throughout 2006 and recorded carapace lengths, wet weights, indicators of reproductive activity, and number of eggs on ovigerous females. Using length-frequency distributions, we identified four Hubbs Crayfish age classes and evaluated growth rates by plotting size by season (winter, spring, summer, autumn). Male Hubbs Crayfish were more common than females in all seasons except autumn, and males weighed more at equivalent lengths than females. Reproductive activity in Hubbs Crayfish peaked in late winter and spring, and ovigerous females were collected in March, April, and June. Ovigerous females were age II or III and carried few eggs relative to co-occurring crayfish of the genus Orconectes. Compared to these Orconectes species, Hubbs Crayfish is comparatively slow growing, long lived, with low reproductive potential, and as a result may be categorized as a K life-history strategist. Based on this species' life-history strategy and previously documented habitat specificity and taxonomic distinctiveness, Hubbs Crayfish may require monitoring and management attention normally reserved for species with smaller ranges.
41262990|Etheostoma proeliare is distributed in the Gulf Coastal Plain of southeastern North America from the Colorado River of eastern Texas through the Choctawhatchee River of eastern Alabama, north to the Fall Line, and upstream along the Arkansas River valley into eastern Oklahoma. Parsimony and Bayesian analysis of the ND2 gene from 28 populations recovered a monophyletic E. proeliare (PP:1.0) containing a basal split between a novel clade of populations in the northern apex of the Mississippi embayment, from the Black and St. Francis rivers to the west of, through the Yazoo River to the east of, the main channel of the Mississippi River, and all other populations (PB: 99, PP:1.0). Southern populations are resolved into three clades: Trinity plus Neches Rivers (PB:100, PP:1.0), Sabine River east through western tributaries to the Mississippi River plus the Lake Pontchartrain drainage (PP:1.0), and eastern tributaries to the Mississippi River east through the Escambia River (PP:0.99). The eastern clade is further divided into Pearl plus Big Black rivers (PB:97, PP:1.0) and Mobile Basin plus Escambia River clades (PP:0.98). These results indicate that although the mainstem of the Mississippi River corresponds to some phylogeographic breaks in a lowland species, it is not an absolute barrier. Future studies of species in the region should further explore the placement of Lake Pontchartrain populations and the existence of divergent populations in the northern Gulf Coastal Plain.
41262991|We used lighted larval traps to assess reproduction by fishes inhabiting nine spring pools in the Barrens Plateau region of middle Tennessee between May and September 2004. The traps (n = 162 deployments) captured the larval or juvenile forms of Etheostoma crossopterum (Fringed Darter) (n = 188), Gambusia affinis (Western Mosquitofish) (n = 139), Hemitremiaflammea (Flame Chub) (n = 55), the imperiled Fundulus julisia (Barrens Topminnow) (n = 10), and Forbesichthys agassizii (Spring Cavefish) (n = 1). The larval forms of four other species (Families Centrarchidae, Cyprinidae, and Cottidae) were not collected, despite the presence of adults. Larval Barrens Topminnow hatched over a protracted period (early June through late September); in contrast, hatching intervals were much shorter for Fringed Darter (mid-May through early June). Flame Chub hatching began before our first samples in early May and concluded by late-May. Juvenile Western Mosquitofish were collected between early June and late August. Our sampling revealed that at least two species (Flame Chub and Fringed Darter) were able to reproduce and recruit in habitats harboring the invasive Western Mosquitofish, while Barrens Topminnow could not.
41262992|Underwater observation is a widely used fish-sampling method, but capture efficiencies of this method are often unknown. For accuracy, survey counts require correction by measuring capture efficiencies of sampling protocols. Capture efficiencies for underwater observation were calculated for three small imperiled fishesEtheostoma sitikuense (Citico Darter), Noturus flavipinnis (Yellowfin Madtom), and Noturus baileyi (Smoky Madtom)using modified mark-recapture methods. Fishes were tagged with visual implant elastomer tags, released at sites within Abrams Creek in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, and then recaptured. Efficiencies were calculated by comparing numbers of released individuals to recaptures. In the propagation facility, tag retention was 100 percent, and no post-tagging mortality was observed. Capture efficiency (CE = 0.12) was low for all species and potentially influenced by predation upon marked fish, emigration of fish from sites, or difficulty in sampling some habitats. Thus, population sizes may be larger than observed due to low capture efficiencies. Our results highlight challenges to estimating capture efficiencies for imperiled fishes when using underwater observational methods.
41262993|Dendroica cerlea (Cerulean Warbler) is a migrant songbird that has declined rangewide in recent decades. We surveyed 150 sites in 2006-2007 to determine if this species still occupied its former breeding range in Oklahoma. We located Cerulean Warblers at 5 sites and confirmed breeding on north slopes of two heavily forested ridges in the Ouachita Mountains. We did not encounter Cerulean Warblers in any bottomland hardwoods, despite the former widespread distribution and abundance of the species in such habitats. While habitat loss and degradation may limit occurrence of Cerulean Warbler in some areas, the pattern of decline for this species at the edge of its range in Oklahoma is also consistent with abandonment of peripheral range as the range-wide population declines.
41262994|We report on observations of parturition and maternal behavior of Corynorhinus rafinesquii (Rafinesque's Big-eared Bat) at a bridge in west-central Mississippi. Rafinesque's Bigeared Bats formed a maternity colony beneath the bridge in March, and parturition occurred from late May to early June. On 28 May 2004, a female Rafinesque's Big-eared Bat was observed giving birth in the breech position, which has not been previously reported for the species. On the same day, another adult female and her pup were found struggling on the ground due to entanglement of the umbilical cord around the mother's wing, and a third female was observed biting her pup. While important data were obtained during our observations, we emphasize the necessity of using extreme care when conducting repeated surveys at maternity roost sites.
41262995|Here we report the first record of the Eastern Hellbender in the Mobile River Basin (Cartecay River, Coosawattee River system) of northwest Georgia. Nearly all records of Eastern Hellbenders in the southeastern United States are from Tennessee or Ohio river drainages (Mississippi River Basin); a few historic records of presumably introduced origin are also known from the Savannah drainage (Atlantic Basin). We first captured this species in June 2009 while surveying for fishes. We then carried out Hellbender surveys at 6 sites and captured 2 individual Hellbenders in the Cartecay River within 1 river km of our first collection site. However, no more Hellbenders were found during additional fish surveys at 21 sites. Microsatellite data indicate an 84% probability of membership with a Hellbender population in the adjacent Toccoa River system (Tennessee drainage), suggesting either natural historic dispersal (e.g., via stream capture) or a more recent introduction from the Toccoa into the Cartecay system. Additional studies are needed to assess the full range, conservation status, and origin of this species in the Coosawattee River system.
41262996|Three of the 4 forms of albinism that occur in avifauna have been detected in Zenaida macroura (Mourning Dove). Albinism is rare in this species, and the incidence rate of each age and sex cohort is not well known. Consequently, we examined the pigmentation of Mourning Doves encountered in the Coastal Plain of South Carolina, and classified the age and sex of all individuals. One adult male Mourning Dove had unusually light coloration of some feathers and the upper mandible. This pigmentation is consistent with partial albinism. This was the only individual out of 10,749 examined that appeared to be albinistic. This low incidence rate of albinism supports the conclusion that this condition is relatively rare in Mourning Doves (Mirarchi 1993).
41262997|A melanistic morph of Sciurus carolinensis Gmelin (Eastern Gray Squirrel or Gray Squirrel) was observed on 17 and 27 September 2008 in the Georgia Piedmont, Athens-Clarke County, GA. This is a rare observation because we have found no reports of Gray Squirrel melanism located south of Virginia in the southeastern United States.
41262998|I observed a large Vespa crabro (European Hornet) steal prey from an Argiope aurantia (Yellow Garden Spider) in a forested housing development in northern Georgia. The hornet landed in the spider's web and in less than three minutes removed the prey previously captured by the spider. The spider made no attempt to attack or subdue the hornet. European Hornets may switch from predatory to scavenging habits in the fall of the year as the nesting season progresses, a trait documented in other vespines. To my knowledge, this is the first recorded incident of a hornet stealing prey from another predator.
41262999|The European land snails Discus rotundatus and Oxychilus draparnaudi were found in Washington, DC at Oxon Cove in March 2010. These constitute the first records of feral populations of these non-native species in the District of Columbia.
41263003|A re-description of Cambarincola bobbi Holt, 1988 is provided based on observations made during recent collections in the Cumberland River Watershed in Tennessee. The branchiobdellidan Pterodrilus robinae, a new species, is described, along with a refinement for identification of five additional Pterodrilus species. Diversity, sympatry, and range extensions of branchiobdellidans from three areas of the Cumberland River Watershed are reported.
41263004|Branchiobdellidans, or crayfish worms, are species-rich in the Appalachian area of the southeastern United States. Even so, the Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) in the southern Appalachians has only one record of a branchiobdellidan species. As part of the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory, we undertook a general survey of the branchiobdellidans in the GSMNP. Crayfish were collected from a total of 15 sites distributed across 11 watersheds in the GSMNP. We identified a total of 10 species of branchiobdellidans: 1 species of Bdellodrilus, 1 species of Oedipodrilus, 2 species of Pterodrilus, 1 species of Xironodrilus, and 5 species of Cambarincola. The composition and number of species per site ranged from 0 to 6, and individual branchiobdellidan species occurrence ranged from 1 to 11 sites. Our results suggest that multiple factors affect distribution and occurrence on certain hosts. Study of specimens of Cambarincola holostomus Hoffman, 1963 enabled us to add new morphological characters to the description of this species. An intensive survey of watersheds and crayfish fauna in the GSMNP is necessary to understand the multiple factors affecting species distributions and host preferences and to facilitate conservation of both the symbionts and their hosts.
41263005|As with other high-energy beaches, those of North Carolina harbor a diverse fauna of kalyptorhynch turbellarians, most of which appear to be new to science. Here, we describe Lehardyia alleithoros, a new kalyptorhynch turbellarian of the Karkinorhynchidae, from 3 high-energy beach sites in North Carolina. We also report an apparent range extension for Carcharodorhynchus flavidus Brunet, 1967. These observations bring the total number of kalyptorhynch turbellarians reported from the marine interstitial environment of North Carolina to five.
41263006|We present the first record of Rapana venosa (Veined Rapa Whelk) as an epibiont of Caretta caretta (Loggerhead Sea Turtle) and the first observation of rapa whelks in the South Atlantic Bight, USA. Veined Rapa Whelks are invasive shellfish predators. The only known North American population of Veined Rapa Whelks is in the southern Chesapeake Bay. Collections of Veined Rapa Whelks as epibionts on Loggerhead Sea Turtles from Norfolk, VA and Wassaw Island, GA present a previously undescribed vector for whelk range expansion to widely separated coastal habitats. In October 2008, a live juvenile Loggerhead stranded near Norfolk, VA with a Veined Rapa Whelk attached to its carapace. Since May 2005, a total of eight Loggerheads with Veined Rapa Whelks as epibionts have been observed nesting on Wassaw Island, GA. The shell lengths of the two smallest Wassaw Island whelks (1.9 and 2.6 mm) indicate that the whelks settled from the plankton 24-48 hr immediately prior to collection in Georgia. This time frame is not commensurate with turtle migration from Chesapeake Bay to Wassaw Island and indicates a whelk source that is geographically distinct from the Chesapeake Bay. Rapa whelk use of Loggerhead carapaces as settlement and juvenile habitat is of serious concern given the observed potential for coastal and oceanic migrations by turtles to facilitate Veined Rapa Whelk dispersal.
41263007|We investigated the influence of trapping duration on freshwater turtle captures using baited hoop-nets. We trapped 9 ponds in the Lower Rio Grande Valley and 6 ponds in the Lost Pines ecoregion areas of Texas in the summer of 2010 using high-intensity, short-duration trapping (40 traps/1 day) and low-intensity, longer-duration trapping (10 traps/4 days). We found that the number of captures was not different between sampling schemes. However, the mean capture rate was twice as high after the first day of lowintensity trapping. This study showed that researchers seeking to maximize captures per-unit-effort (CPUE) should focus on the least time-intensive, labor-intensive, and expensive way to complete the trapping effort, rather than short-term temporal distribution of trapping effort.
41263008|The southern Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee and Alabama has the greatest diversity of cave-obligate animals in the United States. The University of the South in Franklin County, TN is one of the largest private landholders on the southern Cumberland Plateau. Its 13,000-acre campus has more than 30 caves and is underlain by more than 14 km of horizontal passageways. We examined the biodiversity of cave animals on the campus at the species level and at the genetic level. Through a survey of seven caves on the campus, we identified 24 cave-obligate species, including two new county records.This total accounts for half of the cave-obligate species reported for Franklin County. For our genetic analysis, we selected six diverse taxa (two millipedes, a beetle, a fly, an aquatic isopod, and a spider) that were collected from multiple caves, and compared their mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene sequences. Across the six taxa we found: (1) low genetic diversity within caves (mean nucleotide diversity within caves across all taxa: 0.25%), (2) high genetic divergence between caves (divergence between caves within taxa ranged from 2.5% 10.9%, with two exceptions), and (3) little evidence for gene flow between caves (F ST between caves within taxa > 0.57, with one exception). Thus, the campus supports tremendous species diversity, and even more remarkable genetic diversity within those species on a small geographic scale (no studied caves were > 7 km apart). The divergence between cave populations and lack of gene flow between them that we observed across a range of taxa highlight the importance of cave conservation on a regional scale.
41263009|During a survey of macrofungi in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in the summer of 2009, a species of Lepiota was recorded. This specimen is distinct in having pink to salmon to orange colors on the fruiting body and a pink spore deposit. After comparison with type material and a survey of the literature, we conclude this species is L. maculans Peck, described originally and known only from one collection in Missouri. Phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequence data supports placement within Lepiota of the Agaricaceae despite possessing a pink spore deposit. A complete morphological description, a description of the holotype, illustrations, and photographs are presented. This is the first report of L. maculans since its original description in 1905.
41263010|We analyzed a naturalized population of Magnolia grandiflora L. occurring north of its native range in a temperate deciduous forest of the North Carolina piedmont. The population was likely expanding, based on its size-class distribution; however, it had not reached a reproductive size or age. The maximum size of established stems was 9.8 cm dbh and the maximum age, based on a subset of sampled stems, was 26 years. We analyzed the establishment of M grandiflora trees with respect to several environmental variables. Climatic variables included annual minimum winter temperatures, frost-free periods, and precipitation, and topographic variables included elevation, aspect, and slope. We found a strong correlation between establishment and minimum winter temperatures as well as frost-free periods, but not with other environmental variables. Magnolia grandiflora has become naturalized north and west of its native range on the southeastern coastal plain; among the possible causes are climate change and the increased use of cold-hardy genotypes.
41263011|Steepheads are unique ravine habitats of the Gulf Coastal Plain; however, the biology of these habitats is relatively unknown. The objectives of this study were to provide a comprehensive list of wetland plant species along a steephead stream in Santa Rosa County, FL and to compare the floristics along the stream. Species richness (S = 102), evenness (J= 0.86), and diversity (H = 3.97) were calculated as well as taxonomic richness (G - 67 genera), evenness (GJ = 0.95), and diversity (GH = 3.98). Upstream and downstream sections harbored distinct plant communities (Jaccard index [JI] = 13.33%). The high diversity and lack of non-native species illustrates the need for further investigation into steephead habitats.
41263012|Padre Island National Seashore provides important habitat for declining wintering grassland birds, yet oil and gas development is widespread in the Park. Our objective was to evaluate the effects of resource extraction on the wintering grassland birds of the Park. In January-March 2007 and 2008, we surveyed 5 active and 4 abandoned well sites and 4 road sites to investigate the relationship between distance from disturbance (well pads, access roads) and bird abundance. At road sites, bird abundance was positively correlated with increased distance from road edge, but we found no linear relationship at active or abandoned well sites. However, mean bird abundance in the first (0-30 m) distance interval of active well transects was less than half that at the second interval, and was the lowest value for all active intervals except the ninth. First-interval abundance at active wells was lower than abundance at any abandoned well interval.Road transects likewise showed low abundance in the initial interval, although unlike at active wells, abundance increased steadily with distance from the center of disturbance. This trend of lower overall numbers at the first interval of active well transects was driven largely by Sturnella magna (Eastern Meadowlark) and S. neglecta (Western Meadowlark). A combination of high noise levels near active well pads and lack of tall vegetation from which to sing may have contributed to low numbers of meadowlarks, which were the only birds to sing regularly during the study period. We recommend: (1) reducing noise at active sites, (2) limiting vegetation disturbance near pads and roads, (3) maintaining existing perch sites, and (4) limiting road construction.
41263013|Past anthropogenic activity has led to the destruction or alteration of Carolina bay wetlands throughout the southeastern United States. Presently, urban development, combined with a 2001 ruling by the US Supreme Court relaxing protection of isolated wetlands, poses an increasing threat to these and other isolated wetland systems; however, little information exists on the importance of these wetland systems to birds. We compared breeding and wintering bird communities of upland pine (Pinus spp.) forests with and without Carolina bays. Estimated species richness was greater in pine forests with Carolina bays than without during the winter (31.7  1.3 [mean  SE] vs. 26.9 + 1.2; P = 0.027), but not in the breeding season (27.9  2.2 vs. 26.3 - 2.2; P = 0.644). Total relative abundance did not differ between pine forests with Carolina bays and those without in either the breeding (148.0 = 16.0 vs. 129.4  10.4 birds/40 ha; P = 0.675) or winter (253.0  36.4 vs. 148.8 = 15.1 birds/40 ha; P = 0.100) seasons. However, 23 species, 43% of which were wetland-dependent, were observed only in pine forests with bays during the breeding season, and 20 species, 30% of which were wetland-dependent, were observed only in such sites during winter. In contrast, only 6 and 1 species were observed only in pine forests without bays during the breeding and winter seasons, respectively, indicating that few species were negatively affected by the presence of bays. Thus, Carolina bays appear to enrich the avifauna of pine forests in the southeastern United States.
41263014|Dendroica virens waynei (Wayne's Warbler) is a unique, disjunct subspecies of Dendroica viren virens (Black-throated Green Warbler) that is restricted to the South Atlantic Coastal Plain from southeastern Virginia to South Carolina. We surveyed a network of 265 fixed-radius plots to examine seasonal occurrence, spatial distribution, and patterns of habitat use by Black-throated Green Warblers. Survey plots were chosen to represent the full gradient of forest types within the region. Plots were surveyed 7 times between early April and mid-June, 2001. Detections of Black-throated Green Warblers began in early April, increased to a peak in late April, and then declined throughout May and early June. Birds were detected during 251 (13.5%) of 1862 point counts conducted. Detections were widespread and included 114 of 266 (52.6%) survey plots. Forest composition had a significant influence on the distribution of breeding sites. The frequency of plots classified as breeding sites was higher than expected for plots containing Pinus taeda (Loblolly Pine), Chamaecyparis thyoides (Atlantic White Cedar), and Taxodium distichum (Bald Cypress). The density of these tree species within survey plots was significantly higher for plots classified as breeding sites compared to plots classified as unoccupied. This response was particularly significant when all three tree species were combined.
41263015|The eastern population trend o Passerina ciris (Painted Bunting) declined 3.5% annually during the first 30 yrs of the Breeding Bird Survey (BBS, 1966-1996). Recently, the US Fish and Wildlife Service listed Painted Buntings as a focal species. Surveys for this focal species for the next 10 yrs (BBS, 1997-2007), however, are too low (< 1 bird per 50 stops) for determining trend estimates. Also, to monitor densities adequately, surveys should account for incomplete detections. I surveyed singing Painted Buntings from 13 May to 26 June 2003 at 582 point counts (50 randomly selected transects) within blocks (64 x 64 km) in coastal and river areas from Florida to North Carolina. I compared densities of Painted Buntings for major habitats. Painted Buntings were detected at 33.5% of points surveyed for 5 min. Densities varied from 9 singing males per km in young pine plantations to 42 per km in maritime shrub. Effective detection radii for habitats varied from 64 to 90 m and were slightly higher in developed than in undeveloped habitats. Distance sampling is recommended to determine densities of Painted Buntings; however, large sample sizes (70-100 detections/habitat type) are required to monitor Painted Bunting densities in most habitats in the Atlantic coastal region of the southeastern United States. Special attention should be given to maritime shrub habitats, which may be important to maintaining the Painted Bunting population in the southeastern US.
41263016|Species of Geolycosa (burrowing wolf spider) found in the eastern USA exhibit one of two species-specific microhabitat associations with associated burrow architectures: "turricolous" species burrow in areas covered in leaf litter and construct a distinct turret of silk and debris at the burrow mouth, while "aturricolous" species locate their burrows in more barren areas and do not construct a turret. Our research goal was to document the relationship between spider coloration, burrow-site selection, and burrowconstruction behaviors in five Geolycosa species in Florida (G. micanopy, G. hubbelli, G. xera, G. patellonigra, and G. escambiensis). Discriminant analysis of morphological data supports our contention that each ecomorph has a distinct pattern of pigmentation, with the barren-substrata species being paler. Field studies of species pairs at three sites in Florida (Archbold Biological Station, Ocala National Forest, and the Panhandle) documented the species-specific association with one of the two microhabitats. Field enclosure tests with five of these species demonstrated that the observed microhabitat association was due to active burrow-site choice. Finally, tests we conducted in the laboratory documented that these species will build the predicted species-specific burrow types under controlled conditions.
41263017|In birds, sex is determined by the allocation of sex chromosomes. We used molecular techniques to determine the sex of Mimus polyglottos (Northern Mockingbird) nestlings in Cincinnati, OH and Raleigh, NC. We found an overall male-biased sex ratio in the Cincinnati population and a female-biased sex ratio in the Raleigh population. In Cincinnati, the male-biased sex ratio was more pronounced early in the breeding season than later in the breeding season. Male nestlings were heavier than female nestlings and may require greater parental investment. In many avian species, female offspring are more likely to disperse, making them less likely to compete with parents and siblings for local resources in future seasons. This may explain why the Raleigh population with greater nesting population density overproduced female offspring.
41263018|Stomach contents of 3 Scaphirhynchus platorynchus (Shovelnose Sturgeon) collected in the Lower Mississippi River in January 2010 yielded 44 specimens of cicada nymphs, Diceroprocta sp. The fish were collected during a sudden rise in water level. The floodplain-dwelling cicada were likely washed out of their terrestrial habitat and into the river, where opportunistic sturgeon were foraging.
41263019|We report that an adult-sized Zenaida macroura (Mourning Dove), presumably a parent, rapidly decreased risk taken in defense of a juvenile as the likelihood of prdation to the juvenile increased. We attribute this decrease in risk taken to (1) the parent's perception that the risk of prdation had increased to the extent that a continuation of defensive behaviors would not prevent the death of the juvenile, and (2) its attempt to minimize its own risk of death. It may be that there is a threshold beyond which Mourning Dove parents will forgo the risk of additional defense of offspring in favor of making another reproductive attempt.
41263020|A Falco sparverius (American Kestrel) was observed attacking and carrying away a Picoides borealis (Red-cockaded Woodpecker) fledgling during observations associated with a long-term monitoring program on Fort Bragg Military Installation, Fort Bragg, NC. The woodpecker was released in mid-air approximately 100 m from the site of the attack and fell to the ground, alive. It is unknown if the American kestrel returned to consume the fledgling, or if the fledgling survived the encounter.
41263021|We report a maternity colony of the rare bat, Myotis leibii (Eastern Small-footed Myotis), in a high-elevation cabin in western North Carolina. Because Eastern Small-footed Myotis maternity colonies may typically roost in rock crevices, they are difficult to observe and are not well documented. This cabin provides a variety of roost locations (e. g., shutters, attic, boarded windows) for bats in a stable structure in a densely forested landscape.
41263022|The secretive nature of Puma concolor (Puma) has made it difficult to observe them in the wild; therefore, researchers have primarily relied on radio telemetry to study Puma movements, habitat use, kill sites, and den locations. With the advent of digital infrared trail cameras, biologists are now recording previously unobserved Puma behavior, including urine-marking by females, wallowing, flehmening, and claw-marking logs. On 7 occasions, from August 2009-April 2010, we recorded 64 diagnostic sequential images of adult Puma concolor coryi (Florida Panther), of both genders, claw-marking the trunk of a downed Sable palmetto (Sabal Palm) log. Following a literature review and interviews with 11 professional Puma hunters, we concluded that this biological note represents the first photographic evidence of how male and female wild Pumas claw-mark logs.
41262920|As part of an ongoing study on growth and sexual maturation of Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator) on Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge, LA, 3601 specimens, ranging in total length from 28 to 361 cm, were captured from June 2000 through August 2004. Additionally, 70 alligators were collected opportunistically as part of a teaching exercise in August 2005, and 248 more were collected in 2006 (and one in January 2007) as part of a study evaluating the effects of Hurricane Rita on alligators. Representative samples from size classes greater than 60 cm were collected in most months of the year between 2000 and 2004. Each animal was tagged, measured, sexed, and released immediately at the site of capture. A large number of these marked alligators were recaptured outside the refuge boundaries during annual alligator hunts in September. Of the 286 recaptured alligators, 214 were males, 68 were females, and four were of undetermined sex. From each recaptured alligator, total body length and date of recapture were recorded, and minimum distance from initial capture site estimated. From these preliminary data, we calculated the time interval between captures, and plotted minimum distance moved. The number of days between first capture and recapture ranged from 29 to 3336 days (9.1 years). Distance moved from initial capture site to final capture site ranged from 0.3 to 90.2 km. Eleven alligators moved between 30.0 and 39.9 km, and eight moved > 40 km. Six of these moved between 40.0 and 49.9 km, and the others moved 87.4 and 90.2 km. These results greatly extend previous estimates of long-distance movement by alligators and demonstrate that both sub-adult and sexually mature animals move considerable distances. These data also showed that smaller alligators moved greater distances than larger alligators (P = 0.0002), and that the longer the time between captures, the greater the distance moved (P < 0.0001).
41262921|Sternotherus depressus (Flattened Musk Turtle) is a threatened endemic of the Black Warrior River basin in northern Alabama. Carapace lengths taken from recaptures of turtles individually marked over an 18-year period were used to generate von Bertalanffy growth curves for both sexes. Females grew faster than males early in life and reached estimated asymptotic size at a younger age. Size-at-sexual-maturity data from previous studies indicate that males reach maturity in 10-12 years, while females mature at 12-15 years. Compared to a spring-dwelling Florida population of S. minor (Loggerhead Musk Turtle), the Flattened Musk Turtle has a slower growth rate, a greater age at maturity, and a smaller asymptotic size. These differing life-history characteristics likely reflect cooler water temperatures and reduced food availability in Flattened Musk Turtle habitats.
41262922|This paper reports information on size and growth of snakes in two populations of Lampropeltis nigra (Black Kingsnake) over 20 years of study and provides a comparative analysis that builds on the work of Jenkins et al. (2001). During a 7-year study (1990-1996) at the Anderson County Wildlife Sanctuary (ACWS) and a 13-year study (1997-2009) at the University of Tennessee Forestry Resources Research and Education Center (FES) in Oak Ridge, TN, we captured 265 individual Black Kingsnakes a total of 556 times. The size of Black Kingsnakes in these two populations are the smallest reported for this species, with mean ( SD) snout-to-vent length (SVL) of 66.9  24.5 cm (maximum = 112 cm) at ACWS and 55.8  16.8 cm (maximum = 87 cm) at FES. At FES, the mass-SVL relationship is represented by an exponential equation (mass [g] = 0.0004 SVL [cm] 2.98 ) similar to ACWS (mass [g] = 0.0005 SVL [cm] 2.95 ). Across both sites, juvenile kingsnakes grew 1.1 cm/mo faster than adult individuals. There was a significant decline in body condition index (BCI) in the combined population during 1990-2009, with BCI declining by 0.960 units annually at ACWS and by 0.981 units annually at FES over the respective study periods. Declines in BCI may be a precursor to a decline in abundance.
41262923|There is an ongoing need to monitor the status of imperiled fishes in the southeastern United States using effective methods. Visual surveys minimize harm to target species, but few studies have specifically examined their effectiveness compared to other methods or accounted for imperfect species detection. We used snorkel surveys to estimate detection probability and site occupancy for rare fishes in the Toccoa River system of north Georgia. We also carried out backpack electrofishing at a subset of sites to compare detection probabilities for both methods. The probability of detecting Percina aurantiaca (Tangerine Darter) and Etheostoma vulneratum (Wounded Darter) while snorkeling was relatively high, averaging 30% and 22%, respectively, and nave and estimated occupancy rates (i.e., corrected for incomplete species detection) were almost identical for both species. The probability of detecting Erimystax insignis (Blotched Chub) while snorkeling was relatively low (9%), and their estimated occupancy rate (86%) was much higher than we detected in our survey. Detection was negatively related to depth and substrate size for Blotched Chub and positively related to depth for Tangerine Darter. Compared to snorkeling, the probability of detecting a species while backpack electrofishing was higher for Wounded Darter (40%) and comparable for Blotched Chub (11%). Tangerine Darter, however, were never captured while electrofishing even though they occurred at all four sites where both methods were used. Our study demonstrates the successful use of snorkel sampling to estimate occupancy rates of rare fishes in a large, clear southeastern river and illustrates the importance of accounting for imperfect species detection.
41262924|Moxostoma collapsum (Notchlip Redhorse) and the undescribed Moxostoma sp. (Brassy Jumprock) form a large component of the fish assemblage in the Broad River, SC, but little is known about their population characteristics, nor has an aging method been validated for either species. We validate that one annulus is formed each year in the lapillus otolith of the two species and identify spring as the period of annulus formation, using chemical marking and marginal increment analyses, respectively. Notchlip Redhorse and Brassy Jumprock are long-lived, with observed maximum estimated ages of 17 and 21, respectively. Both species grow quickly during their first few years; little growth occurs after age 7. Instantaneous total mortality of each species was low (Z< 0.35), suggesting there is little exploitation of either species in the Broad River, SC.
41262925|To examine short-term morphological changes and variables controlling this change, we conducted a study on five lower Mississippi River islands in 2007 and 2008. The southernmost island was located 25 km north of Memphis, TN, and the northernmost island was located 105 km north of Memphis. We surveyed elevations along six transects for each of the five islands to examine morphological changes between years and measured river velocity and backscatter intensity (sediment load) at the head, middle, toe, zee, and fore sides of the islands. We predicted the impacts of flooding on island geomorphology would be greatest at the head (upstream edge) and fore (thalweg) side. In addition, we predicted the morphology of islands present in the main channel in the 1890s would differ in morphology from contemporary islands. Results indicated morphological change during the study period but only in width. Islands showed general lateral migration, with one side aggrading while the other side eroded. Changes in morphological characteristics were consistent with intensity of river flow around the islands, with the highest velocity and sediment load observed near the island head and to a lesser degree the thalweg side of islands. In reference to islands present in the late 1890s, contemporary islands appear to be more elongated and have a greater surface slope. Since these islands provide beneficial habitat for flora and fauna, it is crucial to understand the dynamic nature of these landscape features.
41262926|The Cahaba River is a largely free-flowing river system in central Alabama noted for the great diversity of its aquatic fauna. Much of the vertebrate and molluscan faunas have been examined in past studies, but with the exception of the Trichoptera, relatively little is known of the aquatic insect fauna. This study was conducted to fill the void left by the absence of mayfly and stonefly data. Mayflies and stoneflies were collected from seven sites along a longitudinal gradient on the mainstem Cahaba River from late April 2004 to May 2005. Forty species, 25 genera, and nine families of Ephemeroptera were recorded. For the Plecoptera, 18 species, 10 genera, and four families were found. Six new state records for mayflies were recorded.
41262927|We examined the effects of prescribed fire on the abundance of soil microarthropods in a southeastern pine-hardwood forest in northeast Georgia. Using soil cores, the soil microarthropod groups Prostigmata, Oribatida, and Collembola were examined before and after a low-intensity prescribed fire intended for fuels reduction and wildlife habitat improvement. A post-burn evaluation found 100% duff layer coverage and 80% of the understory vegetation consumed. Prostigmata numbers were significantly reduced four months after the burn, with numbers returning to pre-burn levels more than one year later. Although Oribatida and Collembola fluctuated from year to year, we found no significant effects from the burn on those taxa. These results suggest that low-intensity prescribed burning has no lasting negative effects on soil microarthropod populations. The results from this study add to the evidence suggesting the adaptability of southeastern forests to low-intensity prescribed fire.
41262928|Sustained reproduction is critical for successful restoration of extirpated populations. Evaluating success of restoration efforts requires an understanding of reproductive capacity in such populations. We examined age-specific reproductive capacity of a Lontra canadensis (River Otter) population in southern Missouri that was the focus of intense restoration efforts in the 1980s and early 1990s. We collected carcasses of 387 legally harvested female Otters from 1996-1999. Otters ranged in age from 1-11 years, with juveniles (< 1 yr) the dominant (41.1%) age class. Mean annual corpora lutea counts were high (x = 2.48  0.12) and present in 72.8% of adult (> 1 yr) Otters. Our results indicate that the southern Missouri River Otter population has one of the greatest recorded potential reproductive capacities for that species.
41262929|Forty artificial nest cavities, composed of 7.6-cm plastic tubing (20 PVC white and 20 ABS black), were established in a riparian hardwood forest habitat located in the Georgia Piedmont. Nest cavities situated on wooden L-shaped platforms were secured on Quercus nigra (Water Oak) and Q. alba (White Oak) tree trunks 1.5 m from the ground. Peromyscus leucopus (White-footed Mouse) and Ochrotomys nuttalli (Golden Mouse) used these artificial nest cavities during autumn, winter, and spring. White-footed Mice (36 M, 38 F, 7 J) used the black tubes to a significantly greater extent than the white tubes (12 M, 10 F, 0 J) (X = 33.8, df = 1, P < 0.01). In contrast, Golden Mice inhabited the black tubes (3 M, 5 F, 6 J) to the same extent as the white tubes (6 M, 7 F, 0 J) (X = 0.04, df = 1, P > 0.25). Black tube cavities were warmer (2.5 C) than white tubes during the winter breeding season, which may partially explain why White-footed Mice, a less social species than Golden Mice, used these artificial nests to a greater extent during winter.
41262930|The distribution and abundance of bats in western Virginia are poorly documented, especially in summer. Herein, we report results for captures of bats during 8 summers (between 2000 and 2009) of mist-netting surveys in the Cumberland Plateau and the Ridge and Valley provinces of Virginia. We captured 1575 bats representing 11 species and report multiple new county records for 10 of the 11 counties surveyed. Average capture rate was 1.9 bats per net-night, and Simpson's diversity index was 3.9 for the 8-year period. We also documented earliest and latest detection dates for reproducing females and presence of juveniles in 7 bat species. Our data contribute to an understanding of the relative abundance, distribution, and reproductive phenology of bats in these provinces, and may aid in the development of sound conservation strategies for these species in Virginia and surrounding states. Baseline data like these are increasingly important in light of White-Nose Syndrome's effects on bat populations in the region.
41262931|Myotis sodalis (Indiana Bat) is known to hibernate in Arkansas, but evidence of maternity colonies is lacking. We captured ten Indiana Bats, including reproductive females, in mist-nets at the Black River Wildlife Management Area (BRWMA) in Clay County during 2006. We located one roost via radio-telemetry after affixing a transmitter to one female Indiana bat. Our survey demonstrates that Indiana bat maternity colonies are established in the BRWMA. This area is the most southwesterly maternity habitat of Indiana Bats recorded and the only known maternity colonies in Arkansas.
41262932|Habitats of three crayfish species, Procambarus (Pennides) gibbus (Muckalee Crayfish), Procambarus (Pennides) versutus (Sly Crayfish), and Procambarus (Pennides) spiculifer (White Tubercled Crayfish) were studied at nine localities in Marion County, GA. Major objectives of this year-long study were to compare habitats of these sister species and assess the current conservation status of the Muckalee Crayfish and the Sly Crayfish in Georgia. Sites were characterized by a one-time physical assessment of the substrate followed by bimonthly assessment of physicochemical conditions. Results indicated that Sly Crayfish habitats had lower pH and turbidity than habitats used by the other two species. Muckalee Crayfish habitat had higher gravel and coarse sand content and higher conductivity than those of the other two species. Captures indicated year-round activity of populations of each species across study locations; however, both the Muckalee Crayfish and the Sly Crayfish merit conservation status due to their limited ranges.
41262933|Cambarus (Lacunicambarus) miltus (Rusty Gravedigger Crayfish) is a primary burrowing crayfish known from a limited portion of the Gulf Coastal region of the United States. The lack of form I males in collections has in the past prevented specieslevel identifications and hampered conservation reviews. We conducted an intensive status survey for C. miltus during 2007 and 2008. Our results suggest that the species is much more widespread than previously known and that conservation attention is unwarranted. Preferred habitat for the species is ephemerally flooded and thinly wooded floodplains of small streams and swamps.
41262934|We report the first record of invasive Orconectes rusticus (Rusty Crayfish) in the Potomac River, MD. Four specimens were collected in June 2010 in the Potomac River downstream from the confluence of Antietam Creek near Sharpsburg, MD. Subsequent surveys in the Potomac River mainstem and three other tributaries from Brunswick to Hancock, MD indicate that this invasive species is not yet widespread in the river. Further spread of Rusty Crayfish in the Potomac River may displace congeneric species including two natives, Orconectes obscurus (Allegheny Crayfish) and Orconectes limosus (Spinycheek Crayfish), and the non-native Orconectes virilis (Virile Crayfish) in Maryland, Virginia, and West Virginia.
41262935|Chelonibia testudinaria (Sea Turtle Barnacle) and other closely related barnacle species of the genus Chelonibia are known to utilize a variety of organisms for their attachment substrate. These include the calcified exoskeleton of marine crustaceans and chelicerids, the epidermis of manatees, and the carapace regions of all extant sea turtle species. Here, we present the first records of an Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator; Alligatoridae) as a host for C. testudinaria.
41262936|Most records of predator-prey relationships for snakes are based on stomach-content analyses, but herein we present photographic documentation of predation on an Agkistrodon contortrix contortrix (Southern Copperhead) by a Micrurus tener (Texas Coralsnake). In the context of published studies, our report implies that although predation on pitvipers by coralsnakes is rare, it may be unusually more frequent in east Texas.
41262937|Direct observations were made in June 2009 and 2010 of newly recruited young-of-year (YOY) Sphyraena barracuda (Great Barracuda; 50-80 mm total length) occuring on "live bottom" sub-tropical reefs off the southeast US at depths of 18-25 m. Counts of YOY fish from roving diver surveys along multiple reefs with under-cut ledges ranged from 0-122 individuals, indicating patchy distributions at the scale of individual reefs. Individual fish occured in groups of 2-20+, primarily along the undercut side of ledges, where dense schools of Haemulon aurolineatum (Tomtate), Decapterus punctatus (Round Scad), Decapterus macarellus (Mackeral Scad), Stenotomus chrysops (Scup), and Atherinid sp. (silverside) were concentrated. Groups of YOY Great Barracuda attacked, captured and consumed YOY Torniate and Silverside that occured in schools in the water column adjacent to (just above the sediment-water interface) and directly above the undercut edge of the reefs. Prey reacted during attacks by reducing nearest neighbor distances and retreating to the reef edge, where they were subsequently attacked by the demersal piscivores Centropristis striata (Black Sea Bass), Centropristis ocyurus (Bank Sea Bass), and Mycteropercaphenax (Scamp Grouper). That groups of YOY piscivores, at sizes close to settlement, can assume such a functional role in regards to driving such species interactions suggests greater attention should be given to the roles played by the wider diversity of YOY piscivores recruiting to reef communities.
41262938|Anas fulvigula (Mottled Duck) primarily occupy coastal marshes along the western Gulf of Mexico and Florida. Previous extralimital records of Mottled Ducks have been recorded in Great Plains states and in some states along the Atlantic Coast. We report on a female Mottled Duck that was banded in 2007 on Rockefeller Wildlife Refuge (Cameron Parish, LA) and harvested near Alpena, SD (Sanborn County). This minimum movement of 1680 km is highly unusual in a species where individuals rarely stray more than 160 km from the coast. Among recent and reliably documented reports (since 1980), this observation represents the northernmost documented record for this species. We presume that this individual migrated north with wintering Anas platyrhynchos (Mallard) it associated with in coastal Louisiana.
41475406|In encounters with predators, sclerosomatid harvestmen may employ a variety of defensive tactics including the voluntary detachment of legs (autotomy). The long-term costs of this evasive defense are not fully understood, but prior studies have documented negative consequences for terrestrial locomotion and foraging. In this study, we investigated the impact of leg loss upon locomotion in adult harvestmen (Leiobunum spp.). In southeastern Virginia, these harvestmen regularly climb vegetation and occupy perches on tree trunks, branches, and leaves that are often 1-2 m or more above the ground. In our study, we measured walking and climbing speeds for individuals with 5, 6, 7, and 8 legs. The results of our field surveys conducted over three seasons revealed relatively high frequencies (36-63%) of leg loss. We also found that individuals with six legs occupied perches that were significantly lower in the understory than those with eight legs. In the lab, we observed significantly slower walking speeds for individuals missing one or more legs. We also found that individuals with five legs climb significantly slower than individuals with eight legs. On the bases of the observed frequencies of leg loss in the field, we infer that leg autotomy is a common (and effective) evasive tactic used by harvestmen. However, the reduction in walking and climbing speeds resulting from leg loss may also affect habitat selection, (e.g., perch height) and may ultimately reduce the survivorship of individuals in future encounters with predators.
41475407|During 2003 and 2004, carabid beetles were collected from the 9 largest spruce-fir sites located in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Thirty-seven species were identified from 1817 individuals of Carabidae caught in these habitats. When adjusted for sample size, carabid beetle diversity was highest at Grandfather Mt., NC and lowest at Mt. Rogers, VA. Results from non-metric multi-dimensional scaling (NMS) ordination analysis indicate that carabid species found in spruce-fir forest cluster independently from those found in deciduous lower-elevation forests. There were no correlations between carabid species diversity and habitat area, isolation, and elevation.
41475408|Chiropteran mandibles from late Pleistocene/Holocene fossil cave localities in Hamilton County were identified in order to examine changes in bat species diversity and population trends over extended periods of time, providing insight into how bats in Southeast Tennessee have responded to major environmental changes over the past 10,000 20,000 years. Generic and species identifications were based on an unpublished key developed by the authors. Measurements of alveolar length (cl m3) and total length measurements from the symphysis to the condyle were taken for all specimens identified as members of the genus Myotis in an attempt to identify species in this genus. The results of this study failed to confirm those of previous univariate morphological studies, suggesting that multivariate morphometric analyses may be needed to establish a means to differentiate among the species in this genus. Diversity data indicated two patterns of species abundance, with Eptesicus fuscus (Big Brown Bat) dominating some sites and Myotis sp. dominating others. The data suggest, but do not conclusively demonstrate, that a temporal replacement of older eptesicus faunas by younger myotis-dominated faunas has occured, connected with post-Pleistocene global warming. In addition, a correspondence between human disturbance and bat populations levels was observed. It is very likely that human disturbance has caused bat populations to become extinct in the caves under study, reinforcing the claim of previous researchers that bat population decline is a recent phenomenon that is tightly linked to human disturbance.
41475409|The Picayune Strand Restoration Project is being conducted as part of the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan to restore hydrology and habitat in Southwest Florida. This study evaluated the success of the restoration activities by examining anuran species richness and relative abundance in relation to various restoration treatments, which included restored areas, un-restored areas, and natural wetlands. Anuran observations were conducted using nocturnal audible call surveys and dip netting. Univariate results indicated that: the lowest species richness and relative abundance values occurred within the un-restored areas, richness significantly increased in all restored areas relative to un-restored areas, abundance increased in some restored areas but not others, and highest richness and abundance were documented in the natural wetlands.Multivariate analysis confirmed these patterns and also indicated that the anuran species assemblages were significantly different between restoration treatments. Furthermore, the presence or absence of Lithobates sphenocephalus utricularius (Southern Leopard Frog), Gastrophryne carolinensis (Eastern Narrow-mouthed Toad), and Hyla femoralis (Pine Woods Treefrog) may be used to document restoration success or hydrologie disturbance, respectively. These findings suggest that the restoration activities can be effective and that anurans could be used as performance measures of restoration success.
41475410|We monitored the herpetofauna of a large conservation area in peninsular Florida from 1990 to 2010, visiting the refuge on over 2000 different days in that period and using a variety of sampling techniques. Our goals were to evaluate the species richness and abundance of herpetofauna (amphibians and reptiles) on the site. During the course of our study, we documented 72 species (22 amphibian and 50 reptile species); thus, the site has impressive species richness relative to other conservation areas in the southeastern United States. Five of the 72 species (6.9%) we found were introduced species. Continued monitoring of the diverse herpetofauna of Lake Woodruff National Wildlife Refuge could facilitate a better understanding of ongoing changes in species abundances and community assemblages occurring in the ecosystems of peninsular Florida.
41475411|American Alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) food habit data are important when establishing management strategies, as diet can directly influence growth rates, body condition, behavior, and reproduction. Diets of American Alligators are hypothesized to vary among habitats as well as geographically; however, few diet studies have been conducted outside of Florida and Louisiana. To address this information gap, 62 diet samples were obtained from alligators ranging in size from 94.7 cm to 386.0 cm (total length) from June 2006-September 2008 in inland freshwater wetlands in East Texas.A total of 33 different prey items (comprising 670 individual prey items) and 1 parasite were identified. Irrespective of size class, sex, and study site, > 85% of individual prey items were invertebrates. Nearly all diet samples contained some sort of organic by-catch and/or non-food items (i.e., woody debris, aquatic plants, seeds, rocks, fishing tackle, etc.). Although alligator diets were similar between sexes, non-breeding (< 183.0 cm in total length) alligators consumed more invertebrate prey items by biomass and percent occurrence than breeding-size alligators. In general, alligators forage opportunistically; therefore, most habitat-based, local, or geographic variability in food habits among populations are most likely influenced by food availability. As such, regional differences in food availability likely result in geographic variability in life-history characteristics such as growth rates and condition, important factors to consider when establishing management strategies.
41475412|We conducted multiple surveys to determine the distribution of the non-native Herichthys cyanoguttatus (Rio Grande Cichlid) in the Greater New Orleans Metropolitan Area (GNOMA). First, in 2003-2004, we trapped for H, cyanoguttatus in Lake Pontchartrain (an oligohaline estuary) to determine if this freshwater species occurred in estuarine habitats. Our goal was to test the prediction that H. cyanoguttatus used estuarine corridors to disperse. Second, we sampled and compared 16 GNOMA sites before and after the 2005 hurricanes to determine how H. cyanoguttatus populations responded. Finally, we monitored H. cyanoguttatus populations monthly over two years (2006-2007) at six sites within the GNOMA to determine if numbers continued to increase after the hurricanes.We confirmed that H. cyanoguttatus: 1) does occur in estuarine habitats (0 to 8 psu), 2) effectively survived the 2005 hurricanes, 3) has increased significantly from 2006 to 2007 at three of six GNOMA sites, 4) is currently found more often in urban sites, and 5) persisted through the atypically cold winter of 2009/2010.
41475413|We surveyed the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley of Arkansas (" the Delta") during the breeding seasons of 2005 and 2006 using the national marshbird monitoring protocol for secretive marshbirds. We detected and documented breeding by Podilymbus podiceps (Pied-billed Grebe), Ixobrychus exilis (Least Bittern), Rallus elegans (King Rail), and Gallnula chloropus (Common Moorhen). We detected but did not document breeding by Botaurus lentiginosus (American Bittern), Porphyrula martinica (Purple Gallinule), and Fulica americana (American Coot), all of which have been documented to breed in the Delta. Our estimated occupancy rates for breeding marshbirds in the study area ranged from a low of 6% for the King Rail in 2006 to a high of 27% for the Least Bittern in 2005. The range of these occupancy rates are low and reflect the rarity of secretive marshbirds in the Delta. Secretive marshbird occupancy rates were higher in the southern third of the Delta, probably because wetlands were more abundant or of higher quality there.
41475414|Rallus longirostris (Clapper Rail) is considered a good indicator species for toxicants because of its strong site fidelity and predictable diet of benthic organisms. High levels of the rare PCB Aroclor 1268 have been found in Clapper Rail adults, chicks, and eggs from the marshes associated with the Linden Chemical Plant (LCP) in Brunswick, GA. Recently, sampling and testing feathers has successfully been used as a non-lethal tool to trace exposure and assimilation of Aroclor 1268 in rails from the LCP site. This approach allows us to infer how and when these birds are exposed to contaminants in the marsh due to predictable molting patterns coupled with the fact that a feather will accumulate the toxicant only at the time it is grown. This study is the start of a process to investigate the possibility that this ecosystem contamination is the foundation of an ecological trap for Clapper Rails at the LCP site. Aroclor 1268 was isolated in Clapper Rail feathers from all birds collected from the contaminated marsh. This finding suggests that these birds either hatched or resided in this system the previous year and thus were not new recruits, which would be expected if fitness was being compromised from the contamination. Based on samples taken during the same fall and winter from the LCP site and control areas, the ratios of hatch-year (HY) birds to adults were similar. However, based on samples taken during the spring and summer, the ratios of HY birds to adults from LCP were lower than reported previously in studies in the southeast. This result suggests that the population age structure may have been affected by the contamination.Future studies specifically focused on reproductive success and fitness are needed at LCP and throughout the Brunswick estuary.
41475415|Substantial declines in populations of Sialia sialis (Eastern Bluebird) have prompted a large movement throughout North America to construct human-made nest boxes to facilitate bluebird nesting. While large-scale habitat preferences of nesting bluebirds have been well-established, the factors that influence nest-box preference within relatively homogeneous habitats remain unclear. We tested the effects of vegetation height and nest-box orientation, comparing northeast-, southeast-, southwest-, and northwest-facing boxes, on nest-box occupancy in a population of Eastern Bluebirds in Athens, GA. Vegetation height surrounding nest boxes influenced nest-box preferences.Over 65% of boxes with little to no surrounding vegetation were occupied, as compared with only 21% of boxes surrounded by high vegetation. Nest-box orientation also influenced box selection. Over 68% of boxes facing northwest were occupied, compared with less than 34% of boxes facing all other directions. These findings differ from those in studies conducted at northern latitudes, suggesting that preference for box orientation may vary with latitude.
41475416|Relatively little information has been published on Coyotes in the eastern United States, particularly in the mid-Atlantic region, the last area of the contiguous US to be colonized by Coyotes. Increases in eastern Coyote distribution and abundance have been documented, and concerns about their impact on wildlife and livestock are growing. Information from published and unpublished manuscripts, theses, dissertations, and state wildlife agency records in the mid-Atlantic region were examined and synthesized. This review provides a comprehensive summary of Coyote ecology in the mid-Atlantic for natural resource managers and researchers.
41475417|Canis rufus (Red Wolf) is critically endangered, with the only wild population consisting of <150 individuals. Currently, little is known about the food habits of this population. Such information may be vital to managing for the population's longterm persistence. We collected scats of Red Wolves for two consecutive pup-rearing seasons from six packs, classified contents into prey categories, and assessed diet composition for each pack. Five of the six packs studied consumed only mammalian prey items. Adult Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) and White-tailed Deer fawns accounted for 37-66% of diet of Red Wolves depending on the metric of diet composition. Adult White-tailed Deer and White-tailed Deer fawns accounted for 21-83% of the diet of individual packs of Red Wolves according to biomass consumed. Two packs regularly consumed foods associated with humans. Generalized linear modeling indicated that diet varied between packs and was not influenced by reproductive status, nor did diet vary between years.
41475418|As human populations encroach on more remote areas, tree plantations are frequently converted into suburban developments or conservation lands. The purpose of the current study was to compare the effects of restoration treatments on the abundance and biodiversity of two former pine plantations in northeast Florida. Restoration methods, which varied greatly in both environmental impact and effort from minimal (non-manipulated control plots) to thinned (removal of 90-97% of Slash Pines and exotic plant species) to cleared (mechanical removal of all vegetation to the substrate surface), were compared using replicated 100-m plots. Although sites exhibited variation in plant densities and relative guild abundance, restoration treatment produced a significant increase in plant abundance and relative composition of plant guilds. Plant abundance was 2-3 times higher in cleared plots compared to thinned and control plots, respectively; not surprisingly this was because cleared plots had large numbers of small herbaceous seedlings as well as a shift in their plant communities to graminoid species, which are typically less shade tolerant than other plant guilds. Moreover, the relative abundance of vines was substantially lower in cleared plots compared to control and thinned plots, which retained all or some of their tree and shrub cover, thereby providing support structure for climbing plants. While plant diversity (Shannon index) exhibited a significant time-by-treatment interaction because cleared plots initially had only 65-80% of the plant diversity compared to control and thinned plots, cleared plots reached or exceeded them in biodiversity by the last two sampling dates, although cleared plots at one site showed a large decline on the final sampling date. In general, both study sites reflected high levels of graminoids in cleared plots, while thinned plots showed more even increases across plant guilds. Lastly, pine tree diameter (i.e., plant growth rate) was greater and canopy cover was lower in thinned plots compared to controls, although the differences were only significant for one site. Results from this study indicate that thinning former pine plantations with selective removal of exotics will provide maximal plant biodiversity and tree growth rather than utilizing more cost-and labor-intensive clearing of sites.
41475419|Studies of local adaptation generally investigate plants growing in relatively stable habitats. We asked whether populations of the long-lived clonal grass Unila paniculata (Sea Oats) are locally adapted to microhabitats in the southeastern US coastal dunes, a habitat characterized by dynamic environmental gradients spanning relatively small distances. Although vegetative zonation is well characterized across these gradients, little is known about intraspecific evolutionary responses of species spanning the gradients. Plants from the foredune and backdune areas of the gradient (<10 m and 40 60 m from the shoreline, respectively) were reciprocally transplanted into experimental plots in both habitats. Although foredune plots were washed away by storms before harvest, the foredune plants demonstrated no early advantage in stem diameter or height growth, and thus there was no support for local adaptation in foredune plants.In the backdune plots, the backdune plants demonstrated no early growth advantage, and additionally demonstrated no advantage in survival, nor in growth or total biomass of surviving plants at harvest. Thus, there was again no support for local adaptation. In frequently disturbed environments such as the coastal dunes, plants may be more likely to respond with phenotypic plasticity than through local adaptation.
41475420|Foraging preference of Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) at ornamental plantings was compared amongst 11 wildflower species native to north Florida and south Georgia. Deer exhibited strong preference for Coreopsis floridana (Florida Tickseed), C. gladiata (Coastalplain Tickseed), C. integrifolia (Fringeleaf Tickseed), and Rudbeckia fulgida (Orange Coneflower). Browsing significantly reduced the height of Florida, Coastalplain, and Fringeleaf Tickseeds, and reduced the number of Florida and Fringeleaf Tickseed flowers. Browsing pressure remained high throughout the growing season; therefore, temporary exclosures are unlikely to offer a viable solution to damage caused by deer. Information on variation in deer preference between species and across seasons should help private landowners and public land managers make strategic decisions regarding which species to establish at residences, food plots, or roadside beautification projects.
41475425|We describe the diet composition of Tursiops truncatus (Bottlenose Dolphin) from South Carolina waters. Stomach contents of 136 dolphins stranded dead between 2000 and 2006 were examined. Eighty-two dolphin stomachs contained food items and formed the basis for this study. The emphasis of this study was to compare the stomach contents of dolphins that bore evidence of human interaction but were otherwise healthy with those that appeared to die of natural causes. Forty-two prey species representing 24 families were identified. Dolphins fed predominantly on smaller-sized benthic and demersal fish species. Diets were primarily comprised of members of the family Sciaenidae, with Stellifer lanceolatus (Star Drum) being the most abundant species quantitatively. Lolliguncula brevis (Brief Squid) was the most frequently observed prey item. Overall, dolphins that appeared to have died from natural causes consumed similar species of fish and squid to those that exhibited signs of human interaction. This study represents the first quantitative analysis of prey species comprising the diet of Bottlenose Dolphins found in South Carolina waters.
41475426|From January to May 2008, the first historical strandings of Peponocephala electra Gray (Melon-headed Whale) and Lagenorhynchus acutus Gray (Atlantic White-sided Dolphin) were recorded in South Carolina. A mass stranding of three Melon-headed Whales (2 males, 1 female) was recorded on 11 January 2008 along the Horry County coast in the cities of Myrtle Beach and North Myrtle Beach. Three additional Melon-headed Whales (1 male, 1 female, and 1 unknown sex) stranded as single individuals over the next two months at locations along the South Carolina coast. Lengths of the animals ranged from 161 to 250 cm, and the ages ranged from 1 to 24 years. On 4 May 2008, a single 263-cm, 17-year-old, male Atlantic White-sided Dolphin stranded in Horry County. The most striking commonalities observed during the Melon-headed Whale and Atlantic White-sided Dolphin necropsies were severe pulmonary distress and reactive lymphadenopathy. The strandings reported herein are the first records of Melon-headed Whales and Atlantic White-sided Dolphins in South Carolina.
41475427|Dactylogyrus is a holarctic genus of monogene flatworms that infects the gills of cyprinid fishes. Dactylogyrus species are usually highly host specific, and little is known about their life history in North America. The purpose of this study was twofold: to determine 1) whether Dactylogyrus exhibits seasonally in its life cycle, and 2) if there is any potential effect upon reproductive effort of the host as a result of Dactylogyrus infection. Over a 12-month period, 967 Dactylogyrus were found on the gills of 383 Notropis telescopus (Telescope Shiner), a cyprinid fish collected in the upper Paint Rock River system in northeastern Alabama. A significant positive relationship was found between prevalence of infection and host somatic weight and gonadosomatic index (GSI). The assumptions that parasite presence is evenly distributed among individual host fish and within each month were rejected by chi square tests, with the months of March through July as a peak for the extent of Dactylogyrus infection. These months are the time of gonadal development and reproduction in Telescope Shiners.
41475428|Burrowing crayfish are typically sampled by excavation, which results in habitat destruction. Several less destructive trapping methods have been devised, though their results have been inconsistent in our experience. To conduct studies of growth and longevity, a more efficient method was needed to sample burrowing crayfish while leaving their burrows intact. We describe a new trap design based on a reversed pitfall trap. This trap was tested using a population of burrowing crayfish, Cambarus Lacunicambarus diogenes (Devil Crayfish), in Alabama. The weekly trapping success rate (n = 18 traps) over a 4-week period ranged from 6% to 33%, with an average success rate of 17%. We feel that the implementation of our design will enhance studies requiring nondestructive sampling.
41475429|Aquatic funnel traps are a non-destructive means of surveying amphibians in lentic habitats, particularly as compared to dip-net surveys that disturb aquatic vegetation and the substrate, and affect the water column through increased turbidity. The objective of this study was to examine the utility of glow stick-baited aquatic funnel traps for larval amphibians, with a particular emphasis on ambystomatid larvae. We sampled 12 isolated ponds in the Mid-Atlantic Coastal Plain of South Carolina between April and June 2010 and used detection/non-detection capture data to model the probability of capturing larval amphibians in baited and un-baited funnel traps. Further, we used count data (captures per trap) to examine whether glow stick-baited traps captured more amphibian larvae than un-baited traps. We captured four Amby> stoma species (A. mabeei, A. opacum, A. talpoideum, and A. tigrinum) and tadpoles from the families Bufonidae, Ranidae, and Hylidae in light-baited funnel traps. Captures of both Ambystoma larvae and tadpoles were positively associated with light-baited traps, and we were 8.8 times more likely to capture Ambystoma larvae and 5.7 times more likely to capture tadpoles in glow stick-baited traps as compared to un-baited traps. Our results indicate that glow sticks can greatly improve capture success of larval amphibians in funnel traps, and we recommend their use as an active sampling method that is unbiased by surveyor experience and skill-level.
41475430|Cryptobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis (Eastern North American Hellbender) were collected from the Little River of the Great Smoky National Park (n = 22) and the Hiwassee River of the Cherokee National Forest (n = 30), TN. The cloaca of each animal was swabbed for Salmonella culture and identification. No Salmonella was identified from any of the samples. The prevalence of Salmonella in Hellbenders may be higher than reported here since feces were not collected and animals were only sampled once. Park visitors should still take precautions to protect themselves from water-borne zoonotic pathogens.
41475431|The southeastern United States contains a rich diversity of vertebrate species. Despite this, the Piedmont province of the southeastern US has received less attention than the more biologically diverse Coastal Plain and Mountain regions. Yet, the Piedmont region experiences the greatest anthropogenic impact and should be the focus of conservation efforts. In an attempt to obtain diversity information for this under-studied region, we surveyed amphibian, reptile, and non-volant mammal communities for one year at two sites in the Piedmont of North Carolina. Our survey methodologies included drift fences, artificial cover objects, camera traps, and visual encounter surveys. We captured or obtained evidence of a total of 49 species across both sites (mammals = 20, amphibians = 15, reptiles = 14), and over 2000 animals were captured or detected. We calculated measures of species richness, abundance, diversity, and evenness for each study site, and calculated similarity between sites. Diversity and evenness measures varied, but were generally highest for amphibians or reptiles and lowest for mammals. Measures of similarity between study sites indicated high similarity. The species we observed were comparable to those reported by past inventory projects in the Piedmont of North Carolina, although such projects have been sparse. Our results provide much-needed information on vertebrate communities in this under-studied region.
41475432|The number of Myotis grisescens (Gray Bat) observed at hibernacula has increased across most of the species' range in recent years as more roost caves have been protected from humans. In Florida, most Gray Bats have been found to hibernate in one primary cave, where the number of hibernating individuals decreased from several thousand in the 1950s to zero in 1975 due to disturbance by humans and improper gating of the cave. After removal of the gate in 1982, the number of hibernating Gray Bats increased, averaging 166 bats during 1990-1998. The number then declined again, and < 10 Gray Bats per year were counted during 2002-2011. The cause of this recent decline is uncertain. Temperatures in the cave remain suitably cold, visitation by humans is restricted, and no mortality from floods or disease has been observed. Most of the Gray Bats may have moved to larger and more suitable hibernacula in northern Alabama and Tennessee.
41475433|Staging areas along the coasts provide reliable food resources, and shorebirds may use the same stopover locations every year. However, shorebirds use sites opportunistically in the interior of North America because of the transient nature of many habitats. Little is known, however, about the use of wetlands by migrating shorebirds in many areas of the Mississippi Alluvial Valley (MAV), including Kentucky. During 2004 and 2005, we examined the phenology of migration by shorebirds using stopover habitats in Kentucky. From March to October, we surveyed shorebirds in each moist soil unit as well as at other natural and man-made wetlands at each wildlife management area. Species abundance was recorded a minimum of once every 10-day period. We observed 25 species and 12,307 individual shorebirds during our study, with Charadrius vociferous (Killdeer; n = 4134), Calidris melanotos (Pectoral Sandpiper;  = 2912), Calidris minutilla (Least Sandpiper;  = 1138), Tringa melanoleuca (Gmelin) (Greater Yellowlegs; n = 942), and Tringa flavipes (Lesser Yellowlegs; n = 911) being most abundant. We observed nearly 75% more shorebirds during fall migration than during spring migration, possibly because less suitable habitat is available in the fall and shorebirds concentrate in those areas. In addition, shorebird migration extended over a longer period in the fall than in the spring, a pattern that likely results because adults migrate earlier in the fall and juveniles migrate later. Our results provide additional evidence that the MAV provides important stopover habitat for many species of shorebirds during both spring and fall migration.
41475434|With as little as 3% of southeastern Coastal Plain pitcher plant bogs remaining, it is important to understand the life-history aspects of the endemic organisms that comprise this community. In this study, we elucidate aspects of the life history of Exyra semicrocea (Pitcher Plant Moth) by incorporating unpublished portions of a thesis from 1978-1979 with recent field and lab observations in 2010. We give morphological descriptions of both larvae and adults, as well as behavioral descriptions and mortality measures. In addition, population estimates of E. semicrocea were conducted from east Texas through North Carolina. Our surveys identified four isolated pitcher plant sites where E. semicrocea may have been extirpated. This information has important conservation implications for E. semicrocea and is applicable to other pitcher plant-endemic arthropod species.
41475435|Scale insects belong to the superfamily Coccoidea, which includes serious plant pests such as soft scales, armored scales, and mealybugs. In 2009, in a natural habitat surrounded by urban development in Naples, FL, pestiferous scale insects (Coccidae) and mealybugs (Pseudococcidae) were discovered on inflorescences of Dendrophylax lindenii (Ghost Orchid). The next year, a follow-up survey was initiated to also include plants in two orchid-rich habitats within the Florida Panther National Wildlife Refuge. There, exotic scales were found on six different epiphytic orchid taxa. Of the scales encountered, Coccus hesperidum (Brown Soft Scale) and Diaspis boisduvalii (Boisduval Scale) are both well-known and serious pests of cultivated plants. Of particular concern is the possibility that these invasive insects have thoroughly infiltrated isolated, natural habitats of rare native orchids.
41475436|Understanding the habitat requirements of organisms associated with dead wood is important in order to conserve them in managed forests. Unfortunately, many of the less diverse saproxylic taxa, including Hemiptera, remain largely unstudied. An effort to rear insects from dead wood taken from two forest types (an upland pine-dominated and a bottomland mixed hardwood), three tree species (Liquidambar styraciflua [Sweetgum], Pinus taeda [Loblolly Pine], and Querem nigra [Water Oak]), and two wood postures (standing snags and fallen logs) in South Carolina produced 435 Hemiptera belonging to eight families and 14 species. The most common (> 25 individuals) species were Lyctocoris stain, Systelloderes inusitatus, Lasiochilus fusculus, Mezira granulata, Calisius contubernalis (a new state record), and Catonia sp. Lyctocoris stalii and Systelloderes inusitatus were almost exclusively captured in the upland and bottomland forest, respectively. Systelloderes inusitatus and Mezira granulata were recovered only from logs. Catonia sp. only emerged from P. taeda logs. Among the less common species, all but two of the 21 specimens of Peritropis saldaeformis were collected from snags. Similarly, all four specimens of Calliodis temnostethoides collected emerged from the crowns of snags. These findings strongly indicate that saproxylic Hemiptera are unevenly distributed among forests, tree species, and wood postures in the southeastern United States. A wide variety of dead wood is clearly necessary to maintain this fauna.
41475437|Floral visitors of the homoploid hybrid species, Iris nelsonii (Abbeville Red Iris), were observed and identified in order to determine whether Abbeville Red Iris flowers are visited by similar floral visitors as its progenitor Iris species. The most common floral visitors to Abbeville Red Iris flowers were Archilochus colubris (Ruby-throated Hummingbird), which were also largely successful in transferring a pollen dye-analogue between Abbeville Red Iris flowers. Other floral visitors included butterflies, wasps, and bee species. The pollinators of the Abbeville Red Iris have not been previously documented. These results suggest that pollinator isolation may be important in preventing hybridization between the Abbeville Red Iris and its geographically closest progenitor species, /. hexagona (Dixie Iris).
41475438|We report on the first records o Acantharchus pomotis (Mud Sunfish) from Alabama. Three specimens were collected over a ten-year period from Beaver Dam Creek of the Tombigbee River drainage in Washington County, near Chatom, AL. These records represent the most western distribution and the only known population from the Mobile Basin for the Mud Sunfish.
41475439|Estrus behavior by females for reasons other than reproduction (pseudo-estrus) has been reported in species of primates and felids, and alternative hypotheses have been put forth to explain its evolution and function. We observed 3 separate cases of pseudo-estrus behavior by 2 Puma concolor coryi (Florida Panther) females while they were nursing young (< 1 month old) kittens. We used VHF and GPS telemetry data, genetic pedigree analysis, and visual observations to provide insight into the evolutionary and practical implications of this behavior for Panthers. We suggest that female Panthers likely consort with males while nursing kittens to maintain amicable relations with these males to prevent infanticide. For studies monitoring Puma dens with radio-telemetry, pseudo-estrus events may be confused with litter abandonment, and thus our observations are useful to field biologists who may consider removing kittens from the wild following presumed abandonment events to prevent kitten mortality.
41475440|Translocation of wildlife is a valuable tool for managers to alleviate impacts of human/wildlife conflicts, habitat fragmentation, and small population sizes. Pelecanus occidentalis (Brown Pelican) were previously successfully translocated into Louisiana in 1960-1980s and had rebounded significantly prior to the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill in April 2010. The Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill had a dramatic impact on southeastern Louisiana, including the people, wildlife, and coastal habitats of the region. We translocated 182 oil-rehabilitated Brown Pelicans from southeastern Louisiana to an area non-impacted by the oil spill in southwestern Louisiana (Rabbit Island, Cameron Parish). Daily surveys were conducted at the island for six weeks and documented mortality, movements, integration with local pelican flocks, persistence of pelicans at the island, and the role of supplemental feeding. We documented no mortality of rehabilitated birds and found that translocated Brown Pelicans readily integrated with local pelican flocks. Supplemental feeding likely contributed to the persistence of pelicans at Rabbit Island from weeks 1 to 4. By weeks 4 to 6, many local and translocated pelicans moved away from the island, likely due to a combination of natural and human-induced factors. After the initial stages of the translocation, we tentatively suggest that the program was a success and propose recommendations for future translocation attempts with Brown Pelicans.
41475441|Use of traditional small-mammal sampling techniques is challenging in coastal salt marshes and forests. Various conditions particular to this type of environment affect the efficacy of sampling efforts. We compared various indirect (no physical capture) and direct (physical capture) techniques coupled with different baits to determine an effective method for sampling small mammals. In 1440 trap-nights, Sherman live traps caught significantly more rodents than Fitch traps (112 versus 16 respectively, Fisher's exact test: P = 0.0103), but the relationship between bait types, which included oats, scratch feed, sunflower seeds and suet, was not as apparent. However, for practical reasons, scratch feed and sunflower seeds were best used in marsh conditions due to their water resistance and ease in clean-up. Both track and scat plates were unsuccessful due to water damage and destruction by nontarget animals. Cameras yielded limited success. Target small mammals were photographed 436 times, but of those, only 26 could be positively identified to species. However, with adjustments including improved lens quality and adjustable focus distance, this could become a useful tool for small-mammal sampling. Such improved remote cameras could offer a viable alternative when permits cannot be issued, field access is limited, or there are concerns about mortality of the target species.
41679647|Although Mammuthus columbi (Columbian Mammoth) remains have been collected and extensively studied throughout the United States, limited in situ material has been discovered in Georgia. Here we describe new Columbian Mammoth material from Clark Quarry, a recently excavated late-Pleistocene locality near Brunswick, GA, and discuss their historical and paleoecological significance. The site has yielded 12 genera of birds, 18 genera of amphibians and reptiles, and 12 species of mammals. Radiocarbon analyses bracket the locality between 19,840 and 22,240 radiocarbon years before present. In 1857, Falconer designated a partial third upper molar unearthed during the excavation of the Brunswick Altamaha Canal as the type specimen for Mammuthus (Elephas) columbi. Clark Quarry borders the abandoned Brunswick Altamaha Canal, and presents the possibility that this new material could be from the type locality of Mammuthus columbi. Material identified thus far indicates a minimum of two individuals and includes a juvenile palate and lower jaw with cheek teeth, adult tooth fragments, complete and partial adult long-bones, carpals, tarsals, ribs, sternal elements, and cervical, thoracic, and caudal vertebrae.
41679648|Although Dasypus novemcinctus (Nine-banded Armadillo) is the only vertebrate other than humans to exhibit naturally occurring infections with Mycobacterium leprae, the causative agent in producing leprosy, little is known about patterns of infection in wild populations. Here we provide data on some temporal aspects of infection, obtained from sampling a population of armadillos in western Mississippi from 20052010. Annual prevalence of infection varied between 4.515%. Incidence density estimates calculated over progressively longer time intervals generated values ranging from 0.110.61 new cases of infection/1000 animal days. Of 77 animals that tested seropositive over the course of the study, 14 (18.2%) were seropositive in two consecutive years. Four of these animals were seropositive in three consecutive years, but no armadillos tested positive in >3 straight years. Finally, the proportion of seropositive animals increased with the number of years individuals were enrolled in the study. Together, these data indicate a substantial potential for transmission of infection within this population and confirm the view of leprosy as a slowacting disease that is largely manifested in older individuals.
41679649|Eleven Myocastor coypus (Nutria) were implanted with radiotransmitters and monitored on a freshwater floating marsh. I evaluated the habitat selection of these individuals at three scales. I examined patterns of second-and third-order selection (macrohabitat) using a vegetation-cover map and Nutria movement data. There was no difference between habitat proportions found in the study area overall versus those of individual Nutria home ranges (second-order of selection) nor between proportions within individual home ranges versus habitat coded Nutria location points (third-order selection). To evaluate fourth-order habitat selection (microhabitat), I compared plant species relative abundances by biomass and diversity indices between random samples taken throughout the available study area and plant samples taken at each Nutria location. During the colder winter months, Nutria appeared to be selecting areas with plant species that offered structure and protection from the elements. In contrast, during the spring and summer months, Nutria selected areas characterized by thin-mat and floating aquatic species that facilitated access to open water.
41679650|Rapid spread of the introduced Sus scrofa (Feral Hog) is a major concern for many landowners and land managers due to its destructive rooting behavior which damages natural habitats. Feral Swine have also been reported as infrequent predators of Alligator mississippiensis (American Alligator) eggs, with only seven nests lost in three prior studies combined (Fogarty 1974, Ruckel and Steele 1984, Woodward et al. 1992). In response to increasing reports by Louisiana landowners of Alligator nest losses due to Feral Swine, we sent a questionnaire addressing this issue to licensed Louisiana Alligator farmers who are permitted to collect eggs from wild nests. Over half (51.4%) of the farmers reported loss of Alligator nests in 2011; some 590 nests were damaged or destroyed on 36 separate properties across the state. Four farmers, some of whom have twenty or more years of experience collecting Alligator eggs, reported this is the first year in which they have lost nests to Feral Swine. Other farmers reported seeing wild hogs while in the field or seeing sign of hogs, which suggests future potential losses may be incurred and that the range and population level of this non-native species is expanding in important Alligator nesting habitat in Louisiana. Nearly all farmers who had nests destroyed by Feral Swine (94.7%) reported hog damage is increasing on their properties. Some farmers reported that hog removal efforts limited their Feral Swine damage this year relative to past years. In addition to deleterious effects on wetlands habitats caused by Feral Swine, the financial impact of loss of the Alligator egg revenue is significant.
41679651|the goal of this study was to better understand population characteristics of Villosa iris (Lea) (Rainbow Shell) in the Spring River drainage in north-central Arkansas through documenting seasonal spatial patterns, movement behavior, population size, size-frequency distributions, sex ratios, and fecundity. We conducted monthly mark and recapture sampling between May and September 2007 (i.e., before, during, and after spawning) and documented the sex, size, fecundity, and spatial location of individual Rainbow Shell at 2 sites (SFSRI and SRI). Population estimates were relatively high at both sites with 166  32 (SE) and 381  37 (SE) individuals at SFSR1 and SR1; respectively. Sex ratio was highly skewed toward males at SFSR1 with a ratio of 1.0:2.6, but only slightly skewed at SR1 with a ratio of 1.0:1.3. Mean fecundity was 27,849  11,653 (SE) and 15,089  11,710 (SE) glochidia at SFSR1 and SR1, respectively. Spatially, statistically more males were found upstream of non-gravid females during the spawning period. Mean movement for all sampling events was 1.6  0.53 cm/day and 1.9  0.58 cm/day for SFSR1 and SR1, respectively. Home range was 29.3  27.7 cm and 43.0  42.5 cm for SFSR1 and SR1, respectively. From our study, we conclude that Rainbow Shell exhibits traits, such as male-skewed sex ratio and non-uniform distribution of males and females, that may influence fertilization rates of females.
41679652|To maintain and improve water quality, there is an increasing need to understand relationships between current land-use practices (e.g., agriculture, forested/silviculture, and urban) and stream ecosystems. In this study, we investigated the relationships among water quality, habitat composition, fish assemblages, and current land-use practices in the Tallapoosa River Basin in eastern Alabama. Within the six streams investigated, all fish metrics were significantly higher for forested watersheds compared to agricultural watersheds, with total nitrogen and total phosphorus being the variables most descriptive offish biotic integrity (i.e., total nitrogen and total phosphorus were negatively related to fish biotic integrity). In addition, we found that nutrient concentrations (especially total nitrogen and total phosphorus) increased as percent agricultural land use increased. When looking at a larger scale (Tallapoosa River Basin), anthropogenic impacts such as eutrophication of Lakes Martin and Harris were related to agricultural land practices and the percentage of the basin these practices occupy. Because current land-use practices appear to be negatively impacting stream water quality and biota, it is important to decrease the amount of fertilizer, pesticides, and animal waste that runoff into streams and to protect riparian zones in order to preserve or improve biotic integrity.
41679653|Lepisosteus osseus (Longnose Gar) is a large-bodied predator, whose Florida distribution remains unclear at the southern edge of its range. We reviewed available literature and museum voucher specimens to provide a more accurate range description, and we discuss recent collections in south Florida. Longnose Gar has not been previously reported in natural habitats south of Lake Okeechobee. Instead, records south of the lake are from canals, and most are recent (since 2000), including our own southernmost 2011 record. No records from Everglades natural habitats have been collected. Previous studies have shown native range expansions in anthropogenically disturbed landscapes. We suggest that the Longnose Gar is expanding its range southward in Florida using canals as dispersal vectors and/or suitable habitat.
41679654|This is the first floristic and ecological evaluation of small pond systems developed over different periods of time after seized kaolin mining operations. Assessment of the total algal assemblage was used to infer environmental conditions of the aquatic habitats and also provided information about the ecological health and integrity of the aquatic ecosystems. The main objectives of this study were to document algal community composition and discern the amount of time it takes for a mined pond to reach its high biodiversity of primary producers. Winter and summer samples were taken from a pond developing for two years after removal of kaolin and from a pond that was thirty years old. Both pond systems contained rich algal communities predominantly from Cyanobacteria, Bacillariophyta, and Chlorophyta; however, the 30-year pond had higher Shannon-Wiener diversity, richness, and evenness values in both sampling seasons. In winter, filamentous Zygnematales dominated algal communities in the 2-year pond, while the 30-year pond community was dominated by diatoms. In both sites, the most taxon-rich group was green algal representatives of Desmidiaceae. In summer, potentially toxin-producing filamentous Cyanobacteria of the Nostocales were recorded in the 2-year pond, while the 30-year pond had higher average algal cell evenness and few toxic Nostocales. The average abundance of 11 diatom species, seven green algae, and one representative each of Euglenophyta, Cyanobacteria, and Cryptophyta resulted in less than 20 percent overall similarity between the two ponds. Our findings suggest that after two years of development potentially harmful kaolin residues are removed by natural sorption processes and do not negatively influence primary producers. However, stabilization processes in those manmade ecosystems may potentially take more than two years to produce high species richness and prevent toxic algal blooms.
41679655|During the 2010 National Park Service BioBlitz at Biscayne National Park, Homestead, FL, barnacles were collected from a submerged mangrove log near the Park headquarters. From the washings of the crushed barnacles, Archechiniscus biscaynei nov. sp. was extracted. This new species can be distinguished by its lack of a median cirrus, its large peduncles at the base of the external claws, the rounded cephalic clava between the internal and external cephalic cirri, a club-shaped papilla above the base of leg IV, and bulbous papilla just above the claws on the anterior of legs I, II, and III. A table of comparison of characteristics among the four known species and a key to their identification are provided.
41679656|Streams are heavily affected by watershed urbanization as increased stormwater runoff changes their physical and chemical composition. Benthic macroinvertebrate species richness has been consistently shown to decline with urbanization. Conversely, biomass of macroinvertebrates can increase with urban development. We examined the effect of such shifts in macroinvertebrate assemblages on the diet of larval Eurycea cirrigera (Southern Two-lined Salamanders). Salamanders have been documented to decrease in diversity in urban habitats; however, Southern Two-lined Salamander larvae which persist in urban streams (at lower densities) tend to grow larger than larvae in forested streams. Diet may play a role in these diversity and growth trends. We examined prey consumed by larval salamanders during spring, summer, and winter seasons across urban and forested watersheds. Prey diversity in salamander digestive tracts peaked during summer. We found Chironomidae (Diptera) larvae to be the most common prey item, followed by Ostracoda. Gastropoda were a common prey item during summer, which may be indicative of nutrient requirements of premetamorphic larvae. Overall, we observed minor differences in larval diet between urban and forested watersheds. A previous study within these same watersheds found that larvae in urban watersheds grew larger than those in forested watersheds, and the authors suggested prey availability may have contributed to that finding. The diet data we present here do not support such a hypothesis.
41679657|Pseudemys turtles are an important component of southeastern North American aquatic ecosystems, but the relationships within the genus are poorly understood. Convergent morphology and apparent hybridization have complicated the identification of species boundaries and have resulted in numerous conflicting taxonomic treatments. We used mitochondrial DNA sequence data from the control region and cytochrome-b gene to address 1) the monophyly of currently recognized subgeneric clades (the cooters and the red-bellies), and 2) relationships within these two groups. A total of 91 specimens representing 8 Pseudemys and 3 outgroup taxa were sampled, and 36 distinct haplotypes were recovered. Pseudemys forms a well-supported monophyletic group, but relationships among species were not well resolved, such that support for the two subgeneric groupings was lacking. Furthermore, most taxa do not appear to be monophyletic, with the exception of P. gorzugi (Rio Grande Cooter) and P. texana (Texas Cooter), suggesting the possibility of mitochondrial introgression as a result of historic or continuing hybrid swarms across the range of the genus, or the lack of resolution may reflect a pattern of recent speciation. In light of recent molecular surveys in turtles, the utility of mitochondrial DNA in turtle systematics is also discussed.
41679658|We surveyed freshwater turtles at sites in the Lower Rio Grande Valley and Bastrop Lost Pines ecoregions of Texas annually since 2008 and 2009, respectively, and found that captures and recaptures per unit effort (CPUE and RPUE, respectively) decreased annually. In 2011, we tested whether or not switching the type of bait used to attract turtles affected CPUE and RPUE. Under the assumption that bait preferences affect capture probabilities both among and within species, we hypothesized that switching bait would increase CPUE in 2011 by attracting individuals not captured in previous years. We also hypothesized that low recapture success in previous years was due to an olfactory-induced trap-shy response. We tested this hypothesis by determining if RPUE increased when we switched the type of bait used to attract turtles. We found that switching from fish-based bait to red meat significantly increased CPUE, but not RPUE, for Trachemys scripta elegans (Red-eared Slider). We also found weak evidence that Apalone spinifera emoryi (Texas Spiny Softshell) preferred red meat over fish-based bait. The results of this study indicate that switching bait can be an effective way to maximize CPUE across multiple years when monitoring freshwater turtles using baited hoop nets. However, switching bait did not affect RPUE, which indicates that the apparent trap-shy behavior of turtles in our study areas is not driven by an olfactory-induced response to the type of bait used.
41679659|Setophaga cerulea (Cerulean Warbler) is one of the fastest declining avian species in the United States, and its conservation has been hampered by a lack of basic biological information. Here we describe basic breeding biology and behavior and report incidental observations of scientific interest from three years of research on Cerulean Warblers in the Cumberland Mountains of eastern Tennessee. We located and monitored 241 nests and banded 83 Cerulean Warblers from 2008-2010. We documented mating strategies, timing and plasticity of reproduction, details of nest construction and maintenance, parental behavior, prdation of juveniles, post-fledging behavior, interspecific interactions, female weight, and a longevity record. Many of these observations have not been formally recorded and add new dimensions to our understanding of Cerulean Warbler biology, ecology, and life history.
41679660|Serenoa repens (Saw Palmetto) is an important plant in many Florida habitats; not only does it provide food and shelter for numerous species, but it is also a highly flammable species that is fuel for fire in many of Florida's fire-maintained ecosystems. With loss of natural area due to development and agriculture, restoration of highly degraded lands may become an increasing focus of land managers. Published literature indicates that Saw Palmetto is a slow-growing species, with stems growing only a few centimeters per year. However, these growth rates are for Saw Palmetto growing in natural systems. A 16-year planting study done at the Kennedy Space Center/Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge shows that Saw Palmettos in a former citrus grove can have highly variable growth rates, often exceeding that in native habitats. Stem length varied from 0-166 cm and crown width ranged from 13-510 cm for Saw Palmettos planted 16 years earlier as 1-gallon-sized nursery stock. Individuals growing in dense Bahiagrass had much slower growth (stem length, height, and crown width) than individuals grown without Bahiagrass.
41679661|The control of invasive exotic plants is often deemed important for managing native wildlife, but surprisingly little research exists that evaluates benefits to wildlife, including species of conservation concern. Melaleuca quinquenervia (Melaleuca) is an invasive, non-native, broad-leaved tree that aggressively displaces native plant communities in south Florida. We used land-cover maps to document changes in plant communities and radio-telemetry data to compare habitat selection and mean home-range size of the endangered Puma concolor coryi (Florida Panther) within Big Cypress National Preserve (BCNP) during a Melaleuca removal project's removal phase (1991-1997) and the ensuing maintenance and habitat recovery phase (1998 2006). During the removal phase, Panthers incorporated areas infested by Melaleuca as components of their home range. Following > 99.9% removal of Melaleuca, we documented pronounced increases in total cover of native upland forest (227%), wetland forest (211%), and prairie (54%) communities. During the habitat recovery phase, Panther habitat selection in the study area included significantly more upland forest within home-range core areas, and mean home-range size contracted by 16%. However, similar reductions in mean home-range size were not observed during the same time period for the regional population of radio-collared Panthers occupying contiguous conservation lands in south Florida. Although our findings are correlational and do not demonstrate cause and effect, the increase in native plant community cover, the increased use of native plant communities by Panthers, and the reduction in mean home-range size following the removal of Melaleuca are consistent with what would be expected if improvements in habitat quality reduced Panther home-range size requirements. Restoration of native plant communities and particularly native forest types, therefore, may have improved habitat quality for the Florida Panther and resulted in smaller home-range sizes and a potential increase in carrying capacity within BCNP.
41679662|While hunting Puma concolor coryi (Florida Panther) along known travel routes, we frequently observe our trained hounds alerting to Panther scent by smelling and licking the tips of overhanging limbs and the trunks of downed logs. To determine the type of Panther activity that causes this peculiar reaction from the hounds, we set trail cameras at 3 sites. From October 2010 -August 2011, our cameras recorded 13 visits by 8 different panthers (4 adult males, 2 adult females, and 2 juveniles), either scent-marking objects with facial glands or responding to the residual scent left by the other Panthers. Trail cameras programmed to record time and date established that Panthers were able to detect the lingering scent of facial-gland-marked objects spanning an interval of up to 40 days. Based on the frequency our hounds alert to facial gland scent-marked objects and confirmation of identical observations from 10 professional Puma concolor (Puma) hunters in Paraguay, Mexico, and the southwestern United States, we conclude that this form of invisible communication is used often by Pumas throughout their range. This biological note represents the first photographic evidence of how wild Panthers of both genders scent-mark objects with facial glands.
41679663|Here we present evidence of the first field observation of the nonnative Ictalurus furcatus (Blue Catfish) occurring on the Satilla River, GA, in May 2011, and additional collections since then. This is the second large, non-native riverine catfish to be found in the Satilla River basin. Pylodictis olivaris (Flathead catfish) was first collected from the Satilla River in May 1996. The ecological effects of Blue Catfish on native mussel and fish species in the Satilla River are currently unknown, but competition with native catfishes is likely.
41679664|Coastal Alabama islands provide vital nesting and foraging habitat to many wading birds, shorebirds, gulls, pelicans, and waterfowl. We compared three regions of coastal Alabama for overlap of species present and species nesting using Monte Carlo simulations. The observed numbers of species present and species nesting were both less than predicted by the simulations, suggesting that local processes drive diversity on the coastline of Alabama. These findings also suggest that, in the wake of the recent oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, management along the coast of Alabama should consider species assemblages rather than surrogates and apply a scale of management decisions so as to manage each local community individually rather than manage the region as a whole.
41679668|Eichhornia crassipes (Waterhyacinth) occurs in isolated populations along the Waccamaw River in northeast South Carolina. Although actively managed with herbicides, plant biomass and growth in this coastal, blackwater river have not been measured. We located three persistent populations in protected backwaters during spring 2009 and used sequential harvests to measure biomass accumulation and allocation. Relative growth over one month in existing populations and in two downriver sites was measured by placing plants in floating cages. A separate experiment was conducted to determine salinity tolerance. Mean total biomass in the persistent populations was relatively low but increased from 202.9 g/m in spring to 380.1 g/m in fall, with leaves as the largest biomass component (72%). Absolute growth and leaf nutrient content for nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium were highest for caged plants placed in a downriver site influenced by the Pee Dee River, a redwater system. Our results suggest that Waterhyacinth extent and growth in the Waccamaw River are limited by nutrient availability, but other factors may also be involved.
41679669|The seasonal movements of Lepisosteus osseus (Longnose Gar) are largely unknown. The goal of this project was to characterize spawning movements and seasonal distributions by using acoustic tagging methods and examining historical catch records from a trawl survey. This is the first time that movements have been studied for an estuarine population of Longnose Gar. Two individuals moved greater minimum distances (69 and 74 km) than found in the only other report on movement in this species. Spawningground residency time, collected from two tagged Longnose Gar, was approximately one month, and tidal periodicity was observed for one of the two fish. Data from a fisheries independent trawl survey were used to examine seasonal catch distributions in Longnose Gar and represents the first report of winter distributions for this species. Winter locations occurred both alongshore and mid-channel, and the distributions were similar to those in the summer and fall.
41679670|Concerns over the recent introduction of Micropterus punctulatus (Spotted Bass) on native M. salmoides (Largemouth Bass) and M. cataractae (Shoal Bass) prompted a one-year investigation into the food habits of these three congeneric species to determine diet overlap and potential for trophic competition in the Flint River, GA. Diet analyses among species were conducted for two size classes of fish: juvenile (<200 mm total length) and subadult (200-300 mm TL). Because Spotted Bass had become established in the Flint River only a few years prior to this study, few fish >300 mm were collected; thus, diet overlap was not compared among species for larger fish. Juvenile and subadult Largemouth Bass diets were dominated by fish in all seasons, mainly sunfishes (e.g., Lepomis auritus, L. macrochirus). In contrast, Shoal Bass diets were generally dominated by insects and crayfish in the juvenile and subadult size classes, respectively. Juvenile Spotted Bass diets were variable and dominated by fish and insects depending on season. Overall, diets of introduced Spotted Bass appeared to occupy an intermediate position between Shoal Bass and Largemouth Bass. Significant diet overlap between Shoal Bass and Spotted Bass occurred in 50% of the samples, but only in 29% of the samples between Spotted Bass and Largemouth Bass and never between the two native Bass species. Thus, concerns about the trophic effects of Spotted Bass on Shoal Bass appear to be legitimate.
41679671|The southeastern United States contains ca. 250 species of crayfish. Of these, 85 are historically known from Alabama. Previous studies have shown that the Sipsey River drainage in western Alabama is a diversity "hotspot" for freshwater mussels (42 spp.) and fishes (102 spp.). This is attributed to diverse geologic features, an intact floodplain, lack of impoundments, and lack of urban centers. Intensive sampling of the Sipsey River drainage over a 2-year period resulted in a collection of 294 crayfish representing 12 species. Three of these species, Cambarus ludovicianus, Orconectes chickasawae, and Procambarus vioscai paynei are of conservation concern. Our results indicate that the Sipsey River harbors a greater richness of crayfish species per area than other drainages surveyed to date in Alabama.
41679672|Gambusia affinis (Western Mosquitofish) were sampled from 18 sites representing marsh, forested wetlands, and agricultural wetlands in south Louisiana to determine distribution and infection parameters of Eustrongylides ignotus, a potentially lethal nematode parasite of wading birds, (n = 400 per site). Overall, prevalence of infection was 0.3%, with significantly higher prevalence in agricultural wetlands than in marshes or swamps. Our findings are similar to work in Florida suggesting parasite prevalence is higher in disturbed wetlands, and suggest that birds foraging in crayfish ponds and rice fields may be at increased risk of exposure.
41679673|Many secretive marsh bird (SMB) species nest within rice fields, yet in most regions we do not understand the extent to which these birds use such habitats. In the summers of 2007 and 2008, we investigated summer use of rice fields by SMBs in northeast Louisiana and evaluated the local (within 100 m) and landscape (within 1 km) habitat characteristics influencing site selection. We did not encounter any SMB species in 2007, but we encountered low densities of Ixobrychus exilis (Least Bitterns), Rallus elegans (King Rails), and Fulica americana (American Coots) in mid-July of 2008. It is unclear whether or not the birds we detected were actually breeding in the rice fields, or merely using them as late summer foraging areas. When we combined detections of all species, we found that probability of occupancy was positively influenced by the proportion of the local habitat dominated by flooded ditches containing herbaceous emergent vegetation. Ditches likely provide refuge and resource alternatives that may be particularly important to these birds in the late summer when rice fields are drained and harvested. However, given that SMBs were detected at less than 10% of the 72 rice fields we surveyed, it appears as though Mississippi Alluvial Valley rice fields contribute very little toward supporting SMB populations.
41679674|From 1975 to 2009, 186 surveys for Rynchops niger (Black Skimmer) nests were conducted in South Carolina. The state was not thoroughly monitored until 1988, and between 1988 and 2009 nesting numbers were stable. The mean nest count from 1988 to 2009 was 889  55 SE, (n = 21 years). Twenty-six different sites supported nesting colonies with Cape Island, Cape Romain National Wildlife Refuge being used most often (24 years). Publicly owned lands were used more often than privately owned lands, and seabird islandssmall ephemeral islands with other species of seabirds nesting on themsupported colonies more often than other habitat types. The number of skimmer nests was much lower than nesting records prior to this study; thus, intensive monitoring during the breeding season should continue to provide managers with information that can assist in increasing fecundity and protect optimal nesting habitat.
41679675|Point-count surveys are useful in collecting information on breeding birds; however, species that are elusive, occupy dense forests, or call infrequently may be undersampled. In this study, we examined the responsiveness of Coccyzus minor (Mangrove Cuckoo) to call playbacks in southern Florida from May to June in both 2010 and 2011. Our objective was to determine if playback surveys would increase the detectability of Mangrove Cuckoos. At each of the 111 experimental points, either recorded Mangrove Cuckoo vocalizations (treatment) or no vocalizations (control) were broadcasted. We detected Mangrove Cuckoos at 14 of the 67 treatment points (20.9%) and at 1 of the 44 control points (2.3%), suggesting that using call-playbacks significantly increased the likelihood of detecting a Mangrove Cuckoo (P = 0.01) as compared to passive pointcount methods. In recent years, sharp declines in Mangrove Cuckoo populations have been noted, and little is known about their overall ecology. Before conservation for this species can take place, it is necessary to fill basic information gaps such as distribution and abundance. Once distribution is better understood, critical habitat can be protected and monitoring the effects of climate and habitat change can occur. Increasing the detectability of these birds is an important step toward achieving these goals.
41679676|Genetic diversity within and among nine Andropogon gerardii (Big Bluestem) populations from various physiographic regions of North and South Carolina was assessed. Genetic diversity was high at both the species level and at the population level. At the species level, percent polymorphic loci (P) was 96.4% (27 of 28 loci), the number of alleles per polymorphic locus (AP) was 4.07, and genetic diversity (H e ) was 0.425. Mean within population values were P=82.6%, AP=2.68, and H e =0.351. Within population genetic diversity (H e ) ranged from 0.190 to 0.466. Allelic richness values per population ranged from 37 to 71. The proportion of genetic diversity among populations (G st ) was 0.166. Mean genetic diversity for the 3 larger populations (H e = 0.369) and within the 6 smaller populations (H e = 0.341) did not differ significantly (P = 0.554). Nei's unbiased genetic identity between pairs of populations ranged from 0.652 to 0.975. Mean genetic identity of individual populations with the 8 other populations ranged from 0.71 to 0.89. A Mantel test showed no significant genetic isolation by geographic distance (r = 0.065; P = 0.614). While banding patterns for most of the loci were consistent with disomic inheritance, two loci (PGI3; UGPP1) displayed patterns consistent with tetrasomic inheritance. Results of this study suggest that Big Bluestem populations in the Carolinas were once more widespread.
41679677|Tardigrades were recovered from samples of moss and lichen growing on the bark of seven species of trees on the University of Central Arkansas (UCA) campus in Conway, AR. Of the 11 genera of tardigrades previously reported from the state, five were found in the UCA campus samples; of the 25 species previously reported, five were found in the UCA campus samples. Two species (Milnesium eurystomum, Macrobiotus polyopus) are new records for the state; one species of Echiniscus (arctomys group) could not be identified and may be new. Tardigrades were not uniformly distributed among available habitats (moss, lichen) or substrates (trees).
41679678|Macroalgal assemblages were described from Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary (GRNMS), GA and compared to records from 25 years ago. For quantitative comparisons in species richness and biomass, divers collected algae from Searle's four northern sites and another four southern sites (n = six 400-cm quadrats per site). To compare species richness among sites, algae were also collected across limestone reefs at each site, and any new species were added to those recorded from the quadrat samples. Of the 55 species identified, 8 were new GRNMS records, 4 were new records to Georgia, and 36 had been recorded previously. Nine species were present at all of the 8 sites. Although species richness per site was significantly greater in southern GRNMS, biomass and species richness per 400 cm were similar between northern and southern sites. Sediment movement likely contributed to variability in species composition across the reefs.
41679679|We provide a review of Dasypus novemcinctus (Nine-banded Armadillo) food studies and report on the diet on Cumberland Island, GA. Major invertebrate foods eaten by Armadillos on Cumberland Island were ants (19.3%); beetles, adults and larvae (27.4 %); centipedes (6.5%); lepidopterans, mostly larvae (caterpillars, 13.2%); millipedes (5.7%); spiders (2.1%); and sowbugs (2.2%). Vertebrates eaten (1.9% volume) were mostly frogs and lizards. Plant material comprised about 12% of the volume, including much fruit such as Melia azedarach (China Berry), Vitis (grapes), Ampelopsis arborea (Pepper Vine), and Serenoa repens (Saw Palmetto). The subterranean fungi, Endogonaceae, were eaten by 23.9% of the Armadillos, comprising 1.6% of the volume of their diet. The millipede Narceus sp. appears to have been greatly reduced, based on the significant reduction of this species as a component of the gut content over three decades. This reduction could be due to Armadillo predation. Ants, scarabaeid adults and larvae, and spiders also showed significant decreases during the period of study, which could be a result of Armadillo prdation. A number of itemselaterid larvae, crickets, caterpillars, centipedes, sowbugs, and Endogonaceaeshowed significant increases as components of Armadillo stomachs, but it is not known whether these changes might be related to Armadillo predation. The increases could have been due to other causes such as habitat or climatic changes.
41679680|Studies of Urocyon cinereoargenteus (Gray Fox) in suburban landscapes are rare. Past work has suggested that this species will only tolerate urbanization to a certain density of residences (50-125 residences/km). To test this, we employed visual observations and camera traps to monitor Gray Fox activity within a suburban and adjacent rural property from January to July 2011. We also used a geographical information system (GIS) to calculate the density of buildings associated with both properties. We observed Gray Foxes and detected them with camera traps in our properties on numerous occasions. GIS analyses revealed an estimated suburban density of 237-347 residences/km (depending on spatial scale) and rural density of 50 residences/km. The number of Gray Fox observations did not differ greatly between rural and suburban properties, although the peak periods of Gray Fox observations varied by site. We propose that a tolerance for high suburban building density exhibited by Gray Foxes at our site is related to the large amount of mature wooded buffers located adjacently.
41679681|We studied the denning chronology, den type, and den-site characteristics of Ursus americanus floridanus (Florida Black Bear) in Ocala National Forest (ONF) and the adjacent residential area of Lynne, FL. We monitored 35 radio-collared females for 62 den years from 1999 through 2003. Den entry dates did not differ between parturient females (females that gave birth to cubs during the winter) and nonparturient (solitary females or females with yearlings) (P = 0.139). Females with cubs exited dens later (P < 0.001), and denned longer (mean = 113  3.3 days) than females without cubs (mean = 54  6.0 days; P < 0.001). Among females with cubs, primiparous females entered dens on average 28 days later than multiparous females (P = 0.003); however, exit date and duration of denning did not differ between the two groups. Female bears denned in ground nests most frequently (n = 45), followed by excavated dens (n = 7); one female used a tree den. Compositional analysis revealed that denning habitat selection occurred in ONF, with sand pine as the preferred denning habitat, followed by swamp and pine flatwoods habitats. Denning habitat selection was not evident in Lynne, although the majority of females denned in swamp habitats. Parturient females often denned in ecotones with dense vegetation, due perhaps to the fact that such ecotones offer better protection to the female and her cubs from potential predators and weather elements. Habitat management activities should be limited during peak denning of parturient females, from late December to mid-April, particularly in Sand Pine - xeric oak and pine flatwood - swamp ecotones.
41679682|Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) have become overabundant in many urban and suburban areas, which can cause concern about exposure of humans and pets to zoonotic pathogens. Bald Head Island, NC is a small barrier island that has experienced ongoing residential development since the mid-1980s and has a relatively high deer density (15-17 deer/km). To address concerns expressed by residents, we screened 13% of the White-tailed Deer population for potential zoonotic pathogens. We collected blood from 8 deer in January through March 2008 and 5 deer in January 2009. We tested sera for antibodies to Anaplasma phagocytophilum, Borrelia burgdorferi, and six serovars of Leptospira interrogans; and whole blood samples for Bartonella spp. and B. burgdorferi DNA. All sera were negative for antibodies to L. interrogans; two samples were seropositive for A. phagocytophilum, and one was seropositive for B. burgdorferi. Whole blood PCR results were negative for Bartonella spp. and B. burgdorferi. Continued surveillance for wildlife diseases on Bald Head Island is necessary to determine prevalence of specific pathogens, their impacts on the White-tailed Deer population, and the risk of exposure to humans and pets.
41679683|We radio-tracked 3 male and 1 female Lasiurus intermedius (Northern Yellow Bat) to 16 unique roosts on Sapelo Island, GA in summer 2010. All bats roosted in Tillandsia usneoides (Spanish Moss) hanging in hardwood trees. Trees used as roosts were similar in height as surrounding trees but were larger in diameter. Mature hardwood stands appear to be important roosting habitats for Northern Yellow Bats in areas where Pinus (pine) and mixed-pine hardwood habitats dominate the landscape.
41679684|As a result of declining populations and reduced availability of suitable habitat, Ambystoma bishopi (Reticulated Flatwoods Salamander) and A. cingulatum (Frosted Flatwoods Salamander) are federally listed as endangered and threatened, respectively, by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service under the Endangered Species Act. Recovery efforts are hindered by a lack of basic natural history information. Although the fossorial life history of ambystomatid salamanders often precludes direct observation of adults and juveniles, an incidental encounter of A. bishopi climbing on Aristida stricta (Wiregrass) sparked a new search effort. On 13 occasions from 29 April 2010 to 23 November 2011, we examined herbaceous ground cover in and around six known breeding wetlands in the Florida panhandle, documenting 36 observations of flatwoods salamanders (10 adults and 26 juveniles), 30 of which were climbing up to 0.5 m above the ground in Wiregrass. These observations led us to hypothesize that Wiregrass, a fire-dependent grass species associated with flatwoods salamander breeding habitat, may be used by juvenile and adult flatwoods salamanders as a foraging substrate (foliage) and/or as refugia (foliage and root base). Although these observations are interesting, further research is needed to determine if the salamanders are selectively using wiregrass and if a foraging and/or rfugiai advantage is gained by climbing.
41679685|Aphredoderus sayanus (Pirate Perch) is a widespread species whose life history is the subject of only a few studies. I recorded life-history data from a small sample of Pirate Perch collected from an intermittent stream in midcontinental highlands of Arkansas (Batesville, Independence County) on 30 June 2004. Our small sample suggests variation in prey consumption rates between sexes during the breeding season and in allocation to reproduction among females. Our survey confirmed that Pirate Perch from Arkansas have similar insectivorous diets to those reported from other regions.
41819780|We propose that Nephila clavipes (Golden Silk Orbweaver) be used as a model species to track climate change in the southeastern United States. As an ectotherm, it is sensitive to changes in local climatic conditions. More importantly, this large, unmistakable spider elicits a strong emotional reaction, especially from those unfamiliar with it. As its range expands, people will take notice, photograph it, and then post those pictures in the public domain via blogs and social or scientific websites that can be easily viewed by scientists. For a starting point, we present the most complete range map to date for this species. This map shows that N. clavipes, traditionally restricted to the Gulf and Atlantic coastal areas of the southeastern United States, has recently (since 2000) expanded its range out of the Coastal Plain into counties north of the Fall Line.
41819781|Spiders' nesting sites may vary depending on species-specific requirements and environmental conditions. I report on the use of leaves of Sarracenia purpurea (Purple Pitcher Plant) as oviposition sites by 5 species of spiders in Virginia and North Carolina. The presence of egg sacs, webbing, and a protective female spider inside the pitchers confirmed the spiders' use of the carnivorous plant trap as a safe and secure nest rather than a deadly mechanism by which many spiders have commonly become victims. I also collected spiders in the surrounding environment to determine if this microhabitat is used by uncommon species or ones that are often found nearby. Almost all spiders found within pitchers of S. purpurea were also found in the surrounding environment, but not at high densities near S. purpurea. The decaying pitchers of S. purpurea may create an ideal home for many spider species in environments where suitable oviposition sites are hard to come by.
41819782|Alliaria petiolata (Garlic Mustard) is an invasive plant species which displaces native communities by lowering levels of mycorrhizal fungi essential to native plant nutrient acquisition. Consequently, the diets of arthropods using these native plants as a primary food source may be altered. To assess the magnitude of this disruption, stable-isotope analyses of carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen were used to trophically differentiate the diets of arthropods in Garlic Mustard-invaded areas. In invaded areas, arthropods were depleted in C and enriched in N relative to arthropods in uninvaded areas, suggesting a change in trophic position among generalist predators. Slight trophic repositioning was observed in all 4 isotopes, indicating interactions of 3 primary predators throughout the study area. Most observable shifts are likely due to predators either altering prey source or traveling further to acquire nutrients.
41819783|Field collections made by the authors in pineland ecosystems in southern Georgia during 2011 significantly expand the previously published range limits of the scorpion Centruroides hentzi in Georgia. We commonly found specimens beneath the exfoliating bark of Pinus palustris (Longleaf Pine) and P. elliottii (Slash Pine) snags, stumps, and logs in sandhills and pine flatwoods habitats, documenting this scorpion from 50 sites in 34 south Georgia counties, and extending the known range of C. hentzi 150 km north (from near Waycross, Ware County, GA) to Statesboro, Bulloch County, GA. Our collections indicate that the species is widespread in pine-dominated uplands throughout much of the lower and middle Coastal Plain of southern Georgia. We comment on the life history, ecology, and habitat requirements of the species based on this survey and the existing literature. In Georgia, C. hentzi is a characteristic associate of Longleaf Pine and Slash Pine ecosystems, is often locally abundant, and is part of an arthropod-vertebrate food web that includes the endangered Picoides borealis (Red-cockaded Woodpecker).
41819784|An inventory of the vascular flora of the Tennessee River Gorge (TRG) was conducted between April 2009 and July 2011. The TRG is a 41-km-long river canyon located on the Cumberland Plateau physiographic province within Hamilton and Marion counties, TN. According to prior ecological surveys, the 4970-ha study area contains 12 natural communities. This survey documented 123 families, 392 genera, and 700 species and sub-specific taxa, including 138 county range extensions. Approximately 13% of the flora (92 species) is considered non-native. Fifteen imperiled species were reported, including 3 that are undescribed and 9 not documented in any previous Cumberland Plateau flora. In addition to the floristic component of this work, a phytogeographical analysis was conducted for the TRG and 12 other Cumberland Plateau floras in Tennessee and Kentucky. An important finding of this research was the identification of a biogeographical transition zone, from a higher northern to a higher southern species richness. This biogeographic break was identified in the vicinity of Fentress, Scott, and Morgan counties, TN.
41819785|The Berry College Longleaf Pine Management Area consists of old-growth fire-suppressed mountain Pinus palustris (Longleaf Pine) stands embedded within an encroaching matrix of mixed pines and hardwoods. Since 2001, portions of this area have been subjected to restoration efforts involving logging followed by burning, foliar herbicide application, and planting, as well as burning and hardwood control using herbicides in unlogged old-growth stands. To document the herbaceous plants and grasses of this site and to begin to address questions concerning the short-term impacts of management practices on these species, flowering specimens were systematically collected in managed and unmanaged stands in 2008 and 2009. We recorded 201 species in 35 families, including 70 species of Asteraceae, 35 species of Poaceae, 17 species of Fabaceae, and 10 grass-like species other than Poaceae (Cyperaceae, Iridaceae, and Juncaceae). Native herbaceous plants most commonly found included: Houstonia caerulea, Hypoxis hirsuta, Solidago odora, Oxalis stricta, Coreopsis major, Hypericum hypericoides, Lespedeza procumbens, Hieracium venosum, and Packera paupercula. While only 14 species were found in unmanaged old growth, 127 were found in managed old growth, and 167 in logged areas. Fire suppressed old-growth mountain Longleaf Pine forests are generally virtually devoid of understory plant diversity; these results suggest that reduction in canopy density and leaf litter can substantially recover herbaceous and grass species diversity. However, the extent to which understory diversity can be fully recovered in any specific site remains in question, particularly if local propagule sources have vanished during the period of fire suppression. A comparison with historical species lists at our site, and with other mountain Longleaf Pine forests in various stages of fire maintenance, is presented to help define characteristic understory species for mountain Longleaf Pine forests.
41819786|This study characterizes the seed bank prior to and immediately following dormant-season prescribed fire in mature, mixed-Quercus spp. (oak) forests in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Thirty samples from the litter/duff (LD) and the top 5 cm of the mineral soil (MS) were collected from five 5-ha burn units (6 plots per experimental unit) before and immediately after low-intensity prescribed fires, where maximum fire temperatures varied from <79 to 316 C. A split-plot ANOVA and multi-response permutation procedures (MRBP) were utilized to assess the effects of burn treatment (pre-or post-fire) and seed bank layer (LD and MS) on the diversity and density of the buried seed bank. An average of 471 emergents/m was observed in the buried seed bank comprising 133 identifiable taxa. No differences in total seed-bank density, Shannon-Weiner's diversity index (H') or overall species composition between pre-and post-fire sampling or between the LD and MS layers were observed. Species richness (S) of the seed bank, however, was slightly greater pre-fire than post-fire, regardless of layer. Similarity, as defined by Srenson's index, of species common to the seed bank and aboveground forest understory was low, with a slight increase in Srenson's index observed during post-fire sampling of the seed bank and aboveground vegetation. Although we observed only negligible effects of a once-applied, low-intensity prescribed fire on the buried seed bank, the effects of a low-intensity prescribed fire management regime one that involves repeated low intensity burnson the buried seed bank are unknown and should be a focus of future studies across mixed-oak forests in the eastern US.
41819787|Small nocturnal mammals, such as Peromyscus leucopus (White-footed Mouse), tend to avoid open spaces due to the threat of predation. Previous studies have shown that Peromyscus and other small-mammal species are captured at higher frequencies at mature forest sites with higher densities of woody debris. Reported trapping frequencies along forest edges relative to continuous forest have varied in previous literature, possibly due to regional differences in forest composition and Peromyscus distribution. We hypothesized that mice in an urban forest setting would be captured at a higher frequency in trapping sites with higher volumes of woody debris and capture rates would be lower at the edge than the interior. We trapped mice in 100 to 121 Sherman live traps in a permanent 1-ha plot in an urban, fragmented forest on the Meredith College campus in Raleigh, NC over a two-year period. We also measured volume of woody debris at each trapping site in one (2007) of the two years. Between the two years (2007 and 2008), trapping rates of P. leucopus were lower in 2008 than in 2007, but we estimated a higher population size in 2008 than in 2007. We found no correlation between volume of woody debris and number of P. leucopus captured in 2007 and that capture rates did not vary with distance from the forest edge in both years. Our results support previous findings that P. leucopus are nonspecific users of microhabitat, but are contrary to other research that found a positive correlation between amount of woody debris and abundance of Peromyscus.
41819788|Forage availability is often used as a measure of habitat quality for Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer; hereafter "Deer"). Many studies have evaluated treatment effects on forage availability, but the effects of other abiotic factors, such as drought, on native forages and Deer diet selection are poorly understood. We measured diet selection and nutritional quality of commonly occurring forages following extreme drought (2007) and normal rainfall years (2008) in 4 closed-canopied hardwood stands in the Central Hardwoods region. Deer selected 6 forage species in both years of the study. Within these 6 species, crude protein (CP) and acid detergent fiber (ADF) were not different, and neutral detergent fiber (NDF) increased during the year of normal rainfall. Thirteen other commonly occurring forages showed a different trend, with CP negatively affected by drought and ADF and NDF unaffected. Less-selected species in the drought year and a greater selection-index cut-off value suggest Deer were more selective of species consumed during extreme drought because fewer plants met their nutritional requirements. Our data support the selective quality hypothesis, predicting Deer become more selective of plant species to meet nutritional requirements when resources are limited. Our data suggest more frequent and intense droughts predicted as a result of global climate change may influence diet selection of deer and decrease forage quality enough to limit lactation during the late-summer stress period in the Southeast.
41819789|We describe a process for developing an index of biotic integrity (IBI) for resident fish communities in an ecoregion that exhibits low natural species richness. From 1990 to 2006, fish community samples were collected by the North Carolina Division of Water Quality (NCDWQ) at 36 sample sites in the Cape Fear, Lumber, and Yadkin river basins within the Sandhills region of North Carolina. The NCDWQ does not currently have an IBI capable of distinguishing significant differences between reference and non-reference streams. To develop a more robust method of measuring responses to anthropogenic disturbance, we delineated contributing watersheds for each of the 36 sample sites using a geographic information system, hydrologie modeling, and 20-footresolution digital elevation models derived from light-detection and ranging data. The 2001 National Land Cover Database (NLCD) and in situ habitat data were used to determine various land-use/land-cover and hydrologie variables within each watershed. These variables were then used to select the sites with absolute minimal anthropogenic impacts. We used the Kruskal-Wallis test to identify 11 fish-community metrics, 2 chemical metrics, and 9 individual species that were significantly different between reference and non-reference sites. Of the final 15 metrics, only 3 exhibited higher values in reference streams. Our results demonstrate that the abundance and richness of the Sandhills fish fauna are greater in areas more highly impacted by anthropogenic activities. By automating the process by which reference sites are chosen, we were able to produce a multi-metric IBI that reflects the varying levels of anthropogenic impacts on wadeable streams in the Sandhills.
41819790|Recovery of imperiled freshwater mussels requires knowledge of suitable host fishes and other early life-history traits. We provide quantitative host information for 6 mussel species from the Altamaha River Basin, GA, 3 of which previously had no host information. Glochidia of Alasmidonta arcula (Altamaha Arcmussel) metamorphosed on 2 species of suckers (Moxostoma spp.); Elliptio hopetonensis (Altamaha Slabshell) on Lepomis macrochirus (Bluegill), Pimephales promelas (Fathead Minnow), and Micropterus salmoides (Largemouth Bass); E. shepardiana (Altamaha Lance) on 2 species of Bullheads (Ameiurus spp.) and L. macrochirus; Lampsilis dolabraeformis (Altamaha Pocketbook) on Bluegill and Largemouth Bass; and L. splendida (Rayed Pink Fatmucket) and Villosa delumbis (Eastern Creekshell) on Largemouth Bass. We also provide descriptions of glochidia morphology for the above mussel species and E. spinosa (Altamaha Spinymussel). Glochidia were correctly identified to species in 88.7% of cases by discriminant function analysis of 3 shell dimensions. Glochidia morphology may be useful for identification of glochidia attached to wild fish, thereby providing additional host information.
41819791|Continued loss of coastal wetlands due to anthropogenic causes along the Atlantic and Gulf coasts has increased the need to restore eroded or hardened structures along the shoreline back to natural marsh systems. The source of plant material used in these restoration plantings may have unintended consequences for the reestablishment of marsh systems, especially if the plant material is not adapted to the local environment. In this two-year field study, we tested the hypothesis that locally collected Spartina alterniflora (Smooth Cordgrass) will have higher plant performance than non-local commercially available plant material from native plant nurseries. We found that locally collected S. alterniflora plants had higher survivorship, aboveground biomass, and cumulative stem length than plants from non-local sources. There was a significant association between plant performance and genetic similarity at the end of the first field season. Based on our findings, we recommend the use of locally collected S. alterniflora from adjacent salt marshes for small-scale salt marsh restoration projects; however, care should be taken to not degrade the donor marsh during the process.
41819792|We investigated if relative abundance of invertebrate prey for Athene cunicularia floridana (Florida Burrowing Owl) differed between two pre-translocation (i.e., non-mined) sites and one translocation (i.e., reclaimed mine) site. We trapped a combination of 21 arthropod families and orders. We observed some differences among non-mined sites and the reclaimed mine site in invertebrate prey abundance and owl diet. Fewer than 50% (10 of 21) of trapped prey items were present in pellets, suggesting that our traps may have limited capture of particular prey. Additionally, it appears that owls were hunting in nearby aquatic habitats due to the remains of frogs, turtles, and crayfish in pellets. The general similarity in prey abundance and diet between the pre-translocation and translocation sites suggests that reclaimed mine sites may serve as adequate refugia for Florida Burrowing Owls. However, more work is needed to determine to verify the general applicability of our results.
41819793|Florida has the most species of introduced and established reptiles in the world. There are more species of non-native lizards reproducing in Florida than native species. Tupinambis merianae (Argentine Black and White Tegu) is established in parts of Hillsborough and Polk counties, FL. No evidence of reproduction has been published in other areas of Florida, although this species has been sighted in various other Florida locations, especially in southeastern sites. Using radio-telemetry, we tracked an adult female tegu in Miami-Dade County to a ruderal thicket with a suspected nest mound. Upon excavation of the mound, we found one clutch of 21 eggs from the current year, and one clutch of 22 hatched egg shells and 13 unhatched eggs from a past year. This is the first evidence confirming expansion of a reproducing population of Argentine Black and White Tegus into southeastern Florida. If this population is small and localized, there is potential for removal if swift, decisive action is taken.
41819794|Allopreening is a form of social grooming that has not been extensively studied in most birds. Observations of allopreening in Sitta pusilla (Brown-headed Nuthatch) are described where sex, age, and kin relationships were known for the individuals performing the behavior. Young of the year allopreened adults and nest mates, adult male helpers allopreened breeding females and unrelated adults, and breeding adults allopreened one another as well as young of the year. Previous observations suggested allopreening served to maintain pair bonds in the Brown-headed, but these observations suggest the behavior may have expanded functions. Although most allopreening focused on neck and head regions where the behavior may primarily serve hygienic functions, wings and backs also were allopreened frequently in a manner consistent with the social functions suggested for other birds.
41819795|Sternula antillarum (Least Tern) and other waterbirds have nested on tar-and-gravel roofs in Florida starting from the early 1950s. Habitat disturbance and loss has been implicated as the primary reason for this shift from the ground to roofs. The Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission conducted a statewide survey of rooftop-nesting birds between April and July 2010. Two buildings with non-gravel roofs were found to contain Least Tern nests; one was located on Islamorada in the Florida Keys, and the other on Pensacola Beach in the Florida Panhandle. Both of these sites were formerly gravel roofs and were used for nesting by Least Terns for several years; however, they had both been recently reroofed. The Islamorada site has a spray polyurethane foam roof, and the Pensacola Beach site has a mineral built-up roof. Both sites produced chicks, but only the Pensacola site fledged young. These are the first published records of a waterbird species nesting on a non-gravel roof. This discovery may have future implications as gravel roofs, particularly in Florida, are being replaced by newer types of roofs that are safer to humans and surrounding structures during tropical storms and are more energy efficient. Further surveys are needed to determine the extent of Least Tern nesting on non-gravel roofs and the productivity of these rooftop breeding colonies.
41819796|Notropis photogenis (Silver Shiner) and Etheostoma zonale (Banded Darter) were collected from the Flint River in Madison County, AL, a northern tributary to the Tennessee River. Both species have been found in other northern tributaries to the Tennessee River in Alabama, but have not been widely reported from the Flint River. The Flint River is currently considered to be impaired water due to elevated turbidity, and has also been impaired in recent years from organic enrichment/low dissolved oxygen and pathogens in the form of fecal coliform.
42003838|Populations of Neotoma floridana (Eastern Woodrat) are decreasing in parts of their geographic range in the southeastern United States, and the species is stateendangered in Illinois. Once found throughout the Shawnee Hills region of southern Illinois, woodrats were restricted to four known populations in Jackson and Union counties by the late 1980s. We used reintroductions to establish viable populations of Eastern Woodrats at previously occupied sites in Illinois. From April 2003 through March 2009, we released 422 Eastern Woodrats live trapped in Arkansas and Missouri into 5 historically occupied sites in southeastern Illinois. Recapture rate 1 month after release was 12.5%. The continued presence of woodrats at release sites, reproduction, and wide dispersal beyond reintroduction sites all suggest preliminary success of the reintroduction of this r-selected species.
42003839|We quantified changes in vegetation and small-mammal communities over a 3-year period in paired creek, forest, and field sites in the central Appalachian Mountains. Prescribed burns were applied to field sites in 2008. Data were collected at all sites during summers of 2008 (pre-burn for fields), 2009 (ca. 24 months post-burn for fields), and 2010 (ca. 1416 months post-burn for fields). In 19,640 trap-nights across 3 years, we captured 605 individuals of 14 small-mammal species. Srenson index showed substantial differences in mammal communities between 2008 pre-burn and 2009/2010 post-burn fields (<10% similarity for all pre- to post-burn comparisons). Creek and forest habitats showed markedly greater year-to-year similarities (4682%). Unlike mammals, vegetation and habitat structure showed little change over time. Minimal changes in pre- and post-burn fields suggest that field vegetation at these sites recovered rapidly after the low-intensity surface fires. In contrast, fire appears to have had a profound effect on small-mammal communities in fields, as documented by dramatic temporal changes in species composition and abundance and little evidence of recovery after 16 months post-burn. As many managed fields in this region are burned on 3-year rotations, this potential impact of prescribed fire on small-mammal communities is important. Additional studies are needed to determine whether small-mammal populations are strongly affected by conditions during prescribed burns (i.e., direct effects on species mortality and emigration), or if the changes we observed reflect natural cyclical patterns (annual or multi-annual periodicities) in these populations.
42003840|Knowledge of growth in body dimension and mass is important to understanding fundamental elements of wildlife biology and ecology. We evaluated five classical growth models (Gompertz, Logistic, Monomolecular, Richards, and von Bertalanffy) in describing body length and mass growth curves as a function of age to determine which best fit wild Puma concolor coryi (Florida Panther). When used for inferences on body length and mass growth curves of both genders, the von Bertalanffy function proved to be the best-fitting theoretical equation to our data set because it used the fewest parameters derived directly from metabolic laws, had lowest residual standard deviation of data points about fitted model, with lower Akaike Information Criterion value, and largest Akaike weight. The von Bertalanffy model estimated that male asymptotic body length was 9.4% longer and mass was 33.2% heavier than for females. Both genders grew in body mass for a longer duration than length. Male-biased sexual size dimorphism develops in part because males grew faster and for a more prolonged period. Our results should prove useful in future studies of Panther energetics, reproduction, and in developing conservation and management policies for this species.
42003841|Vireo atricapilla (Black-capped Vireo) is an endangered migratory songbird with a breeding range that exists predominantly within Texas. Despite the species' listing under the Endangered Species Act in 1987, Black-capped Vireos were largely undocumented in much of the range. We sampled over 10,700 points in Texas, resulting in 2458 Black-capped Vireo detections. We examined the relationship between Black-capped Vireo occurrence and vegetation and broad-scale landscape variables, and we assessed if detections were clustered. Black-capped Vireo detections occurred often on a common soil type but were found where slopes were higher in the western part of the range. We found evidence of clustering in six of our eight study areas but no evidence of habitat metrics driving that clustering. These data improve the current knowledge of Black-capped Vireo distribution and offer opportunities for improved guidance for conservation and management efforts.
42003842|A cooperative multi-state monitoring effort was initiated for Passerina ciris (Painted Bunting) in 2008 because of a suspected decline in its eastern population. The Florida component of this range-wide study was conducted during 3 consecutive breeding seasons to obtain a better understanding of abundance and habitat use (vegetation associations) than could be obtained from existing indices, to examine factors affecting detectability, and to determine whether short-term trends could be assessed. Sample units (three hundred two 0.0127-km blocks) were allocated for Florida from which 22 were randomly selected, within which 101 point-count survey stations were established. Point-count surveys (n = 906) were conducted annually from 2008 to 2010, and vegetation characteristics were quantified for each location. Abundances were estimated from the counts by an N-mixture model for open populations. Estimated mean breeding density of male Painted Buntings in Florida decreased from 12.4 males/km in 2008 to 9.8 males/km in 2010; these densities are at the low end of the range previously reported for the eastern population. In combination with an estimate of available habitat (1558 km), the mean estimate of the total number of males (maximum potential abundance) decreased from 19,319 in 2008 to 15,268 in 2010. Painted Bunting abundance in Florida was greater toward the northern end of its range. Abundance was positively associated with the amount of maritime forest and hammock at count points and negatively associated with the amount of planted pine. Conservation of remaining maritime forest and hammock will be fundamental in maintaining breeding populations of the Painted Bunting in Florida.
42003843|Following the reported rediscovery of Campephilus principalis (Ivory-billed Woodpecker) in Arkansas, we initiated searches in South Carolina in February 2006, with additional searches in the winter and spring of 20062007 and 20072008, concentrating in the Congaree, Santee, and Pee Dee river basins. We accrued a cumulative total of 8893 survey hours. We found suggestive evidence in the form of visual and acoustic encounters, but failed to document conclusive evidence. Based on our search results, we believe it is unlikely that a population of Ivory-billed Woodpeckers persists in Congaree National Park and found limited evidence for their presence on other public lands in South Carolina. However, we cannot rule out the possibility that a small, nomadic population persists in the state.
42003844|During the 1970s-80s, Scolopax minor (American Woodcock) on wintering grounds in North Carolina generally used bottomland forests diurnally and fed on earth-worms in conventionally tilled soybean fields at night. Researchers surmised the ridges and furrows in conventionally tilled fields provided Woodcock protection from predators and winter weather. Since the 1980s, farmers widely adopted no-till practices for soybean agriculture, and this change in field structure may have altered Woodcock crop field use. We returned to the same area as previous research and conducted a study of Woodcock crop field and forest use in a landscape where crop fields are the dominant open-habitat type. During December 2009March 2010, we captured and radio-tracked 29 Woodcock. Every 24 hours, we located each radio-marked Woodcock during diurnal and nocturnal periods, and verified the habitat type on foot as either crop field or bottomland forest. We recorded 94% of nocturnal locations in forest, 6% of nocturnal locations in crop fields, and 100% of diurnal locations in forest. Percent of an individual Woodcock's nocturnal locations in crop fields ranged from zero to 44%, with a mean of 6% ( 2% SE). The adoption of no-till technology and associated reduction in ridge and furrow micro-habitat available in crop fields may contribute to the low frequency of Woodcock nocturnal field use. Because Woodcock primarily were relocated in bottomland forests diurnally and nocturnally, forest stands should be conserved when managing agricultural landscapes.
42003845|The opening of the Morganza Spillway in Louisiana on 18 May 2011 to relieve historic flooding along the lower Mississippi river subsequently inundated thousands of acres of bottomland forest in the Atchafalaya basin. Since 2001, we have conducted Meleagris gallopavo silvestris (Eastern Wild Turkey) population ecology research on the Sherburne Wildlife Management Area, located approximately 30 km south of the Morganza spillway. In expectation of the Morganza spillway opening, between 11 and 14 May, we captured and fitted 5 (1 M, 4 F) adult Eastern Wild Turkeys with GPS transmitters to monitor turkey response to basin flooding. By 19 May 2011, our study area was inundated with >3 m of flood waters, and remained completely inundated until 11 June 2011. Via radio-telemetry, we confirmed one female was depredated immediately before flood waters inundated our study site, and one female survived and reached dry ground created by receding water on 16 June. A second female lived 21 days and made circuitous movements within the tree canopy before dying, and the lone male died after 31 days. Movements of the second female through the canopy during flooding suggested a deliberate search for topographically higher areas within her range. Our findings suggest that rapid, widespread flooding conditions created by opening of the Morganza spillway likely negatively affected Wild Turkey populations across the Atchafalaya basin through direct reductions in survival. Further research is needed to assess how flood mitigation efforts affect Wild Turkey populations in floodplains along the Mississippi River and other alluvial floodplains.
42003846|Federally threatened Scutellaria montana (Large-flowered Skullcap) is a perennial herbaceous species endemic to southeastern Tennessee and northwestern Georgia. A large population of S. montana is located at the 648-ha Tennessee Army National Guard Volunteer Training Site (VTS) in Catoosa County, GA. Due to necessary operational activities that include vegetation clearing along site boundaries to maintain security and prescribed burning and overstory clearing to reduce fuel loads as a wildfire-prevention measure, S. montana individuals and groups at the VTS may be disturbed unavoidably at times. Our objectives were to provide recommendations for land managers at the VTS and elsewhere regarding the response of S. montana to transplantation when plant rescue is necessary and to guide site selection for transplantation by elucidating the effects of pre-transplantation burning and canopy thinning on transplant survival and subsequent success. We relocated 100 S. montana individuals in spring 2010 from a site scheduled for clearing to plots that were burned (B), thinned (T), treated with a combination of burning and thinning (B+T), or not treated (C; control). Survival, growth, reproductive potential, development, and physiological measurements were used throughout the 2010 and 2011 growing seasons to evaluate the success of transplantation overall and in various relocation plots. At one year post-transplantation, 91% of the original transplants had survived relocation, and among all transplants, mean stem height and the numbers of stems, leaves, and flowers per individual significantly increased. Additionally, the percentage of total transplants that were juveniles was much lower one year post-transplantation than immediately following transplantation (5.7% vs. 27%), while the proportion that were reproductive adults was greater one year post-transplantation (37.5% vs. 22%). However, reduced survival was found in the canopy-thinned plots (84% in both plot T and plot B+T) compared to plot B (100%) and plot C (96%) one year post-transplantation. The main effects of both burning and thinning included significant increases in stem damage and in the proportion of transplants that were vegetative adults, with an associated decrease in the proportion of reproductive adults. Combined, these findings may have resulted from increased trampling and feeding activity of vertebrate herbivores in burned and thinned plots. Overall, we considered our transplantation efforts to be successful due to high survivability and continued growth and development of individuals one year post-transplantation. However, to maximize the success of S. montana relocation, we suggest that transplants be relocated into unburned, unthinned forests and that vertebrate herbivory be subsequently controlled though the use of exclosures.
42003847|Ecological restoration is becoming an increasingly important tool in humanity's attempt to manage, conserve, and repair the world's ecosystems. In the current study, the objective was to compare the effects of two restoration methods on arthropod biodiversity and community composition in two former pine plantations; these treatments included both intensive restoration effort (= cleared) and moderate restoration effort (= thinned). For the cleared treatment, vegetation was clear-cut to the soil surface, and all vegetation was removed from the plots, while the thinned treatment consisted of reducing the Pinus elliotii (Slash Pine) density to that of a native ecosystem and removing of all exotic plants from the plots as well. Arthropods were sampled by employing pitfall traps, sticky traps, and sweep netting and identified to family and morphospecies; species richness, diversity, and community similarity were compared between treatments and sites. Experimental treatments quickly reached or exceeded arthropod diversity and richness of an unmanipulated control treatment; however, the two sites produced non-overlapping ordination plots, suggesting that the diversity of the two sites are either compositionally different (alpha diversity) or community assemblage is incomplete and overall regional (beta) diversity has not reached an equilibrium across sites. Additional long-term data should reveal if these plots are proceeding along different successional trajectories in terms of community species composition, or whether treatments, while having similar richness, support different communities because the three types of plots used in this study (control, thinned, and cleared) represent various successional stages which affect arthropod species identity, but not overall richness.
42003848|Cryptobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis (Eastern Hellbender) is a large, imperiled aquatic salamander found in rocky upland streams from New York to Alabama. Although widespread, many Hellbender populations are now highly fragmented by impoundments and degraded habitats. Hellbenders likely require specific stream habitats with relatively low anthropogenic impacts in order to maintain population viability. The Elk River is a small (5 th order), high-gradient tributary of the Watauga River drainage that originates in Avery County, NC and flows northwest to Watauga Reservoir in northeastern Tennessee. Although the Elk River's headwaters are heavily impacted by development in the resort towns of Banner Elk and Sugar Mountain; its lower reaches flow through portions of the Pisgah and Cherokee National Forests and over several large waterfalls before reaching the reservoir. Hellbender presence was undocumented in the Elk River prior to 2010. We learned that Hellbenders were likely present in the lower Elk River from anecdotal reports of sightings in Tennessee. In 2010 and 2011, we surveyed for Hellbenders at 10 sites in the Elk River drainage. We observed multiple size classes, including larvae and juveniles, present in the lower Elk River. Development in headwater regions of the Elk River in North Carolina may have caused habitat degradation in the upper Elk River causing the extirpation of Hellbenders in the upper reaches.
42003849|Cambarus (Depressicambarus) harti (Piedmont Blue Burrower) is a state-endangered primary burrowing crayfish found in highly organic soils associated with seepage areas only in Meriwether County, GA. As is the case with many native burrowing crayfishes, virtually nothing is known about the biology and ecology of this species. To help fill this gap, the current study provides information on population demographics, environmental correlates of activity, burrowing behavior, and habitat fidelity of C. harti. Field surveys from the type locality revealed that crayfish could be found throughout the year, with a near 3:1 ratio of female to male adults captured, an ovigerous female found in June, and the highest number of small juveniles found in August. Adults were not found together in burrows; however, juveniles were often found sharing the burrows of females. Burrowing activity was generally higher in the summer than winter, and also increased with receding groundwater levels. Based on observations and experiments with artificial burrowing chambers (ABCs), the burrows of C. harti followed a predictable form and were often capped with at least one chimney of seemingly deliberate construction. Total burrow area and mean chimney pellet diameter increased with crayfish size. It appeared that C. harti will burrow in other soils, but displays a strong affinity to its type-locality soils, particularly below groundwater level. Observations from a communal ABC revealed that adults use burrows to brood young and will share burrows with other adults for a period of time, possibly during burrow construction and/or times of disturbance, but eventually tend to segregate to solitary occupancy. Taken together, these data offer insight into the biology and ecology of this highly endemic and elusive animal that will be useful for management and conservation efforts and provide much-needed scientific information about burrowing crayfishes in general.
42003850|Pleurobema strodeanum (Fuzzy Pigtoe), is listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. The purpose of this study was to estimate growth rate, morphometric ratios, and ages for this species. One hundred and sixty-one P. strodeanum were originally tagged and measured in 2004 at Eightmile Creek, Walton County, FL. In 2011, 28 of those 161 were recovered and re-measured. Growth-rate percentages were determined based on length, width, height, and volume. Age was estimated using the von Bertalanffy growth equation. Results indicate that over a period of seven years, P. strodeanum grew 0.48 mm/year (SD = 0.14) in length. The age estimations in this study ranged from 48.7 to 74.5 years. The growth constant (K) was 0.018 per year, and the asymptotic length (L  ) was 71.97 mm. Natural history data such as these will be useful in understanding the basic biology of P. strodeanum and may assist in successful mussel management.
42003851|The results of statistical analyses conducted on monthly trawl and seine data collected from a multiyear fisheries-independent monitoring program, between July 2006 and March 2009 on the lower Apalachicola River, FL were used to determine which regions of the river, and what time of year should be further studied to determine if and how freshwater flow alterations affect the nekton. Differences in nekton community structure were clear between each of the 3 predefined habitat regions for shoreline seine catches. Deepwater trawled habitats showed a distinct difference between the upper river channel and both distributary regions, and less pronounced differences between the two distributary regions. The strongest pattern in seasonality of nekton communities coincides with seasonal fluctuations in recruitment of juveniles into the estuary and the periods of greatest salinity differences in the marshgrass-dominated lower distributary region for shoreline and deepwater habitats. Seasonal variations in community structure were evident and mostly likely dominated by recruitment, whereas the response of organisms to fluctuations in salinity may be dictated by their relative position within the lower reaches of the Apalachicola River system. Our results suggest that future studies of the effects of changes in flow on nekton assemblages in the lower Apalachicola River would best be performed during the dry season in the upper and lower portions of the distributary region.
42003852|Predation from aquatic and terrestrial predators are important factors structuring the size and depth distribution of aquatic prey. We conducted mesocosm and tethering experiments on Little Mulberry Creek in northwest Arkansas during low flows to examine the effects of predators on fish and crayfish survival in intermittent streams. Using shallow artificial pools (10 cm deep) and predator exclusions, we tested the hypothesis that large-bodied fish are at greater risk from terrestrial predators in shallow habitats compared to small-bodied individuals. Twenty-four circular pools (12 open top, 12 closed top) were stocked with two size classes of Campostoma anomalum (Central Stoneroller) and deployed systematically in a single stream pool. In addition, we used a crayfish tethering experiment to test the hypothesis that the survival of small and large crayfish is greater in shallow and deep habitats, respectively. We tethered two size classes of Orconectes meeki meeki (Meek's Crayfish) along shallow and deep transects in two adjacent stream pools and measured survival for 15 days. During both experiments, we monitored the presence or absence of predators by visual observation and from scat surveys. We demonstrated a negative effect of terrestrial predators on Central Stoneroller survival in the artificial pools, and larger individuals were more susceptible to predation. In contrast, small crayfish experienced low survival at all depths and large crayfish were preyed upon much less intensively during the tethering study, particularly in the pool with larger substrate. More studies are needed to understand how stream drying and environmental heterogeneity influence the complex interactions between predator and prey populations in intermittent streams.
42003853|Male Gambusia holbrooki (Eastern Mosquitofish) express a heritable pigmentation polymorphism: 99% of males are silver, and only 1% have a melanic, black-spotted pattern. Sex-linkage, an autosomal modifier, and temperature control the expression of this heritable melanism. In many teleosts, melanin also accumulates around the site of parasitic invasion. We have identified black-spot disease in wild mosquitofish from their native habitat. Here, we demonstrate convergence upon the black-pigmented phenotype through two means: 1) heritable melanism, and 2) melanic spotting on the silver genotype that results from infection with immature encysted trematodes. Females are silver and express greater avoidance of melanic males during mating attempts. The resemblance of the black-spotted pattern of the melanic genotype to that of silver genotype infected with trematodes may affect the fitness of melanic males if females perceive them as diseased. Alternatively, females may shun parasitized silver fish because they resemble the melanic genotype, which is larger and has a larger mating organ.
42003854|We sampled stocked Salvelinus namaycush (Lake Trout) in Watauga Lake and South Holston Lake, TN using experimental gill nets in 2009-2010 to describe their growth, longevity, and condition. Annuli in sagittal otoliths formed once a year in early spring in both reservoirs. South Holston Lake (n = 99 Lake Trout) has been stocked since 2006, and the oldest fish was age 4. Watauga Lake has been stocked since the mid-1980s, and we collected 158 Lake Trout up to age 20. Annual mortality for age-3 and older fish in Watauga Lake was 24%. When compared to Lake Trout in northern lakes, Tennessee Lake Trout exhibited average to above-average growth and longevity. Condition of Lake Trout in both reservoirs varied seasonally and tended to be lowest in fall, but rebounded in winter and spring. Lake Trout in both reservoirs appeared to be spatially segregated from pelagic prey fishes during summer stratification, but growth rates and body condition were high enough to suggest that neither system was being overstocked.
42003855|Understanding food-web ecology is valuable to conservation by linking interactions of multiple species together and illustrating the functionality of trophic exchange. Alosa alabamae (Alabama Shad), an anadromous species, reproduces in northern Gulf of Mexico drainages from February through May, and for this study, the Pascagoula and Apalachicola rivers were chosen to sample juvenile Alabama Shad. The age-0 fish mature within these rivers and have the potential to impact the food web of the systems in which maturation occurs. The focus was to determine if diet changes as Alabama Shad mature, and to identify diet differences between drainages. Diets of Alabama Shad <50 mm standard length (SL) consisted primarily of a dark, almost black material labeled as unidentifiable organics, while larger Alabama Shad, >50 mm SL, fed almost exclusively on insects. Many groups of aquatic and terrestrial insects were found in the stomachs of this species. Alabama Shad diets also differed among drainages, with the Apalachicola River being dominated by terrestrial insects, and the Pascagoula River having both terrestrial and aquatic insects. Diet and trophic placement of Alabama Shad may allow managers to understand the importance of this fish within its natal rivers.
42003856|Sternula antillarum (Least Tern) are small, migratory seabirds that are listed as threatened or endangered in every state in which they occur. While their natural nesting habitat is open beach, Least Terns have adapted to nest on flat tar and gravel roofs, sometimes many kilometers inland. We used the "fish drop" technique to collect fish that birds dropped around a roof colony in Pinellas County, FL to assess use of fresh and saltwater fish species as prey. We collected 37 fish from 12 different species. The most common (n=11) was Dorosoma petenense (Threadfin Shad), a species found primarily in marine/brackish waters, but often stocked in man-made freshwater ponds to supplement piscivorous fish prey. Eighteen of the remaining 26 fish, encompassing 7 of the remaining 11 species, are marine/brackish species, 5 individuals are freshwater species, and 3 are freshwater/brackish species. Roof-nesting Least Terns appeared to forage in stormwater ponds and a lake found near the colony, but they also traveled a minimum of 4.8 km to forage in marine/brackish waters. Roof nesters may face greater challenges than beach nesters, because they are potentially exposed to more pollutants in stormwater ponds and expend more energy and time to travel farther to forage at saltwater sites.
42003857|We describe the first detection of a Babesia sp. in a Lynx rufus (Bobcat). The Bobcat was from Georgia and was coinfected with Cytauxzoon felis and a Sarcocystis sp. The Babesia species was closely related to Babesia sp. "Coco", a parasite previously only detected in Canis familiaris (Domestic Dog). The only other Babesia sp. in North America that infects felids is a novel Babesia species in Puma concolor coryi (Florida Puma). The low prevalence of this Babesia (<1%) in Bobcats suggests that they are not the normal host or reservoir and this may have been an incidental infection.
42003861|Scaphirhynchus albus (Pallid Sturgeon) and S. platorynchus (Shovelnose Sturgeon) are sympatric and not uncommon in the lower Mississippi River from the confluence of the Ohio River to the Gulf of Mexico, and in its distributary, the Atchafalaya River. Reports of sturgeon larvae have been rare in the Mississippi River but have been increasing with more effective collection methods. A suite of characters identified in hatchery-reared larval Pallid Sturgeon and Shovelnose Sturgeon from the Yellowstone and upper Missouri rivers has been used to distinguish larval Scaphirhynchus spp. In the Mississippi River; however, a large proportion of wild Scaphirhynchus spp. larvae are intermediate in these characters and have been identified by some as hybridized Pallid Sturgeon and Shovelnose Sturgeon. We applied three diagnostic characters developed from Missouri River sturgeon larvae to hatchery-reared progeny of Atchafalaya River Pallid Sturgeon and found them inadequate to identify most of the known Pallid sturgeon larvae. Additionally, fewer than 10% of a large sample of wild Scaphirhynchus spp. larvae from the lower Mississippi River conformed to either Pallid Sturgeon or Shovelnose Sturgeon at two or more of the characters. We also found a small mouth width relative to head width and a concave forward barbel position may be useful for the identification of 30% or more Scaphirhynchus spp. larvae and postlarval young-of-year as Shovelnose Sturgeon. Established adult character indices and diagnostic measurement proportionalities also failed to correctly identify any hatchery-reared Pallid Sturgeon juveniles recaptured 6-7 years following their release.
42003862|The Little Choctawhatchee River watershed is currently affected by effluents from wastewater treatment plants and may be subject to impoundment as a water supply reservoir. We used historical data from the literature and the results of recent surveys (2006-2008) to assess past and current patterns of the diversity of mussels, crayfishes, and fishes throughout the river basin in order to gain information about the past and potential future effects of degraded water and habitat quality to the fauna of this region. Our results suggest that mussel assemblages have declined dramatically from historical levels, with only three of the eleven historically recorded species found. Several statelisted mussel species and candidates for federal protection formerly present are now believed extirpated from the watershed. Fish and crayfish collections during 2006-2008 were more diverse (52 and 6 species) than historical records indicated (39 and 3 species). This increased diversity was probably due to a more concentrated sampling effort in the current study than in the past. Future impoundment may cause further and possibly drastic changes to the remaining freshwater faunal diversity.
42003863|How gut capacity and digesta loads vary with unpredictable forage quality and abundance has not been examined in ruminants. Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) should have greater rumen-reticulum capacity during drought years to accommodate heavier digesta loads due to diets that contain a greater fraction of indigestible material. In contrast, in years with above-average precipitation, digesta loads should be lighter due to a greater fraction of digestible material in the diet which would result in less need for a large rumen-reticulum capacity. Data were collected from White-tailed Deer obtained during October, 2006-2008, from a 214-ha enclosure at the Mason Mountain Wildlife Management Area, Mason County, TX. Digesta load, liver weights (used as a proxy to indicate metabolic workload), empty rumen-reticulum organ weights, and rumen-reticulum volume were measured. Findings, adjusted for body weight, indicated that in the year with above-average precipitation, liver weights and rumen-reticulum capacity were less than in drought years. Although the influence of year on rumen-reticulum organ weight, adjusted for body weight, was not statistically significant, graphical representation did show a trend that followed yearly precipitation. Digesta loads, adjusted for body weight, progressively increased over the study, which did not coincide with changes in precipitation. Overall, this study provided information on how rumen-reticulum attributes change with environmental heterogeneity across years.
42003864|Timing of epiphyseal closure determines length of long bones and thus body size, but factors affecting epiphyseal closure in Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer) have not been conclusively quantified. We collected morphometric data and radiographic images of the distal humerus, proximal radius, distal radius, and metacarpus on approximately 0.5-, 1.5-, 2.5-, and 3.5-year-old optimally nourished captive deer. Age affected closure of distal radial and metacarpal epiphyseal plates (P < 0.001), with all individuals exhibiting epiphyseal closure by 3.5 years of age. Gender affected closure of the distal radial epiphyseal plates (P = 0.036), with females closing prior to males. Differential bone growth rate prior to epiphyseal closure may be one mechanism by which individual and cohort phenotypic effects are manifested in cervids.
42003865|Physiological and morphological indices are useful for determining condition of Odocoileus virginianus (White-tailed Deer; hereafter deer) and are important for deer management. However, information about deer condition in nutrient-deficient habitat types is sparse. Pocosins have a low nutritional plane and are characterized by deep, acidic, peat soils with a dense shrub layer that provides little or no hard and soft mast. In July 2008 and March 2009, we collected a total of 60 female deer (30 from each period) from a 31,565-ha pocosin forest managed intensively for Pinus taeda (Loblolly Pine) in coastal North Carolina. We recorded whole weight, eviscerated weight, spleen and adrenal gland weights, and kidney fat index (KFI). Abomasal parasite counts (APC) and femur marrow fat index (MFI) were determined post-collection in the laboratory, and blood samples were analyzed for packed cell volume and standard serum chemistries. Serum chemistries were within expected ranges, with the exception of elevated potassium concentrations. The KFI and MFI were within levels reported in the literature, and APC levels did not indicate heavy parasite loads. Spleen (t = 0.69, P = 0.492) and adrenal gland weights (t = 1.46, P = 0.151) were similar between periods. Our results provide baseline physiological data for deer in a nutrientdeficient habitat type. Though managers need to consider nutritional plane of particular habitat types, our results indicate that deer can achieve normal body weights and maintain body condition in nutrient-deficient sites.
42003866|The vegetation of Martha's Meadow (Berry College, Floyd County, GA) is distinct from that of surrounding flatwood areas and appears to be floristically similar to a limestone glade community. Limestone (cedar) glades of the southeastern United States are characterized by high species richness and diversity, calcareous soil, and up to 26 endemic or near-endemic indicator species. To describe the vegetation of Martha's Meadow and to determine its affinity to other limestone-based communities, a comprehensive species survey was augmented by quantitative surveys in May, July, and October of 2006. A total of 203 species in 56 families were identified, including nine limestoneassociated species designated as rare in the state of Georgia. Juniperus virginiana, a key species associated with glade communities, was important in both the overstory and the understory. Other important overstory species included Pinus taeda, Quercus shumardii, Q. muehlenbergii, and Ostrya virginiana. The perennial grass Danthonia spicata, the southeastern sedge Carex cherokeensis, and the herb Verbesina virginica, which is commonly associated with alkaline soils, were among the most important understory species, but no well-recognized limestone glade endemics were found. Two invasive grasses (Festuca subverticillata and Microstegium vimineum) were also among the most important understory species. Several ordination and clustering methods were used to compare the community structure of Martha's Meadow with data sets derived from other open calcareous and non-calcareous habitats throughout the southeastern and mid-western United States. Regardless of method, Martha's Meadow appeared to be most similar to several well-recognized Georgia limestone glades. While Martha's Meadow has some characteristics of edaphically determined limestone glades, it also lacks some characteristic traits (e.g., key limestone endemic species), making definitive classification tenuous. Evidence of on-going succession involving woody species suggests that the site might be best classified as a xeric limestone prairie (barrens) that requires disturbance or active management to maintain canopy openness and understory diversity.
42003867|Herpetofauna have declined globally, and monitoring is a useful approach to document local and long-term changes. However, monitoring efforts often fail to account for detectability or follow standardized protocols. We performed a case study at Hemlock Bluffs Nature Preserve in Cary, NC to model occupancy of focal species and demonstrate a replicable long-term protocol useful to parks and nature preserves. From March 2010 to 2011, we documented occupancy of Ambystoma opacum (Marbled Salamander), Plethodon cinereus (Red-backed Salamander), Carphophis amoenus (Eastern Worm Snake), and Diadophis punctatus (Ringneck Snake) at coverboard sites and estimated breeding female Ambystoma maculatum (Spotted Salamander) abundance via dependent doubleobserver egg-mass counts in ephemeral pools. Temperature influenced detection of both Marbled and Red-backed Salamanders. Based on egg-mass data, we estimated Spotted Salamander abundance to be between 21 and 44 breeding females. We detected 43 of 53 previously documented herpetofauna species. Our approach demonstrates a monitoring protocol that accounts for factors that influence species detection and is replicable by parks or nature preserves with limited resources.
42003868|In recent years, silivicultural methods have shifted away from clearcut harvesting towards greater retention of overstory trees through part or all of a rotation. However, little is known about the effects of partial harvesting on wildlife populations. Thus, we examined effects of high-leave shelterwood management on terrestrial salamanders prior to and after an initial harvest and a subsequent overstory removal harvest (ORH) 13 years later. On an experimental research site in southwestern Virginia, we compared changes in salamander captures in this plot to a clearcut and control plot 1994-1996 and 2007-2009. Compared to contemporaneous estimates from an unharvested control, salamander captures were lower on shelterwood and clearcut plots 2-years after the initial harvest (1996) and lower on the shelterwood plot 1- and 2-years after the ORH (2008, 2009). Captures of the most common species, Plethodon cinereus (Eastern Red-backed Salamanders), followed similar trends with fewer captures in both harvested plots 2-years after the initial harvest (1996), but only the ORH differed from the control 2-years after the second partial harvest (2009). Abundance of woody debris was greater in the shelterwood following the ORH but was more decayed in the control plot. The regenerating clearcut (14 years post-harvest) had deeper leaf litter and denser understory vegetation than the ORH. These data are some of the first available describing effects of multiple harvest entries on terrestrial salamanders and suggest cumulative negative impacts on salamanders may occur from partial harvesting systems. More long-term monitoring of salamander populations is justified in silvicultural systems with multiple entries within a rotation.
42003869|Gastrophryne carolinensis (Eastern Narrow-mouthed Toad) is known to be an ant specialist, but prey identification has rarely progressed beyond family level. There are no prey records from Florida scrub, a rare upland habitat type. This study identifies species of 4859 individual ants retrieved from stomachs of 146 G. carolinensis collected in Florida scrub. All toads had consumed ants; ants comprised about 95% of all food items. Forty-three species of ants were recorded. About 77% were various species of Pheidole or Nylanderia. The ants consumed were mostly small (4 mm or less in length) and nocturnally active. Species that were eaten belong to ant genera known to contain venoms, chemical repellents, or other organic substances in exocrine glands. This finding suggests the possibility that Narrow-mouthed Toads have opportunities to sequester exocrine secretions of ants, in the manner of some other anurans. The diversity of ant species consumed by G. carolinensis suggests that this species might be able to subsist on disturbed-site ants, including exotic species such as Solenopsis invicta.
42003870|We sampled ground beetles (Coleoptera: Family Carabidae) at the Furman Forest in northeast Greenville County, SC, and compared species richness and community attributes with tree stand richness, diversity, and composition. Beetles were collected by pitfall trap 1 night/week for 9 weeks from June to August 2011 in 24 plots (200 m) varying in tree abundance (11-131 trees/plot), mean tree size (6.5-26.0 cm DBH), species richness (2-13 species/plot), Simpson's diversity (1.6-9.1/plot), and composition. We collected 286 carabids representing 13 genera and 26 species, including a new state record for South Carolina, Cyclotrachelus hypherpiformis. Carabid abundance, species richness, and diversity were unrelated to tree abundance, richness, or diversity. However, carabid abundance and richness were positively correlated with the abundance of Liriodendron tulipifera (Tulip Poplar), suggesting a preference for mesic habitats. Total carabid abundance and the abundance and dominance of Carabus goryi (the most abundant species) were also positively correlated with mean tree size (DBH), suggesting a preference for older stands. Carabid diversity, abundance, and community structure were associated with habitat type and stand age (as indicated by dominant canopy species and tree size) and not canopy tree species richness or diversity.
42003871|Very little information is available for Peucaea botterii texana (Texas Botteri's Sparrow) and nothing is known about its nesting ecology, in part due to its cryptic behavior and nesting strategies. Our goal was to examine the nesting ecology of Texas Botteri's Sparrows and compare reproductive success between exotic and native grasslands. We searched for and monitored nests in 2004 and 2005 on the King Ranch in southern Texas. We found no relationship in reproductive effort, nest characteristics, and plant species richness around the nest between grassland types. Vegetation surrounding Texas Botteri's Sparrow nests was significantly taller and denser in native grasslands than in exotic grasslands. Further research on nesting ecology for the Texas Botteri's Sparrow is necessary to determine its habitat needs and its role as an indicator of grassland quality.
42003872|We captured and radio-marked 64 Dryocopus pileatus (Pileated Woodpecker) in bottomland hardwood forests from February 2007 to June 2010. At least 12 (35.3%) of the first 34 birds radio-tagged died within 43 d of capture (x = 8.2 d). Thus, we adjusted our radio-attachment techniques adaptively from a figure-eight harness to a tail-mount, and reduced handling times to minimize stress on woodpeckers. In 2009 and 2010, after the change in attachment type and modified handling protocol including a reduction of handling time (from ca. 1 h to 30 min), all 30 radio-marked birds (100%) survived the entire field season (3 mo). These data suggested that Pileated Woodpeckers, and perhaps other large woodpeckers, have an increased risk of death when tagged with figure eight harnesses, handled for longer periods and more obtrusively, and captured on days with relatively cold temperatures. We submit that future telemetry on this species or other large woodpeckers should not employ the figure-eight harnesses and should strive to minimize handling time and disturbance. We recommend that other ornithologists observing higher than expected mortalities possibly related to handling birds or transmitter attachment publish this information to minimize the adverse impacts on birds during future research.
42003873|Waterfowl, including ducks, geese, rails and others, are host to a great diversity of ectosymbiotic arthropods. In this study, we collected ectosymbionts from waterfowl and analyzed taxon richness and total abundance to determine whether there were differences in the mite and louse assemblages of waterfowl of different species, genera, sexes, and feeding behaviors. Data were collected from 53 individual birds from 13 waterfowl species and 5 waterfowl genera taken from Georgia and Alabama. A total of 11 louse species and 7 feather and nasal mite species were collected from the waterfowl samples. Fulica americana (American Coot) harbored the highest louse abundance and taxon richness but had the lowest abundance of mites. Most significant results were driven by the Fulica assemblage. Significant sex differences were detected only between male and female anseriform birds, in which female hosts demonstrated higher mean numbers of ischnoceran lice than male hosts. No significant differences in mite abundance between waterfowl sex or genera were observed, but more mite taxa were found on diving waterfowl than on dabbling species. These data will help to provide a foundation for future research on the ecology of waterfowl ectosymbionts in the southeastern United States.
42003874|Members of the Erycinae are small to medium-sized, semi-fossorial snakes in the family Boidae (Squamata, Serpentes) known today from Africa, southwestern Asia, India, and western North America. Erycines were the predominate snakes in faunas of North America during the Paleogene. In North America, only the minute, extinct erycine Pterygoboa is known to have additional wing-like processes situated on the postzygapophyses of the vertebrae. Here we report on Pterygoboa from one latest Oligocene (25-24 Ma) (White Springs) and two early Miocene (20-19 Ma) localities (Miller, Thomas Farm) in Florida. These specimens represent a significant chronological and southern geographic range extension for the genus and permit an amendment to the morphological description of this unusual snake.
42003875|Spiraea virginiana (Virginia Spiraea) is a federally threatened shrub endemic to the southern Blue Ridge and Appalachian Plateau physiographic provinces. Observations along the Cheoah River, where the largest population of S. virginiana occurs in North Carolina, indicate that Castor canadensis (Beaver) feed on S. virginiana. However, the effects of Beaver foraging on this imperiled shrub are unknown. To address this issue, we randomly located 50 belt transects (25 m  2.5 m) along the center of the scour zone of the Cheoah River and assessed all basal stems (<2.5 cm in diameter) of woody plants for evidence of browsing by Beaver. We recorded a total of 4963 basal stems, consisting of 59 species. Of those stems, 14.7% were browsed by Beaver. Spiraea virginiana accounted for 3.5% of the total basal stems and ranked fourth in the total number of stems browsed with 8.8%. After adjusting for transect effect, S. virginiana ranked second as a preferred forage species, with 32.0% of its stems browsed. This study suggests that overall browse levels of this community are relatively low compared to other communities inhabited by Beaver because of the high-gradient and turbulent nature of the Cheoah River. Our findings provide strong evidence that S. virginiana is an important food to Beaver, and as a consequence, Beaver foraging has the potential to affect this population. Although more information is needed to determine the long-term impacts, we suspect that in the short-term, S. virginiana may benefit from the levels of browsing found in this study. Field observations suggest that Beaver foraging stimulates asexual reproduction of S. virginiana by inducing rhizomatous growth. Beaver also may help S. virginiana with dispersal, as fresh cuttings are often left at feeding sites and then may be transported downstream for rooting.
42003876|An individual of Oncorhynchus mykiss (Rainbow Trout) was collected in a diversion canal of the Mississippi River known as Davis Pond located at river kilometer (RKM) 191.03 in St. Charles Parish near Luling, LA. This locality is the southern-most record for Rainbow Trout in the Mississippi River Basin and represents a range extension of 733.5 RKM south from the previous southern-most locality at Lake Whittington, Bolivar County, MS. The collection we report here also represents the first documented record of Rainbow Trout in Louisiana.
42003880|The fixed-width strip-transect and fixed-radius point-count survey methods for breeding birds were evaluated side-by-side in 2009, 2010, and 2011 in a 200-ha mixed hardwood forest surrounded by urban development in Parkville, MO. One 2-ha strip transect (80 m  250 m) and four 0.5-ha fixed-radius plots (40 m radius, 150 m separation) were surveyed in adjacent riparian forest areas during May and June, 2009. In 2010, two additional sets of transects and corresponding circular-plot arrays were installed, bringing the total area surveyed by each method to 6 ha in 2010 and 2011. Abundance of individuals of all species was greater on circular-plot arrays compared with transects in both 2009 and 2010. Modeling the potential intersection of transect and circular-plot arrays on a background simulating a landscape distribution of bird territories at varying densities indicated that a dispersed array of circular survey plots may overlap more bird territories than contiguous strip transects, though both survey plots enclose the same total forest area. The fixed-radius point-count method appears to effectively sample a larger forest patch than the fixed-width transect method, possibly resulting in estimations of bird population parameters that are different between the two methods.
42003881|Nest depredation is a major source of mortality in many turtle populations. Although turtle life histories may have evolved with relatively high levels of nest depredation, present-day levels may be negatively impacting populations that are already declining. This degree of depredation may be problematic for species such as Macrochelys temminckii (Alligator Snapping Turtle), which has relatively low reproductive output for a large turtle, yet little is known about depredation of M. temminckii nests. We constructed 90 artificial M. temminckii nests in 2008 and 2009 at Black Bayou Lake National Wildlife Refuge in Louisiana to identify nest predators and elucidate patterns of nest depredation. All artificial nests were depredated, with Procyon lotor (Raccoon), and Dasypus novemcinctus (Nine-banded Armadillo) being the two most common nest predators. Other predators included Lontra canadensis (Northern River Otter), Didelphis virginiana (Virginia Opossum), and Lynx rufus (Bobcat). Nest depredation is a major threat to Alligator Snapping Turtles at this site and may be limiting recruitment in this population.
42003882|Urban habitat fragments may provide birds the resources necessary to sustain viable populations in close proximity to human settlement. Conversely, urban habitat fragments may also act as ecological traps, where birds are lured into habitats that negatively affect reproduction or survival. In this study, we compared annual survival estimates of six common resident bird species captured at Bluebonnet Swamp, a 41.7-ha forest fragment bordered by the urban matrix of Baton Rouge, LA, with values derived from the Institute for Bird Populations' MAPS program to determine if populations sampled in the habitat fragment demographically deviated from regional baseline estimates. We found that three species captured at Bluebonnet Swamp exhibited survival estimates consistent with regional averages, whereas Cardinalis cardinalis (Northern Cardinal), Toxostoma rufum (Brown Thrasher), and Poecile carolinensis (Carolina Chickadee) survival estimates were lower than baseline. Edge effects associated with a relatively small preserve coupled with disease and semiannual movements in and out of the study area may be influencing Cardinal and Thrasher survival. We recommend that other studies focus on measuring avian demographics within habitat fragments to identify and mitigate factors that limit population sustainability in human-modified landscapes, as relative density alone may not be an appropriate metric for understanding the value of habitat fragments to birds.
42003883|Petrochelidon pyrrhonota (Cliff Swallow) initially expanded its breeding range to the Great Pee Dee River corridor of the Carolinas in the early 1980s. In 2012, I documented approximately 1700 active nests of the Cliff Swallow at 20 colony sites in the Lower Piedmont of North Carolina and Coastal Plain of South Carolina along this river corridor. Cliff Swallows nested primarily at bridges and other water-based sites but also bred at several land-based sites, including the first colony documented at a highway overpass in the Carolinas. Compared to colony sizes in the early 1980s and mid-1990s at 3 major sites in North Carolina, numbers in 2012 were approximately 1500% and 400% higher, respectively. Before this study, Cliff Swallows nesting along the Great Pee Dee River was documented only as far as Cheraw, at the Fall Line. This study demonstrates that breeding now occurs 145 km farther south along this corridor at 6 sites, including 2 sites in the tidewater region of South Carolina. Several bridges along this corridor with favorable structural characteristics for breeding are still unoccupied. The breeding range expansion front of interior populations along and near the Great Pee Dee River has moved slowly (3.25 km/yr), in an apparently stepwise manner. However, the gap between expanding interior and coastal populations is confounding the pattern of range expansion in the Lower Coastal Plain of South Carolina.
42003884|Long-term stocking of non-native Morone saxatilis (Striped Bass) in Toledo Bend Reservoir may have had adverse effects on the integrity of the native Morone chrysops (White Bass) and M. mississipiensis (Yellow Bass) genome through introgression. We examined microsatellite genotypes for evidence of hybridization in a sample of Striped, White, and Yellow Bass but found only four potential hybrids. Despite the introduction of millions of Striped Bass over four decades, there is no evidence for either a hybrid swarm or substantial introgression. Low numbers of hybrids may be the result of poor hybrid survival, little reproduction between species, or a combination of both.
42003885|Concern over the use of lethal techniques to collect basic biological data from sharks has necessitated the development of nonlethal methods of data collection. We evaluated the nonlethal method of removing stomach contents using acrylic tubes. Stomach contents of Spiny Dogfish (Squalus acanthias) captured with bottom trawls and longlines were collected using acrylic tubes flushed with seawater. The largest tube used during the trawl survey was 30 mm in diameter, while a larger tube (37 mm in diameter) was used during longline sampling due to catches of larger dogfish. The average efficiency of stomach content removal was 79.5% overall, and improved to 93% with the addition of the larger tube. Selection of a tube with a diameter 10-20 mm less than mouth width can be reasonably expected to recover over 90% of stomach contents. Stomachtube lavage is a useful and efficient method for nonlethal sampling of stomach contents from Spiny Dogfish, and perhaps other small sharks.
42003886|The series of steep, wooded ravines along the eastern side of the Apalachicola River in Gadsden and Liberty counties, FL, is recognized for its rich biodiversity. Little recent information is available on crayfishes of this unique ecosystem. During surveys conducted from 1939-1941, 5 taxa, including one undescribed species (now Cambarus pyronotus [Fireback Crayfish]), were recorded. No crayfish studies were conducted in the Apalachicola Ravines in the ensuing 60 years, and the conservation status of C. pyronotus remained unknown. From June 1999-February 2002, we surveyed the Apalachicola Ravines to determine distributional limits and stream-by-stream occurrence of C. pyronotus and evaluate its conservation status in relation to the regional system of protected lands. We recorded 8 species of crayfishes, including 4 primary burrowers and 4 aquatic species. Members of each of these 2 groups exhibited distinct microgeographic and microhabitat selection patterns, with several species showing non-overlapping microdistributions. We documented C. pyronotus from only 12 of 29 stream drainages surveyed, all within the middle region of the survey area, for a total range estimate of about 80 km. Most of the inhabited streams within this small range occur on protected lands and include multiple habitable branches.
42003887|Little is known about the Ornate Diamondback Terrapin (Malaclemys terrapin macrospilota) from the Big Bend region of Florida (Wakulla, Jefferson, Taylor, and Dixie counties), and only 12 museum specimens from this area are known. We surveyed for this ecologically significant coastal species from the St. Marks River south for approximately 135 km to the Suwannee River in order to identify populations, locate and assess nesting habitats, create distribution maps for the species, and offer management recommendations to improve terrapin conservation in the Big Bend region. Using modified crab pots, head counts, and land surveys, we documented 37 new site records for Ornate Diamondback Terrapins. We captured 5 live terrapins, and recorded 5 heads, 6 intact nests, 16 crawls, terrapin material from 48 individuals, and 453 depredated terrapin nests. This survey documents the importance of the Big Bend region as significant habitat for this imperiled species. Managers should evaluate proposed development projects along this coastline for potential impacts to terrapin habitat and populations. We also recommend continued surveys of potential Diamondback Terrapin habitat along the Gulf coast of Florida so that additional populations can be located. We suggest that field studies commence at the terrapin population centers/nesting sites that we identified at Big Grass Island and vicinity, islands at the mouth of the Suwannee River, and areas surrounding the mouths of both the Steinhatchee and St. Marks rivers.
42003888|The patterns of hydrologic connectivity in coastal marsh systems may affect the variation of environmental variables. In this study, we examine the effects of hydrologie connectivity patterns on environmental variables among freshwater, brackish, and saline marsh ponds and between pond types (permanently connected pond [PCP], temporarily connected pond [TCP]) in coastal Louisiana. TCPs did not completely dry although they were only temporarily connected by surface water to permanent bodies of water. The patterns of daily water depth within a pond type across marshes and between pond types within a marsh did not clearly indicate differences. We found few environmental differences between our hydrological groups PCP and TCP. The salinity increased from inland (i.e., freshwater marsh) towards the ocean (i.e., saline marsh), but percent cover of submerged aquatic vegetation (SAV) decreased in the same direction.
42003889|Branchiate Ambystoma talpoideum (Mole Salamanders) in fishless ponds can be large enough to act as predators, rather than competitors, during the spring breeding season of other amphibians. Food habits of high-density Mole Salamander populations from 2 proximate woodland ponds in Clark County, AR were examined before and after egg-laying by frogs, with an expectation that the salamanders likely would consume hatching tadpoles. However, salamanders instead commonly fed on the novel item of freshly-laid frog eggs. Results from both ponds indicated that the salamanders, perhaps due to food limitation, consumed smaller prey items than would be expected and heavily consumed frog eggs, a novel item.
42003890|We performed a field experiment to determine the effect of supplemental food provisioning on the cache-pilferage rates of a natural squirrel population in Central Arkansas. Provisioning, which is sometimes used to attract animals to a study site and/or to induce foraging behavior, may increase the local food availability above what is normally found and may in itself have profound effects on behavior. To test the hypothesis that artificial provisioning inflates cache-pilferage rates, we tracked the pilferage rates of experimenter-made caches at field sites that had been either provisioned or not provisioned with supplemental food. We found that squirrels pilfered caches at a significantly higher rate when the site was provisioned (med = 34.8) compared to similar caches placed in non-provisioned plots (med = 27.9), a difference that is likely the consequence of increased squirrel density and foraging intensity at provisioned sites. Based on these results, we suggest that researchers include appropriate non-provisioned controls and be conservative in the interpretation of pilfering rates obtained from study sites with supplemental food.
42003891|Sediment transport, one of the key processes of river systems, is altered or stopped by dams, leaving lower river reaches barren of sand and gravel, both of which are essential habitat for fish and macroinvertebrates. One way to compensate for losses in sediment is to supplement gravel to river reaches below impoundments. Because gravel addition has become a widespread practice, it is essential to evaluate the biotic response to restoration projects in order to improve the efficacy of future applications. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the response of the macroinvertebrate community to gravel addition in a high-gradient, regulated river in western North Carolina. We collected benthic macroinvertebrate samples from gravel-enhanced areas and unenhanced areas for 1 season before gravel addition, and for 4 seasons afterwards. Repeated measures multivariate analysis of variance indicated that the responses of macroinvertebrates to gravel addition were generally specific to individual taxa or particular functional feeding groups and did not lead to consistent patterns in overall family richness, diversity, density, or evenness. Non-metric multi-dimensional scaling showed that shifts in macroinvertebrate community composition were temporary and dependent upon site conditions and season. Correlations between macroinvertebrate response variables and substrate microhabitat variables existed with or without the inclusion of data from enhanced areas, which suggests that substrate-biotic relationships were present before gravel addition. A review of the current literature suggests that the responses of benthic macroinvertebrates to substrate restoration are inconsistent and dependent upon site conditions and the degree habitat improvement of pre-restoration site conditions.
42003892|Sagittaria fasciculata (Bunched Arrowhead) is an endangered plant known to grow only in Greenville County, SC, and Henderson and Buncombe counties, NC. This study compared the hydrogeochemical characteristics (hydrologie setting, water chemistry, substrate grain size, and organic matter content) of fourteen Bunched Arrowhead sites across Greenville County. All Bunched Arrowhead were found in partially to fully shaded and saturated discharge areas in close proximity to and fed by continuous and consistent groundwater seeps. The plants grew in sandy substrata with highly variable organic matter contents. Surface waters at these sites were shallow, dilute, and acidic (pH 4.5-5.7). However, the degree to which water chemistry influences the plant's growth and survival remains to be determined.
42003893|Information on factors affecting the abundance and detection of the endangered Ammodramus savannarum floridanus (Florida Grasshopper Sparrow) was required to determine appropriate management strategies and evaluate monitoring efforts. We examined annual point-count data, records of prescribed fire (2003-2008), observer variability, and landscape features for Three Lakes Wildlife Management Area to identify sources of variation in abundance and detection. The population of male Florida Grasshopper Sparrows was estimated to be 498 (95% CL = 354-641), which corresponded to 23.9 (95% CL = 17.0-30.7) males per km. Over most or all observed covariate ranges, abundance estimates increased with mean elevation above sea level, distance from outer edge of optimal habitat, and with growing-season burns (P  0.025). Abundance declined with time since last burn (P  0.006). Estimates of probability of detection ranged from 0.041 to 0.101, depending on observer and prior detections. Probability of detection declined with time of day, day of year, and days since last burn (P  0.058). The current prairie burn regime of 2- to 3-year intervals should be maintained with preference for increased growing-season burns. Annual point-count surveys should be continued. Surveys should be conducted within 2 hours of sunrise between mid-April and mid-May. Future monitoring should incorporate covariates of abundance and detection during the collection of data and in their analysis for population estimates used for recovery criteria.
42003894|Heterogeneity created through patchy disturbance is an important component of grassland conservation, but little research has focused on patch burn-grazing in grassland of the eastern United States. To test the viability of patch burn-grazing in a Tall Fescue-invaded old-field grassland on the Cumberland Plateau, we conducted a prescribed patch burn, stocked cattle, and measured vegetation structure and plant functional group composition. We found that patch burn-grazing creates spatial heterogeneity (patch contrast) for grass height, litter cover, bare ground, and canopy cover of native and exotic grasses. These results suggest that patch burn-grazing is a viable tool for heterogeneity based grassland management in the region.
42003895|Epifagus virginiana (Beechdrop) is an annual flowering plant that parasitizes Fagus grandifolia (American Beech) roots. The pollination biology of the chasmogamous flowers of E. virginiana is unknown. In September 2011-2012, we observed insect visitors to E. virginiana flowers. Insect visitors included Bombus impatiens, Crematogaster spp., and Prenolepis imparts, but were dominated by P. imparts (over 96% of insect visits). In September 2012, we captured ants (Crematogaster and P. imparts) on E. virginiana flowers in three different areas found in the Coastal Plain and Piedmont physiographic provinces. With the use of 2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT), we tested E. virginiana pollen from flowers and ant integuments for viability. We observed no significant difference (P > 0.05) between the viability of pollen taken directly from E. virginiana flowers and pollen removed from the ants. Our data suggests that ants can be playing an important role in the pollination of E. virginiana.
42003896|Male Scolopax minor (American Woodcock) occasionally perform courtship behaviors outside of the primary breeding period. The costs and benefits of such behaviors are not known. We observed a Woodcock perform an aerial courtship display in Minnesota on 8 November 2010, a juvenile male emit peent vocalizations in Virginia on 12 December 1991, and a solitary individual emit a cackle vocalization in Georgia on 28 December 1994. These behaviors may have been aberrations that are selected against and therefore uncommon, influenced by environmental conditions, or performed to improve the quality of male courtship behaviors. Research and monitoring are needed to ascertain which if any of these explanations is correct.
42003902|Chrosomus cumberlandensis (Blackside Dace) is a rare cyprinid fish restricted to small tributaries in the upper Cumberland River drainage in southeastern Kentucky and northeastern Tennessee. One hundred and nineteen 200-m reaches within 55 streams were sampled during June-August 2003, 2005, and 2006 via AC and pulsed-DC singlepass backpack electrofishing, thereby representing the most comprehensive quantitative survey conducted for this species to date. Dace were found to inhabit 43 of 55 streams and 78 of 119 reaches, although in two-thirds of the reaches the species was either not detected or was present in low numbers (i.e., catch rates 10 dace per 200 m). For the 78 reaches where the dace was detected, single-pass electrofishing catch rates ranged from 1 to 151 (mean  SD = 27  34) dace per 200 m. Petersen mark-recapture population estimates conducted on 16 reaches within 12 streams were used to build a regression model to calibrate single-pass electrofishing catch for the remaining 62 reaches inhabited by dace. Population estimates for the 78 reaches harboring Blackside Dace averaged 90  121 dace per 200 m, and associated densities averaged 14.1  19.4 dace per 100 m. Electrofishing sampling efficiency for Blackside Dace was 0.30 as revealed through our mark-recapture efforts. The small population sizes documented in many streams coupled with restricted distributions and relatively limited mobility may render many populations susceptible to local extinction due to stochastic events, poor recruitment, or additional habitat degradation.
42003903|Chrosomus cumberlandens is (Blackside Dace) is a small-bodied, freshwater fish endemic to the upper Cumberland River system in southeastern Kentucky and northeastern Tennessee. A detailed study of its habitat requirements using presence-absence data has not been published to date. Identification of important habitat variables at multiple spatial scales would facilitate proactive management and recovery of this federally listed species. Using logistic regression, we developed and validated habitat models of Blackside Dace presence as a function of environmental variables measured at two spatial scales (i.e., stream and reach). For model development, map-produced and fieldcollected variables were gathered for 91 waterways at the stream scale and 72 localities at the 200-m reach scale during summer. Our initial models predicted the likelihood of Blackside Dace presence to be optimized in streams with crude gradient between 1% and 6%, and in reaches with a turbidity 10 NTU, dissolved oxygen >8.5 mg/L, summer water temperatures between 14.6 C and 18.5 C, conductivity <240 S, percent riffle between 35% and 50%, and link magnitude between 3 and 6, although the species was occasionally observed in locations with conditions outside of this predicted optimal range. We then validated the models by collecting additional data from 27 new streams and 47 new reaches. Model performance was assessed with Cohen's kappa (). The strongest models included conductivity as a predictor variable, with the combination of conductivity and temperature producing the strongest performance ( = 0.41). Models containing crude gradient, turbidity, dissolved oxygen, and percent riffle generally did not perform well upon validation. Our findings suggest that conductivity, water temperature, and link magnitude are three important reach-scale variables for resource managers to consider when conserving populations of Blackside Dace.
42003904|Chrosomus cumberlandensis (Blackside Dace) is a federally protected cyprinid fish found in small tributaries of the upper Cumberland River system in southeastern Kentucky and northeastern Tennessee. Relatively little is known about the species' reproductive ecology and early life history. From a small number of field observations, the species is known to spawn as an associate with other cyprinid nest-building hosts, namely Campostoma anomalum (Central Stoneroller) and Semotilus atromaculatus (Creek Chub). In the present study, we first analyzed Blackside Dace co-occurrence patterns with other cyprinids to predict the relative importance of each species to Blackside Dace nest-association behavior. We next studied Blackside Dace spawning activities in seven 200-m reaches in five Kentucky streams during MayJuly 2006 to document nest associations and measure microhabitat conditions at spawning and non-spawning locations. Three of the seven study reaches were impacted by active logging operations. We observed 25 Blackside Dace spawning events, and all 25 were associated with Creek Chub nests, consistent with predictions from our species co-occurrence analysis. Spawning microhabitats were located in areas with significantly greater mean wetted-channel widths, slower column and bottom velocities, lower silt levels, lower substrate embeddedness, and larger subdominant substrate particles compared to non-spawning microhabitats. Study reaches with adjacent active logging had significantly greater mean silt levels, substrate embeddedness, water temperature, and conductivity values compared to reaches with no active logging, although 4 of the 25 spawning events occurred in reaches with active logging. Our results highlight the importance of cyprinid nest-building hosts (especially Creek Chub) to Blackside Dace reproductive ecology, and they also reinforce the need to maintain the integrity of Blackside Dace streams at the whole-community level.
42003905|Chrosomus cumberlandensis (Blackside Dace) is a threatened stream fish endemic to the upper Cumberland River drainage in Kentucky and Tennessee. Little is known about the movement patterns of this species. Acquiring an understanding of baseline dispersal patterns is necessary to inform management and recovery actions. We tagged 653 Blackside Dace with visible implant elastomer injections in the Big Lick Branch and Rock Creek watersheds of southeastern Kentucky to determine the frequency, spatial extent, directionality, and environmental correlates of dace movements. We recaptured dace from February 2003 through March 2004 using baited minnow traps. Most tagged dace (81% in Big Lick Branch and 58% in Rock Creek) were recaptured within the same 200-m stream reach where tagging occurred. However, several individuals moved considerable distances from the original tagging site, including the first documented intertributary movement for this species. Mean ( SD) distances moved upstream in Big Lick Branch (148  138 m) and Rock Creek (733  1259 m) were not significantly different from mean distances moved downstream (77  29 m and 314  617 m, respectively). However, the mean overall distance moved was greater in Rock Creek, a longer stream than Big Lick Branch. The spatial arrangement of traps in both watersheds likely produced a distance-weighted bias such that we slightly overestimated the frequency of short-distance movements and underestimated the frequency of long-distance movements. Our results for Blackside Dace are consistent with a number of other studies that found stream fish populations composed of a large sedentary group and a smaller mobile group. The demonstrated ability of Blackside Dace to move into and between tributaries will remain vital for long-term population viability, and emphasizes the importance of maintaining suitable corridors within and among Cumberland River tributary streams.
42003906|From 2003 to 2012, we surveyed the fishes of Lick Fork, a Blackside Dace (Chrosomus cumberlandensis) stream in Bell County, KY. The downstream half of Lick Fork flows through a subdivision, where it is interrupted by a perched culvert that restricts the movement of fishes within Lick Fork. The fish faunas and abundance of Blackside Dace upstream and downstream of the culvert were strikingly different. Downstream of the culvert, the fish fauna was species-rich (913 species), KIBI scores were high (4856, considered "Good" to "Excellent"), and Blackside Dace were common. In contrast, upstream of the culvert Blackside Dace were rare, only two speciesSemotilus atromaculatus (Creek Chub) and Rhinichthys atratulus (Blacknose Dace)were found in abundance, and KIBI scores were lower (3348, considered "Fair" to "Good"). Comparison with historical collections (1994) revealed declines or extirpations of some fishes (Chrosomus and Etheostoma) upstream of the culvert. The striking difference in the upstream and downstream faunas and the decline of some fish species, including Blackside Dace, is likely due to upstream extirpations from droughts or other stochastic events, coupled with the inability to recolonize from downstream populations because of the culvert barrier. This conclusion suggests that bridge and culvert design and placement are important considerations in management of Blackside Dace streams, as they can have a significant effect on community composition and fish movement.
42003907|Fracking fluids were released into Acorn Fork, KY, a designated Outstanding State Resource Water, and habitat for the threatened Chrosomus cumberlandensis (Blackside Dace). As a result, stream pH dropped to 5.6 and stream conductivity increased to 35,000 S/cm, and aquatic invertebrates and fish were killed or distressed. The objective of this study was to describe post-fracking water quality in Acorn Fork and evaluate if the changes in water quality could have extirpated Blackside Dace populations. Semotilus atromaculatus (Creek Chub) and Lepomis cyanellus (Green Sunfish) were collected from Acorn Fork a month after fracking in lieu of unavailable Blackside Dace. Tissues were histologically analyzed for indicators of stress and percent of fish with lesions. Fish exposed to affected Acorn Fork waters showed general signs of stress and had a higher incidence of gill lesions than unexposed reference fish. Gill lesions observed were consistent with exposure to low pH and toxic concentrations of heavy metals. Gill uptake of aluminum and iron was demonstrated at sites with correspondingly high concentrations of these metals. The abrupt and persistent changes in post-fracking water quality resulted in toxic conditions that could have been deleterious to Blackside Dace health and survival.
42003908|Davis Branch in Cumberland Gap National Historical Park was considered important for the recovery of the Federally threatened Chrosomus cumberlandensis (Blackside Dace). Monitoring of the Davis Branch population began in 1990. Castor canadensis (North American Beaver) colonization was reported in 1994, and a series of dams have persisted in the upper section of the stream. The pervasive effects of Beavers on Blackside Dace populations were unknown. Our goals were: 1) to characterize the fish community structure and relative abundance of Blackside Dace within the assemblage, 2) to determine the direct and indirect effects of beaver dams on the fish community, and Blackside Dace population, 3) to monitor the age structure of the Blackside Dace population, and 4) to recommend management actions that will enhance the Blackside Dace population within Davis Branch. Fishes were collected from eight stations annually from 19902010, except for 20032005. Stations were delineated within downstream and upstream sections based on Beaver presence, and within three periods, prior (19901993), post (19942002), and recent (20062010). Fish community structure indicated distinct downstream and upstream assemblages prior to Beaver colonization, with the relative abundance of Blackside Dace approximately 6% and 18%, respectively. The fish assemblage and relative abundance of Blackside Dace shifted over time, with the relative abundance of Lepomis gulosus (Warmouth), Lepomis auritus (Redbreast Sunfish), and Chrosomus erythrogaster (Southern Redbelly Dace) increasing, and Blackside Dace decreasing; only 25 Blackside Dace were encountered from 20062010. Comparison of Blackside Dace age classes between the 3 periods indicated the 0+ age class decreased over time and 1+ and 2+ age classes increased initially but eventually declined within both the downstream and upstream sections. It is speculated that the continued presence of beaver dams increased stream temperatures downstream and upstream, altered the flow regime, and changed the available habitat, thus creating conditions more suitable for centrarchid species and Southern Redbelly Dace, which probably preyed upon and out-competed Blackside Dace, respectively. It is recommended that the National Park Service and its partners 1) develop a Beaver management program, 2) return Davis Branch to its free-flowing, pre-Beaver condition, 3) significantly decrease nonnative species and decrease native centrarchid species to abundances prior to Beaver colonization, and 4) establish a Davis Branch Blackside Dace propagation and rintroduction program.
42003909|The US Fish and Wildlife Service has focused the majority of its Blackside Dace recovery efforts on preservation of extant populations, discovery of unknown populations, and delineation of unoccupied suitable habitats. A missing component of its recovery program has been a large-scale habitat improvement project for the species. Between 2006 and 2010, we evaluated the change in Blackside Dace abundance and distribution in response to a 739-m restoration project on Mill Branch, a second-order tributary of Stinking Creek in Knox County, KY. We expected Blackside Dace abundance to increase post-restoration and predicted the species would expand its distribution within Mill Branch to include downstream reaches. The improved habitat conditions were expected to lead to increased diversity and abundance of other fishes. Fish surveys produced a total of 14,580 individuals, representing 29 species. For the overall fish community, mean ( SD) species richness in restored reaches (reach la; 21  1, and reach 2a; 11.3  0.58) was significantly greater than mean species richness in unrestored reaches 1 (12.3  3.1) and2(7.3  1.53). Reach 2a also had significantly greater diversity (1.7  0.17) and evenness (0.69  0.07) than reach 2 (1.05  0.19 and 0.53  0.04, respectively). Catch per unit of effort (CPUE) did not differ significantly between restored and unrestored reaches. Blackside Dace abundance ranged from a low of 76 in February 2006 (pre-restoration) to a high of 566 in October 2009 (postrestoration). No significant increase in Blackside Dace CPUE or abundance was detected within restored reaches. Our expectations with regard to Blackside Dace abundance and CPUE were not met, but we contend that the species has benefited from the restoration. The species' movement within Mill Branch is no longer restricted by a perched culvert at the Walker Road crossing, the reach downstream of Walker Road no longer has intermittent flow, and the entire 739-m project area is protected from significant habitat disturbance. Unfortunately, predatory centrarchids such as Redbreast Sunfish have increased post-restoration and may be limiting Blackside Dace recovery. Nonetheless, we expect the Blackside Dace population to increase within Mill Branch as the restoration matures and habitat conditions continue to stabilize and improve.
42003910|Integrated modeling frameworks allow resource managers to incorporate multiple sources of information (both data and expert judgment), acknowledge uncertainty, and make quantitative predictions about resource outcomes. To demonstrate the utility of an integrated-modeling approach for recovery planning of imperiled species, we developed a comprehensive model in the form of a Bayesian-belief network to support recovery of a federally listed stream fish, Chrosomus cumberlandensis (Blackside Dace). Our model quantitatively combined expert judgment and data from empirical studies to create a comprehensive model that is testable, transferable, and easily communicated. Sensitivity- and scenario-building analyses demonstrated that mining impacts such as elevated stream conductivity were the most influential variables affecting predicted local Blackside Dace population persistence. Our results suggest that mining impacts are a logical focal point for research and recovery actions for the species, but additional review and revision of the model are recommended. Taken as a whole, our effort enhances the current and future capacity for informed recovery-management of Blackside Dace populations.
42003911|Chrosomus cumberlandensis (Blackside Dace) is a federally protected stream fish endemic to the upper Cumberland River drainage of Kentucky and Tennessee. Captive propagation of the species has been conducted in only one previous study. Here we report new findings from spawning and rearing the species for the past three years, 20112013, at the Conservation Fisheries, Inc. (CFI) facility in Knoxville, TN. Brood stock (n = 80 adults) were collected in 20112012 from Big Lick Branch in Pulaski County, KY. Spawning at the CFI facility occurred in April and May of each year when CFI water temperatures were between 16 and 21 C. We compare CFI spawning dates and temperatures to those measured in a 2006 field study. We also provide video footage of spawning behavior, which conformed to that previously described in the literature. Per capita production of fry (i.e., number of juveniles reared per breeding adult) in 2012 was more than twice that achieved in the previous study. We progressively reduced the presence of (and cues from) other fish species in 2011, 2012, and 2013, with the eventual achievement of having Blackside Dace spawn completely independent from any heterospecific cues. Our results collectively increase the capacity to propagate Blackside Dace in captivity to support ongoing recovery efforts for this threatened species.
42003912|We report new occurrence records of Blackside Dace, Chrosomus cumberlandensis, from the Big South Fork (BSF) Cumberland River drainage in Kentucky and Tennessee. The species was not previously known to occur in the BSF basin. Our new records are from 4 streams in McCreary County, KY, and 4 streams in Scott County, TN. These records represent a downstream extension of the species' known range in the Cumberland River system, as well as a geographic range expansion to the west and south.
42003913|In 1995, personnel from the Tennessee Valley Authority discovered a population of a Chrosomus sp. in the North Fork Powell River system in Lee County, VA. Subsequent survey work revealed the species to be Chrosomus cumberlandensis (Blackside Dace). Since 1999, approximately 90 sites targeting the genus have been surveyed in the upper Powell and Clinch River systems of Lee and Scott counties, VA and Hancock and Hawkins counties, TN. Chrosomus cumberlandensis was found in two creek systems in the North Fork Powell River system and a single creek system in the Upper Clinch River system. Distribution patterns and previous genetics work suggests these populations are introduced.
