42872904|After having pointed out the principal factors which may affect fruit drop in Persimmon (Diospyros lotus) the Author has examined the influence of hand fertilization in varieties supplied only with hermaphrodite flowers which actually are feminine owing to sterility of the pollen. The results of the experiments have shown that in the varieties Kirakaki, Castellani, Amankaki, Trakankaki, Kuki tipo the practice of hand fertilization greatly decreases fruit drap and therefore leadts to a considerably greater yield. The same thing has not been noticed in the varieties Mageli and Costata.
42872021|The Authors signals for the first time in Italy, the rather heavy damages found on young branch of cherry-tree caused by Hemiptera Homoptera, Jassidae, Cicadella viridis. Dr. Servadei exposes the biology of the insect which in Italy has a single annual generation and describes the way of ovodeposition. Dr. Grasso investigates the anatomy and the morphology of young branches affected by the insect. A method of fight is finally suggested which properly used was able to avoid damages produced from this cause.
42872969|Premesse alcune considerazioni sull'importanza del regime termico anche in rapporto alla combinazione degli altri elementi climatici e rilevata la necessit di intraprendere, pure nel. nostro ambiente, apposite ricerche sulla intensit e qualit della luce oltre che sulla durata e periodicit dell'illuminazione per il pesco, l'A. pone in evidnza i rapporti tra il regime termico stesso e la cascola delle gemme. Espone, quindi, il programma e le resultanze delle ricerche sulla cascola preantesi nel Veronese nella forma di allevamento  di A. Carteri, caratterizzata da una favorevole illuminazione della superficie fruttificante, con notevole sviluppo delle branche laterali. I numerosi conteggi di tutte le gemme fiorifere hanno consentito di porre in evidenza che l'entit della cascola delle gemme  stata di notevole rilievo in seguito al decorso mite della prima parte dell'inverno e alle strette di freddo successive, con notevoli sbalzi di temperatura nelle 24 ore. La percentuale di cascola  variata dal 77 al 10%, a seconda delle razze. La superficie fruttificante delle  branche principali, ubicata a quote un po' pi elevate,  andata soggetta ad una cascola media minore di quella delle sottobranche. Tuttavia, la razionale disposizione e inclinazione di queste ha consentito la normale evoluzione dell'a-ntesi e dell'allegagione in un congruo numero di gemme. La minor cascola delle gemme si  avuta nelle branche principali a Est, subito seguita da quella a Ovest e a poca distanza da quella a Nord; per le sottobranche la maggior cascola si  avuta con scarti limitati e in ordine decrescente : a Sud-Ovest, a Ncrd-Est, a Sud-Est, a Ovest, a Nord-Est e ad Est. L'esame dei dati sulla cascola dei frutti nelle branche e sottobranche, nelle diverse esposizioni, ha posto in evidenza che non si sono avute differenze medie di qualche rilievo in questa forma. L'A. espone quindi i risultati delle osservazioni sui gravi danni delle gelate dal 28 al 31 marzo 1948 nella zona di Firenze, con minime termiche di  3, 8 e anche inferiori in altre localit. Sono indicati i danni agli organi fiorali nel diverso stadio dell'antesi e dell'incipiente allegagione, con i necessari esami morfo-istologici sui frutticini alterati, dei quali sono poste in evidenza alcune salienti particolarit. " indicata la percentuale di danno subita da 80 variet nell'Azienda sperimentale delle Cascine e di alcune altre nel Ravennate ed altrove. Anche per i frutticini del susino sono poste in evidenza le alterazioni. After some observations on the importance of temperature also in relation with the other elements of the climate the Author points out the necessity also in our country of undertaking for the peach tree researches on the intensity and quality of light besides on the lenght and periodicity of illumination; he then points out the connections between the temperature variations and the iprefloral falling of buds. The Author then explains the programme and the results of the experiments on prefiorai falling carried out in the country near Verona ; the training shape was that of A. Carteri which allows a very favourable exposure of the fruit bearing parts of the tree and a marked development of the lateral framework branches. Frequent countings of all the floral buds have pointed out that the degree of bud falling has been considerable owing to the mild climate during the first part of the winter and the following sudden drop in temperature with conspicuous fluctuations in temperature during the 24 hours. The percentage of falling has varied from 77% to 10% according to the various varieties. The rate of falling on the fruit bearing part of the leards appeared to be inferior than on the fruit bearing part of the lateral framwork branches; yet for the proper arrangement and inclination of these the flowering and the fruit setting could normally take place in a great number of buds. The lower degree of falling took place in the leaders of the East side, then in those of the West and then again, whith a small difference, in those of the North side. In the lateral framework branches the larger degree of falling was noticed on the South-West side; then, with small differences, on the Nortfo-East, South-East, West, North-East and East. The data regarding fruit falling in the leaders and in the lateral framework  branches, in the various exposures, permit to state that there were no marked differnces in this training shape. The Author then points out the results of the observations made on the serious injuries caused by frost from March 28 to March 31 t h 1948, when minimum temperatures of  3, 8C. occured in the country near Florence and even lower temperatures in other areas nearly (Val di Chiana, etc.). Reference is made to the injuries caused to the flowers during the stages of flowering and incipient fruit setting, with morpho-histologic analysis of the small altered fruits some of the most important characteristics of which are pointed out. Reference is also made to the degree of damage suffered by 80 varieties of peaches in the Experimental Farm of Cascine, in a few orchards near Ravenna and in other Italian orchards. The alterations of the small fruits of the plum are also reported.
42872974|L'A. segnala attacchi di Peronospara viciae, De Bary, su alcune variet di pisello, iche hanno arrecato danni nella primavera del 1943. Le variet pi colpite furono Laxton Superb e Precoce di Provenza, meno colpite Meraviglia d'America, indenni Annanay e Quarantino. Dopo avere descritto la malattia ed il parassita, particolarmente nel suo sviluppo entro i baccelli, FA. consiglia di applicare poltiglie iciuprocalciehe preventive che si sono dimostrate le pi efficaci e di coltivare preferibilmente le variet di pisello Annonay e Quarantino clhe sono pi resistenti alla peronospora.
42872040|After having reported the results of various foreign studies on the sterility of the J. H. Hale peach, the Author relates the results of his researches. The microscopical observation of many anthers of Hale, has shown that this variety produces a very small quantity of bad and prematurely aborted pollen. Consequently, the J. H. Hale peach is practically male sterile. The observation of F hybrids, obtained by pollination of the Hale with Mayflower, St. Anna, Eureka, and (Mayflower x Suberba) Morettini n. 1, proved the inheritance of the male sterility presented by the mother variety. The great variability of the character in the first generation, suggests that the male sterility inheritance is regulated by a complicated genetical mechanism.
42872069|The Author relates on his observations performed on two pear seedlings (Kiefjer Seedling  Winter Doyenn) grown in the Horticultural Experiment Farm of Florence. The anthers of the parent varieties are perfectly regular and produce a great quantity of good pollen, while the sporigenous tissue of the anthers of the seedlings N 17 and N 22 is abnormal and fails without producing any pollen grain. On the basis of microscopical observations, the A. states that Kieffer Seedling  Winter Doyenn N 17 and 22 are male sterile. The genetic behaviour of this character seams suggest that the observed morphological sterility might be controlled by re cessive factors.
42872075|Leaves and fruits of Eryobotria japonica L. affected by medlar-scab are examinated. The observations have been taken in Sicily and on exiccata of Lab. Crit. of Pavia. The morphological characters of the conidia of the fungus are described and sizes compared with measures found by other AA. (Cavara, Scalia, Almeida, Peglion, and Savastano). AA. conclude that the medlar-scab is caused by Fusicladium Eryobotriae Cav., according to Cavara and Almeida, not rejecting the presence of Fusicladium dendriticum and Fusicladium pirinum, like other AA. affirmed (Scalia, Peglion, Savastano). AA. intend to confirme heir hypothesis with next experiences. Gli AA. hanno esaminato campioni (foglie e frutti) di Nespolo del Giappone colpiti da ticchiolatura, raccolti in Sicilia e da exiccata del Lab. Critt. di Pavia. Hanno descritto le caratteristiche morfologiche dei conidi e hanno confrontato le dimensioni trovate con quelle riferite da altri AA. Hanno concluso che Pagente della ticchiolatura del Nespolo del Giappone  il Fusicladium Eryobotriae Cav., come sostengono Almeida e Cavara, ma non escludono che si trovino pure associate a questa specie anche il Fusicladium dendriticum e il Fusicladium pirinum. Si riservano di confermare la loro ipotesi con le prove di inoculazioni incrociate.
42872081|During a period of fifteen years experiments have been carried out by the Author to test the influence of double-working (Beurr Hardy) in Beurr Clairgeau compared to the direct grafting on quince and pear seedling. The results obtained permit to state that both as regards growth and production the favourable influence. of double-working is always observable and it appears to be accentuated when the growth of some branches on the Beurr Hardy is permitted. But it must be pointed out that Beurr Clairgeau worked directly on pear seedling has shown a greater development and has yielded higer productions begining from the eight year.
42872102|The Author states the results of the observations performed on the plain of Florence, on the fruit trees damaged by the frost during the spring of the year 1949. The A. describes the alterations noticed in the flowers and the fruits of the most important peach, plum, cherry and pear varieties. From the examination of the data collected during the observations, it has appeared that the degree of resistance to the low temperatures, diminishes progressively in the most advanced stages of the flowering, and it is considerabily influenced by the hight of the brances, on which the flowers and the small fruits are inserted, in respect of the soil level. The observations performed in zones of different topographical configuration, have put in evidence that the land contours can direct cold air drainage, causing localised damage to fruit crops.
42872991|Misurazioni dell'accrescimento radiale del legno nel pero Butirra Clairgeau permettono di osservare come questo accrescimento in Puglia sia minore nella parte di ramo esposta a Sud. A Firenze, invece, tale accrescimento non subisce sensibili variazioni in funzione della esposizione. Il t confronto fra le caratteristiche climatiche dei due diversi ambienti esaminati porta ad attribuire tale minore accrescimento all'azione sopraottimale della luce. Ci  confermato in pratica dal fatto che i peri innestati su cotogno ed allevati nani, se ombreggiati opportunamente, assumono una vegetazione pi rigogliosa. Il lavoro ha portato ad una netta conferma di quanto affermato dai pratici e cio che in Puglia si ha una vegetazione pi rigogliosa nella parte esposta a Nord della chioma. Measurements of transversal wood growth in pear-trees of the Butirra Clairgeau variety have shown that in Puglia there is less growth on the side of the branch facing South. In the Florence area instead wood growth does not appear to be dependent on the situation of the branch in respect of the Cardinal points. The comparison of the climatic characteristics of the two different habitats makes it possible to attribute the difference in growth habit to the light factor. This is confirmed by the observation that pear-trees grafted on quince r trees and brought up in a dwarfish habit, when conveniently shadowed by vine-trees, bear a more luxuriant vegetation. The results of these researches agree entirely with what is commonly stated by pratcical fruit-growers, namely that in Puglia pear-tree foliage is more luxuriant on the North facing side of the plant.
42872131|The observations on the rooting habitus of young myrobalan seedlings and twelve year-old plum trees, performed in the Experiment Orchard of the Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree of Florence University, have shown that: 1) in trasplanting the myrobalan plum seedlings, the principal root is unavoidably cut and ceases of getting longer. Secondary roots replace it and form with the plant axis a very opened angle; 2) the root system of twelve year-old plum trees, grown in the soil conditions of the plain of Florence (see the prospect N. 1) has its normal development between 6 and 24 inches of depth. A few roots reach the underlying levels of the soil, going also 6,6 feet deep from the field surface. The lateral extension of the root system overcomes the projection of the branches on the soil. The absorbent root hairs are previously localized in the upper level of the soil and in the peripheric zone of the root system.
42872153|Nel centro frutticolo della regione emiliano-romagnola sono lamentati da tempo fenomeni di deperimento tanto nelle pomacee che nelle drupacee. Le cause di questo fenomeno sono di diversa origine, non tutte ancora chiarite. Nel presente scritto sono illustrate le caratteristiche e l'importanza delle alterazioni dell'apparato radicale, osservate durante il 1950. In particolare vengono descritti il colpo di freddo, i tumori batterici, il marciume da Armillaria e da Phytophthora. Chiudono alcune osservazioni sull'opportunit di migliorare la produzione vivaistica da un punto di vista fitopatologia). In the fruit centres of Emilia and Romagna phenomena of deperishment both in pomacee and in drupacee have been observed since some time. The cause of these phenomena are numerous and of various origin, and they have not yet been fully understood. In the present article the characteristics and the importance of the root system alterations observed in 1950 are dexcribed. In particular a description is given of cold strikes, bacterial tumours of Armillaria and Phytophtora rot. The Author finally points out the opportunity of improving nurseries from the point of view of disease control.
42872156|In this paper the results obtained from self- and cross-pollinations of Sweet cherries are described. Generational sterility seems to occur in the Marasca di Piemonte variety, whose pollen fails almost entirely to germinate; the pollen of all the other tested varieties proved to be perfectly normal and viable. Experiments, performed at Florence since 1949, show that all the fifteen varieties are self-incompatible; cross-incompatibility is common. The co-incompatible varieties and the effective and non-effective cross-pollinations are sintetically shown in Table 1, to make possible the choice of the best associations of compatible varieties.
42873025|The A. after having dealt with the researches carried out in France and Switzerland on deep fertilization of fruit trees by means of injector poles, points out the reasons which may justify this new system of fertilization. He then describes the implements necessary for carrying out deep fertilization and reports the experimental results obtained in various orchards in 1949. The A. finally points out that the new system of fertilization is not difficult to apply, especially if spraying motor pumps are available. Further investigations are anyhow necessary in order to determine its economical convenience in comparison with the methods of fertilization used at the present time under our climatic and pedologie conditions.
42873028|With this preventive note are signalled some diseases of celery, artichoke, cauliflower and lettuce caused by Sclerotinia sclerotiorum (Lib.) Massee, of which those on the first two plants have not yet been recorded in Italy. Studies on biology and poliphagy of the parasite are going on.
42873033|Eucanol a new clorinated insecticide is described. Some chemical properties are referred and some toxicai properties are tabulated. Eucanol shows volatility in high degree and a satisfactory killing action against insects.
42872201|Vegetable marrows growing in hotbeds near Florence were observed to show a sickly condition. The plants remained stunted; many secundary roots had rotted and the tap-root showed brown discolorations due to the presence of Thielaviopsis basicola. Because of the constant presence of antagonistic bacteria the A. was not able to isolate the fungus. Experimental inoculations with a strain of Th. bastela that the A. previously isolated from endive showed this strain to be moderately pathogenic also vegetable marrow. Soil sterilisation is recommanded.
42872205|In questa nota sono descritti molto succintamente i caratteri pi salienti di 18 variet di Pesco isolate dallo stesso prof. C. Capucci tra il 1942 ed il 1948 fra piante coltivate in tre appezzamenti a pescheto posti in Lugo (Ravenna) ottenute dalla semina di noccioli di variet note. Trattasi di un complesso di variet in genere produttive, spesso anche molto vigorose (Sel. N. 1; 4; 5; 8; 12; 16; 17; 18) con frutto, in alcune variet a polpa gialla (Sel. N. 1; 2; 3; 13), in altre bianca e con nocciolo sempre spiccagnolo. (Sel. N. 1; 2; 3; 6; 9; 16; 17). La maturazione ha luogo tra la seconda decade di luglio e la prima quindicina di agosto. I frutti in genere presentano buona resistenza alle manipolazioni e sono assai serbevoli. Alcuni di essi (Sei. N. 1; Sei. N. 3; Sel. N. 6) sono stati spediti con successo sui mercati di Milano e di Londra. Dati i pregi che nell'ambiente in parola le variet su ricordate presentano, l'A. consiglia di sperimentarle e studiarle in ambienti analoghi. The most outstanding features of 18 peach varieties selected by the author during the lapse of time from 1942 to 1948 amongst plants obtained directly from seed are reported. Most proved to be high-crop yielding and vigorous (Sel. N. 1; 4; 5; 8; 12; 16; 17; 18); fruit pulp is white or yellow, endocarp always loosely adherent to pulp; harvest time occurs between July and August (ripe earlier expecially Sel. N. 1; 2; 3; 6; 9; 16; 17). Fruits are well resistant to careless handling and may be long stored. Marketing in Milan and in London of some of these varieties has been met with success, (exp. Sel. N. 1; 3; 6). Cultivation of these varieties owing to their excellent qualities deserves to be extended from and experimental point of view.
42872207|L'A. indaga sull'influenza del 2-4 D a 10 e 8 p.p.m. sulla produzione e precocit del pomodoro e del cetriolo riscontrando per il pomodoro coltivato in pieno campo una precocit di maturazione di 6-7 giorni e un aumento di produzione del 16 % circa e per quello coltivato in serra una precocit di 15-20 giorni e nessun aumento di produzione a causa del precoce arresto di vegetazione. Per il cetriolo in coltura sotto vetro l'aumento di produzione  del 30 % circa e la precocit di maturazione di 3-4 giorni. Sono riportate osservazioni sull'azione del 2-4 D in relazione alla temperatura e al vigore vegetativo. L'A. s'enqurit de l'influence du 2-4 D  la concentration de 10 et 8 p.p.m. sur la production et la prcocit de la tomate et du concombre, en trouvant pour la tomate cultive en plein air une prcocit de maturation de 6  7 jours et la production augmente jusqu'au 16%  peu prs; et pour celle-l coultive en serre une prcocit de 15-20 jours; tandis que la production ne reu aucune augmentation  cause d'un prcoce arrt de vgtation. Pour les concombres forcs nous avons une production augmente  peu prs du 30 % et une prcocit de maturation de 3-4 jours. L'on a encore fait des observations sur l'action du 2-4D par rapport  la temprature et  la vigueur vgtative. The Author has examined the influence of 2-4 D at 10 and 8 p.p.m. on crop and earlyness of tomatoes and cucumbres, and has found tomatoes in field were 6-7 days earlier in ripening, and crop was increased of 16 % about, and tomatoes in greenhouse were 15-20 days earlier in ripening and none increased of crop because of the early stop of vegetation. Forced cucumbers, whose crop was increased of 30% about; were 3-4 days earlier in ripening. Observations are referred on the effect of 2-4 D in relation to temperature and vegetative vigour.
42872209| descritto un caso di marciume, da Rhizopus nigricans su pesche pendenti, riscontrato nel Ferrarese e nel Ravennate. L'alterazione  localizzata in corrispondenza del solco longitudinale nella zona equatoriale del frutto. Il marciume non sembra dipendere da lesioni preesistenti nell'epicarpo. Mediante inoculazioni artificiali  stato esaminato lo sviluppo del R.n., a seconda del grado di maturazione dei frutti. Al fine di evitare una eventuale diffusione della infezione si consiglia l'eliminazione dei frutti che ne sono colpiti. There is described a rot of peach fruits, still attached to the trees, which has been found in the Ferrara's and Ravenna's country. The rotting, which has a leather dark colour, is localized in corrispondance of the middle track in the fruit's equatorial zone. The infection does not seem to be related to a preexistyng injury of the epidermis cells. The cause of the disease is this infection of the fungus Rhizopus nigricans; of such a fungus by means of artificial inoculation, it has been tested the growing rate according the fruit's different range of development. It has been suggested to pick up and destroy the first infected fruits.
42873057|L'Autore mette in evidenza la necessit di una preliminare identificazione e descrizione delle razze di peperone, come indispensabile premessa per gli studi bio-genetici relativi a questa pianta e per il lavoro pratico di selezione delle razze pi idonee alla coltura. Nella presente nota riferisce sulle osservazioni condotte dal 1949 al 1951 su di una collezione di peperoni costituita presso l'azienda sperimentale del Centro studi per il miglioramento delle piante ortofrutticole, in Firenze. Per oltre venti razze sono descritte le principali caratteristiche morfologiche in base alle quali le razze suddette sono state ripartite nelle diverse variet botaniche indicate dalla classificazione sistematica di Irish. The Author puts in evidence the necessity of a preliminary identification and description of the pepper strains, in view to perform an efficient breeding work. The A. refers his observations carried out, since 1949, at Florence, in the Horticultural Experiment Farm of the National Research Council to describe the most important morphological characters of more than twenty pepper strains. On the ground of those characters the controlled races have been classified following the Irish botanical classification.
42873061|Nel presente lavoro gli A.A. intendono portare un primo contributo allo studio della applicazione del trattamento al calice dei if rutti nella lotta contro la Carpocapsa pomonella L La sperimentazione viene da essi suddivisa in due parti: nella prima trattano la messa a punto del momento botanico pi adatto per l'intervento insetticida preventivo eu tredici diverse variet di Melo; nella seconda riferiscono modalit e dati di una applicazione sperimentale dell'irrorazione al calice sulle tre variet di pi larga coltivazione nell'ambiente in cui hanno operato. Gli AA., rilevano una diversa recettivit da parte delle variet in prova agii ingressi dal calice della Carpocapsa e di consegxienza ritengono utile l'applicazione della pratitea solo per quelle pi soggette. Essi confermano l'importanza della ubicazione dei locali adibiti alla lavorazione e conservazione della frutta e materiali relativi in rapporto alla gravit dell'infestazione dell'insetto. Authors' wish, is to give a preliminary study of calys spray treatment in the problem of controlling the Codling-moth (Carpocapsa pomonella L.). Experimental investigations are described in 2 parts. In the first part, the best time during the blossom development of applying preventive lead arsenate sprays on 13 different varieties of apple trees is studied; in the 2d part data and modalities of an experimental application of calix spraying on 3 varieties, largely cultivated on field under Padana Valley (Italy) conditions, are noticed. It was found that tested varieties had a different reception of Codling-moth through calyx cup entries, consequently it is thought to be available, treatment application only on the most receptive ones. Furthermore it is thought that calix spray is especially usefull and economically advantageous against Carpocapsa (Cydia) pomonella L. when no more than three cover sprays perform it. In this paper the importance, where working-rooms store-rooms equipment and accessories for fruits are placed in respect to the severity of the infestation on apple tree is confirmed.
42873064|In the present paper tha author describes a peculiar trouble observed on the leaves of peach trees in Emilia and Romagna, consisting in a chlorosis, which has been named a dente di sega. It is possible that the trouble is a symptom of a virus disease  as other authors have suggested , but there are also some evidences that a deficiency could be involved. Some experimental tests are necessary for a better knowledge of such a trouble.
42872215|The Author examines the reasons which have hindered the production of canned olives in Italy. The climatic and pedologic conditions of countries such as Spain, Greece, California and Algeria in which there is a high production of canned olives is compared with those of the main Italian centres (Ascoli Piceno, Puglie, Sicily). It appears that the low production of canned olives in Italy is due to the poor tecnique of our growers, especially as concerns planting and cultural practices. In order to increase the production of canned olives in Italy it is necessary to treat the tree quite like the other fruit trees : olive orchards should therefore be planted in fertile soils, either irrigated or sufficiently moist in summer time, and all the cultural practices capable of producing high yields and fruits of good quality should be put into practice.
42872217|L'Autore riferisce i risultati di alcune ricerche sulla biologia fiorale e di fecondazione del finocchio dolce, condotte allo scopo di poter impostare il relativo lavoro di selezione e produzione in purezza delle sementi. Le razze di finocchio dolce, attualmente coltivate, sono risultate autocompatibili. Le diverse razze si sono; mostrate intercompatibili ed inoltre esse hanno mostrato di poter essere fecondate anche con polline di altre variet botaniche della medesima specie, Foeni culum vulgre (Mill.). Tali risultati hanno portato l'Autore a concludere che l'attuale degenerazione delle razze di finocchio pu essere attribuita essenzialmente alla presenza, presso le colture desti, nate a seme, di piante comunque estranee alla razza da selezionare o da riprodurre. Per la produzione in purezza delle sementi di finocchio occorre, pertanto, che gli agricoltori isolino rigorosamente, durante la fioritura, le piante appartenenti allo standard della razza. After having examinated the considerable losses that annually affect the fennel culture owing to deficient purity of seeds, the A. refers on the results of some researches carried on the flower biological behaviour and pollination of these plants in view to begin the selection and production of  genuine  seeds. The fennel cultivated varieties have resulted self-fertile. All varieties have proved to be interfertile and besides they have shown may be pollinated even from the pollen of different botanical varieties of Foeniculum vulgre (Mill.). These results induce the A. to conclude that reasons of the present degeneration of cultivated fennel varieties may be ascribed to the presence, in the cultures for seeds production, of plants belonging from different strains or other botanical variety. To obtain fennel genuine seeds, therefore, it is necessary the farmers rigorously keep away the plants of the same strain.
42873084|The author has done tests with growth substances against the preharvest drop of pears and apples. 2,4 D. showed a typical variety-selectivity only with the  Stayman Winesap ; with other apple varieties such as  Renetta Champagne  and  Renetta Walder  it was less efficient than alpha-naphtalenacetic acid and Fruitone. With two pear varieties  Curato  and  Cedrata Romana  the said three substances showed the same efficiency. No damages were caused to leaves and other green structures of plants treated with 2,4 D.
42872251|Tracciata qualche premessa di ordine generale sulle malattie da carenza, l'A. si intrattiene sulla descrizione dei sintomi palesi dovuti a carenza di alcuni elementi nutritivi sulle Pomacee e sulle Drupacee. Seguono alcune considerazioni sul rilevamento diagnostico delle singole turbe e sui mezzi pi idonei di cura e di prevenzione.
42873105| descritta una alterazione su frutti di pero ritrovata in varie localit della Regione Emiliana. Osservazioni macro e microscopiche hanno portato ad attribuire tale alterazione, caratterizzata da pustole brune rilevate sull'epidermide del frutto, all'azione di punture dell' Eriophyes piri. There is described a damage of pear fruits which has been found in some orchards of the Emilia Region. Such a damage is characterised by dark and prominent pimples on the fruit's surface. Macro and microscopic remarks lead to ascribe it to injury of the mite Eriophyes piri.
42872261|L'autore, dopo aver riassunto le indagini compiute ali'estero ed in Italia per migliorare le variet di pero, descrive una nuova razza eletta selezionata da una progenie derivante dall'incrocio della William con la Coscia, che denomina Pero Santa Maria Incrocio Morettini William  Coscia 29. L'albero di questa nuova razza  molto vigoroso e . produttivo. Il frutto matura in un'epoca intermedia compresa fra quelle della Coscia e della William. E mediamente voluminoso, serbevole e di grato sapore. The Author deals with the investigations carried out in Italy and abroad for the improvement of the pear varieties. He then describes a new variety obtained by selection from a progeny derived from a cross between William and Coscia which he has called Santa M aria-Morettini cross William  Coscia 29. It is a very vigorous and productive variety. The fruit ripens in a period intermediate between that of Coscia and William; it is of medium size, it can  be well stored and has a good taste.
42872263|The Author describes in detail a probable virosis of Hydrangea hortensis observed this year for the first time in the Botanical Garden of the University of Pavia. He finally suggests the destruction of the infected plants in the hope of . controlling the spread of the disease.
42872340|The Author refers his observations performed at the Horticultural Experiment Farm of the National Research Council annexed to the Horticultural Institut of the Florence University, on the flower biological behaviour and pollination of the Cucumber. The results obtained have showed that all the cucumber cultivated varieties tested have proved self- and inter-fertile and the pollination is accomplished largely by bees. The cross-pollination is the rule between adjacent varieties; that it's a very common cause of varietal mixture and of varieties's degeneration. Therefore, in the production of genuine seed, it's necessary to make a rigorous selection in monovarietal cultures.
42872342|The authors refer to experimental control of Paratetranychus pilosus Canz. et Fanz. Among the numerous chemicals used against the control of the insect in the egg stage, oil of anthracene activeted with dinitrobutylphenol and a mineral oil activeted also with dinitrobutylphenol were found very efficient. For the summer control of this insect evidence shows a satisfactory action of a sistemic chemical made from an ester of thioglycolfosforic acid.
42872345|Field experiments and laboratory studies of the life history of the Codling Moth (Carpocapsa pomonella L.), made for 2 years showed that the diapause in Carpocapsa pomonella is determined from the kind of food. A third generation is present, when the weather allov a rapid development of the first generation.
42877573|L'Autore riferisce sui risultati delle osservazioni condotte presso il Centro per il miglioramento delle piante ortofrutticole del Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche annesso all'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit di Firenze, snll'interpretazione del meccanismo ereditario di alcuni caratteri del pesco. Le razze in collezione e le generazioni ibride ottenute dal Prof. A. Moretti ni con fecondazioni controllate, hanno costituito il materiale per lo studio dell'ereditariet dei seguenti caratteri: tipo di fiore, aderenza del nocciolo alla polpa, correlazione tra glandole fogliari e margine fogliare e correlazione tra colore delle foglie e colore della polpa dei frutti. The Autor refers his observations performed at the Horticultural Experiment Farm of the National Research Council annexed to the Horticultural Institution of the Florence's University, on the genetic behavour of peach hybrid populations. The observations have shown that:  showy flowers are dominant over non-showy and the characters are controlled by one pair of genes;  in the inheritance of stone adhesion the semi-cling can be classified either the frees or the clings, since they usually vary from semi-cling to free or from semicling to cling. The data show that free is dominant over cling and follow the simple mendelian rules;  it's confirmed the correlation between the type of gland and the indentations on the margin of the leaf. The margin of the leaves bearing globose glands are serratecrenate, that of leaves bearing reniform glands are crenate and the glandless leaves are distincly serrate. The characters follow the incomplete dominance suggesting that might be controlled by the same pair of genes, or by a linkage;  it might be a probable correlation between peach leaf color and peach flesh color. Leaves from yellow-fleshed varieties and hybrids have a yellow color more deep than white-fleshed ones.
42877580|A disease of Antirrhinum majus, characterized by partial or total microphylly, simultaneous development of buds with slender branchlets, abortive and decolorized flowers, venal, foliar discoloration (and at last spotted chlorosis) has been described from the cultures of the Botanical Garden, The University of Pavia. The disease appeared irregularly on the 30 % of the plants for the first year in 1951, and the plants were strongly invaded by Myzus persicae. The virosic nature of the disease is suspected.
42877585|One Tar-oil and four petroleum -oil emulsions were tested against Aspidiotus Perniciosus and Diaspis Pentagona. Emulsions were made with oil, dried blood and water in a colloidal mill. Comparative insecticide values were found not corresponding to the chemical nature of oils. A strong improvement in efficiency was observed with the lowering of the viscosity.
42873122|Si descrive un caso accidentale di formazione spontanea di cormi avventizi, normali per forma, struttura, polarit, nelle ascelle fogliari di tre scapi fiorali di Gladiolo. Si prospettano le cause che possono aver provocato il fenomeno: variazione della velocit nel gradiente di concentrazione dei glucidi, labilit ormonale, alterazione della reazione chimica e della pressione osmotica. Si constata la presenza di notevole quantit di inulina sia nello scapo fiorale, sia nel peduncolo del cormo avventizio, reperto nuovo nelle Iridacee, ma non riscontrato nei Gladioli normali. In questi si trova invece un altro idrato di carbonio che presenta alcuni caratteri dell'lrisina. I cormi avventizi non hanno riprodotto il fenomeno, n  stato possibile provocarlo artificialmente. La loro coltivazione ha dato luogo a fioriture scadenti. During the 1950 crop season of corms of hybrid Gladiolus, an unusual production of adventitious corms on the stems, was observed. The corms were normal in shape, structure and polarity. Reference is made to physical and chemical causes of the anomaly. Information is given on the presence of inulin in the stems and peduncles of adventitious corms. This result is remarkable inasmuch as inulina is not present in normal Gladiolus, which contain another carbohydrate, probably irisin. Adventitious corms have not reproduced the anomaly, and did not form fine flowers. No reaction has been observed in normal Gladiolus stems kept in wet air or plunged in water.
42873124|L'Autore riferisce sui risultati delle ricerche, condotte presso il Centro per il Miglioramento delle piante Ortofrutticole annesso all'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit di Firenze, sulla biologia fiorale della cipolla. Dopo aver fatto cenno della classificazione botanica ed evoluzione morfologica dei fiori, viene ad illustrare le ricerche condotte nel 1950 sul meccanismo di antesi e modalit di impollinazione. La cipolla manifesta una spiccata protandria cosi che la fecondazione incrociata  la regola, operata, in massima parte dalle api, per cui si rende necessario, nella produzione del seme in purezza, la coltura monovarietale o l'isolamento delle piante prtaseme in sacchetti di carta, avendo cura di scuoterli periodicamente per tutto il tempo della fioritura. The Autor refers on the results of his researches, performed at the Horticultural Experimental Farm of the National Research Council annexed to the Horticultural Institut of the Florence University, on the floral biology of the Onion. After having related on the botanic classification and the morphologic evolution of the flowers, he examines the antesis mechanism of them and the pollination's modality. In the onion the cross pollination is the rule, performed, for the most part, by the flies, and it's necessary, therefore, in the production of genuine seed, the monovarietal culture or enclosing the entire inflorescence within a 1-pound manila bag and tapped it periodically during all the flowering season.
42873133|Biological inquires have been executed about an organo-mineral fertilizer. The number of the microorganism contents have been determined in one gram. We have observed that this microflora is prevalently represented by ammonia microbes. The phytodinamic index according to the text of Match has resulted positive.
42873134|The peculiar chlorosis of Peach trees named  a dente di sega , is reported in two new areas of Italy, namely Bari and Voghera. The ethiology of this disease is still under discussion, but there are some evidences that the trouble may be considered a nutrient deficiency more than a virus disease.
42872321|L'A. riferisce sui risultati di alcune ricerche condotte allo scopo di determinare il comportamento ereditario del carattere  dimensioni del grumolo  nelle razze di finocchio dolce attualmente coltivate. Tale carattere non  risultato trasmettersi alla discendenza secondo uno schema mendeliano semplice, ma parrebbe regolato da un meccanismo ereditario complesso, molto probabilmente dall'azione comulativa di pi fattori (Polimeria). In base ai risultati ottenuti, l'A. discute i limiti di efficienza della selezione massaie, comunemente adottata per questo ortaggio, e prospetta la necessit di ricorrere ad una selezione genealogica annualmente ripetuta per poter giungere pi rapidamente e con maggior sicurezza all'isolamento di quelle linee pi rispondenti alle caratteristiche richieste da questo ortaggio. The Author refers on the results of some experimental works carried out to determine the ereditary behaviour of the shape of the  grumolo  (that is the edible part of the leaves cluster) of the sweet fennel varieties now cultivated. These characteristics were shown not to be transmissible in a simple mendelian way but appear to be regulated by a complex hereditary mechanism, probably by the combined action of many hereditary factors. On the basis of the results obtained, the A. discusses the limits of the efficiency of the mass selection which is ordinarily adopted for this vegetable, and suggest the use of a genotypical selection annually repeated, to obtain more rapidly and efficiently those lines corresponding to the best characteristics required for this vegetable.
42872326|Sono segnalati danni da anidride solforosa su alcune piante da fiori in serra: Zantedeschia aethiopica Sprengel, Primula obconica Hance, Cyclamen ssp. e Ageratum Houstonianum Mill, e si constata che di esse sono offese pi le foglie che i fiori, contrariamente a quanto si verifica all'aperto. Questo caso speciale  dovuto al fatto che al momento della fumata essendo gli scambi gassosi pi intensi sulle foglie che sugli organi non verdi per il maggior numero degli stomi, in questi era immessa una quantit di anidride solforosa enormemente superiore a quella assorbita dai fiori. Damage in a greenhouse to Zantedeschia aethiopica Sprengel, Primula obconica Hance, Cyclamen spp. and Ageratum Houstonianum Mill, by sulphur dioxide is described. The leaves were severely injured whilst the flowers did not show any trace of damage. This behaviour can be accounted to the fact that the leaves were in full activity at the moment when the gas acted and through the open stomata of the leaves large amount of sulphur dioxide gained entrance.
42872361|La concimazione rappresenta l'aspetto pi controverso della coltivazione dell'asparago, giacch la sperimentazione, quantunque da tempo iniziata, non  ancora giunta a conclusioni precise ed indiscutibili. L'autore ritiene opportuno con la presente nota, riassumere e sottoporre a critica i risultati del lavoro che in questo senso  stato svolto nel mondo in ormai pi di 50 anni. L'engrais reprsente le point le plus dbattu de la culture de l'asperge, car l'exprimentation, bien qu'elle ait t commence depuis longtemps, n'a pas encore atteint des rsultats prcis et indiscutables. Or, par cet ouvrage, l'auteur se propose de rsumer, afin de les soumettre  critique, les conclusions du travail fait partout dans ce champ, au cours de ces cinquante dernires annes. Fertilizing is the most debated problem of asparagus growing, as the experiments, though long-since begun, have not led to any precise and indisputable conclusion. Now the author thinks it advisable to summarize and to submit to a judgement the results of the work that has been done to this purpose all over the world since more than 50 years. Die Dngung ist das am meisten umstrittene Problem des Spargelbaues, denn die Versuche, obwohl schon seit langer Zeit unternommen, haben bisher noch nicht zu genauen unbestreitbaren Schlssen gefhrt. Der Verfasser hlt es fr angebracht, in vorliegender Mitteilung die Ergebnisse der seit mehr als 50 Jahren in diesem Sinne in der ganzen Welt geleisteten Arbeit zusammenzufassen und einer Kritik vorzulegen.
42872362|Storage tests performed during the years 1950, 1951 and 1952 with refrigeration at +3, +5C. and with growth inhibiting treatments, indicate that cold storage is a very satisfactory method to delay sprouting of potatoes and to reduce the weight losses. Treatments with commercial growth-inhibiting substances Barsprout and Depon applied to Bintje tubers stored at + 10 + 20C., proved to be very efficient to inhibit sprouting in potatoes.
42872366|L'A. mette in evidenza i casi di  moria  dei ciliegi e dei peschi che continuano a verificarsi in alcune zone delle provincie di Bologna e di Modena. Conferma che le lesioni, provocate da uno Scolitide Xilofago Scolytus (Ruguloscolytus) rugulosus Mull., provocano flussi gommosi sulle piante e sui rami determinando, dopo alcuni giorni, il deperimento di alcuni organi o di tutta la pianta. The Autor brings to view some cases of cherry and peach trees mortality that happen in certain countries of Bologna and Modena. It is confirmed that the injuries, caused from the Scolytus (Ruguloscolytus) rugulosus Mull., determine gum flowing from the branches and make starveling trees after few days.
42872378|Viene segnalata, per la prima volta in Italia e precisamente nella Riviera Ligure, la comparsa sul garofano dell'Alternaria dianthicola Neerga, parassita che sembra attaccare di preferenza gli elementi dell'infiorescenza. Si descrivono le caratteristiche morfologiche e colturali del fungo, mettendo in rilievo quelle che servono a differenziare nettamente questa specie dall'altra, Alternaria dianthi Stev. and Hall, che pi di frequente si riscontra sul garofano. Per la lotta si ritengono efficaci i trattamenti a base di polisolfuri o di ditiocarbammati da effettuare prima della fioritura. In this paper it is referred that Alternaria dianthicola Neerg., as agent of flower-blight of carnation, as found for the first time in Riviera Ligure, North Italy. The A. describes the morphological and cultural characteristics of the fungus,with special regard of those wich seem apt to distinguish from Alternaria dianthi Stev. and Hall., that is more common on carnation in Italy and elsewhere. Treatments with sulfur-lime and dithiocarbamate before the flowering stage, are suggested for the control of such a disease.
42872395|L'Autore, dopo avere constatata la minore importanza della coltura del pero, nei confronti di quella del melo, sostiene che nelle Vallate Alpine la coltura del pero potrebbe utilmente incrementarsi introducendo razze capaci di dare un maggiore rendimento di quelle attualmente impiegate. All'uopo mette in evidenza l'influenza esercitata sull'estendimento delle principali piante coltivate dalla disponibilit di nuove razze elette. Esamina quindi il contributo degli studiosi di vari paesi alla costituzione di nuove razze di pero, l'apporto dato in passato dai seminatori belgi a quello pi recente degli ibridatori degli Stati Uniti d'America, della Russia e dell'Inghilterra ed infine quella degli Italiani dal Ragionieri, al Pirovano ed al Morettini. Chiude la relazione auspicando che la Regione della Val di Aosta promuova la costituzione di un Osservatorio per lo studio e la soluzione dei problemi inerenti la frutticoltura montana. After having remarked that the pear culture has less importance among the pomefruit trees, the A. puts in evidence that this culture could be increased in the alpine valleis by introducing improved pear varieties. The A. deals with genetical researches performed in the different countries of the world for the breeding of new pear strains, from the Belgian "sowers" to the modern American, Russian, Enghish and Italian hybridizers. The A. concludes wishing that the Region of Aosta Valley constitutes a Centre for the study and the resoluction of the problems of the mountain fructiculture.
42872397|In the research of a new strain of garden rose, the single form of R. Banksiae lutea has been used and the following achievements has been obtained : from the cross : R. chinensis minima var. Peon  R. Banksiae lutea ; about hundred hybrids. A third of these is of dwarf growth like the seed parent ; another third is climbing ; the others are bushy with spreading, arching canes. All the plants have minute, very decorative foliage and white flowers, almost always double in many flowered umbels ; they appear in April ; blossom last about three weeks ; from the inverted cross : R. Banksiae lutea  R. chinensis minima var. Peon : similar results, as for vegetative characters as for feature of flowers and foliage. Blooming period showed a good lasting improvement : more than six weeks : from the cross : R. Banksiae lutea  R. bengalensis : in 1950 three and in 1951 six hybrids, all of climbing growth, and with the reddish, tender wood and foliage of R. bengalensis. Only one of the 1950 hybrids produces blooms in Spring. The double flowers, pinkish when in bud, are pure white when open ; from the cross : R. Banksiae lutea  R. laevigata : five climbing hybrids, very vigorous, with shining, dark green foliage. The plants, when three years old, grave "in April blooms : flowers are single, white, solitary.
42872399|Sono descritti i sintomi di alterazioni causate da freddo su piante di cavolfiore. Questi consistono : macroscopicamente, in un leggero arrotolamento della lamina fogliare accompagnato da una forte increspatura della faccia superiore; microscopicamente, nell'esistenza di ampie vesciche tra l'epidermide inferiore e il mesofillo, e reazione da parte di quest'ultimo con formazione di cellule allungate. The symptoms of troubles caused by cold on cauliflowers are here described. They consist : macroscopically in a little roll of the leaves togheter a marked wrinkle of the upon face ; microcospically in a great blisters between the lower face and the mesophyll, and reaction by this one with production of prolonged cells.
42872406|L'Autore, avendo osservato nell'autunno del 1953 su alcune mele della variet Delicious comune, provenienti da un frutteto veronese, delle alterazioni epidermiche strane ed inconsuete, ha creduto opportuno studiare il caso per identificare l'origine dell'alterazione stessa. Esaminati e descritti dettagliatamente i caratteri morfologici con cui essa si presenta sulle mele e messo in rilievo come tali caratteri si avvicinino a quelli che potrebbe produrre un volatile il quale si fosse posato con le zampe sulla frutta, l'Autore  dopo aver considerato altri possibili agenti  ritiene quale causa probabile, l'azione uncinante delle unghie di un uccello. Having the author observed some strange and unusual signs of probable epidemic on some apples of the common variety Delicious wich came from an orchard in Verona, in Autumn 1953, as it seems to him an interesting case he studied the matter to identify the origin of these signs. He checked and described in detail the morphological conditions with which the signs appear on the apple, and pointed out that the conditions are similar to those which could have been produced by a bird which has perched on the fruit. After having taken into consideration other possible agents, the author came to the opinion that the origin of the abnormity may most likely be put down to the clawing action of a bird's foot.
42873713|The results obtained with the phosphorganic, systemic insecticides of the OMPA (Pestox III and Pestox 66) and Systox types are preliminarly reported. The phytodynamic activity has been tested in laboratory with several methods. With the Lemna test the number of individuals increased, but the average number of fronds for each individual decreased. On terrestrial plants the average dry weight increased, much more with Systox than with Pestox. The insecticidal effect was favorable against 15 members of the Hemiptera order, of which 10 Aphids, and against 2 Red Mites on fruit trees. The best concentration (for spraying) appears to be 0,1-0,2%, for treatment shortly after the petals fall, with 2 (Pome-fruit trees) or 3 (Stone-fruit trees) consecutive treatments. The average lenght of the insecticidal effect in spring is, for Pestox 66, 2-3 (Aphids) or 3-4 (Red Mites) weeks, and for Systox 1-1,5 (Aphids) or 2 (Red Mites) weeks. Long after the end of the evident insecticidal effect, a depression in the subsequent maximal growth of Red Mites population (as related to untreated test) is described; this unusual after-effect is tentatively interpretated ond the base of some slightly toxic residual or by the increase of the total leaf surface for each tree or by both reasons.
42873715|L'auture riferisce i risultati di alcune ricerche condotte sulla biologia fiorale del cardo (Cynara cardunculus L.  altilis DC.). Il meccanismo di antesi e la morfologia fiorale impediscono al polline di raggiungere spontaneamente lo stimma che viene fecondato, nelle condizioni naturali, ad opera degli insetti pronubi.-Questi, sono, molto spesso, responsabili di impollinazioni incrociate che causano frequentemente la degenerazione dellv razze Dopo aver dimostrato i vantaggi della selezione genealogica nei confronti di quella massaie, oggi comunemente adottata, l'autore indica alcune norme pratiche da seguire per il miglioramento genetico della coltura e per la conservazione in purezza delle sementi elette. The A. deals with some observations on the floral biology of the cardoon (Cynara cardunculus L. y altilis DC). After having related about the botanical classification and the floral morphology, the A. examins the mechanism of the anthesis and the pollen presentation, pointing in evidence the large occurrence of the cross pollination in the cardoon strains. On the basis of those researches the A. discusses the mass selection efficiency and suggests some practical rules for the genotypical selection and the seeds production.
42873716|The A. describes one of the most common and sometimes destructive fungus disease on fruits of Banana trees, frequently observed on the Italian market. The fungus, Gloeosporium musarum, has been already reported from Somaliland by other AA. on fruits, flowers and leaves of this tree. The diffuse infection above mentioned may be related also with the recent submersion of the orchards in Somaliland. There are reported some suggestions for the control of the disease, including the disinfection of the fruits after the harvest.
42873718|L'Autore mette in rilievo come i trattamenti invernali con poltiglia bordolese, data nel tardo pomeriggio, possano facilitare sul pesco le alterazioni causate dal freddo. The writer points out that winter treatments by bordeaux mixture, can make more serious the alterations caused by cold weather on peach-trees.
42872422|The Author refers his preliminary researches on the behavour biology and pollination of eggplant. The studies, performed at Florence since 1950, in the Experimental Farm annexed to the Institut of Horticulture, have shown that the eggplant is prevalently autopollinated for a particulare flexion's mechanism of floral peduncles. All the varieties tested are inter-compatible and the presence of some hybrid plants proves the necessity to make, in the production of genuine seed, monovarietal cultures or to isolate the plants chooses for the reproduction.
42872425|L'Autore riferisce sui risultati di uno studio effettuato su 10 variet di mandorlo coltivate in Sicilia nella zona di Canicatt (Agrigento). Per ciascuna variet sono, state rilevate le pi importanti caratteristiche morfofisiologiche. Le variet Cumma e Giardina sono risultate autosterili. Da preferire, per il complesso delle caratteristiche, le variet Insalaca, Sancisuca a guscio semiduro e la Casteltermini a guscio tenero. The Author relates on the results of his studies on 10 varieties of almonds cultivated in Sicily (Canicatt, Agrigento). For every variety he has noted the more important morphophysiological characteristics. The Cumma and Giardina varieties are autosterile. For the totality of the characteristics we must prefer the Insulaca, Sancisuca with the semi-hard shell and the soft-shell Casteltermini variety.
42872426|Reference is made by the Author to some observations on the germination of the pollen of number of vegetables in phisiological solutions.
42873184|L'A. dopo aver rilevato la modesta importanza della coltura delle amarene in Italia e precisato la posizione sistematica di questo fruttifero, mette in evidenza le varie utilizzazioni industriali a cui si presta il frutto di questa drupacea. Descrive quindi una razza selezionata fra i vari tipi di amarena coltivate nella provincia di Ghieti, che denomina  Amarena di Pescara  la quale possiede ottime caratteristiche colturali e produce un frutto molto pregevole, particolarmente adatto per la sua utilizzazione industriale. Conclude esponendo le principali norme da osservare nell'impianto e conduzione di un amareneto industriale. After having put in evidence the limited importance of the sour cherry culture in Italy, the A. indicates the systematic classification of this stone-fruit tree and describes the various commercial utilization of his fruits. An improved variety, selected among the different seedlings grown in the Pescara county, is described; this variety, called  Amarena di Pescara  has shown excellent commercial characters and produces estimable fruits particularly suitable for the industrial utilization. The A. concludes pointing in evidence the most important rules for the establishment of the sour cherry commercial orchards.
42873186|Viene illustrato un metodo per la rapida determinazione della quantit di polline prodotto dalle piante da frutto. I controlli eseguiti su alcune razze di vite, pesco, ciliegio, susino e melo hanno dimostrato l'attendibilit dei risultati ottenibili con questa tecnica. The Author describes a rapid method for evaluating the pollen production of some fruit species and variets, with the aid of a haemacytometer. Experiments performed of on some vine, peach, plum, apple and cherry varieties have proved that this method gives satisfactory results.
42873192|Gli A. A. in prove effettuate in pieno campo hanno ottenuto il controllo delle principali infestazioni negli agrumi mediante l'impiego di alfe dosi (0,4% - 0,5%) di esteri fosforici a base di parathion. Durante queste prove  stata constatata l'assenza di fenomeni di fitotossicit (cascola, clorosi, bruciature ecc.), la limitata persistenza dell'azione tossica contro gli insetti utili (predatori coccinellidi) e la prolungata protezione delle piante contro l'attacco delle formiche.
42872465|Il presente riassunto  la traduzione libera  cio pi aderente allo spirito che alla lettera  del  Summary of the International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants , quale  stato pubblicato da The Royal Horticultural Society di Londra (pag. 1-29, 1953). Il testo completo del Codice contiene articoli pi ampi e dettagliati, numerose note esplicative e ulteriori esempi. Questo Codice  stato preparato dal Comitato per la Nomenclatura delle Piante Coltivate del Congresso Botanico Internazionale e dal Comitato Internazionale per la Nomenclatura Orticola e Registrazione, in cooperazione e sotto gli auspici del Settimo Congresso Botanico Internazionale (Stoccolma, 1950) e dal Tredicesimo Congresso Internazionale d'Orticultura (Londra, 1952).  augurabile che gli studiosi d'orticoltura ed altri si sforzino di seguire il Codice, le cui provvidenze sono in esperimento sino al prossimo Congresso Internazionale d'Orticultura, nel quale potranno essere modificate, se del caso. Gli articoli del sommario seguente sono numerati in corrispondenza con quelli del Codice integrale. Alla traduzione del Riassunto del Codice, il traduttore ha fatto seguire qualche nota esplicativa, se  parsa utile ad una migliore comprensione del testo. Ci malgrado, la lettura e la meditazione del testo integrale del Codice  vivamente raccomandata per coloro che avranno frequente occasione di applicarne le norme.
42872468|Si descrivono le caratteristiche della coltura del fico nella provincia di Firenze ed in particolare nella zona del Montalbano dove essa assume una maggiore importanza per l'eutit della produzione che raggiunge il 50% circa di quella dell'intera provincia. Si indicano i criteri per la scelta delle razze pi pregevoli, tra quelle individuate e descritte, e le modifiche da apportare alla tecnica colturale ed alle operazioni relative alla presentazione del prodotto in modo da migliorare le attuali condizioni della coltura. Researches have been performed on the fig culture in the Florence province, with special reference to the Montalbano county, where the fig production reaches the 50% of the whole province production. The fig varieties and the cultural practices are described. The author concludes with some practical suggestions upon the choice of the most profitable strains and the improvement of their production.
42872471|The A., after having briefly illustrated the ambiental characteristics, goes to describe the evolution and the actual situation if the cultivation of the pear and apple trees in the Alta Valsugana. Then, exhaminated the peasant property of that zone in ist social and economical sights, puts in evidence, sasing on administration budgets, the primary importance of the fruit-growing on the income of the valley farms.
42872486|L'autore dopo avere brevemente esposto il comportamento delle dodici nuove razze di pesco, rese note in passato, in base alle risultanze emerse dalla loro coltivazione nei frutteti industriali delle principali zone peschicole italiane, illustra due altre nuove razze e cio la Precocissima Morettini, selezionata dalla popolazione di piante di seme provenienti dall'incrocio della Chilon con la Fior di Maggio, e la Gialla di Firenze derivata dall'incrocio della Free Jellow con la Trionfo. La prima a polpa bianca matura nella prima decade di Giugno con la Fior di Maggio; la secnda a polpa gialla spicca, matura a Firenze nell seconda quindicina di Luglio. The A. breafly refers about the behaviour of his twelve new peach varieties cultivated in the most important for the peach culture Italian counties. Afterwards the A. describes two other new varieties: Precocissima Morettini (Chilon  Mayflower) and Gialla di Firenze (Free Jellow  Trionfo). The fruits of the first variety have a white flesh and ripen in the first ten days of June, at the same time of Mayflower; the fruits of the second new variety have cling stome and jellow flesh and ripen in the secondo part of July.
42872488|L'A. descrive un nuovo tipo di innesto che  adottato gi diffusamente in alcuni centri vivaistici. Vengono riferiti i risultati di alcune indagini sul processo istogenetico di saldatura dei due bionti ed i risultati delle osservazioni condotte sui principali aspetti tecnici del nuovo innesto. The A. describes a new graft method largely adopted in some nurseries. The results of reserches carried out on the histogenetic process of graft-union are reported. Thereafter, the. A. refers about the observations on the most important technical characteristics of the new graft method.
42872491|Si riferisce intorno alle ricerche condotte sulla disaffinit d'innesto del pero Kaiser su cotogno. Dopo aver descritto le manifestazioni di tale incompatibilit, consistenti essenzialmente in uno sviluppo estremamente ridotto fino a risolversi spesso nella morte delle giovani piantine, l'autore espone i risultati delle ricerche anatomiche condotte per accertare la presenza di eventuali anomalie istologiche nella zona di congiunzione dei due bionti. In base a tali ricerche e ad alcune prove sullo spostamento della linfa dal soggetto all'oggetto, si conclude mettendo in evidenza che il caso di disaffinit d'innesto esaminato non dipende da cause anatomiche, e si consiglia il sovrinnesto sulle razze Curato e B. Hardy quando si desiderino piante di uniforme sviluppo e di pi precoce messa a frutto. Researches have been carried on the incompatibility between the Kaiser pear variety and the quince rootstock. The Kaiser trees budded or grafted on this stock, give a very poor growth, produce small branches and little leaves and sometimes die even in the first year. Microscopical observations showed that the bud and the graft union occurs normally. No anatomical discontinuity between scion and stock has been detected. A normal flow of a colored solution has been observed through the point of union. The A. concludes that the incompatibility of Kaiser pear on quince stock cannot be ascribed to anatomical abnormalities but probably it depends from other physiological factors. In view to mantein the quince rootstock a double-work of Kaiser on B. Hardy or Curato is suggested.
42872495|The A. studies some technical, economic and social aspects of the horticulture which in the last fifty years has spread over the lowland area traversed by the rivers Arno and Serchio. It has found incentive in the exportation of products to Central Europe. Its effects have been, principally, the splitting up of landed property and the formation of operatingownership, which has brought a growing density of population. Particular attention is given to the course of the marketing of products over a period which goes from about the end of last century down the present day.
42872523|L'Autore, dopo aver trattato l'importanza della produzione della frutta secca e da essicare, specie nei riguardi delle Regioni meridionali e delle Isole, espone le principali norme per la coltivazione industriale dei rispettivi fruttiferi. S'intrattiene quindi sulla possibilit di estendere la coltura dei vitigni e dei susini per produrre uve e prugne secche. Al fine poi di sollecitare il miglioramento e l'incremento di queste colture e le relative industrie, l'Autore sostiene che sia necessario il concorso degli Enti statali sia per la costituzione di Aziende frutticole specializzate, sia per la costituzione dei relativi frutteti industriali e cos per la organizzazione delle istituzioni adatte alla ricerca scientifica. Aprs avoir trait de l'importance de la production des fruits secs et schs,  l'gard surtout des rgions mridionales et insulaires de l'Italie, l'Auteur expose les rgles principales  suivre pour la cultivation industrielle de ces arbres fruitiers. Il s'arrte  considrer la possibilit de developper la cultivation des raisins  schage et des pruniers  pruneaux. Afin de provoquer l'amlioration et l'intensification de ces cultures et des relatives industries, l'Auteur affirme la ncessit de la cooperation entre les diffrents Organismes de l'Etat soit pour la constitution de Fermes frutires spcialises, soit pour la constitution des vergers industriels et pour l'organisation des Institutions de la rechrche scientifique. After having pointed out the importance of the dried fruits production, with special reference to the southern countries and the isles, the Author relates about the most important cultural problems and the possibility to extend the culture of prunes and grapes for driyng. In view to obtain an effective improvement of those cultures and the related industries development, the Author points out the necessity to obtein the help of the Gouvernement's Institutions for the extablischement of specialized orchards so as the organisation of the reserch works.
42872524|Dopo aver tracciato un quadro sulle origini della coltura dell'albicocco in California, l'autore considera l'entit della produzione e dell'esportazione, si intrattiene sull'esame dell'ambiente di coltura, della protezione contro le brine, dei portinnesti, delle modalit d'impianto, delle cure colturali, delle colture consociate, delle irrigazioni, delle variet, della raccolta, dell'essiccazione e dell'iscatolamento delle albicocche. After a brief historical outline of apricot growing in California the Author deals with the production and exportation of fresh, dried and canned fruits. The Author describes in detail the methods that have been used successfully to raise apricots in California. Particular attention is called to the producing areas, climatic requirements, soils, water supply, frost protection, rootstocks, cultivation, covercrops, irrigation, choice of varieties, harvesting, and information on good practices in the canning and drying of fruit.
42872527|L'autore riferisce i risultati di un metodo rapido, che permette di determinare la vitalit del polline dalla colorazione che i granuli assumono dopo breve permanenza in soluzione di biselenito sodico al 2%. Prove comparative di germinazione effettuate con polline di fruttiferi hanno messo in evidenza, notevole concordanza fra percentuale dei granuli colorati e dei granuli germinati. L'autore conclude considerando l'opportunit che il metodo sia perfezionato per i notevoli vantaggi di rapidit e speditezza. The author reports the results of a rapid method which permits to determine the vitality of pollen by the colouring of the grains after a short permanency in a solution of natrium biselenosum 2%. Comparative proofs of germination made with pollen of fruitful plants have rendered evident a conspiciuous concordance between the percentage of coloured grains and germinated ones. The author concludes considering the opportunity of improving the method for its remarkable advantages of rapidity and readiness.
42872530|Vengono descritte alcune alterazioni di foglie di susino Shiro e cotogno di probabile natura virosica. Per l'aspetto delle alterazioni e per le condizioni ambientali verificatisi al momento della fogliazione, si pensa che per il susino si tratti della virosi conosciuta in lingua inglese come  line pattern . Some viruslike symptoms on leaves of Shiro plum and quince are described. The characters of the alterations and environmental conditions of the last spring suggest that the former is to be considered as affected by  line pattern  virosis.
42873206|Following the various experiments carried out during a number of years with the root systems of peach trees in the neighbourhood of Florence, described by the author in 1941, the research was extended to orchards of the Ferrara and Forli districts. In this way not only were some important results confirmed, but others were obtained with the spread and penetrationt in depth of root systems under clean cultivation, in cropping and sod. The cultivation of lucerne under the trees was found to have definite ill effects, causing poor aeration of the soil and competition, specially for water, which forces the roots of the peach trees to develop superficially, and therefore to suffer damage and amputation during winter ploughing. The importance of tillage and manuring of the soil was very clearly shown, in negative contrast with sod soil and the competition of self sown grass. Even in non-transplanted trees the tap roots disappear, being substituted by large roots developing obliquely down into the soil. Generally the majority of the roots are found in depths of from 25 to 100 cms. where conditions are most suited to them. Particulars concerning apple, pear, peach and cherry trees were published by the author in the  Report of the Thirteenth International Horticultural Congress, 1952.
42873208|L'A. dopo aver brevemente trattato della sistematica del pisello (Pisum sativum, L.) e dell'origine della coltura, riferisce sulla germinazione del polline, l'influenza dei fattori climatici, la biologia fiorale e su prove di impollinazione incrociata tra variet coltivate e il P. arvense, L. (Robiglio). Conclude ponendo in evidenza la necessit di tener in debito conto questi fattori per una pi razionale coltivazione del pisello e per la conservazione in purezza delle razze in coltura. The Author after having shortly related about the botanical classification and the origin of Pea, refers on pollen germination, climatic influence and pollination whom reputes important for the rational pea culture and the production of genuine seed.
42873249|L'A. premette che le brinate tardive, distruggendo i fiori ed i giovani frutti, costituiscono le cause che pi di frequente dannegglano la coltura del pesco in Italia. Le basse temperature invernali in alcuni territori posti verso il limite Nord ed altimetrico della coltura solo in alcune annate determinano la necrosi delle gemme. Nel Vogherese, nel decorso rigido inverno, una temperatura minima di  17C. ha determinato danni pi o meno gravi nelle gemme delle variet ivi coltivate. Il rilievo delle gemme necrosate ha messo in evidenza il differente comportamentodelle variet e permesso la loro distinzione in quattro gruppi, cio delle molto resistenti, delle resistenti, delle mediocremente resistenti e delle scarsamente resistenti. The Author points in evidence that in Italy the spring frost frequently damages the flowers and the young fruits of the peach trees. The winter low temperatures in some northern countries not always produce the death of the flower buds. In the Voghera county, during the past cold winter, a low temperature of 17C. produced even strong damages on the flower buds of the peach varieties there cultivated. Observation have put in evidence the different behaviour of those varieties in relation to the winter low temperatures. The A. classifies the varieties as follows:  very resistent ,  resistent ,  fair resistent  and  very fair resistent .
42873252|L'Autore riferisce sui caratteri di una variet di mandarino coltivata in una ristretta zona della Conca d'Oro, nel palermitano. Detta variet comunemente denominata Tardivo di Ciaculli, dalla localit omonima dove sono stati riscontrati i primi esemplari, or sono una trentina di anni addietro, presenta alcuni caratteri nettamente diversi di quelli della variet Avana, dalla quale presumibilmente ha avuto origine per mutazione gemmaria. La differenza pi evidente consiste nella tardiva maturazione dei frutti che avviene in febbraio-marzo e nella migliore qualit dei frutti. La variet  ritenuta eccellente e se ne consiglia la diffusione nelle zone ad inverno mite. L'A. rfre sur les caractres d'une variet de mandarinier cultive dans une troite zone de la Conca d'Oro, dans le palermitain. Cette variet, gnralment nomme Tardivo di Ciaculli, d'aprs la localit homonyme o on a rencontr, il y a une trentaine d'annes, les premiers exemplaires, presente quelques caractres nettement diffrents de ceux de la variet Avana de laquelle on prsume qu'elle ait eu origine par mutation de burgeons. La diffrence la plus vidente est reprsente par la maturation tardive des fruits, qui a lieu entre fvrier-mars, et par la meilleure qualit des fruits. Cette variet est juge excellente et on conseille sa diffusion dans les zones  hiver doux. The Auctor deals on the peculiarities of a variety of mandarin grown in limited district of the Conca d'Oro, in the Palermo area. This variety, commonly called  Tardivo di Ciaculli , from the name of the district where the first exemplars have been ground about thirty years ago, shows some peculiarities clearly different from those of the  Avana  variety, from which probability it has had origin for bud-mutation. The most evident difference consists in the late maturation of the fruits which takes place in february-march, and in the fact that the quality of fruits is better. The variety is thought excellent and its diffusion is advised in the areas with a mild winter.
42872588|Dopo aver fissato i limiti di convenienza per la disinfezione e la protezione delle ferite di potatura nelle piante arboree da frutto, l'Autore illustra brevemente il meccanismo di cicatrizzazione ed esamina i risultati delle principali indagini condotte fino ad oggi per individuare i mezzi terapeutici pi idonei. L'Autore riferisce inoltre sulle personali ricerche, condotte per un quinquennio presso l'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit di Firenze, sul pesco e sul pero, studiando comparativamente alcuni prodotti e cio il minio (ossido di piombo-olio di lino) il solfato di ferro in soluzione acquosa al 10%, il silicato di sodio, un mastice di bitume, amianto e creosoto ed un prodotto commerciale per ferite (Proxyl). Da tali esperienze  emerso che il solfato di ferro  dannoso per le ferite, il silicato di sodio  poco persistente, il minio ed il mastice bituminoso assicurano una prolungata protezione delle superfici di taglio mentre il Proxyl unisce a questo vantaggio anche quello di stimolare la formazione del callo cicatriziale. Aprs avoir indiqu les cas dans les quels il est convenable de dsinfecter et de protger les plaies d'lagage chez les arbres fruitiers, l'A. dcrit la formation du bourrelet cicatriciel et rsume les plus significatifs rsultats des tudes accomplies pour l'identification des meilleurs traitements thrapeutiques des blessures des vgtaux ligneux. L'A. expose, ensuite, les recherches qui'il a poursuivi, pendant cinq annes chez l'Institut d'Arboricolture Fruitire de l'Universit de Florence, sur le poirier et le pcher, en dtermiant les effects expliqus sur le blessures par: 1) le minium; 2) une soluction au 10% de sulfate de fer; 3) le silicate de sodium; 4) une mlange de bitume, amiante et crosote; 5) un mastic commercici pour blessures (Proxyl). Les essais ont dmontr que: le sulfate de fer est nuisible pour les blessures, le silicate de sodium prsente une trs faible persistence, tandis que le minium, la mlange bitumeamiante-crosote et le Proxyl assurent une convenable protection des plaies. Le Proxyl a dmontr aussi de provoquer une plus rapide formation du bourrelet cicatriciel. In this paper the A. deals with the problem of the pruning wound treatment in the fruit trees. The limits of this practice are discussed. The mechanism of the pruning wounds healing is then breafly illustrated and the results of the most important researches, till now performed on this subject, are summarized. Thereafter the A. refers about his experiments, carried out during five years at the Horticultural Institution of the University of Florence, on the pruning wound treatment in the pear and the peach tree. The following substances have been tested: 1. iron sulphate 10%; 2. minium (red lead-linseed oil); water glass (sodium silicate); 4. a black, viscous, paint containing bitumen, asbestos and creosote; 5. a commercial protective dressing for tree wounds (Proxyl). The experiments have shown that: 1. Iron sulphate 10% is seriously injurious to the exposed living tissues of bark, cambium and sap wood; 2. Water glass is not sufficiently persistant on the cut surface; 3. Minium, bitumeri-asbestos-creosote mixture and Proxyl are durable under all condition of exposure mantaining a permanent and continuous surface wich prevents the wood craking and protects the exposed tissues from fungi, bacteria and insects. 4. Proxyl stimulates also the healing of the wounds. Der Verfasser erlutert die Wirtschaftlichkeit der Wundenpflege bei den Obstbumen und beschreibt eingehend den Vorgang des Heilungsprozesses und die Ergebnisse der bisher durchgefhrten Versuche zur Ermittlung geeigneter Wundenschutz-u.-heilmittel. Der Verfasser berichtet ber seine eigenen fnfjhrigen Versuche, die beim Institut fr Obstbau der Universitt Florenz bei Birn-u. - Pfirsichbumen durchgefhrt wurden. Es wurden folgende Mittel einem Vergleich unterzogen: Minium (Mennige), Eisenvitriol in 10/iger Lsung, Natriumsilikat, eine Wundsalbe hergestellt aus Bitumen, Amiant und Kreosot, sowie ein Spezialprparat fr Wundenpflege (Proxyl). Diese Versuche haben gezeigt, dass Eisenvitriol fr die Wunden schdlich ist, Natriumsilikat eine zu kurze Wirkung hat, Minium und die Bitumensalbe einen sehr lagen Wundenschutz ergeben, whrend Proxyl, ausser einer reinen Schutzwirkung, auch die Bildung von Wundkallus frdert.
42872590|Gli autori riferiscono brevemente su di un viaggio attraverso i frutteti della Liguria, Lombardia e Veneto per esaminare alcune malattie da virus o virus-simili e da carenze nutrizionali. Short report on a trip for the supervision of some virus and virus-like diseases on orchards of Liguria, Lombardia and Veneto, including a few deficiency diseases.
42872591|Premesse alcune sintetiche considerazioni sullo stato attuale della coltura del Nespolo del Giappone (Eriobotrya Japonica Lindl.) in Provincia di Palermo (Sicilia), l'Autore mette in evidenza i problemi che la coltura stessa presenta e descrive i pi importanti caratteri morfofisiologici di 16 variet. Di queste, in ordine di importanza, sono state giudicate migliori le seguenti: Nespolone di Trabia, Nespolone Marcheto, Nespolone rosso, Nespolone gigante bianco, Nespolo pelosella, Nespolone di Ficarazzi e Nespolone rosa tardivo. Aprs quelques brieves considrations sur l'tat actuel de la culture du Nflier du Japon (Eriobotrya Japonica Lindl) dans la province de, Palerme (Sicile), l'Auteur met en vidence les problmes que cette culture prsente et dscrit les caractres morphophisiologiques les plus importants de 16 varits. Selon leur importance, les varits suivantes ont t juges les meilleures: Nflier de Trabia, Nflier Marchetto, Nflier rouge, Nflier gant blanc, Nflier pelosella, Nflier de Ficarazzi, et Nflier rose tardif. After having made some brief remarks on the presente status of the cultivation of the Japonese medlar-tree (Eriobotrya Japonica Lindl.) in the province of Palermo (Sicily), the Author points out the problems which arise from this culture and describes the most important morphological and physiological characters of 16 varieties. It his been determined that, in order they are listed, the best varieties are the following: Trabia, Marchetto, Red, Big white, Pelosella, Ficarazzi and Rosy tardy medlar.
42872593|Vengono descritti gravi attacchi di  mosaico  del fico, probabilmente favoriti dalle basse temperature verificatesi nella decorsa primavera. The A. describes a heavy outbreak of mosaic of the fig, probably related to the low temperatures of the past spring.
42872613|A cominciare dal 1945 furono eseguite delle prove di confronto tra il sistema di piantagione dei peschi con i selvatici innestati a dimora e quello che utilizza i selvatici innestati a gemma dormiente, allo scopo di stabilire quale dei due fosse pi favorevole allo sviluppo e alla frutticazione. Le piante innestate a gemma dormiente ebbero un pi lento sviluppo iniziale, ma in seguito si produsse un pi forte incremento vegetativo, sicch all'8 anno d'impianto praticamente non v'era pi alcuna differenza di vigore rispetto a quello raggiunto dai peschi innestati a dimora. Nella fruttificazione si verific lo stesso andamento e difatti all'inizio si ebbe una maggiore produzione unitaria a favore delle piante innestate a dimora, ma successivamente le differenze si ridussero, fino ad annullarsi all' 8 anno d'impianto. A' partir du 1945 on a fait des essais de comparaison entre le systme de plantation de pchers avec des sauvages greffs sur place et celui qui utilise les sauvages grffs  oeil dormant au but d'tablir lequel des deux systmes est plus favorable au dveloppement et  la fructification. Les plantes greffs  oeil dormant eurent un plus faible dveloppement initiale mais ensuite leur dveloppement fut vigoureux  tel point que  la huitime anne de plantation il n'y avait plus aucune diffrence de vigueur en comparaison de celui qui avaient atteint les pchers greffs sur place. Dans la fructification se vrifia le mme: en effet au commencement on a eu une plus forte production moyenne unitaire sur les plantes greffes sur place, mais ensuite les diffrences se rduirent jusqu' disparaitre  la huitime anne de la plantation. Starting from 1945 tests on peaches were carried out, in order to compare the effect of grafting on planted stocks or planting out dormant buds. Planting out dormant buds gave initially slow developing plants; nevertheless these individuals had later a stronger vegetative increasing, so that at the 8th year no difference from the others could be seen. Fruitfulness showed a similar behaviour: plants from grafting on planted stocks yielded more, but later no yeld difference could be ascertained comparatively with plants obtained planting out dormant buds.
42872616|Viene esaminata una particolare reazione che piante di ciliegio hanno manifestato in seguito a estesi traumi, interni al fusto, provocati da abbassamenti di temperatura avvenuti all'inizio della vegetazione. The A. describes a particular reaction showed by the cherry-tree following large internal wounds caused by frost.
42872617|L'A. dopo aver accennato alla diffusione ed alle origini del Morus nigra L. nonch alla importanza della coltura in Sicilia, tratta della sistematica e delle caratteristiche della specie e riferisce quanto  stato osservato in esperienze condotte sulla germinazione del polline e sulla biologia fiorale durante le annate 1953-54. The A. after having shortly refered about the origin, the history of the Morus nigra L. and the importance of his cultivation in Sicily, deals with botanical classification of this species and refers to tests carried out on pollen germination and flower biology during the years 1953-54.
42872620|Sono state eseguite prove di concimazione localizzata all'asparago, impiegando nitrato di sodio e solfato ammonico; da esse  risultato che, per il raccolto del primo triennio di produzione, la pi opportuna modalit di distribuzione  quella di spargere il nitrato di sodio in maniera da circondare il piede della pianta, a circa 15 cm. dagli steli pi esterni. Localized fertilizing tests have been carried out with asparagus plants by using sodium nitrate and ammonium sulphate. It was ascertained that for the yield of the first three years the most suitable way of distributing the fertilizer is to spread the sodium nitrate all round the plant at about 6" from the outside stems. On a effectu des essais de fertilisation localise  l'asperge, en employant du nitrate de soude et du sulfate d'ammoniac. On a pu constater que pour la rcolte des trois premires annes, la faon la plus opportune de distribuer les engrais est celle de rpandre le nitrate de soude tout autour de la plante,  la distance d'environ 15 centimtres des tiges les plus externes. Es wurden lokalisierte Duengungsuntersuchungen fuer Spargel durchgefuehrt, wobei man Sodiumnitrat und Ammoniumsulfat anwandte; dabei ergab sich, fuer die Ernte des ersten Trienniums, dass die zweckmaessigste Verteilungsweise jene ist, das Sodiumnitrat am Fusse des Pflanze in einem Umkreis im Abstand von 15 cm. von den aeussersten Stengel zu streuen.
42872662|Sulla base di dati d'ordine generale e specifici per ognuna delle tre specie, viene criticata l'attribuzione del Casella all'ananas, al mango ed all'annona squamosa di raffigurazioni di frutti in dipinti pompeiani. A recently published paper of Casella attributed to pineapple, mango and Anona squamosa fruits some mural paintings of Pompei (town destroyed by the Vesuvius, 79 b. C.). General historical and mor specific reasons against this view are discussed.
42872663|L'Autore espone i risultati di alcune osservazioni, condotte durante le annate 1954 e 1955, su 15 cultivar di pisello, coltivate presso il Centro Miglioramento Piante Ortofrutticole del Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche. Dopo avere descritti gli scopi del lavoro ed illustrato il metodo d'indagine adottato, descrive, per ciascuna cultivar, i caratteri morfologici, biologici, agronomici e tecnologici, che presentano una particolare importanza dal punto di vista pratico per l'incremento e il miglioramento della produzione. In this paper the following fifteen pea cultivars are described:  Zwaan's Aurora ,  25 EZK ,  Serpette vert de Malines ,  Hundredfold ,  Alderman ,  Nano ,  Seminano I ,  Seminano II ,  Rampicante ,  Tardivo di Motta ,  Nano Provenzale ,  Nano di Annonay ,  Meraviglia di Kelvedon ,  Baccellone  and  Prince Albert . After having illustrated the aims of the work and the method of research, the Author describes the most important morphological, biological, agronomical and technological characteristics of those cultivars.
42872666|L'A. mette in evidenza come la  disaffinit , termine con il quale si suole genericamente esprimere l'incapacit di alcune piante innestate a funzionare come individui unici, possa essere determinata da cause talvolta diverse. Egli chiarisce come nelle piante arboree da frutto possano distinguersi tipi differenti di disaffinit e si sofferma ad illustrarne tre di fondamentale importanza: 1) quella superabile con il sovrinnesto, ossia mediante l'interposizione fra nesto e soggetto di un terzo bionte (intermediario) reciprocamente affine; 2) quella non superabile anche mediante il sovrinnesto; 3) quella indotta proprio dalla aggiunta di un terzo bionte, anche se reciprocamente affine con ciascuno degli altri due. The A. points out as the  incompatibility , term generally adopted to denote the inability of grafted plants to function as a unit, may depend upon a variety of causes. He makes clear as in the fruit trees one may distinguish several types of incompatibility and he describes three of these of great pratical importance in the doubleworking tecnique: 1) incompatibility that is possible to overcome by the doubleworking tecnique, inserting between scion and rootstock an intermediate variety receprocally compatible; 2) incompatibility that is not possible to overcome by the doubleworking tecnique; 3) incompatibility induced just by the addition of another scion.
42872668|Richiamandosi ai rapporti che intercorrono fra le piante ed il normale terreno di coltura l'A. espone alcune considerazioni che giustificano la concezione di un substrato unico per tutte le piante, considerazioni che hanno ispirato il Prof. Fruhstorfer alla realizzazione della  Terra Universale . Riferisce che i requisiti fondamentali  i quali sono dovuti ai caratteri dei costituenti ed alla speciale lavorazione  si compendiano nella struttura, asetticit, razionale dotazione di sali nutritivi. Quindi ne illustra la rispondenza ai fini della coltivazione delle piante in vaso. Conclude infine ponendo in evidenza i vantaggi derivanti dall'impiego della  Terra Universale  ed auspicando che questa possa diffondersi rapidamente anche in Italia, nell'interesse della Tecnica e della Economia Orticola. With reference to the relationship between plants and normal soil, the author puts forward considerations which justify the adoption of a substratum for all the plants. Those considerations inspired Prof. Fruhstorfer to produce his  Universal Soil . The author mentions that the basic specifications  due to the performance of the components and the particular manufacturing process  can be summarised as follows: structure; aseptioness; rational allotment of nutritional salts. He then illustrates the efficiency of the universal soil in growing potted plants. Finally he closes emphasizing the universal soil's advantages and expressing the hope that its use may rapidly spread also in Italy, in the interest of horticultural technique and economy. Bezugnehmend auf die wechselseitigen Bebiehungen zwischen den Pflanzen und der normalen Kulturerde, will der Autor dieser Zellen einige seiner Betrachtungen mitteilen, die den Begriff eines einzigen Substrates fuer alle Pflanzen rechtfertigt, Betrachtungen, die Herrn Prof. Fruhstorfer zur Erfindung und zur Vewirklichung der Einheitserde gefuehrt haben. Grundlegende Requisten, die den Eigenshaften der Bestandteile zu verdanken sind, sowie ihrer speziellen Verarbeitung. Sie ergeben sich aus der Struktur, das Material ist voellig aseptisch, und siezeigen sich in der hoechst razionellen Dosierung der Naehrsalze. Schliesslich beshreibt er die Auswirkungen hinsichtlich der Kultur von Topfpflanzen. Abschliessend hebt er alle Vorteile hervor, die sich aus der Anwendung der Einheitserde ergeben und gibt seiner Hoffnung Ausdruck, dass diese Einheitserde sich auch schnellstens in Italien durchsetzen moege im Interesse und zum Nutzen der Ekonomie und Technik im Cartenbau.
42872670|I risultati di innesti eseguiti su susino cv.  Shiro  (Prunus salicina Lindl.) e piantine da seme di Ciliegio (Cerasus avium Moench.), Mirabolano (Prunus cerasifera L.) e Pesco (Persica vulgaris Mill.) confermano che la malattia riscontrata nell'estate del 1954 dall'Autore su due piante di  Shiro   una virosi. Essa induce sugli individui colpiti sintomi identici a quelli descritti in inglese come  line pattern  (maculatura lineare). The Author refers on the results of some budding experiments made on the Shiro Plum (Prunus salicina Lindl.) and the seedling of Sour cherry (Cerasus avium Moench), Myrobalan Plum (Prunus cerasifera L.) and Peach tree (Persica vulgaris Mill.) with buds from two plants of  Shiro  that showed in 1954 some viruslike symptoms. The results were positive and confirmed that we are dealing with "line pattern" virosis.
42872637|Si passano in rassegna le principali specie ortive della Cina centro-meridionale occidentale, con qualche notizia di ordine sistematico e nomenclatoriale. Si descrivono alcune forme e variet di piante coltivate e vengono proposte alcune nuove combinazioni. A few notices on a number of horticultural species cultivated in the Chinese, continental territory (Central-meridional, western China) are collected, together with the description (also in latin language) of a few forms and varieties. A number of new combinations are proposed.
42872639|Riferendosi a numerosi rilievi compiuti nei terreni coltivati a frutteto del Ferrarese e ricollegandosi ad osservazioni condotte sui materiali depositati nel Polesine dall'alluvione del 1951, l'. prende in esame l'andamento ondulato che possono assumere talvolta gli strati alluvionali s da costituire, nel suolo, dei veri e propri  catini  a pareti impermeabili. Rileva il pericolo che tali  catini  possono rappresentare per le colture agrarie e particolarmente per le piante da frutto, determinendo ristagni d'acqua e quindi fenomeni di asfissia. Ricollega alcune manifestazioni di sofferenza settoriale, presentate da piante di melo a seguito dell'alluvione del Reno del 1951, alla probabile influenza dell'andamento degli strati del suolo, e particolarmente alla presenza di piccoli  catini  impermeabili nei quali solo poche radici di una pianta possono essersi trovate in condizioni asfttiche.
42874834|Vengono riferiti i risultati di alcune analisi eseguite sul succo di limoni, dall'inizio alla fine della maturazione. Sono stati presi in considerazione i frutti invernali di due cultivar: la Femminello e la Lo Porto; la prima  la pi diffusa in Sicilia, mentre la seconda  di recente individuazione.  stata riscontrata un'acidit libera massima dell'8,1% nel limone Femminello e del 7,2% nel limone Lo Porto. Sono anche riportati i dati relativi alla percentuale di ac. citrico e degli zuccheri riduttori nonch il grado refrattometrico. On rapporte les rsultats, de quelques analyses effectues sur le jus de citrons depuis le dbut jusqu' la complte maturit des fruits. Les fruits d'hiver appartenants aux deux cultivars : Femminello et Lo Porto, ont t pris en considration. La premiere cultivar est la plus rpandue en Sicile, tandis que la second  t douverte dpuis peu de temps seulement. Il a t observ un maximum d'acidit de 8,1% dans le citron Femminello et de 7,2% dans le citron Lo Porto. Le donnes relatives au pourcentage d'acide citrique et des sucres rducteurs, de mme que le degr refractomtrique, sont galement indiqus. The Authors relate about the results of some analysis performed with the lemon juice from the beginning to the end of the fruits ripening. The winter fruits of two cultivars  Femminello and LoPorto   were examinated : the former cultivar is the most widespread in Sicily, while the latter has been recently discovered. A maximum free acidity of 8,1% was noticed in the Femminello lemon and 7,2% in the Lo Porto lemon. The data relative to the percentage of citric acid and reducing sugars as well as the refractometric degree are also reported.
42874835|L'A. dopo aver trattato della importanza della coltura del Pecan negli U.S.A. e della sua diffusione nel mondo, riporta le ricerche condotte in Sicilia sulla biologia della specie, con indagini sulla auto ed intercompatibilit delle variet. Infine dopo un breve accenno alle pratiche colturali, l'A. auspica un incremento della coltura, tenendo conto delle caratteristiche e dell'adattamento della specie. The Author gives short informations on the importance of the Pecan growing in the U.S.A. and reviews what is known on the world situation of this species. Tre results are reported of examinations and test carried on in Sicily during the spring of 1953 and 1954, on the flover biology of the Pecan tree. At the end the Author auspicates that Pecan growing be increased and that, in order to make this possible, a good knowledge be intended on the adaptability and on the biology requirements of species.
42872689|L'Autore riferisce sui risultati di una indagine condotta fino dal 1949 su dodici cultivar di ciliegio individuate nella provincia di Firenze. Dopo l'esposizione di alcune considerazioni sugli ordinamenti e le caratteristiche dell'arboricoltura di questa provincia, vengono illustrate e discusse le ricerche storico-bibliografiche condotte sulle probabili origini delle cultivar individuate e quelle relative alla loro biologia fiorale (fenologia, germinabilit del polline, impollinazione, naturale ed agenti pronubi, auto- ed inter-incompatibilit, ricerca degli impollinatori), alcune delle quali presentano una particolare importanza sia dal punto di vista tassonomico che da quello pratico, ai fini dell'incremento produttivo. Nella seconda parte l'Autore descrive ciascuna cultivar, sulla base di una scheda pomologia redatta tenendo conto di tutti i principali caratteri, nono soltanto morfologici, ma anche biologici ed agronomici. In this paper the following twelve sweet cherry cultivars of the Florence county are described:  Bella di Pistoia ,  Bondi ,  Biagiotto ,  Boneca ,  Del cuore ,  Lustrina ,  Morellina ,  Palermina ,  Precoce della Marca ,  Terranova ,  Turca  and  Viciani . After having illustrated the story and the origin of those cultivars the Author relates about his researches performed, since 1949, on the floral biology of each one (blooming period, pollinisation, pollen germination tests, self- and cross-incompatibility). In the second part of the paper the Author describes the most important characters of those cultivars and concludes with some practical suggestions upon the choise of the most profitable cultivars and their best pollinators. Dans cette publication l'Auteur expose les rsultats des recherches qu'il a poursuivi depuis 1949 sur les suivantes cultivars de cerisier de la province de Florence: Bella di Pistoia ,  Bond ,  Biagiotto ,  Boneca ,  Del cuore ,  Lustrina ,  Morellina ,  Palermina ,  Precoce della Marca ,  Terranova ,  Turca  et  Viciani . L'Auteur illustre tout d'abord les probables origines et l'histoire de chaque cultivar; il passe ensuite  exposer les observations et les recherches qu'il a accompli sur les diffrents aspects de la biologie de fructification (poque de floraison, pollinisation, essais de germination du pollen, recherches sur l'auto- et l'inter-strilit). Dans la seconde partie de son travail l'Auteur dcrit les plus importants charactres biologiques, pomologiques et agronomiques des cultivars individualises et conclut avec des considrations pratiques sur leur choix. Der Verfasser beschreibt zwlf Kirschensorten (Cultivar) die seit dem Jahre 1949 in der Provinz Florenz ausfindig gemacht und beobachtet wurden. Nach einigen Ausfhrungen ber die Verhltnisse und Eigenschaften des lokalen Obstbaues, berichtet er ber die geschichtlich-bibliographischen Nachforschungen ber den mutmasslichen Ursprung dieser Sorten, sowie deren Bltenbiologie (Phaenologie, Keimfhigkeit des Pollens, natrliche Bestubung und Bestuber, Auto- und Intersterilitt sowie Erforschung der Pollenspender). Im zweiten Teil beschreibt der Verfasser jede einzelne Cultivar auf Grund eines nicht nur den morphologischen, sondern auch den biologischen sowie agronomischen Eigenschaften entsprechenden Planes.
42872690| descritto un attacco di Phytophthora infestans (Mont.) de By. su germogli ottenuti da tuberi di patata sottoposti a pregermogliazione. Questa pratica favorisce l'infezione in quanto viene eseguita in ambiente riscaldato ed umido. Viene confermata la possibilit della conservazione del parassita mediante conidi, nonch la preponderante influenza della umidit relativa sullo sviluppo dello stesso. The Authors describe an attack of Phytophthora infestans (Mont.), de By. on sprouts obtained from potatoes submitted to presprouting. This method; favours the infection because it is executed in warm and wet rooms. The possibility of the conservation of the parasite by means of sporangia, and the preponderant influence of the relative humidity on its development is confirmed.
42872711|Gli AA. sperimentano l'influenza dell'acido -naftalenacetico (puro ed in forma commerciale) contro la caduta prematura delle pere  Buona Cristiana Williams . Indagano inoltre intorno l'influenza che la sostanza di crescita, irrorata come anticascola, pu esplicare nella maturazione dei frutti alla raccolta, dopo conservazione in frigorifero e dopo maturazione in camera calda (18  20C) e in camera semifredda (10-12). Nelle condizioni di ambiente e di esperimento degli AA. molto evidente risulta l'efficacia dell'acido -naftalenacetico (puro ed in forma commerciale) contro la cascola prematura delle  Williams . La sostanza fa sentire la sua azione anticascola dopo circa tre giorni dall'irrorazione; la sua azione persiste evidentissima fino a circa 10-11 giorni dall'irrorazione, poi diminuisce sensibilmente, ma non completamente. Nelle piante trattate la percentuale finale di cascola alla raccolta varia, a seconda degli individui, da 4,5% a 11,1%; nelle piante di controllo tale percentuale varia da 19,8% a 33,9%. Le indagini intorno l'influenza della sostanza di crescita sulla maturazione dei frutti, mostrano la manifestazione a distanza del fenomeno. Lo stato di maturazione dei frutti non sembra subire variazioni alla raccolta (sopratutto quando questa non  troppo ritardata) per opera della sostanza di crescita, mentre un'accelerazione di maturazione risulta costante ed abbastanza evidente nei frutti trattati alla fine del periodo di conservazione in frigorifero. L'accelerazione di maturazione per opera del trattamento risulta tanto pi evidente quanto pi tardiva  la raccolta. Il maggiore intenerimento della polpa e lo sviluppo del disfacimento risultano gli indici pi sensibili per indicare l'avanzato stato di maturazione dei frutti trattati. Il trattamento non porta conseguenze sulle qualit organolettiche dei frutti dopo maturazione in camera calda (1820C), mentre migliora leggermente le qualit organolettiche dei frutti maturati in camera semifredda (1012C). Il periodo richiesto per la maturazione dei frutti risulta solo leggermente influenzato dal trattamento ormonico. The AA. have been carrying out erperiments with a view to determining how far -naphthaleneacetic acid (chemically pure and commercial) can prevent the pre-harvest drop of  Bartlett  pears. The have also been doing research work on the effect that the spraying of growth-substance may exercise on the ripening of pears at harvest-time, after they have been kept in the storage, and after they have ripened in a  warm room  6568F), and in a  cool room  (5054F). Under AA. experimental conditions, naphthaleneacetic acid (chemically pure and commercial) has proved most effective in preventing the pre-harvest drop of  Bartlett  pears. Its anti-drop action makes itself felt some 3 day after spraying, and lasts quite noticeably until the 10th. or 11th. day after spraying; after which it diminishes considerably, but never quite ceases. In the trees treated, the final harvest-time drop percentage varies from 4,5% to 11,1%, according to individuals; while in the trees not treated it varies from 19,8% to 33,9%. The research work carried out on the effects of growth-substance on the ripening of pears has made it clear that it has a delayed action. At harvest time (particularly if this is not too late) there is no apparent difference in the degree of ripeness of pears treated with the growthsubstance and pears not treated, but there is a regular and quite marked speeding up in the ripening of treated pears after they havebeen kept for 50 55 days in the storage. The later the pears are gathered, the more quickly do they ripen as a consequence of the treatment. The most reliable signs of the advanced stage of ripeness of pears so treated are the softening and the internal break-down. The dessert quality of pears ripened in a  warm room  (6568 F) was unaffected by the treatment; while in the case of those ripened in a  cool room  (5054 F), the dessert quality appeared to be slightly enhanced. The time of ripening is only slightly affected by the hormonic treatment.
42872712|Viene segnalata la comparsa dello Sclerotium Rolfsii Sacc., come parassita del garofano, nella zona orto-vivaistica della Valdinievole (Toscana). Sono descritti gli effetti della malattia sulle piante attaccate e sono accennati i mezzi di lotta necessari a combatterla. The appearance of Sclerotium Rolfsii Sacc. is reported in this note, as parasite on the carnations in the zone of Valdinievole (Tuscany). The symptoms of the disease on the affected plants are described; mention is made on the necessity ot control measures.
42873271|Sono descritti brevemente, la biologia della Cacoecia (= Tortrix) pronubana Hb., e i danni che la larva dell'insetto reca alle coltivazioni di garofano. Sono indicate ed illustrate le esperienze di lotta eseguite nell'annata 1954 con insetticidi eloro e fosfo-organici, ed infine precisate le conclusioni inerenti all'indirizzo e modalit di lotta da seguire. The biology of the Cacoecia (= Tortrix) pronubana Hb. and the damage that the larva of this insect causes to the carnation cultivations are briefly described here. The experiments carried out in the year 1954 to fight this pest with chloro and phosphoro - organic insecticides are also indicated and illustrated here together with the conclusions reached regarding the ways and means of destruction which are to be employed.
42873274|Viene segnalato un caso di simbiosi tra Puccinia arenariae (Schum.) Wint. e Darluca filum (Biv.) Cast, su foglie di Dianthus barbatus L. Tra i due miceti esisterebbero solo rapporti di commensalismo. The A. describes a case of symbiosis between Puccinia arenariae (Schum.) Wint. and Darluca filum (Biv.) Cast, on leaves of Dianthus barbatus L.
42873334|Sulla base di osservazioni condotte nel decorso inverno a Firenze  stata determinata comparativamente la resistenza al freddo di oltre 100 cultivar di pesco allevate tutte nelle medesime condizioni ambientali. The relative hardiness of over than 100 peach cultivars has been tested during the winter 1956 at Florence, on the basis of the different cold resistance of their dormant fruit buds.
42873336| stata saggiata la possibilit di raggiungere la disinfestazione da Cacoecia (=Tortrix) pronubana Hb. di fiori di garofano, imballati in cesti di canna, come normalmente in uso nelle spedizioni, con l'immissione di bromuro di metile in atmosfere artificiali a pressione normale (sistema Gasconserv). Le prove sono state eseguite sia in vitro che in cella; queste ultime nelle condizioni di pratica applicabilit. Dai risultati conseguiti con dette prove si conclude che il metodo di disinfestazione a pressione normale, con l'impiego di atmosfere artificiali, consente di ottenere la mortalit totale delle larve di Cacoecia usando concentrazioni bassissime di gas tossico. Tuttavia il gas tossico usato (bromuro di metile), non sembra dare la dovuta garanzia in quanto, tra le condizioni che assicurano la totale mortalit delle larve e le condizioni di assoluta mancanza di fitotossicit sul fiore, non esiste il richiesto margine di sicurezza. It has been experienced the possiblity to obtain a disinfestation of the carnation blossoms against Cacoecia (=Tortrix) pronubana Hb., packed in baskets of cane, as it is normally used by the flower export-houses, with the application of bromide-methyl in artificial atmosphere under normal pressure (system Gasconserv). The experiences have been made in flasks and in cells. The last one in the conditions of available practice. The results, have, proved that the method of disinfestation under normal pressure with artificial atmosphere obtains a complete extermination of Cacoecia larvs using the lowest concentration of the poisonos gas. Nevertheless the poisonos gas (bromide-methyl) does not seem to give the requested guarantee, because of the lake of a sufficient degree of security between the completa destruction of the larve and the missing of poison on the blossom.
42872765|L'A. illustra la tecnica dell'innesto  a doppio scudo  e ne segnala i vantaggi rispetto agli altri metodi finora adottati per superare la disaffinit di alcune combinazioni pero/cotogno mediante il sovrinnesto. L'A. sottolinea il fatto che la nuova tecnica pu servire ad eliminare od attenuare le principali manifestazioni di disaffinit, soprattutto a partire dal secondo anno dall'innesto, senza peraltro esercitare una efficace influenza sullo sviluppo degli astoni nel primo anno. Di conseguenza, l'innesto  a doppio scudo , pur risultando vantaggioso per le altre cultivar di pero finora prese in considerazione a questo riguardo, non si presta ad essere applicato per ottenere piante sovrinnestate della  Kaiser  in vivaio, giacch la disaffinit di Questa cultivar con il portinnesto cotogno si manifesta proprio con una grave riduzione di sviluppo degli astoni di un anno. Opportune indagini hanno consentito di stabilire che la mancata efficacia dell'innesto  a doppio scudo  nel primo anno di vegetazione  da attribuirsi ad una temporanea unione diretta che con tale innesto pu ugualmente stabilirsi fra i tessuti corticali del nesto e del soggetto disaffini. The A. describes the advantages of the  double-shield  budding technique in respect of the other doubleworking methods till now adopted to overcome the incompatibility of some pear/quince combination. The A. points out that the new technique may be useful to overcome the incompatibility, particulary after the first year, without exercise an efficient influence on the growth of the one year old trees. Consequently, the  double-shield  budding technique, though advantageous for the other pear cultivars till now propagated with such a method, cannot be applied to obtain doubleworked trees of the pear  Kaiser , because the incompatibility of this cultivar on the rootstock quince appears just by a serious riduction of the growth. Adequate researches allowed to ashertain that the failure obtained with the  double-shield  budding for the pear  Kaiser  may be due to a temporary direct union between the bark tissues of scion and rootstock, in the first stages of the union establishement.
42872766|Dopo aver esaminato i molteplici aspetti della forzatura del limone per la produzione dei verdelli, si riferisce sui risultati di una serie di determinazioni eseguite su questi particolari frutti prelevati da piante della cv.  Femminello  durante un periodo sufficientemente lungo che precede la normale raccolta estiva. Sono state rilevate le variazioni dell'acidit totale e citrica, degli zuccheri riduttori, della vitamina C, del pH, del potenziale elettrico e dell'rH su campioni prelevati quindicinalmente. Si riferiscono altres i risultati delle determinazioni del peso medio, dell'umidit, del contenuto in grassi dei semi e del grado refrattometrico del succo nei diversi prelievi I risultati ottenuti vengono discussi ed  messa in particolare rilievo l'importanza che pu avere la misura del potenziale elettrico dei verdelli anche al fine di potere rilevare il grado di vitalit delle piante nel periodo della secca. Sono stati trovati infatti differenti valori di potenziale nei diversi periodi che precedono e seguono il punto di massima secca. I valori pi bassi, indici di una minore vitalit dei frutti e conseguentemente di tutta la pianta sono stati trovati nel periodo che precede la ripresa delle irrigazioni. Aprs avoir examin les diffrentes manirese adoptes pour forcer la production du citronnier en vue d'obtenir la qualit dite  verdelli , on expose les rsultats d'une srie d'expriences excutes sur ces fruits prlevs sur des plantes de la cultivar  Femminello  pendant une priode suffisamment longue avant la rcolte normale d't. On a constat les variations de l'acidit totale, des sucres rducteurs, de la vitamine C, du pH, du potentiel lectrique et du rH sur des chantillons prlevs chaque quinzaine. On expose mme les rsultats de la dtermination du poids moyen, de l'humidit, du contenu en matires grasses des ppins et du degr refractomtrique du jus en relation aux diffrents prlvements. Les rsultats obtenus sont discuts et l'importance que peut avoir l'entit du potentiel lectrique des  verdelli  est mise particulirement en vidence dans le but de pouvoir dterminer le degr de vitalit des plantes dans la priode de scheresse. En effet des valeurs diffrentes du potentiel ont t dtermins dans les diffrentes priodes qui prcdent et qui suivent le moment de la plus grande scheresse. Les valeurs les moins leves qui expriment une vitalit moins intense des fruits et, par consquent, de toute la plante, ont t recontres pendant la priode qui prcde la riprise des irrigations. After having examined the several aspects of the lemon-tree forcing for the production of the  verdelli  (green-lemons), the Authors relate about the results of a series of determinations executed on the type of fruits collected from the plants of the cv.  Femminello  during a sufficiently long period before the normal summer harvest. The variations of total acidity sugar, vitamin C, pH, electric potential and rH on the samples taken every forthnight have been noticed. Besides the results of the determinations about middle-weight, moisture, pip-fats contents and juice refractometric degree in the different samples have been related. In the discussion of the obtained results the importance of the electric potential measurement in the  verdelli  (green-lemons) is brought into particular evidence, also in order to be able to notice the plant-vitality degree in the unfruitful period. In fact it has been found that there are different potential values in the different periods which precede and follow the point of the most unfruitful period. The lowest values, wich testifle a lesser vitality of the fruits and, consequently, of the whole plant, have been found in the period which precedes the beginning of the irrigations.
42872768|L'impiego di Caratano (Karathane) allo 0,1 per cento permette una coltura continua degli zucchini dall'Aprile al Settembre, senza l'interruzione estiva e la risemina necessaria a causa dell'insufficiente protezione da parte dello zolfo contro l'oidio delle Oucurbitacee. Vi si fa cenno di malformazioni dei peponidi in piante affette dal mal bianco. Sulphur treatment is not sufficiently effective against powdery mildew of Cucurbitaceous plants. The marrow (squash) production for market is broken out in two cultures: early (April-June) and late (August-September or later). With the use of 0,1 percent Karathane the yield is continous through all the season, fully including the month of July. The control of powery mildew is practican total. The pepo fruit from diseases plant is abnormal in shape (Fig. 1-A and 2-A) as related to the oblong-conical pepo from health plant (Fig. 1-B and 2-B).
42873293|Vengono portati ulteriori contributi alla identificazione di frutti di ananas, mango ed annona squamosa in dipinti pompeiani. The Autor suggests some further observations for the identification of the Ananas, Mango and Annona squamosa fruits on murals at Pompei (Naples).
42873295|Vengono esposti i criteri e i risultati di una prova a split-plot eseguita in serra, nel corso della quale piante di quattro cultivar di gladiolo sono state sottoposte a differenti trattamenti di forzatura con luci artificiali. The reasons and the results are exposed of a split-plot experiment in greenhouse, where plants of four gladiolus cultivars have been forced with the aid of different artificial-light treatments.
42873296|L'autore riferisce i risultati di una prova eseguita per moltiplicare per talea foliare la cultivar di cavolfiore  Primaticcio di Toscana  e la cultivar di cavoloverzotto  Comune da estate . Le talee furono trattate per 24 ore con una soluzione acquosa a 20 p. p. m. di acido -naftalenacetico e piantate in sabbia. La radicazione delle talee trattate  stata quasi completa; pi limitata invece quella del controllo. Successivamente le talee foliari di cavolo verzotto hanno costituito nuove piante in seguito allo sviluppo della gemma ascellare. Le talee foliari di cavolfiore invece hanno formato germogli da gemme avventizie, i quali sono successivamente morti. L'autore conclude considerando l'opportunit che il metodo sia perfezionato per i notevoli vantaggi che potrebbe offrire nella moltiplicazione delle piante destinate alla, produzione del seme. The autor reports the results of a proof carried out for the propagating of cauliflower, cultivar  Primaticcio di Toscana  and Savoy cabbage, cultivar  Comune da estate  by leaf cuttings. The cuttings were treated during 24 hours in a solution containing 20 parts per milion of -nafthylacetic acide, before being placed in the sand bench. The rooting of cuttings thus treated was almost complete; less complete was, instead, the test rooting. Two months later the leaf cuttings of the Savoy cabbage gave to new plants out of the axillary bud; from the leaf cuttings of the cauliflower were gotten sprouts from adventitious buds, wich died soon after. The author concludes considering the improving of such method to be very useful thanks to the remarkable advantages wich it can afford in the propagating of plants intended for seeds production.
42873299|L'autore basandosi su ricerche effettuate sul comportamento della fecondazione nel pero, mette in evidenza come in queste specie si riscontra un'alta percentuale di partenocarpia e di autoincompatibilit. Solo raramente si riscontra partenocarpia e autoincompatibilit e quelle rare volte i frutti portano qualche seme normale. Pi che partenocarpia si tratta di vera e propria partenospermia, in quanto si formano quasi sempre, nei frutti sviluppatisi partenocarpicamente, semi privi di embrione. Cita inoltre un caso di probabile apogamia, verificatosi in due frutti di pero  Butirra d'Amanlis , cultivar notoriamente triploide.
42873317|Dai risultati di una esperienza di concimazione alle cipolle e dalla loro discussione risulta che solo la concimazione azotata, e non quella solfatica, ha determinato un notevole aumento di produzione. Il sapore acre delle cipolle, gi forte nei testimoni non concimati, viene sensibilmente attenuato sia ad opera dei cloruri, che, un po' meno, dei sali ammoniacali ; particolarmente efficace si  mostrato il cloruro ammonico. Si presenta una probabile interpretazione fisiologica dei risultati, la quale lascerebbe intravedere una pi efficace azione dolcificante dei nitrati ; si discute il valore pratico dei risultati. Results from a fertilization trial on onions are presented. Ammonia nitrogen increased the yield, while no effect was shown by sulfur (as sulfate). The onion pungency, which was strong on the control, has been reduced appreciably by chlorides and, to a less extent, by ammonia ; the sweetest bulbes were obtained from plots fertilized with ammonia chloride. A temptative explanation of the results is given on physiological basis, and a stronger effect of nitrate-ion is suggested. Practical applications are discussed.
42872831|Vengono descritti due casi di mutazione gemmaria individuati in un pescheto del veronese su due esemplari delle cultivar  Vincitore  ( Charles Ingouf ) e  Palazzina . Tali mutazioni hanno determinato, in ciascuna pianta, la comparsa di un ramo provvisto esclusivamente di pesche-noci (nettarine). Le prove di innesto eseguite con gemme prelevate sia dai rami mutati sia da quelli normali di ciascuna pianta, hanno confermato la trasmissibilit per via vegetativa di tali mutazioni. La natura istologica e quella genetica di queste viene discussa; la possibile origine delle nettarine da mutazioni gemmarie insorte nel pesco comune  infine esaminata in rapporto alle altre ipotesi filogenetiche formulate a riguardo. Two peach sports showing change of normal fuzzy skin to fuzzless nectarine skin have been observed in the cultivare  Vincitore  ( Charles Ingouf ) and  Palazzina . Budding trials carried out with the sporting material have confirmed the constancy of such mutations. Their hystological and genetical nature is discussed. Some observations are then supplied on the origin of the nectarines in relation to the different phylogenetic hypoteses suggested by some Authors.
42872836|L'A. riferisce sui risultati di alcune esperienze sulla vernalizzazione a freddo dei piselli da orto (Pisum Sativum L.), condotte durante gli anni 1955 e 1956.  stato rilevato che nelle cinque cultivar sperimentate il trattamento vernalizzante applicato ai semi non ha determinato sensibili effetti sull'accrescimento delle piante, n alcun anticipo delle loro fasi di sviluppo. Anche la produzione di legumi, di sostanza fresca totale e di granella non  stata in misura apprezzabile incrementata dalla vernalizzazione a freddo. I risultati ottenuti lasciano presumere che i trattamenti a bassa temperatura non possono influire sensibilmente sul comportamento vegetativo dei piselli da orto. The Author refers about the results of some investigations performed during 1955 and 1956 on the cold vernalization of garden peas (Pisum Sativum L.). It has been observed that no evident effects on the pea plants size and no advances of their development phases are caused by the low temperature treatment of the seeds. The yields of vegetables, fresh substance and shelled peas are not considerably increased by the vernalization. Those results suggest that the low temperature treatments can not modify the vegetative behaviour of the garden peas.
42872853|The Author describes the morphological, biological and commercial characters of a new pear variety,  Butirra precoce , raised from a  Coscia  x  William  progeny. Such variety bears its fruits in the same season than  Coscia ; therefore it may be considered a very early ripening variety.  Butirra precoce  is a very vigorous and heavy cropping variety and has proved to be compatible with the quince rootstock. The fruits can be stored for a long time.
42872855|Accanto ad un elenco delle malattie da virus delle piante arboree da frutto segnalate fino ad oggi in Italia, sono riportati i metodi principali attualmente utilizzabili per l'accertamento eziologico di dette virosi e per il loro  saggio  a mezzo di  piante indicatrici . L'importanza che queste malattie rivestono nella frutticoltura arborea della gran parte dei Paesi europei ed extra-europei, impone oggi una indagine pi ampia ed accurata per le cultivar frutticole italiane commercialmente pi importanti, poich  probabile che, nel nostro Paese, la incidenza di virosi  sia pure latenti  sia ben maggiore di quanto supposto finora. Sono, infine, discusse le norme generali che si ritengono attuabili, nella pratica, per il controllo di queste malattie, in Italia. With a list of fruit trees virus diseases reported till now in Italy, there are discussed the main methods used for the diagnosis of these diseases and for their  indexing  through  indicator plants . The always increasing importance of fruit trees virus diseases also in european countries, let us consider the necessity of more accurate and wide investigations on our fruit varieties of more commercial importance, as it seems presumable that the incidence of these diseases, in our country, is larger than it was first supposed. At last, there are suggested an indexing scheme and the general regulations for a practical control of fruit trees virus disease, in Italy.
42872858|L'Autore riporta alcune segnalazioni di casi in cui la disaftinit d'innesto sarebbe stata praticamente superata lasciando sviluppare un apparato foliare anche dal soggetto oltre che dal nesto. Dette segnalazioni riguardano diversi casi di disaffinit, tanto su piante arboree quanto su piante erbacee, ed alcune di esse sono state ometto di accurati controlli sperimentali. Sulla base di tali elementi, l'A. ha condotto alcune indagini allo scopo di approfondire l'argomento ed accertare sperimentalmente la reale efficacia del suddetto metodo nel caso della ben nota disaffinit d'innesto del pero  Kaiser  su cotogno. Allevando in vivaio alcune piante di  Kaiser /cotogno normalmente prive di foglie del soggetto, accanto ad altre cui erano stati invece lasciati sviluppare appositamente uno, oppure due rami anche dal cotogno, l'A. ha potuto accertare che la forte riduzione di sviluppo del nesto  ossia la pi evidente manifestazione della disaffinit nelle piante  Kaiser /cotogno  appare ugualmente grave in tutti i casi, anche quando il soggetto si dimostra capace di emettere germogli vigorosi. Oltre a concludere, quindi, sulla pratica inefficacia del suddetto metodo nei riguardi degli innesti di  Kaiser /cotogno, l'A. discute le possibili cause determinanti la disaffinit e mette in evidenza come, in questo caso, non possa ritenersi valida n l'ipotesi basata su una presunta incapacit delle foglie del nesto a produrre particolari sostanze necessarie per la normale vegetazione del soggetto, n l'altra ipotesi secondo cui la disaffinit potrebbe essere causata dall'azione negativa di alcune sostanze che verrebbero prodotte dalle foglie del nesto e che sarebbero tossiche o comunque nocive al soggetto. Nel caso della disaffinit d'innesto della  Kaiser /cotogno, collegando le varie acquisizioni finora raggiunte sull'argomento, la disaffinit stessa appare di natura pi complessa, probabilmente determinata da particolari reazioni biochimiche tra i due bionti. L'A. ha potuto accertare, infine, che mentre nelle piante aventi solo apparato foliare del nesto si pu riscontrare un'anormale carenza di amido nel soggetto, in tutti quei casi in cui il cotogno  invece fornito di foglie proprie il contenuto in amido risulta pressoch analogo nei tessuti di entrambi i bionti. Pertanto, l'accumulo di amido nel nesto e la relativa carenza nel soggetto non pu essere considerata n come una-causa immediata della disaffinit, n come sintomo necessariamente legato alla disaffinit stessa. The Author summarizes the knowledges of some cases in which the graft uncongeniality would have been practically overcomed allowing to a leaves system from both the scion and the rootstock. On the basis of such knowledges the Author carried out some researches in view to dive deep into the subject and to experimentally ascertain in the actual efficiency of the above mentioned method in the case of the incompatibility of the  Kaiser  pear on quince. Raising in a nursery some  Kaiser /quince plants without leaves from the rootstock, and other ones provided of one-two shoots even from the quince, the Author has been able to ascertain that the strong growth reduction of the scion (wich represents the most evident symptom of the uncongeniality in the young  Kaiser /quince trees) results serious in all the cases, and even when rootstock proves to be able to grow vigorously. Therefore, besides to have concluded the practical ineffectiveness of such a method in the case of the  Kaiser /quince union, the Author discusses the possible causes of that uncongeniality and points out as how in this case it cannot be assumed neither the hypothesis based on a presumed inability of the scion leaves to provide some specific substances necessary for the rootstock normal growth, nor the other according to wich the incompatibility could be caused by a negative action of some specific substances, produced by the scion leaves, and poisonous for the rootstock. In connection with the other knowledges till now acquired on this subject, the cause of the uncongeniality between  Kaiser  and quince seems to be of more complex nature, probably induced by biochemical reactions between rootstock and scion. The Author has ascertained that, while for the trees provided with a leaf system of the scion only there is a lack of starch in the rootstock in all the other cases in wich even the quince is provided of its own leaves the starch content results about equal in rootstock and scion tissues. Therefore, the starch accumulation in the scion and its relative lack in the rootstock cannot be assumed neither as a cause nor as a symptom necessarily joined with the uncongeniality.
42872860|The Author refers about some research carried out during 1955 and 1956 on the flower biological behaviour and pollination requirement of the carrot in view to improve the methods of the commercial seed production. The results have shown the tested carrot cultivars as self- and inter-compatible and cross-compatible with some other botanical varieties of Daucus Carota L. (wild carrots). The pollination of the carrots is largely carried out by bees. These results suggest that cross-pollination is the main reason of the carrot cultivars degeneration. Therefore, to obtain genuine seeds, it is necessary to breed the mother-plants of each cultivar in different far off fields and to keep away all the plants belonging to different strains or other botanical variety.
42873468|L'A. riferisce sui risultati ottenuti nella lotta contro il Ceuthorrynchus pleurostigma Marsh, con l'impiego di una nuova formulazione di perfosfato che al potere fertilizzante unisce propriet insetticide. Egli conclude mettendo in luce l'efficacia della applicazione di tale tipo di fertilizzante nella lotta contro il Ceuthorrynchus pleurostigma Marsh. The Author reports the results obtained in the struggle against the Ceuthorrynchus pleurostigma Marsh, with a new mineral perphosphate type that unites fertilizing qualities to insecticidal ones. The Author concludes considering the efficaciousness of such a type of fertilizer against the Ceuthorrynchus pleurostigma Marsh, struggling.
42873472|Il tempo di germinazione dei semi di orchidea su mezzo nutritivo integrato da Vitamine (B e PP), succo di cocco fresco ed acido indol-butirrico, risulta notevolmente minore di quello dei semi su mezzo nutritivo normale. Ci dipende dall'azione positiva esercitata dalle sostanze vitaminiche usate, che migliorano il metabolismo degli idrati di carbonio e dell'azoto e difendono le cellula vegetali dall'eccessivo accumulo di tossine. Si prevede un futuro miglioramento dell'apparato ipogeo dovuto all'azione specifica dell'acido indol-butirrico.
42883597|In base ad alcune sistematiche ricerche sull'epoca pi opportuna per eseguire la potatura invernale di produzione del pesco, l'. ha potuto determinare e confrontare gli effetti esercitati dalle minime termiche del febbraio e del marzo 1956 su peschi potati prima e dopo le minime termiche stesse. Le osservazioni, condotte su diverse cultivar ed in tre diversi ambienti dell'Italia centrale, hanno messo in evidenza che, a parit di qualsiasi altra condizione, i danni provocati dal gelo sui peschi gi potati sono risultati sostanzialmente uguali a quelli dei peschi potati pi tardi. Anche se, in un primo tempo, si  talvolta effettivamente rilevato un danno leggermente pi grave sui primi, qualche mese dopo, ad allegagione avvenuta, si  constatato che ogni differenza tra gli alberi potati avanti o dopo il gelo tende a scomparire, probabilmente per effetto di una pi elevata percentuale di allegagione in quegli alberi che erano stati pi danneggiati. L'A. conclude, quindi, precisando che l'opportunit di rimandare la potatura al pi tardi possibile in primavera non dipenderebbe tanto dal fatto che gli alberi potati sono pi sensibili alle minime termiche invernali, quanto dal vantaggio pratico che si ha, ritardando la potatura stessa, di regolarla in base ad ogni eventuale danno provocato dal gelo, o da altre cause avverse. L'A. riporta, infine, alcune osservazioni in merito alla variabile entit dei danni da freddo, cos come questi possono essere riscontrati su diversi alberi, in base ad un solo rilevamento od a pi rilevamenti successivi, anche su di una medesima cultivar e nell'ambito di uno stesso appezzamento. The author refers about some researches carried out in view to ascertain and to compare the injuries amount caused by the frost of February and March 1956 on peach trees pruned at different times, before and after each frost occurrence. Such observations, performed on different varieties and in three different countries of the central Italy, have shown that, any other conditions being equal, the winter frost injuries on peach trees already pruned were substantially the same of those found on later pruned trees. Even though a slightly more serious damage was observed in the former, some time later, that is after fruit set, any difference disappeared, probably because of an high fruit set percentage on the trees with more seriously reduced number of flower buds. The author concludes pointing out that the convenience to delay as late as possible the pruning time may not depend up to the fact that the pruned trees are more sensible to the low winter temperatures, but may be due all the same to the practical possibility of an easier regulation of the pruning severity after any eventual winter frost injury or other damage occourrence. At last, the author refers about some osservations on the variable amount of frost injuries, as they can result on different trees, on the basis of one or more repeated remarks, even with the same variety and in a same orchard.
42883598|A rot and drying of the Euphorbia hermentiana Lem. destroying about 50 percent of a commercial culture, has been described in comparison with the same disease of E. resinifera Berg. By wound inoculation the disease has been reproduced only on members of the Euphorbiaceae family (10 species at all) but not on members of 6 families of succulent plants (29 species at all). After the study of the morphology of the causative agent, either in nature and in colture, it has been concluded that it is caused by the form gattefossei of the Coniothyrium concentricum (= C. gattefossei). It appears as a biological form specialised on members of the Euphorbiaceae species, while the type species is found also on other families of the flowering plants, chiefly Monocotyledons.
42883604|L'A. riferisce sui resultati ottenuti nella lotta contro le uova invernali di Metatetranychus ulmi Koch con l'impiego di olii bianchi, alla dose dell'1,3% e del 2%, distribuiti da soli od addizionati con 0,05% di parathion. Egli mette in evidenza l'importanza assunta dall'epoca di esecuzione del trattamento ed insiste sull'opportunit di aggiungere all'olio un estere fosforico del tipo parathion, per rendere gli interventi polivalenti e quindi pi convenienti dal punto di vista fitosanitario ed economico.
42873354|L'auteur rappelle l'importance de la qualit gntique et sanitaire des plants fruitiers pour la russite conomique des vergers commerciaux. Il constate l'htrognit du matriel utilis pour la ppinire et estime que le jugement de la valeur du matriel de multiplication doit tre effectu par des organismes spcialiss aussi bien dans les recherches biologiques que dans les techniques arboricoles. Il expose ensuite l'tat actuel du travail entrepris en France pour l'obtention de plants de qualit. Les caractristiques des varits sont rigoureusement dfinies dans les collections des Stations de recherches. Un Catalogue officiel des varits donne les listes des seules varits dont le commerce et le transport sont autoriss. Les clones de valeur suprieure et en bon tat sanitaire sont multiplis par voie asexue (greffage) et mis  la disposition des ppiniristes qui acceptent de se soumettre  un contrle varietal facultatif. Ce contrle leur donne droit  la dlivrance d'tiquettes garantissant l'authenticit varitale de leurs plants. Les travaux sur les porte-greffes ont permis de slectionner des lignes homognes pour le pcher, des clones multiplis vgtativement pour les autres espces. L'auteur conclut en souhaitant l'tablissement de catalogues internationaux de varits et de porte-greffes.
42873357|Gli autori descrivono le seguenti 17 cultivar di olivo da tavola attualmente pi diffuse in Italia:  Ascolana tenera ,  Ascolana dura ,  Bella di Spagna ,  Carmelitana ,  Cucco ,  Dolce del Marocco ,  Gordales ,  Grossa di Spagna ,  Itrana ,  Manzanilla ,  Morellona di Grecia ,  Pasola ,  S. Agostino ,  S. Caterina ,  S. Francesco ,  Uovo di piccione ,  Verdale . L'indagine  stata condotta comparativamente, per un quadriennio, in due oliveti di collezione al fine di poter rilevare i caratteri differenziali delle singole cultivar a parit di condizioni pedoclimatiche e colturali. The authors describe the following edible olive cultivars:  Ascolana tenera ,  Ascolana dura ,  Bella di Spagna ,  Carmelitana ,  Dolce del Marocco ,  Gordales ,  Grossa di Spagna ,  Itrana ,  Manzanilla ,  Pasola ,  S. Agostino ,  S. Caterina ,  S. Francesco ,  Uovo di piccione ,  Verdale . The investigations have been carried out on typical trees of each cultivar in two established collections at Florence and Pescia (Tuscany).
42873359|Field and laboratory investigations undertaken to study the behavior of compound S-[(methylcarbamyl) methyl] 0, 0, dimethyl dithiophosphate used against the Cherry Fruit Fly (Rhagoletis cerasi L.), have shown that this insecticide does not kill the eggs that have been laid into the cherries after the compound has been sprayed but the larvae die just after hatching and before they start to damage the fruit. Further field experiments have indicated that a single high-or also low-volume application of this insecticide achieves an excellent control (99,3%-99,7%) of the Cherry Fruit Fly even when every fruit of the unsprayed trees contains more than one maggot. Detailed information on insecticide residue at time of harvest will be presented in a coming paper.
42873360|Dopo aver accennato brevemente ai microlepidotteri minatori delle foglie del melo e del pero esistenti nel Veneto, l'Autore descrive la biologia della Leucoptera (= Cemiostoma) scitella Zell. ed i danni arrecati dalle sue larve, in una grave infestazione verificatasi nel 1956, ai meli del Basso Veronese. Riferisce, inoltre, su numerose prove di lotta effettuate nell'estate dello stesso anno, con alcuni insetticidi cloro e fosfo-organici, usati da soli od in combinazione, contro le larve minatrici. Riporta, infine, i risultati ottenuti indicando la associazione di prodotti dimostratasi pi efficace e precisa i quantitativi percentuali di principio attivo da impiegarsi. After mentioning briefly the microlepidoptera leaves mining of the apple and pear trees existing in the Venetian Region, the Author describes the Biology of Leucoptera (= Cemiostoma) scitella Zell., and and the damages produced by its larvae, during summer 1956, above all to the apple trees in the country south of Verona. He also gives an account of the numerous experiments for the Summer Control with some chloro and phosphoro-organic insecticidal liquids, used alone or combined against the above mentioned larvae. He finally gives the obtained results by indicating the combination of the most efficient products found out, also giving in detail the quantities of pure products tu use in per cent.
42873361|Viene descritta una virosi del Pittosporum tobira caratterizzata dalla decolorazione delle nervature fogliari, sopratutto quelle di secondo e terzo ordine, raramente con decolorazione ad anello, e con ripiegatura a doccia delle foglie, che appaiono aggregate a rosetta all'apice dei rametti. La malattia  stata riprodotta per innesto di corteccia con apparizione della decolorazione delle nervature di secondo e terzo ordine. Non si hanno ancora elementi circa una trasmissione della virosi anche per seme. Tale malattia appare diversa dalle due virosi segnalate in California sullo stesso genere di piante. A virus disease of Pittosporum tobira is described. It is characterized by vein-clearing, chiefly of the second and third order nerves, rarely with ring-spot, and with leaf curling. The leaves are rosetted. The disease has been transmitted by bark grafting: after about seven months the leaves showed a vein-clearing. It has not been yet established if the disease is also seed-transmissible. It appears to be different from Pittosporum virus diseases described in California.
42873738|Se i dati essenziali sulla biologia della ticchiolatura sono ben noti, i lavori recenti si orientano verso lo studio epidemiologico e verso una terapia pi adeguata. Tra i differenti modi di conservazione della ticchiolatura, lo svernamento dei periteci ha preso la massima importanza in quanto gli altri modi non contribuiscono che in misura nettamente minore all'infezione primaria. Con le precisazioni raccolte recentemente riguardo le condizioni di infezione,  possibile, con l'aiuto di una serie di osservazioni biologiche e climatiche, prevedere con precisione l'emissione dei germi, nonch le condizioni offerte all'infezione degli organi fogliari e fiorali.  divenuto possibile limitare gli interventi numerosi d'altra volta, a qualche trattamento giudiziosamente applicato : sfortunatamente, il tempo disponibile per realizzare il trattamento  ancora troppo corto per la pratica. Degli apparecchi rapidi a grande rendimento e dei prodotti attivi dopo l'infezione rappresentano le condizioni di una lotta razionale ed efficace. Si les donnes essentielles de la biologie de la tavelure sont bien connues, les travaux rcents s'orientent vers l'tude pidmiologique et vers une thrapeutique plus adquate. Parmi les diffrents modes de conservation de la tavelure, l'hivernation par prithces a pris le plus d'importance, les autres modes ne contribuant que dans une mesure nettement moindre  l'infection printanire. Par les prcision recueillies rcemment au sujet des conditions d'infection, il est possible avec l'aide d'une srie d'observations biologiques et climatiques, de prvoir avec prcision l'mission des germes ainsi que les conditions offertes  l'infection des organes foliaires et floraux. Il est devenu possible de limiter les interventions nombreuses d'autrefois  quelques pulvrisations judicieusement appliques, malheureusement, le temps disponible pour raliser le traitement est encore trop court pour la pratique. Des appareils rapides  grand rendement, des produits actifs aprs infection telles sont les conditions d'une lutte rationelle et efficace.
42873740|Partendo da alcune recenti acquisizioni, secondo le quali il primo e principale sintomo della disaffinit fra pero e cotogno  rappresentato dalla discontinuit fra i tessuti corticali dei due bionti ed in frase alla constatazione che tale discontinuit esercita effetti analoghi a quelli di una vera e propria incisione anulare al punto d'innesto, l'Autore ha preso in esame l'eventuale possibilit che la riduzione del vigore ottenuta innestando il pero su cotogno debba essere anch'essa interpretata come conseguenza diretta della disaffinit. Alcune indagini condotte a questo riguardo su 232 alberi di pero/cotogno di cinque anni dall'innesto, appartenenti a 50 cultivar diverse di pero, hanno permesso di accertare che non vi  alcuna correlazione fra il vigore ed il grado di disaffinit degli alberi stessi. Pertanto, si conclude che lo sviluppo e la vigoria di ciascun albero sono manifestazioni attribuibili a cause fisiologiche non necessariamente legate a quelle che provocano la disaffinit. Starting from some recent knowledges on the incompatibility disorders that may be found in the bark of practically all the pear/quince trees, the author discusses the possibility that even the dwarfing effect of the quince rootstock could be considered as a direct consequence of the incompatibility with the pear varieties. Some observation on 232 five years old pear trees, belonging to 50 different varieties, grafted on the same clonal quince stock and grown under the same conditions, have pointed out that no correlation exists between vigor and incompatibility degree of the trees.
42873741|Sono state eseguite ricerche circa l'influenza della prematurazione a 22+24C. sulla successiva conservazione in regime di freddo delle pesche cv.  J. H. Hale . Gli AA. hanno studiato l'influenza di tale trattamento sulle caratteristiche organolettiche, sulla durata di conservazione e sullo sviluppo delle muffe che pi frequentemente aggrediscono il frutto dopo la raccolta. L'influenza della prematurazione sullo sviluppo delle qualit organolettiche  stata studiata seguendo in frigorifero a+1-2C. il metabolismo degli zuccheri riducenti, del saccarosio, dell'acidit totale, della quantit di succo, della durezza della polpa e mediante prove di degustazione. La durata di conservazione fu stabilita in funzione della diminuzione delle qualit organolettiche ed in funzione di alterazioni caratteristiche della polpa provocanti o la pastosit e l'asciuttezza dei tessuti o l'imbrunimento dei tessuti pi vicino al nocciolo. Dalla sperimentazione emerge con evidenza l'influenza positiva della prematurazione sullo sviluppo delle qualit organolettiche delle pesche  J. H. Hale : in ogni caso i frutti risultarono pi succosi, pi zuccherini, meno acidi, pi profumati e saporiti di quelli non prematurati e cio posti in frigorifero subito dopo la raccolta. La prematurazione non abbrevi la durata di conservazione quando fu limitata a un massimo di due giorni. Prematurazioni pi prolungate raccorciarono proporzionalmente la possibile vita dei frutti. La prematurazione aument lo sviluppo delle muffe (Sclerotinia fructicola e Rizopus): tale influenza negativa risult tanto maggiore quanto maggiore fu la durata del periodo di prematurazione. Research has been carried about the influence of delayed storage at a temperature of 22-4C on the subsequent storage of  J. H. Hale  peaches. The AA. have studied the influence of such treatment on the dessert quality, on the storage life and on the development of rot infections that more frequently attack the fruit after harvest. The influence of delayed storage on the development of the dessert quality has been studied following in cold storage (+1-2C), the metabolism of the reducing sugars, saccharose, total acidity, quantity of juice, firmness of the flesh and by essays of tasting. The storage life was established be it according to the reduction of dessert quality, be it according to the development of physiological disorders of the flesh causing either  woolliness  and juiceless, or browning of the tissues nearer to the stone. From the experimental work it is evident the positive influence of the delayed storage on the development of dessert quality of  J. H. Hale peaches : in any case fruits became more juicy, sweeter, less acid an with more flavour and taste than those which were not pre-ripened, that is placed in cold storage at once after the harvest. Pre-ripening did not shorten the keeping storage life when it was limited to a maximum of two days. Longer pre-ripening shortened proportionately the possible storage life of fruits. Delayed storage increased the development of rot infections (Sclerotinia fructicola and Rizophus): such a negative influence resulted as great as was the lasting of the pre-ripening.
42873743|La malattia del pesco trovata in Versilia  molto simile al  Peach canker  da Fusicoecum amygdali Del. assai diffuso attualmente negli Stati Uniti. Una differenza fondamentale esiste per nei riguardi del micete patogeno in quanto quello osservato da me non pu essere identificato come Fusicoecum sp. bens come Phomopsis sp. Ad ogni modo sar utile uno scambio di notizie e di campioni fra i due paesi per un migliore chiarimento del caso. Da noi la malattia in questione, per quanto sia per ora assal localizzata,  assai violenta. La morte dei rametti si manifesta per la maggior parte dopo l'inverno, dal rigonfiamento delle gemme fino all'estate. In tale periodo avviene la formazione dei picnidi. Nella tarda primavera e nell'estate, se questa decorre umida, si manifestano nuove infezioni sui rametti dell'anno, sia in corrispondenza di gemme, sia alla base dei rametti stessi, sia in corrispondenza di ferite. Tali infezioni si sviluppano pi estesamente nella successiva stagione autunnale. Numerose infezioni sui rametti pi vigorosi vengono circoscritte dalla reazione della pianta. Il parassita per si mantiene vivo sia nella corteccia che nel legno gi colpiti da dove pu riprendere la sua azione patogena quando la pianta si sveglia dal riposo invernale. The disease of peach-tree found in Versilia is very similar to the  Peach-canker  from Fusicoccum amygdali Del. which is actually widespread in the United States. The pathogen observed cannot be identified with Fusicoccum sp. but with Phomopsis sp. At any rate an exchange of information and of samples between the two countries will be useful for a better understanding of this case. In our country the above mentioned disease is till now strictly localize but is also very violent. The death of small branches appears generally after the winter from the swelling of the buds till summer. In this period the  picnidia  are formed. In late spring and in summer, if this is damp, other infections appear on the small branches of the year, in connection with buds or at the base of the branches, or whereever there is a wound. These infections develop themselves mostly in the following fall. Many infections on the most vigorous branches are encircled by the reaction of the plant. But the pathogen ist still alive in the bark of the plant and in the wood, already infected, where it may start again its action when the plant arises from its winter rest.
42873756|After having put in evidence the importance of the early ripening peach cultivare, the Author describes the morphological, biological and commercial characters of a new strain ( Gialla Precoce Morettini ) obtained by crosses J, H. Hale  (Lord Napier  Mayflower). Such a cultivar is one of the earliest yellow flesh free stone peaches grown in Italy; its trees are vigorous and heavy cropping.
42873758|Il pero  Kaiser  innestato su franco vegeta ottimamente. Quando  innestato direttamente su cotogno, invece, esso vegeta molto stentatamente e, dopo il primo anno, forma solo un debole fusto lungo circa 30 cm. e tendenzialmente orizzontale. Interponendo fra  Kaiser  e franco un tratto di fusto di cotogno si hanno piante che, dopo il primo anno, manifestano una vigoria analoga a quella della  Kaiser  su franco, pur rivelando tutti gli altri sintomi caratteristici della disaffinit fra  Kaiser  e cotogno (discontinuit della corteccia fra nesto ed intermediario, accumulo di amido nel nesto, ecc). Questi risultati vengono quindi discussi nel quadro delle attuali conoscenze sulla disaffinit d'innesto e sul meccanismo con cui il soggetto esplica la propria influenza. Le poirier  Kaiser  greff sur franc pousse parfaitement. Par contre, lorsqu'il est greff directement sur cognassier, il pousse trs pniblement et, au bout de la premire anne, il forme une tige faible d'une longueur d'environ 30 cm., tendent  crotre horizontalement. En interposant entre  Kaiser  et franc un morceau de tige de cognassier, on obtient des plantes qui, au bout de la premire anne, manifestent une vigueur analogue  celle du  Kaiser  sur franc tout en continuant  manifester les autres symptmes caractristiques de la non-affinit entre  Kaiser  et cognassier (discontinuit de l'corce entre greffon et intermdiaire, accumulation d'amidon dans le greffon, etc.). Ces rsultats sont discuts dans le cadre des connaissances actuelles sur la nonaffinit dans le greffage et sur la base du mcanisme par lequel le sujet dveloppe sa propre influence. The pear  Kaiser  grafted on pear seedlings grows well. On the contrary, when grafted directly on quince it grows very poorly and, after the first year, it develops only a weak stalk, about 30 cm. in length and with a tendence to spread horizontally. When between the scion  Kaiser  and the pear roostock a stem-piece of quince is interposed, one obtains stalks that, after the first year, show a vigour like that of the  Kaiser  directly grafted on pear seedlings. Nevertheless, the plants  Kaiser/quince/pear show all the other symptoms of the incompatibility wich oecours between  Kaiser  and quince (bark discontinuity, starch accumulation in the scion, etc.). The Author discusses those observations in relation to the present knowledges on the graft incompatibility and on the mechanism of the rootstock influence.
42873761|L'A. descrive le cultivar di fragola:  M. Lefebvre ,  Huxley 44 ,  Cambridge 32 ,  Royal Sovereign ,  Elite Climax s. c. 15 ,  Brusca ferrarese ,  M. Moutot , Belle de Meaux . Successivamente prende in considerazione le caratteristiche pomologiche ed agronomiche che presentano una particolare importanza per la loro valutazione. In this paper the following strawberry cultivars are described:  M. Lefebvre ,  Huxley 44 ,  Cambridge 32 ,  Royal Sovereign ,  Elite Climax s. c. 15 ,  Brusca ferrarese ,  M. Moutot ,  Belle de Meaux . The Autor refers about some pomological et agricultural characters that proved to be useful for their evaluation.
42873762|La presente nota che segue quella su  Le cultivar di Mandorlo nella provincia di Siracusa  presentata in sede di Congresso Internazionale del Mandorlo svoltosi a Bari nel settembre 1956, descrive dettagliatamente, sulla base di una dettagliata scheda opportunamente studiata, alcune cultivar fra quelle di grande e di media diffusione e che sono anche state distinte in base alle caratteristiche del seme come cultivar di pregio ( Pizzuta d'Avola  e  Fasciuneddu ) o come buone correnti ( Romana ,  Pilusedda  e  Regina ). Per il completamento dell'indagine, svolta a partire dalla primavera del 1953 con l'appoggio del contributo finanziario del Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche e dell'Assessorato per l'Agricoltura e le Foreste della Regione Siciliana, seguiranno altre note illustrative. In the paper the following five almond varieties, actually more cultivated in the Siracuse country, are described:  Pizzuta d'Avola ,  Fasciuneddu ,  Romana ,  Pilusedda  e  Regina . The diffusion of each variety is accurately described as well as their morphological, biological and agronomical characteristics. The author concludes with practical suggestions upon the choice of the variety.
42872895|L'autore espone i risultati di un'indagine pomologica comparativa su alcune cultivar di cotogno da frutto, italiane ed estere, appositamente raccolte presso l'azienda sperimentale del Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto, annessa all'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit di Firenze. L'indagine  stata condotta per un quinquennio, osservando e confrontando gli alberi delle seguenti cultivar, allevati in un unico ambiente e sempre con i medesimi criteri colturali :  di Bazine ,  di Bourgeault ,  Champion ,  della Cina ,  di Costantinopoli ,  Ekmek ,  Fabre ,  Gobek ,  Havan ,  di Leskovatz ,  Limon ,  Maliforme ,  Mollesca ,  di Patrasso ,  di Persia ,  del Portogallo ,  eker Gevrek ,  di Smyrne ,  Tavamba ,  Teke ,  Van Deman ,  di Vrania . The author describes the pomological cheracters of the following cultivars, designedly collected at the experiment orchard of the  Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto ,  Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree  University of Florence :  di Bazine ,  di Bourgeault ,  Champion ,  della Cina ,  di Costantinopoli ,  Ekmek ,  Fabre ,  Gobek ,  Havan ,  di Leskovatz ,  Limon ,  Maliforme ,  Mollesca ,  di Patrasso ,  di Persia ,  del Portogallo ,  eker Gevrek ,  di Smyrne ,  Tavamba ,  Teke ,  Van Deman ,  di Vrania .
42873501|Dopo avere analizzato dettagliatamente alcune caratteristiche morfofisiologiche del nespolo del Giappone (Eriobotrya Japonica L.), vengono riferiti i risultati relativi alle ricerche sulla biologia florale di 14 cultivar. Per ciascuna di esse  stato determinato il grado di allegagione, rispettivamente, nei fiori autofecondati, in quelli a fecondazione libera e in quelli a fecondazione incrociata. Solo poche cultivar sono risultate completamente autoincompatibili o da considerare tali per le bassissime percentuali di fiori autofecondati. La maggior parte, invece, ha fatto registrare, nei fiori insacchettati, una percentuale di allegagione pi o meno vicina a quella dei fiori liberi di controllo. Seguono, infine, alcune considerazioni sulle migliori combinazioni d'impianto per la consociazione di cultivar interfertili in alto grado e di pari pregio. Aprs avoir analys en dtail quelques caractristiques morpho-physiologiques du nflier du japon (Eriobotrya japonica L.), sont exposs les rsultats relatifs aux recherches sur la biologie florale de 14  cultivar . Pour chacune d'elles, il a t possible de dterminer le degr de nouure, respectivement dans les fleurs auto-fcondes, en celles  fcondation libre et en celles  fcondation croise. Seules quelques  cultivar  se sont manifestes tout  fait auto-incompatibles, ou presque,  cause de leurs tres bas pourcentages en fleurs auto-fcondes. La plupart, au contraire, ont permis d'enregistrer, dans les fleurs ensaches, un pourcentage de nouure plus ou moins proche de celui des fleurs libres de tout contrle. After a detailed analysis of some of the morpho-physiologic characteristics of the  Japanese Medlar  (Eriobotrya Japonica L.) a report is made of tre results relating to research work on the floral biology of 14 varieties. The degree of setting was determined for each one of them, respectively in the self-fecundated flowers, in those with free fecundation and in those with crossed fecundation. Only a few varieties turned out completely self-incompatible or to be considered such because of the extremely low percentages of self-fecundated flowers. Instead, most of them registered, in the bag-covered flowers, a setting percentage more or less close to that of the uncontrolled flowers. At the end there are some considerations concerning the best planting combinations for the association of some highly inter-fertile and equally valuable varieties.
42873775|Si porta all'attenzione degli agricoltori italiani il grave disseccamento dei peschi che si manifesta in alcune zone della Toscana. Tale disseccamento di natura parassitarla  dovuto molto probabilmente a Fusicoccum amygdali Del., fungo assai diffuso in Francia e negli Stati Uniti. Si farilevare che molto facilmente le manifestazioni di tale malattia possono farla attribuire a cause differenti e portare col tempo ad una cronicizzazione. L'on apporte l'attention des agriculteurs italiens sur le grave desschement des pchers qui se manifeste dans certaines zones de la Toscane. Tel desschement de nature parasitaire, est d trs probablement a Fusicoceum amigdali Del. champignon trs diffus en France et aux Etat-Unis. On fait remarqu que trs facilement les manifestations de cette maladie la puissent faire attribuer  des diffrentes causes et d'apporter, avec du temps,  sa chronicit.
42873791|In this paper the Author describes ten fig cultivare ( Buttada ,  Burdasciotta ,  Canaera ,  Duas Vias ,  Genovese ,  Gentile ,  Martinica ,  Mattal ,  Monteleone ,  Murena ) singled out in the province of Sassari (Sardinia). The Author concludes with some practical suggestions on the choice of the most suitable cultivars, in view to improve the fig production.
42873548|La vigoria iniziale dei germogli di pesco in primavera risulta tanto pi ridotta quanto pi tardi si  eseguita la potatura invernale, nonostante che l'epoca di schiusura delle gemme rimanga sempre la stessa. Allo scopo di apportare un contributo allo studio delle cause che determinano siffatto comportamento, sono state condotte alcune indagini per due anni consecutivi. Queste hanno permesso, fra l'altro, di accertare che: 1) lo sviluppo iniziale dei germogli  praticamente uguale anche se, invece di potare, si tolgono tutte le gemme sul tratto di ramo che avrebbe dovuto essere asportato, oppure se si esegue una decorticazione anulare in corrispondenza del punto in cui avrebbe dovuto essere applicato il taglio di potatura; 2) su questi ultimi rami decorticati, lo sviluppo iniziale dei primi germogli apicali  praticamente uguale a quello dei corrispondenti germogli apicali sui rami di controllo, ai quali non era stata applicata nessuna operazione di potatura. In base soprattutto a queste due osservazioni principali, si  indotti a ritenere che la vigoria iniziale dei germogli non sia determinata soltanto da cause nutrizionali, secondo i concetti pi comunemente diffusi, ma possa essere regolata anche da altri fattori ed in particolare da un meccanismo di inibizione che sarebbe fissato nelle gemme gi prima della loro chiusura, in rapporto alla posizione da queste occupata sul ramo. In spring time the initial vigour of peach shoots results the more reduced then the winther pruning is applied later nevertheless the buds opening time remains unchanged. In view to contribute for a best understanding of the causes of such a behaviour, some researches have been carried out for two consecutive years. Those allowed to ascertain that: 1) The initial growth of the shoots is pratically the same even if instead of pruning one takes away all the buds from the branch portion that should be cutted off, or if one takes away a ring of bark in the point were should be applied the pruning cut; 2) on the ringed branches the initial growth of the first apical shoots is practically the same then the corresponding apical shoots on the control branches, wich are left without any pruning operation. Above all, on the basis of those two observations one is induced to think that the initial shoot vigour is not caused by nutritional causes only, following the more diffuse conception, but could be caused even by other factors and particularly by a mechanism of inhibition wich should be fixed in the buds allready before their opening, in relation with their position on the branch.
42873553|L'A. descrive due casi di sterilit da anomalia in meli  Abbondanza  ad eziologia incerta. Dopo avere eseguito prove di innesto di marze prelevate dai meli anormali su meli normali e viceversa, ritiene necessario indagare ulteriormente sulla possibilit di una eventuale eziologia virosica. L'autore non esclude anche l'eventualit di una mutazione gemmaria derivante dall'innesto sui due meli di marze provenienti un. un ramo prodotto da una mutazione gemmaria. Two cases of sterility in  Abbondanza  apples are refered to. Several grafting trials, either of anomalous individuals upon normal or viceversa, strengthen the opinion that the origin of the fenomenon may be traced to a graft with scions anomalous for bud mutation, although the hypothesis of viral infection must not completely ruled out.
42873554|L'autore descrive alcune manifestazioni di natura probabilmente virosica osservate su piante di Pelargonium sp. e. di Tropaeolum majus. Sono in corso ricerche sperimentali. L'auteur dcrit quelques manifestations de probable nature virosique observes sur des plantes di Pelargonium sp. et de Tropaeolum majus. Des recherches exprimentales sont en cours.
42873885|Nella presente nota vengono riferiti i risultati preliminari di una prova di conservabilit della pera Max Red Bartlett in frigorifero in relazione a tre epoche diverse di raccolta.  apparso che nel 1958 il momento migliore per la raccolta  caduto nella terza decade di agosto; infatti i frutti raccolti in tale periodo e conservati sino alla fine di dicembre - inizio di gennaio, in frigorifero, hanno avuto una maturazione perfettamente normale. Nel corso delle osservazioni effettuate,  risultato anche che le pere raccolte piuttosto acerbe sono prima delle altre esposte al riscaldo ed al disfacimento del cuore.
42873887|Viene descritta la muffa grigia dei pomidori indotta da Botrytis cinerea Pers. manifestatasi in forma molto grave in Sardegna nelle coltivazioni in serra. Le prove d'inoculazione artificiale effettuate tanto su piante allevate in serra quanto su piante coltivate all'aperto hanno dimostrato  come del resto era da prevedere  che il parassita penetra nelle piante preferibilmente attraverso lesioni, tra le quali hanno la massima importanza pratica quelle prodotte da una potatura verde mal eseguita. Vengono infine passati in rassegna i vari mezzi di lotta consigliati dagli Autori e messa in rilievo l'importanza di quelli preventivi-agronomici.
42873888|Gli A.A., nella presente nota, riferiscono sui resultati di indagini e ricerche eseguite fino dal 1957 sulle cultivar di ciliegio individuate in Provincia di Pisa e in particolare nella zona delle colline dove solo esiste una vera coltura del ciliegio. Dapprima sono state individuate le cultivar :  Elia ,  Crognolo ,  Cuore ,  Del Meini ,  Del Paretaio ,  Di Giardino ,  Di Guglielmo ,  Di Nello ,  Gambolungo ,  Marchiana ,  Mar chiarella ,  Montegrappa ,  Montemagno ,  Morella ,  Morellona ,  Orlando ,  Papalina ,  Precoce della Marca ,  Precoce di Cevoli . Sono state quindi descritte seguendo una scheda pomologica che considera i caratteri morfologici, biologici e agronomici. Sono stati riportati anche i dati relativi all'epoca di fioritura e di maturazione per ogni cultivar di cui si fa cenno anche della importanza e della diffusione. Les A.A. de la note en question sont relatifs aux rsultats des tudes et des rcherches qui ont eu lieu depuis 1957 sur la cultivation des cerisiers dans la Province de Pise et particulirement dans la region collinaire, la seule ou l'on puisse parler d'une effective culture des cerises. Tout d'abord on a individu les cultivar:  Elia ,  Crognolo ,  Cuore ,  Del Meini ,  Del Paretaio ,  Di Giardino ,  Di Guglielmo ,  Di Nello ,  Gambolungo ,  Marchianella ,  Marchiana , Montegrappa ,  Montemagno ,  Morella ,  Morellona ,  Orlando ,  Papalina ,  Precoce della Marca ,  Precoce di Cevoli . Ces dernires ont t ensuite dcrites en suivant les indications de la carte pomologique, qui prende on consideration Ics caractres morphologiques, biologiques et agronomiques. On y rapporte aussi bien les donnes relatives  l'poque du fleurissement et mrissement de chaque cultivar, dont on note aussi l'estension et la diffusion. The Authors in this work describe the research made since 1957 on cherry cultivare, discovered in the Pisa Province, particularly in the hills, where a really true cherry cultivation exists. At first the following cultivars were identified:  Elia ,  Crognolo ,  Cuore ,  Del Meini ,  Del Paretaio ,  Di Giardino ,  Di Guglielmo ,  Di Nello ,  Gambolungo ,  Marchiana ,  Marchianella ,  Montegrappa ,  Montemagno ,  Morella ,  Morellona ,  Orlando ,  Papalina ,  Precoce della Marca ,  Precoce di Cevoli . Consequently they were described following a pomologi cai scheme, which considers the morphological, biological, and agronomic characters. Also the information regarding the blooming and the maturation period are related for each cultivar, whose importance and diffusion are also mentioned. Die Verfasser beziehen sich in der anliegenden Notiz auf die Erfolge der seit 1957 angefuerten Untersuchungen von Kirschbaumanbau in der Provinz von Pisa, und ins besondere auf den Huegeln, wo es allein einen wirklichen Kirschbaumanbau gibt. Zunchst wurden die folgenden Cultivar festgestellt:  Elia ,  Crognolo , Cuore ,  Del Meini ,  Del Paretaio ,  Di Giardino ,  Di Guglielmo ,  Di Nello ,  Gambolungo ,  Marchiana ,  Marchianella ,  Montegrappa ,  Montemagno ,  Morella ,  Morellona ,  Orlando ,  Papalina ,  Precoce della Marca ,  Precoce di Cevoli  . Danach wurden sie nach einem pomologischen Plan beschrieben der ihren morphologischen, biologischen und agronomischen Karakter umfasst. Es werden auch Einzelheiten ber die Blhte  und Reifzeit jeder einzelnen Sorte erwhnt, sowie deren Wichtigkeit und Verbreitung.
42873892|L'A., dopo una breve introduzione, esamina il problema dei Nematodi, parassiti delle colture floreali, e degli Acari con particolare riferimento al Tetranychus urticae Koch., assai dannoso ed altamente polifago. Di alcune specie pi importanti fornisce alcuni cenni biologici, ricorda le cultivar pi attaccate ed i sistemi di lotta pi efficaci. Fra i vari Insetti del terreno sottolinea le Agrotidi e la Grillotalpa. Successivamente riferisce in particolare sui principali parassiti animali e vegetali che attaccano il Garofano, la Rosa ed il Gladiolo unitamente ad altre piante da bulbo di minore importanza. L'A., auspicando l'organizzazione dei floricoltori nella lotta contro gli Insetti e le Crittogame, conclude asserendo che in generale le colture floricole della Toscana (particolarmente quelle del Pesciatino) si mantengono sane grazie ai razionali interventi di lotta antiparassitaria con conseguente immunit dei prodotti ricavati (fiori recisi).
42873895|Viene segnalata in Sardegna la presenza del  mal bianco  della violacciocca (su Matthiola incana (L.) R. Br. e M. sinuata R. Br.) causato da Oidium Matthiolae Rayss. Vengono descritti la sintomatologia della malattia e i caratteri morfologici dell'agente patogeno. Si tratta della prima segnalazione di Oidium Matthiolae Rayss in Italia. Symptoms of  mildew  on Matthiola incana (L.) R. Br. and M. sinuata R. Br. caused by Oidium Matthiolae Rayss and morphological characters of the fungus are described. It is the first record of this disease in Italy (Sardinia).
42873572|Nel comprensorio ortovivaistico di Pescia  stata rinvenuta, per diversi anni di seguito, una malattia del garofano dovuta a Phytophthora palmivora Butl. Il parassita, di cui sono descritte le caratteristiche, colpisce in prevalenza le giovani piantine di talea, provocandone il disseccamento del germoglio apicale ed a volte anche la morte. L'alterazione compare verso la fine dell'estate, quando a temperature assai alte si accompagna un'elevata umidit ed interessa solo alcune cultivar ottenute per ibridazione da coltivatori locali. A disease of the carnation caused by Phytophthora palmivora Butl., has been observed for several years. The fungus, whose characteristics are here described, generally attacks the young plants originated from cuttings, causing the wilt of a part of them or even their complete death. This disease appears towards the end of summer, when a high temperature is accompanied by high umidity, and attacks only a few cultivar of a limited interest.
42873824|L'A. riferisce in merito alle ricerche da lui compiute sulle caratteristiche del sistema radicale del ciliegio innestato su selvatico nell'ambiente agropedologico della Valpolicella, una delle zone a pi intensa cerasicoltura del Veronese. In base ai rilievi eseguiti sul sistema radicale, interamente messo a nudo, di due alberi di trentacinque anni di et, ed alle osservazioni condotte in seguito all'escavazione parziale di vari altri ciliegi in aziende della zona, pone particolarmente in evidenza: a) la prevalente distribuzione delle radici in vicinanza della superficie e lungo la direzione del filare; b) la notevole espansione delle radici al difuori della proiezione della chioma; c) il grande numero di radici, anche di notevole diametro, interrotte dalle lavorazioni del suolo per le colture erbacee consociate; d) le sfavorevoli caratteristiche fisiche del suolo al disotto dei 50 cm. di profondit. Dopo aver richiamato l'attenzione sugli inconvenienti che possono derivare dalla scarsa permeabilit del suolo e dalla consociazione del ciliegio con la vite, rileva i difetti della tecnica colturale e di impianto attuata nella zona e ne suggerisce le opportune modifiche pur ritenendo che, per le particolari caratteristiche del suolo, nell'ambiente da lui considerato (Vallata di Negrar) la coltura del ciliegio possa attuarsi con sufficiente tranquillit assicurando la disponibilit di acqua per irrigazioni di soccorso nei periodi di siccit. The author refers on some researches carried out on the behaviour of the root systems of Cherry trees  Mora di Cazzano  thirty five years olds, grafted on C. avium L., in Valpolicella (Verona). The results of the investigations have shown that the root systems go far beyond the branch spread and are very shallow and chiefly developed along the row in consequence of the very little permeability of the soil. On the basis of these results the author discusses some practical suggestions in relation to the ploughing for the establishment, the irrigation, the manuring and cultivation methods.
42873826|Vengono esposti i risultati di un'indagine pomologica comparativa su alcune cultivar locali italiane di ciliegio acido, appositamente raccolte presso l'Azienda sperimentale del Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto, annesso all'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit di Firenze. Sono state descritte le seguenti cultivar :  di Pescara ,  di Piemonte ,  di montagna ,  di Verona ,  di Vignola ,  di Vignola a peduncolo corto ,  di Vignola a peduncolo lungo ,  di Zara A  e  di Zara B . The Author describes the pomological characters of the following sour cherries cultivar, designedly collected at the experimental orchard of the  Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto ,  Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree  University of Florence :  di Pescara ,  di Piemonte ,  di montagna ,  di Verona ,  di Vignola ,  di Vignola a peduncolo corto ,  di Vignola a peduncolo lungo ,  di Zara A ,  di Zara B .
42873828|Viene riferito su una serie di prove di germinazione condotte nell'intento di esaminare l'azione esercitata dalle gibberelline sulla energia germinativa e sulla germinabilit dei semi di nove specie da orto. I risultati ottenuti consentono di concludere che l'azione stimolante delle gibberelline sulla energia germinativa e sulla germinabilit si manifesta solo per i semi di alcune specie, ed ha, pertanto, carattere specifico. Essa, inoltre, non raggiunge un grado di intensit molto elevato e, comunque, non tale da suggerire alcuna pratica applicazione. Es wurden Keimversuche durchgefhrt, wobei der Einfluss des Gibberellins auf der Samenkeimung von 9 Gemsearten geprft worden ist. Nach der Versuchsergebnissen konnte festgestellt werden, dass die Keimung des Saatgutes von einigen Gemsearten durch die Anwendung des Gibberellins beschleunigt werden kann, und dass die Gibberellin nicht bei allen geprften Gemsearten wirksam ist.
42873831|Viene segnalata in Sardegna (Sassari) la presenza dell'alternariosi della Zinnia causata da Alternaria Zinniae Pape, e vengono descritti la sintomatologia della malattia ed i caratteri morfologici dell'agente patogeno. Si tratta della prima segnalazione della malattia e della suddetta entit micologica, in Italia. Symptoms of leaf and stem blight of Zinnia sp., caused by Alternaria Zinniae Pape and morphological characters of the fungus are described. It is the first record of the disease in Italy (Sassari - Sardinia).
42873832|On signale un cas pathologique, nouveau pour l'Italie, provoqu par un champignon du genre Phytophthora. On discute sur l'attribution de ce champignon  P. cryptogea ou P. infestans et sur les mthodes de lutte.
42873859|I principali sintomi della disaffinit d'innesto fra il pero  Kaiser  ed il cotogno sono: 1) caratteristico sviluppo stentato del nesto  Kaiser , 2) accumulo di amido nel nsto e relativa carenza nel soggetto, 3) discontinuit fra i tessuti dei due bionti al punto d'innesto. Questi tre sintomi, comuni anche a molti altri casi di disaffinit, hanno dimostrato di non essere necessariamente legati ed interdipendenti tra loro; infatti, le indagini condotte nano messo in evidenza che ciascuno di essi pu manifestarsi da solo, oppure insieme ad uno od a tutti gli altri, a seconda della reciproca posizione che i due bionti disaffini vengono ad assumere con l'innesto. Sulla base di tali osservazioni, quindi, i sintomi suddetti sembrano probabilmente determinati da fattori diversi; pertanto, il quadro sintomatologico caratteristico di un determinato caso di disaffinit d'innesto potrebbe risultare pi o meno complesso perla concomitanza e la interazione di pi cause diverse. The main symptoms of the pear/quince uncongeniality are: 1) poor scions growth, 2) lack of the starch in the rootstock, 3) structural defects at the union. Comparing all the possible graft combinations between quince and pear  Kaiser , it has been stated that each one of the above mentioned symptoms may appear alone or joint with one or both the others in relation with the reciprocal position of the two uncongenial partners. It seems, therefore, that each symptom, often indipendent from the others, may probably occur because of a different factors interplay.
42873861|The Authors refer about some observations carried out in Sardinia on the Sour Orange root systems. Investigations, performed in some nurseries and in two established Citrus groves, have shown that: a) -the tap root of the young seedlings, cut off during transplantation, is substituted by secondary roots wich mainly sprout near the end of the damaged primary root; b) - in the old, transplanted trees the greatest amount of the roots have been found in the upper levels of the soil, 10 to 50-90 cm deep, forwarding for three, four times the area for each tree corresponding to the branches projection on the soil. Negative influences amoung the root systems of Citrus and interplanted Peach trees have been put in evidence by their relative distribution in the soil. On the basis of their observations the Authors conclude with some suggestions for the improvement of the cultural methods applied in the Citrus orchards of Sardinia.
42873865|E segnalata una singolare alterazione su colture di pomodoro (Solarium Lycopersicum cv.  Marmande ) allevato in serra nei pressi di Perugia; il danno  attribuito a sostanze gassose emesse dalla vernice di copertura della serra. Sono descritti i sintomi dell'alterazione consistenti in ustionature di foglie cotiledonari e in decolorazioni fogliari, sotto forma di macchie gialle o biancastre sulle foglie che causano, in seguito, un intristimento generale delle piante. L'alterazione  stata riprodotta sperimentalmente anche sul cetriolo (Cucumis satvus cv.  mezzo lungo verde di Chioggia ). Sono, infine, considerate alcune condizioni che possono aver favorito l'emissione di gas nocivo alla vegetazione. Vapours coming from varnish used in painting greenhouse's frames are the cause of some damages in tomato leaves (Solarium Lycopersicum cv.  Marmande ). The cotyledon-leaves showed burning marginal areas while in normal leaves yellow or white spots appeared. Such symptoms were artificially obtained also in cucumber leaves (Cucumis sativus cv.  mezzo lungo verde di Chioggia ). Conditions favouring the emission of the hurtful vapours, are considered.
42873615|Gli AA. dopo avere fatto presenti le difficolt che si incontrano per combattere il M. ulmi, con i mezzi attualmente a disposizione, riportano i risultati ottenuti da varie prove effettuate sia alla fine dell'inverno, con ol gialli ed altri prodotti che agiscono sulle uova ibernanti, che su altre prove effettuate nel periodo primaverileestivo con acaricidi selettivi che agiscono sulle forme attive. Altre prove riguardano la selettivit degli stessi prodotti nei confronti degli insetti, siano essi nocivi o utili, che possono trovarsi sulle piante al momento del trattamento. Infine riportano i risultati ottenuti con prodotti sistemici somministrati alle piante per irrorazioni al terreno. Gli AA. nelle loro prove primaverili-estive, di proposito, non hanno impiegato prodotti fosforganici di sintesi poich sono del parere che oltre a non risultare molto efficaci, a causa di una certa assuefazione da parte degli acaridi, costituiscono un grave pericolo per i turbamenti e gli squilibri biologici che possono determinare con la soppressione della fauna utile. Gli AA. sono del parere che al momento attuale il migliore sistema per combattere il M. ulmi  quello di effettuare un trattamento invernale con ol gialli per cercare di devitalizzare il maggior numero possibile di uova, seguito nel caso e se ne presenti la necessit da uno o pi trattamenti con acaricidi selettivi in estate. Infine, gli AA. forniscono dei suggerimenti agli agricoltori sul come devono orientarsi nella lotta contro tutti gli artropodi nocivi per cercare di recare il minimo danno possibile agli insetti utili ed agli acari predatori. After pointing out the difficulty of fighting. M. ulmi with the ordinary means now available, the Authors survey the results obtained through a number of tests carried out by them the end of the winter season with yellow oils and other products acting on hibernating eggs, and also during the spring-summer period with selective acaricides acting on active forms of pests. Other tests were carried out with a view to investigating the selectivity of the same products in respect of both harmful and useful insects that can be found on the plants in the course of treatment. Further the Authors describe the results of experiments with systemic products conveyed to plants through toil-spraying. In the course of the spring-summer tests they did not deliberately employ any phospho-organic and synthetic products, as they are convinced that these products, in addition to having a restricted effectiveness owing to pests soon getting accustomed to them, are also a serious danger for the disturbance of the biological balance they can bring about through suppression of useful fauna. The Authors meintain that, for the time being, the best way of fighting M. ulmi in a winter-treatment with yellow oils intended to devitalize the largest possible number of hibernating, coupled, where necessary, with one or two more summertreatments with selective acaricides. The Authors conclude by giving advice to agriculturists as to how the fight of harmful arachnids should be conducted, in order to cause the smallest possible damage to useful insects and predatory mites.
42873152|Nel grande campo delle conoscenze sull'influenza degli elementi micronutritivi nella vita delle piante, solo da qualche anno si  cominciato ad esplorare il settore delle piante da fiore. Si tratta, come  noto, di ricerche rese complesse da interferenze ed antagonismi multipli, studiati solo in parte e prevalentemente, finora, nelle piante alimentari. La presente Relazione  un riassunto dei risultati ottenuti fino ad oggi sui rapporti: microelementi  piante da fiore ; in special modo garofani e rose. Le esperienze fatte in Italia si riferiscono esclusivamente ai terreni e alle colture della provincia di Imperia. Per quanto riguarda i garofani, sono stati constatati i fatti seguenti: influenza favorevole del litio sullo sviluppo vegetativo, sulla quantit, e il tempo della fioritura ; nessuna influenza del boro somministrato sperimentalmente in aggiunta alle quantit gi esistenti nei nostri terreni ; azione dannosa del molibdeno ; nessuna influenza del cobalto, dello zinco, del magnesio ; sono risultati assenti dalle piante di garofano : rame, cobalto, zinco e bario ; presenti : litio, boro, manganese, ferro, molibdeno, alluminio. Per quanto riguarda le rose,  stata constatata l'influenza dannosa del litio e nessuna influenza del boro somministrato sperimentalmente in aggiunta al terreno comune di coltura. Le analisi chimiche hanno dimostrato la presenza nelle nostre rose coltivate di tracce o di piccole percentuali di molibdeno e di cobalto, quantit dosabili di boro, manganese, zinco, rame, titanio e notevoli quantit di magnesio. Per per quanto riguarda lo zinco e il rame sono da tenere in considerazione gli apporti dovuti agli anticrittogamici somministrati durante i cinque anni della coltivazione. Sono risultati assenti dalle piante di rosa gli elementi : litio e bario (assenti pure dal terreno), vanadio, berillo e zirconio. Tali referti hanno puramente valore orientativo. Data la complessit del tema, ho in programma ulteriori ricerche agronomiche e chimiche sullo studio dei microelementi in rapporto alle piante da fiore.
42873154|L'A. riferisce sulle ricerche da lui compiute nel Veronese sul sistema radicale del pesco al fine di accertare se, in quel particolare ambiente, siano pi o meno giustificate talune pratiche colturali attuate in numerose aziende della zona. In seguito alla completa messa a nudo del sistema radicale di cinque alberi adulti, scelti in aziende nelle quali erano rappresentati i tipi di terreno caratteristici della provincia di Verona, I'A. pone in evidenza alcuni aspetti fondamentali del comportamento del sistema radicale del pesco in quella zona, e cio : a) la prevalente distribuzione delle radici in vicinanza della superficie, fenomeno accentuato dal limitato spessore del terreno agrario ; b) la grande espansione del sistema radicale al di fuori della superficie interessata dalla proiezione della chioma sul terreno, espansione proporzionalmente assai maggiore di quella che si riscontra in terreni di pi elevata fertilit e spessore ; c) il grande numero di anni che devono trascorrere prima che il sistema radicale di un pesco possa esplorare la zona occupata dalla ceppaia e dalle grosse radici di un pesco contiguo estirpato per le ragioni pi varie. L'A. ha poi osservato nei suoi rilievi che i sistemi radicali di due o pi alberi contigui non si incrociano, nel terreno, neppure a quote diverse, per cui ogni sistema radicale sembra vivere e svilupparsi in una determinata massa di terreno senza invadere la zona esplorata dalle radici dell'albero contiguo, per quanto vicino questo possa trovarsi. Ed ha accertato che, di conseguenza, quanto pi limitata  la distanza di piantagione lungo il filare, tanto maggiore  l'espansione delle radici verso il centro dell'interfilare. Tale fenomeno merita di essere ulteriormente studiato, in quanto non risulta finora segnalato da altri ricercatori. Sulla base delle osservazioni suesposte, ed anche a seguito di numerosi rilievi compiuti in diverse aziende rappresentative, I'A. conclude ponendo in evidenza taluni elementi negativi della tecnica di piantagione e di coltura del pesco nel Veronese ed indica le norme generali da seguire per il miglioramento della tecnica colturale e della produzione. The A. refers on its investigations on the peach roots distribution in the characteristic soils of the Verona province. On the basis of observations made in many representative farms and after the excavation of entire root system of five peach trees in different types of soil, the author puts particularly in evidence: a) the peach roots growth near under the surface of the ground, chiefly on account of the limited thickness of the ground itself; b) the root system, in this soils, goes far beyond the branch spread, about in the ratio of 3: 1; c) many years must elapsed before the roots of a peach tree can explore the soil explored by the stump and largest roots of a neighbouring peach tree, whatever the reason of the uprooting of this. The author also observed that each peach root system spreads in a definite zone of soil and its roots don't explore the soil that is explored by the roots of a neighbouring peach tree, even though very near established. Consequently, the more near are the trees along the row, the more the roots spread into the soil between the rows. On the basis of its observations the author discusses some practical suggestions in relation to the improvement of cultivation methods of the peach tree in Verona's province.
42873157|Nelle coltivazioni di garofano della zona di Pescia, si sono manifestate, in questi ultimi anni, delle alterazioni di una certa gravit che non erano mai state osservate in passato. Esse si sono presentate ed hanno mostrato i pi gravi sintomi durante i mesi primaverili ed hanno colpito le cultivars Venere, Elia, Remo, Withe Sim, William Sim, Claudia, nonch altre di minore interesse. I sintomi pi frequentemente osservati sono stati i seguenti: sulle foglie macchie rotondeggianti o lineari, dapprima clorotiche, poi necrotiche, interessanti tutto lo spessore del mesofillo o limitate ad una sola parte di esso. Sui fusti strie depresse e allungate e strozzature necrotiche su internodi erbacei. Il fiore  rimasto normale in tutti i casi osservati. Microscopicamente, in corrispondenza delle zone alterate, si  osservata la formazione di un tessuto ipertrofico privo o povero di cloroplasti, in seno al quale le cellule sono spesso andate incontro a necrosi, con conseguenti formazioni di linee brune o di ampi tratti disseccati. Le suddette alterazioni, in base alle osservazioni effettuate, non possono essere imputate a parassiti crittogamici, n, quasi sicuramente, a parassiti animali, o a cure colturali errate od a condizioni climatiche o pedologiche avverse, ma piuttosto fanno pensare ad alterazioni da virus. Da una ricerca bibliografica sulle virosi del garofano abbiamo infatti notato che la sintomatologia del nostro caso patologico assomiglia a quella provocata dal virus  Streak . Tentativi di trasmissione da piante malate a piante sane effettuati per innesto, per succo, per afidi, non ci hanno dato resultati soddisfacenti, non  per da escludere che ci sia dovuto ad una tecnica imperfetta usata nelle prove suddette. Sono in programma nuove indagini ampliate e modificate. Since a few years in the carnation plantations around Pescia a disease of a certain severity has appeared which had never before been observed. It occours or it is more serious during the spring months and it affects the cultivars Venere Elia, Remo, White Sim, William Sim, Claudia and other less important. The symptoms more frequently observed are: on the leaves round or linear spots chlorotic at first ; then necrotic, affecting the mesophyl through all its thickness, or only a portion of it. On the erbaceous internodes of the stems there are depressed and elongated streaks and necrotic shrinkages. The flowers as far as we have observed are normal. Section across the altered areas microscopically have shown an hypertrophie tissue with few or any cloroplasts at all, in this tissue the cells often become necrotic and dark lines or lacunas are further found. According to our findings these alterations cannot be imputed to any pathogen or, with every probability, to any pest or to any damage following cultural practices or unfavorable climatic or pedological conditions, everything points to virus induced alterations. From the literature on carnation virus diseases the symptoms we have observed appear very similar to  Streak . Efforts to transmit the disease to healthy plants by grafting, by juice inoculation and by aphids have not been successful; this perhaps is due to the technique employed. Futher research is still in progress.
42873665|Gli AA., allo scopo di contribuire agli studi sulla resistenza di organi vegetali ricchi di antociani agli effetti dell'aggressione da parte di micromiceti, hanno condotto una serie di ricerche, sulla resistenza stessa, in frutti di melo di varia colorazione e corrispondenti a diverse cultivar. Inoculando Pnicillium expansum attraverso una abrasione della cuticola su mele mature e sane, tracciano un quadro del comportamento di detti frutti all'aggressione del fungo. Sono stati condotti esperimenti sia su frutti interi che dimezzati : in tal modo si sono potuti osservare anche i vari comportamenti di resistenza della polpa all'aggressione del fungo stesso. Gli AA. concludono che le mele rugginose sono pi resistenti delle altre all'aggressione da parte del Pnicillium, grazie alla loro epidermide spessa e resistente. Le mele a buccia rossa o comunque le parti rosse dell'epidermide di detti frutti resistono pi di quelle a buccia gialla o verdastra, con una media di giorni 10,2 contro 8,7 e 7,4 dall'inoculo. Si presenta infine una tabella in cui sono citati tutti i campioni studiati, indicando per ognuno di essi, il numero dei giorni di resistenza alla marcescenza in rapporto alla colorazione della loro epidermide. The authors, in order to contribute to the knowledge of the resistance of vegetable organs rich in anthocyanin pigments, in regard to aggression by fungi, have carried out many researches on fruits of several apple tree cultivare with reference to the different coloration of their skin. The authors, give a description of the behaviour of the fruits inoculated with Penicillium expansum by abrasion of the cuticule. The observations have been carried out on entire and on divided into halves fruits thus it was also possible to observe various resistance degress of the pulp to the fungin aggression. The authors conclude that the russet apples are greater resistante to the aggression of Pnicillium, in relation to their thick and strong epidermis. The apples with completely of partially red skin resist more than those with yellow or green skin, with an average of 10,2 days against 8,7 and 7,4 from the inoculation. In the table 1, the number of days from the inoculation and the marcescence rising are summarized in relation to the cultivars and the coloration of the skin.
42873666|The Author relates on some fruits (apricot, sweet and sour cherry, orange), vegetables (artichoke and green bean) and flowers (mimosa), storage experiments. The storage process consists on rarefying the oxygen and replacing it with inert nitrogen. A storage temperature of 8 + 12C have been used.
42873667|L'Autore riferisce su una alterazione del crisantemo la cui causa  principalmente imputabile allo squilibrio che si determina nella pianta in conseguenza della tecnica colturale cui essa viene sottoposta. The Author refers about a physiological disease of Chrysanthemum; principally it is due to a displacement of the equilibrium of the plant on account of its cultural tecnique.
42873646|Si riferisce brevemente sui risultati di due anni di ricerche sulla biologia fiorale di sei cultivar premici di mandorlo delle Provincie di Palermo e di Agrigento. Per le cv.  Cavaliera ,  Moliese da tavola ,  Moliese Pizzuta ,  Pistacchio  e  Mollisetta   stato riscontrata una bassissima percentuale di allegagione dei fiori autofecondati, tanto da farle ritenere praticamente autoincompatibili ; peraltro, le prime tre e le ultime due possono fecondarsi fra di loro. La sola cv.  Mollisona , con una percentuale di allegagione dei fiori autofecondati pari al 6% circa, pu essere ritenuta autocompatibile. Per tutte le cultivar, infine, vengono riportati i dati relativi alle epoche di fioritura e di maturazione, nonch le caratteristiche del prodotto commerciabile. Il s'agit d'un rapide compte-rendu des rsultats de deux annes de recherches sur la biologie florale de six varits a coque tendre d'amandiers des Provinces de Palerme et d'Agrigente. Dans les varits  Cavaliera ,  Moliese da tavola ,  Mollese Pizzuta ,  Pistacchio  et  Mollisetta  il a t observ un trs faible pourcentage de fleurs autofcondes si bien que ces fleurs peuvent tre considres auto-incompatibles, au moins au point de vue pratique; cependant, les trois premires varits et les deux dernires peuvent se fconder entre elles. La varit  Mollisona  seulement, avec un pourcentage de 6% de fleurs autofcondes, peut tre considre auto-incompatible. Pour toutes les varits, enfin, sont indiques les donnes relatives  l'poque de la floraison et de la maturation, de mme que les caractristiques moyennes du produit pouvant tre destin au commerce. The Author refers briefly about the results of two-year researches carried on the flower biology of six varieties of soft-shell almond trees grown in the provinces of Palermo and Agrigento. Very low percentages of self-pollinated flowers have been observed for the varieties called  Cavaliera ,  Mollese da tavola ,  Mollese pizzuta ,  Pistacchio , and  Mollisetta , that result self-incompatible, at least from a practical point of view ; however, the first three varieties and the last two varieties are able to cross-pollinate. The only  Mollisona  variety can be considered as being self-compatible as it has shown a percentage of about 6% of self-pollina ted flowers. The report includes data on the flowering and ripening seasons for all fo the varieties tested as well on the average characteristics of their marketable product.
42873648|Vengono riferiti i risultati di indagini condotte durante il triennio 1956-58, allo scopo di precisare l'influenza esercitata dalla diversa tecnica colturale applicata al terreno (lavorazioni superficiali ripetute; incoltura; incoltura e copertura del terreno con paglia), sul comportamento del sistema radicale degli alberi di pesco e sull'andamento delle disponibilit idriche del terreno durante il periodo estivo.
42873650|L'A., dopo avere accennato alle caratteristiche della coltura del fico in Provincia di Pisa ed averne sottolineata la discreta consistenza numerica, specialmente nella zona collinare del Valdarno inferiore e nella Pianura Pisana, passa a descrivere i caratteri morfologici, biologici ed agronomici delle singole cultivar individuate tra le migliori :  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco ,  Piombinese ,  Nerello ,  Brogiotto bianco ,  Brogiotto nero ,  Pistoiese ,  Pesciatino ,  Sanguinello vero ,  Sanguinello piccolo ,  Corso ,  Lungo ,  San Martino ,  Rossolino ,  Dell'Immaginina . Sulla base delle osservazioni condotte, vengono segnalate le seguenti cultivar degne di essere maggiormente diffuse:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco ,  Piombinese . The Author describes the characteristics of the fig cultivation in the Province of Pisa and considers the importance especially on the hills of South Valdarno and on the Pisa plain. He outlines the morphological, biological and agricultural characters of each cultivar, choosing them among the best:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco ,  Piombinese ,  Nerello ,  Brogiotto bianco ,  Brogiotto nero ,  Pistoiese ,  Pesciatino ,  Sanguinello vero ,  Sanguinello piccolo ,  Corso ,  Lungo ,  San Martino ,  Rossolino ,  Dell'Immaginina . Considering theese observations, the Author signalizes the cultivars deserving to be more diffused:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco ,  Piombinese . L'Auteur aprs avoir dcrit les charactristiques de la cultivations du figuier dans la Province de Pise et aprs avoir dit que celle l a une certaine consistence numerique spcialement sur les collines du Valdarno inferieur et sur la plaine de Pisa, commence  dcrire les charactres morphologiques, biologiques et agronomiques de chaque cultivar parmi les meilleures choisies:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco ,  Piombinese ,  Brogiotto bianco ,  Brogiotto nero ,  Pistoiese ,  Pesciatino ,  Sanguinello vero ,  Sanguinello piccolo ,  Corso ,  Lungo ,  San Martino ,  Rossolino ,  Dell'Immaginina . D'aprs les observations fates sont signales le cultivars dignes d'tre bien diffuses:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco ,  Piombinese .
42873652|Carnation tracheomycosis caused by Phialophora cinerescens (Wr.) van Bey ma (= Verticillium cinerescens Wr.) has been studied in the Sanremo district and reference is made to some methods for the control of the pathogen.
42873840|Cambial temperatures in whitewashed and unpainted trunks of sweet orange young trees, daily recorded in summer over a period of four months (June 1st-September 30th, 1959), are reciprocally compared and related with the daily maximum of air temperature. Data summarized in the Tables 1, 2, 3, 4, indicate that: a) the cambium temperatures may reach very high levels in respect with the air temperatures; b) the cambium maxima temperatures of painted white trunks are lower than those detected, at the same time, in the unpainted trunks; c) whitewashing prevents the extreme daily fluctuations of the cambium temperature. Anatomical examination of the bark has shown a greater amount of  functioning phloem  in the painted white trunks, indicating a more efficient cambial activity. On the basis of those results the practical value of whitewashing trunks and branches in young or defoliated trees has been emphasized.
42873841|L'Autore descrive le caratteristiche della coltura del ciliegio nella provincia di Verona, la sua evoluzione nel tempo e l'ambiente nel quale viene attuata, rilevando l'importanza che la produzione cerasicola veronese ha nei riguardi della frutticoltura veneta e nazionale. Indica quindi le indagini fenologiche e pomologiche da lui compiute su un primo gruppo di cultivar diffuse nella provincia di Verona, riporta i risultati delle ricerche sulla biologia della fecondazione indicando i migliori impollinatori, e infine descrive le cultivar  Ciliegia dalla punta ,  Durona di Verona ,  Duroncino di Cazzano ,  Moretta  e  Seconda  esprimendo una classifica di merito in base ai loro caratteri biologici, morfologici ed agronomici. The characteristics of the cherry culture in the Verona district are described. The Author also relates about his researches performed on the floral biology (blossoming period, pollinisation, self-and inter-sterility) and describes the most important characters of the following five cultivars :  Ciliegia dalla punta ,  Durona di Verona ,  Duroncino di Cazzano ,  Moretta ,  Seconda . L'Auteur illustre les caractristiques de la culture du cerisier dans la province de Verona, son importance et le milieu de cultivation. L'Auteur expose, ensuite, les rsultats des recherches qu'il a accompli sur les diffrents aspects de la biologie de fructification (poque de floraison, pollinisation, recherches sur l'auto- et l'inter-sterilit) et dcrit les plus importants caractres biologiques, pomologiques et agronomiques de cinq cultivar :  Ciliegia dalla punta ,  Durona di Verona ,  Duroncino di Cazzano ,  Moretta ,  Seconda .
42873842|Dopo aver passato in rassegna le principali ricerche eseguite in Italia ed all'estero sugli effetti delle alte temperature invernali sul pesco, in relazione al fenomeno del prolungato riposo vegetativo, e sulle possibili soluzioni del problema, l'A. riferisce i risultati di alcune indagini eseguite in provincia di Palermo in zona caratterizzata da temperature invernali notevolmente alte. Sono state prese in esame 5 cultivar di pesco :  Mayflower ,  Amsden ,  Early-rose ,  Morettini 1  e  J. H. Hale , sulle quali  stata determinata per 3 anni consecutivi la percentuale di cascola preantesi delle gemme, l'epoca e l'andamento della fioritura. Sono stati altres rilevati i dati termometrici della zona presa in esame per i mesi da novembre a febbraio, nei 3 anni considerati ed  risultato che solo per poche ore, in alcuni anni, la temperatura minima scende al di sotto di 7 C. La pi forte percentuale di cascola  stata registrata per la cv.  Mayflower  con una media per i 3 anni dell'82%, seguita dalla cv.  Amsden  con il 79%, dalla cv.  Early-rose  con il 67%, dalla cv.  J. H. Hale  con il 55% e dalla  Morettini 1  con il 44%. Aprs avoir pass en revue les principales recherches excutes en Italie et  l'tranger au sujet des effets, sur le pches, des hautes tempratures hivernales en relation au phnomne du repos vgtatif prolong, et aprs avoir tudi les solutions possibles du problme, l'A. rapporte les rsultats de quelques recherches faites dans la provincie de Palerme, dans une zone caractrise par des tempratures hivernales trs leves. Les 5 cv. de pcher suivantes ont t examines :  Mayflower ,  Amsden ,  Early-rose ,  Morettini 1  et  J. H. Haie ; sur ces cv. on a dtermin le pourcentage, pour 3 Annes de suite, de la chute des bourgeons avant l'anthse, de l'poque et du dveloppement de la floraison. Les donnes thermomtriques de la zone examine ont t releves galement pour la priode comprise entre les mois de novembre et fvrier, au cours des 3 annes considres, et il en est rsult que pendant seulement quelques heures et certaines annes, la temprature minimum descend au dessous de 7 C. Le plus fort pourcentage de chute de bourgeons a t enregistr pour la cv.  Mayflower , avec une moyenne, pour les 3 annes, de 82%; alle est suivie par la cv.  Amsden  avec 79%, par la cv.  Early-rose  avec 67%, par la cv.  J. H. Hale  avec 55% et enfin par la cv.  Morettini 1  avec 44%. After having examined the most important researches carried out in Italy and abroad concerning the effects of high winter temperature on peach trees in relation to the phenomenon of prolonged dormancy, and concerning the possible solutions of this problem, the author reports on the results of research carried out in an area in the province of Palermo characterized by notably high winter temperature. Five peach tree cultivars were examined ( Mayflower ,  Amsden ,  Early-rose ,  Morettini 1 , and  J. H. Hale ); the percentages of buds falling before blossoming, and the time and state of the blossoming were determined for the mentioned cultivars during a three years period. The thermometrical data of the area-considered, for the periods November-February of the three years, were also noted, and disclosed that the minimum temperature falls below 7 C. (45 F) only for a few hours in some years. It was observed that the  Mayflower  cultivar had the highest bud-fall percentage, with an average fall of 82% for the three years, followed by the  Amsden  cultivar with 79%, the  Early-rose  cultivar with 67%, the  J. H. Hale  cultivar with 55%, and the  Morettini 1  cultivar with 44%.
42873846|L'A., nell'autunno del 1957, intraprese delle prove di lotta contro tre insetti particolarmente dannosi alle coltivazioni di carciofo in Sardegna : la Depressaria erinaceella Stgr., l'Hydroecia xanthenes Germ. e lo Sphaeroderma rubidum Gralls. Nella nota vengono riferiti i risultati conseguiti contro l'ultimo di questi. Le prove sono state condotte con prodotti a base di Endrin, Dieldrin, Rogor e con una miscela di parathion pi DDT. I dati raccolti, elaborati statisticamente, hanno accertato che i formulati a base di esteri fosforici sono quelli maggiormente indicati, permettendoci di conseguire (intervenendo principalmente contro le larve endofite dell'insetto) migliori risultati con un numero pi basso di trattamenti.  da tenere presente inoltre che l'impiego del Rogor ci consente d'intervenire efficacemente anche contro gli altri insetti che, in quello stesso periodo, attaccano la coltura. In the autumn of 1957 the Author entered upon a series of tests to combat three insects particularly dangerous for the artichoke cultivation in Sardinia : Depressaria erinaceella Stgr., Hydroecia xanthenes Germ. and Sphaeroderma rubidum Gralls. In this note the A. refers about the results achieved regarding the last of these. The tests were carried out using products conteining Endrin, Dieldrin, Rogor and a mixture of parathion plus DDT. The data collected (examined statistically) have shown that the formulas with same organic phosporous insecticides are the most effective since they give the best results (against the endofitic larvae of the insect) with a smaller number of treatments. It is further to be borne in mind that the use of Rogor also enables us to intervene efficaceously against the other insects which endanger the of artichoke cultivation during the same period.
42873847|L'A. riferisce su un'insolita maculatura osservata su pere cv.  Passa Crassana  conservate in frigo assieme ad una partita di mele cv.  Stark Delicious  in avanzato grado di maturazione. La suddetta maculatura ha provocato lesioni sull'epidermide dei frutti, permettendovi l'insediamento di un fungo, il Rhizopus nigricans e la conseguente rapida marcescenza degli stessi. Oltre a considerare le probabili cause dell'alterazione iniziale, l'A. d suggerimenti per evitarne la comparsa od almeno per diminuirne i danni.
42873848|The author refers about a bacterial disease of Cyclamen persicum caused by Pectobacterium carotovorum Jones (Waldee). The identification was based on the decay symptoms, on the morphology and biology of the pathogen. Reference is made to bibliography and to some control methods.
42874853|The A. describes the results of some observations, carried out on quince and pear trees, showing a correlation between bark caracteristics and rooting ability of the cuttings. The results agree with some previous observations of other Authors on the citrus and the olive trees.
42874854|L'A., dopo avere accennato alle caratteristiche della coltura del fico in Provincia di Livorno ed averne messo in rilievo la discreta consistenza numerica passa a descrivere i caratteri morfologici, biologici e agronomici delle singole cultivar individuate:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco o Boddone ,  Brogiotto nero ,  Morellino o Nerello ,  Piombinese di Livorno ,  Albicero ,  Nonno ,  Corsini ,  Santo ,  Del Portogallo . In base alle osservazioni condotte, vengono indicate le seguenti cultivar degne di essere maggiormente diffuse:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco o Boddone ,  Brogiotto nero ,  Piombinese di Livorno . The Author describes the characteristics of the fig cultivation in the Province of Leghorn. He outlines the morphological, biological, and agricultural characters of each cultivar identified:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco o Boddone ,  Brogiotto nero ,  Morellino o Nerello ,  Piombinese di Livorno ,  Albicero ,  Nonno ,  Corsini ,  Santo ,  Del Portogallo . Considering theese observations, the Author signalizes the cultivare deserving to be more diffused:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco o Boddone ,  Brogiotto nero ,  Piombinese di Livorno . L'Auteur aprs avoir dcrit les charactristiques de la cultivation du figuier dans la Province de Livourne et aprs avoir relev la discrete consistence numrique, commence  dcrire les charactres morphologiques, biologiques, et agronomiques de chaque cultivar individualis:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco o Boddone ,  Brogiotto  nero ,  Morellino o Nerello ,  Piombinese di Livorno ,  Albicero ,  Nonno ,  Corsini ,  Santo ,  Del Portogallo . D'aprs les observations fates sont signales les cultivare dignes d'etre bien diffuses:  Dottato ,  Verdino ,  Gentile bianco o Boddone ,  Brogiotto nero ,  Piombinese di Livorno .
42874855|Prove comparative condotte su una duplice serie di innesti  a doppio scudo  della combinazione  William  /  B. Hardy  / Cotogno hanno permesso di constatare che nessuna sostanziale differenza esiste tra i risultati ottenibili da tale tipo di innesto eseguito secondo le differenti tecniche proposte rispettivamente dal Nicolin e dal Garner.
42874859|Gli Autori descrivono alcuni esperimenti di conservazione di frutta ed ortaggi in ambiente confinato, con atmosfera a bassa percentuale di ossigeno e priva di anidride carbonica. Gli esperimenti sono stati condotti su uva cv. Regina, limoni, pesche cv. S. Anna e cv. Hale, lattuga a cappuccio del Trocadero, spinaci, cavolfiori, insalata cicoria, insalata scarola e cicoria catalogna. The Authors are describing some of fruits and vegetables storage treatements. This storage process consist of rarefying the oxygen and replacing it with inert nitrogen. A storage temperature of 613C are used. The esperiments have been conduced with grapes cv.  Regina , lemons, peaches cv.  S. Anna  and  Hale , lettuce-salade, spinaches, cauliflowers, chicory-salade, scarola-salade and catalogna-salade.
42873877|L'autore segnala la comparsa del mixomicete Physarum cinereum sul tappeto erboso di un giardino situato nei pressi di Firenze. The Author refers about a lawn disease caused by the myxomicetes Physarum cinereum. This is not a parasitic organism, but its large sporangia, thickly established on the leaves, can be an obstacle to respiration and fotosyntesis.
42873703|La vigoria iniziale dei germogli emessi da semenzali di pesco innestati risulta tanto maggiore quanto pi precocemente questi ultimi vengono tagliati al disopra del punto di innesto. Prove comparative di taglio, degemmazione e decorticazione, eseguite in epoche diverse del periodo di riposo invernale, hanno confermato la probabile natura auxihica del fenomeno, nel quadro delle moderne interpretazioni relative al meccanismo di inibizione che determina il gradiente di vegetazione e la dominanza apicale dei germogli. I germogli emessi dalle gemme innestate ad occhio dormiente, lungo il fusto dei suddetti semenzali, hanno mostrato, per, di non seguire il gradiente di vegetazione del soggetto. Al contrario dei germogli di quest'ultimo, essi non hanno, infatti, risentito la diretta influenza dell'epoca in cui si esegue il taglio dei soggetti stessi in vivaio. Ci potrebbe essere forse attribuito ad una probabile incapacit degli inibitori di raggiungere la gemma innestata, attraverso il tessuto parenchimatico di cicatrizzazione. Nonostante questa iniziale indifferenza, i germogli del nesto hanno successivamente dimostrato uno sviluppo tanto maggiore, quanto pi tardi sono stati tagliati i soggetti. L'andamento del fenomeno, proporzionalmente inverso a quello manifestato dai germogli emessi dai soggetti stessi, induce al attribuirne le cause all'azione antagonistica esercitata da questi ultimi, sia per competizione nutrizionale, sia per ogni altra eventuale induzione di fenomeni inibitori secondari. Nei riguardi delle direttive tecniche  emersa, in conclusione, la pratica opportunit di ritardare quanto pi possibile l'esecuzione del taglio dei soggetti al di sopra del punto d'innesto. Ci, sia perch il conseguente minore sviluppo dei germogli del soggetto (e non del nestol) rende pi agevole e quindi pi economica la loro asportazione, sia perch si viene cos a favorire indirettamente lo sviluppo del nesto, evitandogli l'azione antagonistica di pi vigorosi germogli del soggetto. In one year  dormant budded  peach rootstock the initial growth of the shoots is so much vigorous as earlier the plant is cutted back above the union. This behaviour may be explained on tHe basis of the knowledges on the mechanism of growth inhibition and apical dominance. The vigor of the scion is not influenced by treatements (as pruning, girdling or disbudding) wich may modify the initial growth of the rootstock schoots. Probably because the growth inhibitor substances are not able to reach the scion bud through the parenchimatic tissues of the callus at the union. At the contrary, the scion growth results negatively influenced by the following rootstock shoots competition. Therefore, from a praticai point of view, it is confirmed the convenience to cut back the rootstocks, above the union, as late as possible. In this way, the rootstock shoots (but not the scion!) are weakened, their removal becomes easier, the scion having a better growth.
42873706|The A. refers about some preliminary investigations on the behaviour of oneyear old pear trees: A)-grafted with inverted rings of their own bark; B)-grafted with normally orientated rings, and C)-without ring grafts. Any significant difference has result between B)- and C)- groups in relation to the trees development, but highly significant differences have been found between A)- and B)- so as between A)- and C)- groups of trees. Histological investigations have shown that factors involved in the dwarfing effect depend upon the abnormal structure of the new Dhloem and the new xylem formed underneath the bark rings. The method of origin of those abnormal tissues structures is discussed in relation to the inverted  polarity  effects on the meristematic activity and on the differentiated tissues organisation.
42873707|Three herbicides were applied preharvest in Asparagus each in 20 HI of water per Ha. Treatments with Simazin (50% p. a.) and with Erbitox arboree (60% ATA + 40% Simazin each 50% p. a.) 3 kg/Ha each, gave complete control during the harvest period without any adverse effect. Randox (CDAA) 5 kg/Ha was ineffective.
42874136|L'A. illustra i risultati di alcune osservazioni sugli abbozzi radicali ( burr knots ) presenti sui rami di cotogno e discute la precedente letteratura sull'argomento. Vengono messi in evidenza alcuni aspetti relativi alla origine anatomica di tali abbozzi ed all'importanza pratica che questi assumono ai fini della propagazione per talea e margotta. The A. refers about some observations on the  burr knots  of the quince shoots and, on the basis of the previous literature, points out some aspects of the anatomic origin and the practical importance of the  burr knots  in relation to the cuttings and layering propagation.
42874138|Sono state condotte ricerche sull'induzione a fiore e sulla differenziazione delle gemme di Nespolo del Giappone (Eriobotrya Japonica). Le indagini effettuate con il metodo delle defogliazioni scalari e integrate da osservazioni microscopiche, hanno permesso di accertare, per le cultivar precoci ed a normale epoca di maturazione, che il fenomeno induttivo comincia a verificarsi sin dai primi giorni di maggio per raggiungere la maggiore intensit durante il mese di giugno; per le cultivar pi tardive questi termini debbono considerarsi spostati di qualche settimana.  stato inoltre dimostrato che anche nel Nespolo e per le gemme apicali lo stimolo antogeno proviene senza dubbio dalle foglie. Poche foglie sono comunque sufficienti per assicurare una regolare differenziazione delle gemme, nel mentre una totale mancanza delle stesse inibisce il detto processo. Flower bud induction and differentiation in the  Eriobotrya Japonica  have been studied by the microscopic and the gradual defoliation techniques. It has been shown that induction stimuli appear in the first ten days of May but attain their maximum efficiency in Juin for the early varieties and some weeks later for the late varieties. Also it has been shown: 1) The flowering stimulus is produced by leaves. 2) A little number of leaves is sufficient to assure a normal flower bud differentiation. Des recherches ont t faites sur la diffrenciation des bourgeons du Nflier du Japon (Eriobotrya Japonica). Ces recherches pour lesquelles a t applique la mthode des dfoliations graduelles et qui ont t compltes par des examens microscopiques, ont permis de constater que pour les cultivar prcoces et  une poque normale de maturation, la phase initiale de la diffrenciation des bourgeons florales, se manifeste ds les premiers jours de mai pour atteindre sa plus grande intensit au mois de juin. Pour les cultivar plus tardives, il faut considrer que ces termes doivent tre dcals de quelques semaines. Il a t dmontr aussi que mme dans le Nflier et pour les bourgeons terminaux, le stimulus de floraison est provoqu sans aucun doute par les feuilles. Quelques feuilles seulement sont cependant suffisantes pour assurer une diffrenciation rgulire des bourgeons, tandis que l'absence totale de feuilles arrte le dit processus.
42874141|Si  condotta in Nurra (Sardegna nord-occidentale) una esperienza di irrigazione e concimazione borica al pomodoro impiegando la cv.  Lampadina  da pelati e la cv.  Barese  da concentrati. Si sono adottati i seguenti tre livelli idrici: senza irrigazione, fino al 25% della capacit idrica, fino al 50% della capacit idrica. Dai dati ottenuti  risultato che nulla  l'azione del boro sull'entit della produzione per entrambe le cultivar, mentre, per quanto riguarda i caratteri qualitativi presi in esame,  stata rilevata una leggera azione favorevole del boro sul residuo ottico, al livello idrico del 25% della capacit idrica, limitatamente alla cv.  Barese . Pi manifesti sono stati gli effetti dell'irrigazione. In particolare per la cv.  Lampadina  le produzioni maggiori si sono raggiunte in corrispondenza del livello idrico pi elevato: 483,15 q/ha; mentre per la cv.  Barese   conveniente fermarsi al limite del 25% della capacit idrica. Non si sono avute, infatti, differenze attendibili di produzione tra le due tesi irrigue (500,60 q/ha al livello idrico del 25% della capacit idrica e 511,15 q/ha al livello del 50%). Sui caratteri qualitativi delle bacche l'irrigazione ha agito diminuendo Fincidenza percentuale del  marciume apicale  (9,47% in coltura irrigua, al 50% della capacit idrica; 30,61% in coltura asciutta), mentre aumenta la percentuale delle bacche colpite da  strozzatura ; questo per la cv.  Lampadina . Sulla cv.  Barese , nelle tesi irrigue,  pi elevata la proporzione di bacche colpite da  spacco . In entrambe le cultivar, con l'irrigazione, diminuisce sensibilmente il residuo ottico, mentre, per contro, aumentano le dimensioni delle bacche e lo spessore del pericarpo rispetto alla coltura asciutta. In the Nurra Valley, in North - West Sardinia, a research of irrigation and fertilizing with B of processing tomatoes, using the  Lampadina  variety for peeled and the  Barese  variety for concentrated, was conducted. The following three water levels were used: non irrigation, irrigation at 25 per cent water - holding capacity, irrigation at 50 per cent water - holding capacity. The results of this study has indicated that the action of B is null on the yield for both varieties, while, from the standpoint of quality there was a slight increase of soluble solids, in regard to  Barese  variety, at 50 per cent water-holding capacity. Results of irrigation were more effective. Particularly, for the  Lampadina  variety, the maximum production was reached at the higher irrigation level: 483,15 q/ha; while for the  Barese  variety the maximum production was obtained at 25 per cent water-holding capacity. There were, in fact, no significant difference between two different water levels (500,60 q/ha at 25 per cent water-holding capacity and 511,15 q/ha at 50 per cent water-holding capacity). From the standpoint of quality of tomato fruits, irrigation has diminished the  blosson endrot  (9,47% at 50 per cent water-holding capacity; 30,61% without irrigation), while the percentage of fruits affected by  groved fruits  increases; this concerns the cultivation of  Lampadina  variety. With regard to the  Barese  variety, on irrigated samples, the proportion of  cracking  is more elevated. In both varieties, the soluble solids is sensibly diminished with irrigation, while the size of the fruits and the thickness of the pericarp increase in comparison to the fruits of the dry cultivation.
42874147|Vengono riferiti alcuni dati circa le possibilit di propagazione per talea radicale nelle piante arboree da frutto. Dopo notizie di carattere generale. l'A. considera le difficolt cui si va incontro con tale metolo ed i limiti delle possibilit di applicazione. Dopo alcune considerazioni sui fattori intrinseci ed estrinseci che possono influire sulla riuscita del metodo. l'A. illustra la tecnica di prelevamento e conservazione delle talee stesse. Infine richiama alcune tecniche particolari, suggerite da diversi Autori, che sostanzialmente possono essere ricondotte a quella della talea radicale.
42874496|Premesse alcune notizie sulla classificazione dei peri, si descrivono due nuove cultivar di pero : la William  Citron des Carmes e la  William    Citron des Carmes  64. Le due cultivar precocissime, che maturano i frutti prima della Coscia e della Butirra precoce Morettini presentano notevoli pregi per quanto riguarda la vigoria dell'albero, la produttivit, le caratteristiche organolettiche e la elevata resistenza aU'ammezzimento. L'A. pertanto ritiene che queste meritino di essere tenute in considerazione. After a short account on the different methods followed in the pear varieties classifications, the Author describes two new very early ripening varieties :  William  Citron des Carmes 64  and  William  Citron des Carmes 113 . Those varieties, earlier than  Coscia  and  Butirra Precoce Morettini , are very vigourous, haevy cropping and resistant to the breakdown of fruits. On the basis of his observations the Author concludes that the new strains are worthy to be tested in the pear areas.
42874498|Le prove sperimentali sono state condotte allo scopo di accertare: nel semenzaio e nei contenitori di plastica: il potere e l'energia germinativa dei semi di Mandorlo amaro e lo sviluppo in altezza delle piantine ottenute. Successivamente, in nestaio o piantonaio: su piante il cui fittone era stato reciso 15 giorni prima del trapianto o all'atto dello stesso, la percentuale di attecchimento delle piante provenienti dal semenzaio e dalle  fitocelle  ; lo sviluppo vegetativo; il diametro del fusto e l'entit in peso della parte aerea e di quella radicale. Dai risultati ottenuti, si  potuto constatare che: l'impiego delle  fitocelle  non  consigliabile, per la propagazione del Mandorlo amaro, perch le piantine, dopo un certo periodo di permanenza in esse, manifestano evidenti fenomeni di rachitismo; il taglio del fittone, effettuato sulle piante 15 giorni prima del trapianto, influisce negativamente sullo sviluppo dell'apparato radicale delle stesse, facendo aumentare la percentuale delle fallanze. Pi conveniente risulta, invece, recidere il fittone all'atto del trapianto perch si riduce il fenomeno della cosidetta  crisi di trapianto  e si stimola lo sviluppo radicale delle piante dopo la messa a dimora. Success in transplanting of bitter tipes almond seedlings depends, to a large extent, upon the previous handling. When movement from polyethylene bags is concerned, the operation is critical because deep rooting habit of almond and a check in growth will occur if seedlings are not promptly transplanted. The polyethylene bags are suitable containers for the germinating medium. The cut of top-root 15 day prior to placing in the field is unsatisfactory in relation to rooting and growth of almond seedlings.
42874499|Nelle indagini compiute presso l'Azienda sperimentale del Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto del C.N.R. di Firenze sul sistema radicale di piante di pesco, disposte alla distanza di m. 2, lungo il filare, si  rilevato che le radici di ciascun albero non si intersecano con quelle dell'albero contiguo, n si sovrappongono, a differenza di quanto si constata, invece, per gli alberi di pero allevati nelle stesse condizioni di ambiente. Si  confermato, pertanto, quanto aveva rilevato Bargioni (1959-1960) nel Veronese. The Authors refer about some investigations carried out in the Experiment Farm of the  Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto del C.N.R.  at Florence, on the root systems behaviour of peach and pear trees closely planted in the same orchard. Observations have shown that the roots of the peach trees are completely separeted in the soil, while those of the pear trees freely intercross together. Such results confirm those of similar studies by Bargioni (1959-1960), in the Verona county.
42874500|Nel corso del periodo giugno 1959 - giugno 1960 sono stati condotti rilievi diretti ad accertare la consistenza numerica della popolazione afidica che normalmente infesta le colture di fragole. E ci in quattro localit diverse del circondario di Imola, con una periodicit di 15-30 giorni su piante di 2-3 anni di et. Si  cos constatato che : 1 - la specie di afidi pi diffusa  il Pentatrichopus fragaefolii Cock; abbastanza frequente  pure VAphis fabae Scop., che  risultato ugualmente attivo nella diffusione dei virus; 2 - in ogni periodo dell'anno sono presenti afidi; la maggiore propagazione e frequenza di questi si riscontra nel periodo giugno-luglio e settembre-ottobre (vedi Tabelle I-IV e figure 1-4); 3 - la consistenza numerica della popolazione afidica, per, risulta sensibilmente influenzata dalle condizioni atmosferiche : essenzialmente dall'umidit dell'ambiente. In the span of time June 1959-June 1960 there have been effected observations pointing to detect the number of the aphids which normally infest the strawberry crops. And all that has been made in four different places in Imola district, with a frequency of 15-30 days and on plants two-three years old. Thus we have found out that: 1) the most occurrent species of aphid is Pentatrichopus fragaefolii and Aphis fabae Scop., which resulted active all the same in the spreading of virus diseases; 2) in every period of the year aphids are present; the greatest spreading and occurrence of which has been noticed in the periods of June-July and September-October (see tables I-IV and graphics 1-4); 3) but the number of the aphids has resulted considerably influenced by weather conditions and namely by the atmospheric humidity.
42874501|Si descrive dettagliatamente la  maculatura della mela King David  o  King David spot . Osservazioni di campagna hanno indotto a pensare che essa rappresenti una reazione istologica dei frutti ancora immaturi di questa cv. all'effetto ustionante di vari antiparassitari, penetrati attraverso le lenticelle fino a raggiungere i tessuti sottocutanei. The  King David spot  of apples is described in detail. Field observations have suggested that it is due to an histological reaction of the still unripe fruit of this variety to the caustic effect of several sprays. This effect is shown only when the chemicals penetrate the superficial flesh layers through the lenticels.
42874186|Alla fine del giugno 1958 si  verificata nell'Emilia centrale (Italia) un'epidemia di marciume secco dell'occhio prodotto da Botrytis cinerea su certe variet di mele e di pere. L'analisi delle condizioni meteorologiche che hanno accompagnato l'epidemia conduce a ritenerla conseguenza di un periodo piovoso, coperto e nebbioso durato dal 7 al 14 giugno. Si confronta il quadro sintomatico osservato con quelli descritti nella bibliografia, causati da infezioni di Botrytis cinerea, di Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, di Cylindrocarpon mali e di Sphaeropsis malorum su meline e perin pendenti, analizzandone punti di contatto e differenze. Si espongono e si commentano, desumendoli dalla letteratura, gli elementi essenziali del ciclo biologico e della patogenesi della Botrytis cinerea in relazione all'epidemia studiata. Sembra che si debba ritenere accertato che il fungo abbia prima invaso i petali e gli stami persistenti sul frutticino e da essi sia passato, per contatto, nei sepali e infine nella polpa del frutto stesso. Sembra probabile che l'arresto del marciume verificatosi in molti frutticini debba essere imputato, oltre che al clima siccitoso, all'elevata temperatura raggiunta alla fine di giugno dai tessuti della matrice, mal tollerata dalla muffa. Pare che certe variet siano particolarmente suscettibili alla penetrazione di muffe del marciume attraverso il calice. At the end of June 1958 occurred in central Emilia (Italy) an epidemic outbreak of dry eye rot, caused by Botrytis cinerea. It affected some varieties of apples and pears. The analysis of the meteorological conditions which accompanied the epidemic induces the Authors to consider it as a consequence of a period of rainy, cloudy and foggy weather, which lasted from the 7th to the 14th June. The symptomatic picture observed is compared with the ones described in the literature, caused on still hanging small apples and pears by infection of Botrytis cinerea, of Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, of Cylindrocarpon mali and of Sphaeropsis malorum. Similarities and differences between the above mentioned diseases are discussed. The essential points of the biological cycle and of the pathogenesis of the Botrytis cinerea in reference to the epidemic in question are reported and commented. It seems very likely that the fungus has first attacked petals and stamens still existing on the small fruit, and that it has spread from them, by contact, to the sepals and at last to the pulp of the fruit itself. It appears that the stopping of the rot which has occurred in many small fruits has to be ascribed, along with the dry weather, to the high temperature reached at the end of June by the tissues of the matrix; the high temperature is badly tolerated by the mould. It appears that some varieties are specially liable to the penetration of rots through the calyx.
42874188|Having drown attention to the renewed interest of Italian fruitgrowers in the apricot culture, the Authors describe their investigations, carried out during 1959, 1960 and 1961, in the Imola area, on the biological behaviour and the morphological characters of the following five apricot varieties:  Brusca ,  Grana ,  Precoce di Imola ,  Tonda di Tossignano  and  Reale di Imola . All the above-mentioned varieties proved to be self-fertile but their fruit set appeared to be increased by cross-pollination. In relation to their commercial value the following varieties have been judged suitable: a) for fresh market:  Precoce di Imola  and  Reale di Imola ; b) for processing:  Brusca  and  Tonda di Tossignano .
42874189|The seeds of early-ripening varieties of many arboreous fruit species are practically non-viable. Using an aseptic technique, the possibility of obtaining germination from immature peach seeds was studied. The best results were obtained when the seeds, washed in 1: 1000 alcoholic  Merthiolate  andexcised aseptically, were placed singly in colture tubes containing nutrient agar ith 2 per cent of sucrose. After 10 days of growth, were given 15 days of vernalization treatment at 4 degrees C. The present investigation has been conducted on the three following varieties:  Fior di Maggio , Gialla Precoce Morettini ,  Fertilia , which respectively ripened 77, 94, 97 days after full bloom. The germination percentage has been respectively of 70%, 84%, 94%; the successful transplants reached the 40%, 70% 78%.
42874190|Viene segnalato, nella zona di Segromigno (Lucca), un grave caso di deperimento dell'Aucuba japonica Thunb. causato da Verticillium dahliae Kleb. In the zone of Segromigno (Lucca) it has been found a serious disease caused by Verticillium dahliae Kleb, on Aucuba japonica Thunb.
42874191|L'A. ha condotto una serie di indagini su una collezione di oltre 200 cultivar di pesco, costituita presso l'Azienda sperimentale del Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto del C. N. R. di Firenze, per stabilire quali sono i caratteri dei fiori di pesco pi significativi dal punto di vista tassonomico. In base a queste osservazioni viene redatta una scheda tipo per il rilevamento dei caratteri considerati. The Author refers about investigations carred out on 200 peach varieties collected in the experiment farm of the  Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto del C.N.R. - Firenze , in view to extabilish the value of the flower characters for the classification of the different varieties.
42874192|The Author describes the morphological, biological and commercial characters of the early bearing plum variety  Sorriso di Primavera , raised by a fruitgrower of the Ferrara county. This promising variety ripens about ten days before  Shiro , at the same time as  Florentia ,  Morettini 355  and  Methley .
42874201|After having summarized some anatomical aspects of the roots formation in cuttings, the Author describes the practical methods of black currant propagation, putting in evidence the peculiar devices to be applied in view to obtain healthy, vigorous and heavy bearing plants.
42874203|The Authors describe their observations concerning: a) -the morphology of clusters and flowers; b) - the rate of flowering in varieties, bushes and clusters; c) - the pollination and fertilization requirements; d) - the development of berries, in the following black currant varieties:  Amos Black ,  Baldwin Hilltop ,  Boskoop Giant ,  Goliath ,  Mendip Cross ,  Roodknop ,  Silvergieters Zwarte ,  Wellington XXX  and  Westwick Choice . Researches have been carried out in two experiment fields at Ferrara and Cesena. Pollination requirements of the listed varieties are summarized and the practical importance of the visitor insects as pollen carriers is emphasized.
42874204|The Authors describe the following black currant varieties:  Amos Black ,  Baldwin Hilltop ,  Boskoop Giant ,  Goliath ,  Mendip Cross ,  Roodknop ,  Silvergieters Zwarte ,  Wellington XXX , and  West wick Choice , grown in the Emilia orchard areas. After a short account on the method followed in describing the above mentioned varieties, their most important morphological, biological and agronomical characters are summarized.
42874211|The Authors studied some effects of gibberellin on the black currant variety  Goliath  with the intention of obtain long and loose trusses and of speeding the harvesting. Solutions of  Gibberellic Trituration  Pfizer 50/100/200 ppm were applied according to a schedule of six applications, from the swelling of the buds to the flowering time. Nearly all the treatments promoted a strong elongation of the trusses, but negative effects have been observed in relation to the fruit drop, the size of the berries and the average number of fruits per cluster. On the basis of their observations the Authors conclude that the tested treatements are not of practical value.
42874212|The Author refers about investigations carried out on 200 peach cultivars collected in the experiment farm of the  Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto del C.N.R. - Firenze , in view to extabilish the value of the characters of shoots and leaves for the classification of the diffrents cultivars.
42874213|Gli AA. illustrano la cultivar di pero  Gentilona , considerandone i diversi caratteri agronomici, biologici e pomologici e mettendone in particolare rilievo i pregi di precocit, produttivit, discreta pezzatura. La cultivar va sempre pi diffondendosi nel Pisano e nelle zone vicine e si ritiene che possa essere vantaggiosamente estesa in ambienti simili. The Authors illustrate the pear cultivar called  Gentilona  taking into consideration its agronomic, biological, pomological characters. They point out especially its precocity, productivity and commercial characters. This cultivar is spreading always more in the country of Pisa and in the neigbouring areas and it is considered to be possibly extended also in similar environmental conditions. Les Auteurs illustrent la cultivar  Gentilona  ayant pris en consideration les diffrents caracthers: agronomiques, biologiques, pomologiques. Particulirement sont releves les qualits de prcocit, de productivit, de juste mesure des fruits. Cette cultivar s'tend toujours plus dans la province de Pisa et dans les zones voisines et on juge qu'elle puisse tre tendue avantageusement dans des milieux semblables.
42874215|Dopo una breve disamina delle pi importanti ricerche condotte in Italia ed all'estero sulle relazioni intercorrenti tra andamento climatico ed interruzione del riposo vegetativo di gemme di pesco e sulle conoscenze acquisite circa le possibili soluzioni del problema, l'Autore riferisce i risultati di alcune indagini effettuate in zone litoranee della Sicilia, in provincia di Palermo. Sono state prese in esame sedici cultivar : Springtime, Precocissima Morettini, Mayflower,  Morettini 1 ,  I. G. D. ,  Bella di Roma Precoce ,  R. P. 1 ,  Golden Jubilee ,  S. P. 1 ,  V. S. ,  Early Rose ,  Celeste Impero ,  Fairhaven ,  Ranger ,  Southaven  e  Poli R. O. , e per ognuna di esse  stata determinata la percentuale di cascola preantesi delle gemme e l'epoca di maturazione dei frutti.  stato inoltre rilevato, per la zona in esame, l'andamento della temperatura nel periodo compreso tra il novembre 1960 ed il febbraio 1961 e si  notato che soltanto per pochi giorni la temperatura minima  scesa al di sotto di 7 C. Le cv. Morettini 1, I. G. D. , Golden Jubilee, Ranger,  Fairhaven  e  Celeste Impero , hanno denunciata la pi bassa percentuale di cascola, mentre la pi alta si  registrata per le cv. :  Springtime ,  Precocissima Morettini ,  Mayflower ,  Southaven  e  Poli R. O. . After a brief consideration of the most important research carried out in Italy and abroad on the relation between weather and the breaking of the rest of peach buds and the possible solution of this problem, follows a report on the results of research work the Author has carried out in coastal areas of Sicily, in the province of Palermo. Sixteen peach varieties were examined: Springtime, Precocissima Morettini, Mayflower, Morettini 1, I. G. D., Bella di Roma Precoce, R. P. 1., Golden Jubilee, S. P. 1., V. S., Early Rose, Celeste Impero, Fairhaven, Ranger, Southaven and Poli R. O. The percentages of buds falling before blossoming and the time of ripening were estabilished for the above mentioned varieties; the thermometrical data of the area considered, for the period November 1960 - February 1961 were also noted and it was found that the minimum temperature falls below 7 C. (45 F.) only for a few days. It was observed that following varieties: Morettini 1, I. G. D., Golden Jubilee, Ranger, Fairhaven and Celeste Impero had the lowest bud-fall percentage, while: Springtime, Precocissima Morettini, Mayflower, Southaven and Poli R. O., showed the highest. Aprs quelques rapides considrations sur les principales recherches excutes en Italie et  l'tranger au sujet des relations entre les tempratures hivernales et l'interruption du repos vgtatif des bourgeons de pche, et aprs avoir tudi les solutions possibles du problme, il a t rendu compte des rsultats de quelques recherches faites dans les zones citires de la Sicile, dans la province de Palerme. Les seize cv. des pcher suivantes ont t examines: Springtime, Precocissima Morettini, Mayflower, Morettini 1, I. G. D., Bella di Roma Precoce, R. P. 1., Golden Jubilee, S. P. 1., V. S., Early Rose, Celeste Impero, Fairhaven, Ranger, Southaven, et Poli R. O. Sur ces cv. on a dtermin le pourcentage de la chute des bourgeons avant l'anthse et l'poque de maturation des fruits. Les donnes thermomtriques de la zone examine ont t releves galement pour la priode comprise entre le mois de novembre 1960 et fvrier 1961 et il en est rsult que pendant quelques jours seulement, la temprature minimum descend au dessous de 7 C. La plus faible pourcentage de chute des bourgeons a t enregistr pour les cv.: Morettini 1, I. G. D., Golden Jubilee, Ranger, Fairhaven et Celeste Impero; la plus fort t enregistr pour les cv.: Springtime, Precocissima Morettini, Mayflower, Southaven et Poli R. O.
42874216|Prove eseguite in Emilia nell'annata 1958/59, in due vasti campi sperimentali e con controllo statistico, hanno condotto ai seguenti risultati : a) 3 trattamenti anticrittogamici a base di bordolese, captano o ziram alla chioma di meli  Abbondanza , effettuati fra il 18-IX e il 20-X hanno protetto in modo efficace il loro prodotto dal marciume da Gloeosporium durante la successiva prolungata conservazione frigorifera.  b) Non sono state osservate considerevoli differenze fra i tre principi attivi impiegati.  e) L'infezione del suddetto agente di marciume deve essere avvenuta essenzialmente in campo nel periodo compreso fra il 18-IX e press'a poco la fine di ottobre o i primi di novembre. Trials performed in Emilia (Italy) in the year 1958/59, in two vast experimental orchards and with statistical control, have lead to the following results: a) 3 sprays of bordeaux, captan or ziram applied to the foliage of  Abbondanza  apple trees between the 18th September and 20th October have efficaciously protected their crop from Gloeosporium rot during the following prolonged cold storage.  b) The difference between the 3 fungicides has been negligible.  c) The principal infection of Gloeosporium must have taken place in the orchard some time in the period lasted from 18th September and approximately the end of October or the beginning of November.
42874220|Si riferisce su prove di trapianto di peri adulti su cotogno effettuate nel cremonese con cultivar di et variabile da 3 a 19 anni. La mortalit delle piante trapiantate  risultata inferiore all'l % e quindi si  dimostrata la possibilit di poter trapiantare peri di qualsiasi et quando essi sono innestati su cotogno. Il miglioramento qualitativo e quantitativo della produzione degli impianti diradati e delle piante trapiantate ha indotto l'. a considerare l'utilit economica di razionalizzare l'allevamento dei peri a cordone verticale, mediante l'introduzione della pratica del trapianto di peri adulti prelevati da piantagioni fitte, realizzate per ottenere un maggior sfruttamento della fase iniziale. Transplantation trials, conducted near Cremona (Italy), with 3 up to 19 years old pear-trees, grafted on quince-tree, are here referred. The very low death-rate (minus than 1%) shows the possibility of transplanting pear-trees on any age, if grafted on quince-tree. The greater, and better, yield recorded in the orchard where the thinning out has been made, suggested to the Author that a good way to a higher economic benefit, in the pear-orchard, grown according to  the vertical cord system , might be represented by transplanting old pear-trees, taken away from thick plantations, which have been carried out for the purpose of maximum increasing the initial economic profit.
42874225|The Authors refer about investigation carried out on 168 peach varieties collected in the experiment farm of the  Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto del C.N.R. -Firenze , in view to extablish the value of the fruit characters for the classification of the different varieties.
42874226|L'Autore ha effettuato uno studio sulle cultivar di albicocco diffuse in provincia di Palermo. Sono state individuate otto cultivar:  Maiolino ,  Fiorentino ,  Ballestreri ,  Napoletano ,  Bufala ,  Persicara ,  Reginotta ,  Regina Vaniglia  e per ognuna di esse si  indagato sul periodo di maturazione dei frutti e sui pi importanti caratteri agronomici. Viene, infine, posta in luce la convenienza a sviluppare la coltura dell'albicocco orientandosi, in particolar modo, sulle cultivar pi precoci. The characteristics of the apricot-varieties in the Palermo area are described by the Author. The following eight varieties were identified:  Maiolino ,  Fiorentino ,  Ballestreri ,  Napoletano ,  Bufala ,  Persicara ,  Reginotta , and  Regina Vaniglia . The Author also relates about his researches performed on the ripening period and describes the most important characters of the above mentioned varieties. In conclusion the A. suggests that the cultivation may be increased, mostly regarding the earlier varieties. L'Auteur illustre les caractristiques des varits d'abricotier de la province de Palerme. On a individu les suivantes huit varits:  Maiolino ,  Fiorentino ,  Ballestreri ,  Napoletano ,  Bufala ,  Persicara ,  Reginotta  et  Regina Vaniglia . L'Auteur expose, ensuite, les rsultats des recherches qu'il a accompli sur la priode de fructification et il dcrit les plus importants caractres des variets mentionns. L'Auteur conseille, enfin, le dveloppement de la culture de l'abricotier, en particulier des varits prcoces.
42874227|In serra, a temperatura ed umidit controllate, due specie ortive  Fagiolo e Pisello  e quattro ornamentali da fiore e da foglia  Garofano, Begonia, Gladiolo e Monstera deliciosa  sono allevate in vasi di plastica a base di polistirolo espanso. A confronto e nelle stesse condizioni ambientali sono coltivate (salvo per gladiolo) altre piante della stessa specie in vasi di terracotta del tipo tradizionale. Lo sviluppo epigeo fatto dalle piante di Gladiolo (da bulbi)  considerato normale; quello del Pisello e Fagiolo (da semente)  lievemente superiore; mentre quello del Garofano (talee radicate) e Begonia (da bulbi)  nettamente superiore allo sviluppo delle corrispondenti piante nei vasi di cotto. Garofano e Begonia in plastica, inoltre, riescono a fiorire pi precocemente che nei vasi di cotto. Vengono fatte considerazioni colturali relative all'importanza della entit e frequenza dell annaffiature nei vasi di plastica con o senza foro di sgrondo sul fondo e sono riferiti i risultati degli esami fitosanitari a carico dell'apparato radicale delle piante in plastica. Solo Monstera deliciosa (da talea) fa un accrescimento minore in plastica che in cotto in dipendenza, forse, di una pi intensa attivit respiratoria delle radici. Sotto tale profilo l'allevamento di Monstera con le radici aeree sul fusto gi differenziate sarebbe possibile nei vasi di plastica. Two species of truck-garden crops,  beans and peas  and four species of ornamental plants including both flowering and leafy plants,  carnations, begonias, gladioluses and Monstera deliciosa  were raised in plastic flowerpots in a greenhouse at controlled temperature and humidity. The pots were made of expanded polystyrene. For purposes of comparison, other plants of the same species (excepting the gladioluses) were grown in ordinary-type terracotta flowerpots under the same environmental conditions. The epigeous development of the gladioluses grown from bulbs was considered normal; that of the peas and beans grown from seeds was slightly superior, while the carnations (grown from cutting with roots) and begonias (grown from bulbs showed definitely clear superiority in their development compared with the same species of plants grown in terracotta flowerpots. The importance of both quantity and frequency of watering of the plants is taken into consideration for both pots with and without base drain hole and the effects of these factors on growth are discussed. Results of examinations made on plant root development in plastic flowerpots are reported. Of all those studied only Monstera deliciosa (grown from cuttings) showed a lesser degree of growth when raised in plastic containers than in terracotta. This may, perhaps, be explained by the existence of a more intense respiratory activity on the part of the roots in this species of plant. In view of this fact, Monstera could be raised in plastic flowerpots with already differentiated aerial roots on its stalk. Tables and photographs are presented, documenting the test results.
42874229|Prove eseguite in Emilia nell'annata 1959/60, in due vasti campi sperimentali costituiti di meli  Abbondanza  e con controllo statistico, hanno condotto ai seguenti risultati: a) 2 trattamenti anticrittogamici, a base di bordolese, captano o ziram alla chioma dei meli  Abbondanza , effettuati il 22 o 24-IX e il 2-X hanno protetto in modo efficace il loro prodotto dal marciume da Gloeosporium durante la successiva prolungata conservazione frigorifera. - b) Non sono state osservate considerevoli differenze fra i 3 principi attivi impiegati. - c) L'infezione del suddetto agente di marciume deve essere avvenuta essenzialmente in campo, nel periodo compreso fra il 22-IX e all'incirca la data della raccolta. I suddetti risultati coincidono con quelli ottenuti in analoghe prove eseguite l'anno precedente. Trials performed in Emilia (Italy) in the year 1959/60, in two vast experimental orchards of  Abbondanza  apple trees and with statistical control, have lead to the following results: a) Two sprays of bordeaux, captan or ziram applied to the foliage on 22nd or 24th September and 2nd October have efficaciously protected their crop from Gloesporium rot during the following prolonged cold storage. - b) The difference between the three fungicides has been negligible. - c) The substantial infection of Gloeosporium must have taken place in the orchard some time in the period from 22nd September and approximately the crop date. The aforesaid results agree with those obtained in comparable trials performed in the previous year.
42874231| segnalato, nelle coltivazioni di Garofano di Pescia (Pistoia), un grave attacco di marciume centrale dei fiori causato da Fusarium tricinctum f. poae (Peck) Snyder et Hansen in associazione con l'acaro Siter optes graminum Reut. Dopo una descrizione della malattia e delle condizioni ambientali che l'hanno favorita, sono brevemente messi in evidenza i caratteri di altri due marciumi fiorali del Garofano, pure presenti nella zona, prodotti dalla Botrytis cinerea Pers. e dall Alternaria dianthicola Neerg. Di tutte le suddette avversit sono infine forniti gli accorgimenti pi opportuni per la lotta. The Author draws attention to a serious rot found in the center of carnation flowers grown in Pescia (Pistoia). This rot is caused by Fusarium tricinctum f. poae (Peck) Snyder et Hansen together with the mite Siteroptes graminum Reut. After giving a description of the disease and the environmental conditions that encouraged its development, the Author briefly outlines the characteristics of two other species of floral rot found in carnations: also present in plantations in Pescia and produced by Botrytis cinerea Pers. and Alternaria dianhticola Neerg. All the necessary measures for controlling these diseases have been indicated.
42874240| descritta una sperimentazione sul diradamento dei frutti su 14 cultivar di pesco. I risultati indicano che il diradamento influisce positivamente, oltre che sulla qualit della produzione dell'anno in corso, anche sullo sviluppo vegetativo, sulla cascola delle gemme a fiore e sulla produzione dell'anno successivo. A fruit thinning experiment has been carried out on furteen peach varieties. Results show that this practice influences positively, not only the quality of production in the current season, but also the plant growth, the flower buds drop, and the amount of production in the following year.
42874243|Dopo alcune considerazioni di ordine economico intorno ai danni provocati dal  pear decline  negli Stati Uniti, vengono illustrati i sintomi con cui questa nuova malattia si manifesta e le probabili cause che determinano la sua insorgenza L'attuale mancanza di pi precise conoscenze intorno alla natura del  pear decline  ha fatto orientare i frutticultori statunitensi verso l'introduzione di portinnesti resistenti che sembrano sfuggire alla fitopatia. Migliore, tra questi, si  dimostrato  l'Old Home  che, oltre ad essere resistente al  pear decline  e al  fire blight , pu essere propagato per radicazione diretta con discreti risultati. The Author points out the economical damages caused by the  pear decline  in the United States and illustrates the symptoms of the new disease discussing its possible origin. Beceuse of the actual lack of deeper knowledges on the  pear decline  nature, the America fruit growers are using with promising results some resistant rootstocks. Among these, the best seems to be the  Old Home  pear which is resistant not only to the  pear decline  but even to the  fire blight  and which may be also propagated by hardwood cuttings.
42874247|Si riferisce su prove sperimentali intese ad accertare eventuali correlazioni tra stato nutrizionale della pianta di patata, nelle sue diverse fasi biologiche, e produzione utile finale. I risultati ottenuti hanno messo in evidenza, innanzitutto, un comportamento diverso della pianta, di fronte a cinque diverse formule di concimazione, sia nei riguardi della produzione, sia nei riguardi della precocit di formazione dei tuberi. In particolare  emerso che le pi alte e significative produzioni vengono indotte dalla formula di concimazione costituita dal rapporto N/PO/K0= 33,8/11,3/54,9. Per mezzo della diagnostica fogliare inoltre  stata accertata una stretta correlazione tra  equilibrio fisiologico  e tuberificazione. Infatti al diminuire del potassio ed all'aumentare dell'azoto nell'  equilibrio fisiologico  sembra ridursi l'attitudine della pianta a tuberificare. It is referred about researches on eventual correlations existing between the nutritional state of the potato plant in its different biological phases and the final harvest. The results show, above all, a different behaviour of the plant against five different fertilizing formulas, in regard to harvest and in regard to the precocity of tuber formation as well. Particularly, it has been shown that the significatively highest productions of tubers are obtained by means of the following fertilizing formula: N/PO/K0 = = 33,8/11,3/54,9. By means of the foliar diagnostic, it has besides been ascertained a close correlation between  physiological equilibrium  and tuber formation. Infact, decreasing in the physiological equilibrium potash and increasing nitrogen, the faculty of the plant to form tubers possibly decreases.
42874251|In alcune colture di garofano della Riviera Ligure  stata riscontrata, per la prima volta, la presenza di un acaro eriofide appartenente al genere Acera la cui specie  in via di determinazione. Vengono brevemente descritti i danni che il parassita arreca alle piante e vengono inoltre riportati i risultati ottenuti nelle prove orientative per la messa a punto dei mezzi di lotta. A new eriofidine mite belonging to the genus Acerta has been found by the Author first in Italy, in some carnation cultivation of the Riviera Ligure. The identification of the species is still in progress. The damages caused by the parasite to carnation plants as well as the results obtained in some preliminary field experiments with various chemicals are briefly described.
42874259|During 1960 and 1961 observations have been carried out, in the Ferrara orchards area, in order to establish the effects of sun rays on the cambial temperature, so as on the anatomical structure of the bark of apple trees. Investigations have shown that: a) in the south side of abnormally bending branches of open-centre trees, cambial temperatures are higher than those recorded in the otherwise orientated sides; b) cambial temperatures are often higher than air temperature; c) cambial temperatures in white-washed trees are lower than those in unpainted trees. Anatomical investigations have shown that bark thickness is comparatively higher in the north side of the trunks and the branches, so as in the whitewashed trees. On the basis of those observations the Authors emphasize the importance of the pruning methods suitable to shelt the branches and the trunks with well leafy shoots, and confirm that white-washing severely pruned trees is able to reduce the sunburn effects.
42874261|The Author refers about investigations carried out on 230 peach cultivars collected in the experiment farm of the Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto - Firenze , in view to extabilish the value of the characters of stones for the classification of the differents cultivars.
42874272|L'A. riferisce sinteticamente i risultati di una serie di lavori sulla combinazione d'innesto melone/Cucurbita ficifolia per la quale, se il soggetto  privato delle foglie, si manifesta una disaffinit temporanea. La pianta, infatti,  capace di riprendere gradualmente la propria attivit vegetativa, purch il sistema radicale si trovi in condizioni di semisterilit. Se la pianta stessa  invece coltivata in terra, essa muore pochi giorni dopo l'asportazione delle foglie dal soggetto. L'aspetto principale del problema  apparso quello della traslocazione attraverso il punto d'innesto, in rapporto alla struttura e funzionalit del floema, regolata da interazioni biochimiche fra nesto e soggetto. A review is given of several series of experiments on the graft combination of muskmelon on Cucurbita ficifolia, this graft being temporarily incompatible when the leaves originally present on the rootstock are removed. After a serious state of incompatibility, the plant proves to be able to recover, provided its roots are growing under favourable, semi-sterile conditions. If grown in soil, the plant invariably dies within a few days after removal of the stock leaves. The central question of the problem is the functioning of translocation, connected with the structural and functional condition of the stock's phloem, as determined by the biochemical interactions between the partners. L'A. ringrazia vivamente il Prof. F. Scaramuzzi, i Dott.i M. Basso e F. Loreti, ed il Signor E. Levi M.Sc. per l'aiuto offerto nella preparazione e correzione del lavoro.
42874273|Si d conto di una serie di ricerche tendenti ad accertare le caratteristiche qualitative di frutti di pomodoro, provenienti da piante coltivate in serra ordinaria ed in serra idroponica. Le stesse ricerche sono state effettuate fra i frutti provenienti da una serra di forzatura e da una coltura di pieno campo. I dati conseguiti hanno permesso di accertare che nella coltura forzata, i frutti provenienti da piante cresciute in idroponica assumono, rispetto a quelli della coltura in terra, una forma pi regolare ed una pezza tura pi uniforme. Anche dal punto di vista bromatologico, i frutti provenienti da piante cresciute col sistema idroponico sono risultati qualitativamente migliori. Nel confronto fra i frutti provenienti da piante allevate in serra e piante allevate in pieno campo non sono risultate differenze di rilievo nel valore nutritivo. Differenze, invece, di ordine fisiologico sono state rilevate per quanto riguarda il ritmo di formazione degli zuccheri nell'ultima fase di maturazione dei frutti. It is referred about some researches verifying qualitative characteristics of tomato fruits coming from plants, grown in usual green houses and hydroponic ones. The same researches have been also made in fruits coming from a green house and from an open field culture. The data obtained have given us the possibility to verify that in green house the fruits coming from plants grown in hydroponic have, in comparison with those grown in the soil, a more regular shape and a more uniform size. Also from a nourishing point of view, the fruits coming from plants grown with the hydroponic system had a better quality result. Comparing the fruits coming from plants cultivated in green house and plants cultivated in open field we have seen no differences stress concerning the nourishing value. Physiological differences, on the contrary, have been noticed about the sugar formation quickness during the last stage of fruits ripening.
42874276|Vengono riferite le caratteristiche dell'apparato radicale delle cultivar di noccilo  Dall'Orto ,  Selvatica  (in terreno terrazzato) e  Tapparona  (in terreno non terrazzato e isolata), rilevate in Liguria. Dopo aver esposto le misure inerenti l'espansione delle radici in profondit e in senso radiale, gli AA. illustrano le conseguenze applicative nella coltivazione del noccilo nella tecnica delle lavorazioni, delle concimazioni e nella razionalizzazione delle distanze d'impianto. The Authors describe here some characteristics of the root-system for  Dall'Orto  and  Selvatica  hazel (Corylus avellana) cultivars growing in a terrace cultivation, and those of one specimen of  Tapparona  cv., planted in a plane, isolated from anyother shrub. They illustrate some data about depth and breadth of its roots, and explain some pratical consequences concerning its working technique, as well as manuring and plant spacing.
42874280|Nel 1960/61, in Emilia, sono state ripetute per il terzo anno consecutivo prove di lotta contro il marciume lenticellare da Gloeosporium, coi seguenti risultati statisticamente controllati: a) 4 trattamenti anticrittogamici, a base di bordolese, captano e ziram alla chioma dei meli  Abbondanza , effettuati rispettivamente il 21 o 23-IX, il 30-IX o il 3-X, 1'8 o il 10-X e il 17 o il 18-X hanno protetto in modo efficace il loro prodotto dal marciume da Gloeosporium durante la successiva prolungata conservazione frigorifera.  b) Nono sono state osservate considerevoli differenze fra i tre principi attivi impiegati.  c) L'infezione del suddetto agente di marciume deve essere avvenuta essenzialmente in campo nel periodo compreso fra il 21-IX e all'incirca la data di raccolta. Tali induzioni corrispondono assai bene ai risultati delle prove precedenti. In 1960/61 trials have been carried out in Emilia (Italy) for the third consecutive year, with the following results, statistically controlled: a) Four sprays of bordeaux, captan or ziram applied to the aboveground parts of  Abbondanza  apple trees respectively on 21. or 23. September, on 30. September or 3. October, on 8. or 10. October and on 17. or 18. October have efficaciously controlled Gloeosporium-rot in their crop during the following prolonged cold storage. - b) The differences between the three fungicides have been unconspicuous. - c) The substantial infection of Gloeosporium must have taken place in the orchard, some time in the period from 21. September and approximately the crop date. The aforesaid results agree well with those obtained in the previous trials.
42874288|Investigations have been carried on pear (cv.  William ) and apple (cv.  Delicious ) in view to study the physiological significance of the leaves and shoots inserted on the axis of the flower clusters and the effect of the flower position on their setting and fruiting ability. Those investigations have emphasized that: a) the abscission of the cluster leaves reduces the fruit setting; b) the shoots inserted on the clusters compete with flowers and fruits, mainly in the earlier stages of their development; c) in the pear the fruit-setting potentiality is higher in the lower inserted flowers; d) in the apple the fruit-setting potentiality is higher in the central flower ( king flower ). The Author discusses such results from a physiological point of view.
42874289|L'A. riferisce sui risultati tecnici ed economici conseguiti con l'applicazione, sul terreno, del polietilene nero nella coltura della fragola, in confronto con la coltivazione normale. Dopo tre anni di osservazioni su tre cultivar ( Madame Moutot ,  Regina di Verona  e  Cambridge 422 ) piantate in terreno tendenzialmente sabbioso, l'applicazione si  dimostrata conveniente per le cv.  M. Moutot  e  Cambridge 422 , mentre la cv.  Regina di Verona  ha rivelato sintomi di sofferenza quando la stagione  decorsa calda e asciutta in corrispondenza del periodo di accrescimento e di maturazione delle in fruttescenze. Invece, quando in tale periodo si  avuta un'elevata umidit nell'aria e nel terreno, tutte e tre le cultivar considerate hanno dato risultati produttivi molto migliori nelle parcelle su polietilene nero che non nella coltura normale, essendo su questa risultati molto pi sensibili i danni provocati dalla Botrytis. Pur avanzando le opportune riserve nei riguardi della  Regina di Verona  e di cultivar che abbiano analoghe esigenze, l'. ritiene meritevole di oculato incremento l'impiego del polietilene nero nella coltivazione della fragola. Infatti, nei riguardi della tradizionale coltura su terreno nudo, la maggiore spesa di impianto, che il polietilene nero impone, risulta compensata successivamente da un sensibile risparmio nell'impiego della mano d'opera, da una maggiore speditezza nella raccolta, da una forte riduzione nel numero delle fragole sporche di terra, da una notevole diminuzione degli attacchi della Botrytis; tanto che, entro certi limiti, l'uso del polietilene nero pu risultare conveniente anche se dovesse provocare una diminuzione del raccolto rispetto alla coltura attuata col metodo tradizionale. L'A. a essay l'utilisation du film de polythylne noir pour le paillage dans la culture de trois varits de fraisier:  Madame Moutot ,  Regina di Verona ,  Cambridge 422 , et il en a examin les aspects techniques et conomiques aprs trois annes de cultivation, en comparaison avec la cultivation que, normalement, on fait sans paillis. L'emploi du film plastique noir est rsult convenable surtout pour les varits  Madame Moutot  et  Cambridge 422 , tandis que son rsultat a t incertain, pour la varit  Regina di Verona , avec une saison sche et chaude pendant la priode de la croissance et de la maturation des fruits. Au contraire, le paillis avec polythylne noir est apparu trs convenable en printemps humide puisqu'il a amoindri les risques de Botrytis. Technical and economic results of strawberry cultivation with covering the soil with black plastic film are referred. The behaviour and production of three varieties ( Madame Moutot ,  Regina di Verona ,  Cambridge 422 ) were observed for three years in the Verona province and correlated with the production of the normal cultivation without mulching. The application of the black plastic film resulted profitable chiefly for the  M. Moutot  and  Cambridge 422  varieties, while appaered of uncertain profit for  Regina di Verona  when a dry and hot season accompanies the growth and ripening of fruits. On the contrary, the application appaered very profitable in moist springtime for all varieties because it reduces the Botrytis damages.
42874290|L'A. riferisce su di un esperimento di lotta contro la Laspeyresia la quale attacca in maniera gravissima i frutti del cotogno. Presso l'azienda del Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto di Firenze sono stati provati su 9 cultivar di cotogno due prodotti commerciali a base di Sevin e dell'estere etilico dell'ac. 0,0 dimetilditiofosforil-1-fenilacetico. Il prodotto al 50% di Sevin impiegato alla dose di 0,25% con ripetizioni dei trattamenti ogni 12 giorni ha dato un buon controllo dell'infestione. Si  notato l'insorgenza di una notevole punteggiatura sulla superficie del frutto in seguito al trattamento con Sevin. Sono date indicazioni orientative sulla scelta dell'epoca per il primo trattamento. The Author relates on some trials carried out in view to control the Laspeyresia molesta wich seriously damages the Quince fruits. Two commercial pesticides (Sevin and Cidial 50 L) have been tested on nine cultivars grown in the experiment farm of the  Centro Miglioramento Piante da Frutto e da Orto del C.N.R. , at Florence. The pesticide, containing 50% of Sevin, applied every 12 days with 0,25% solutions, has proved to offer a satisfactory control of the Laspeyresia; nevertheless such treatements have caused remarkable spots on the fruits skin. Indications are given on the most suitable time for the first application of chemicals.
42874292|The sequence of the flower-bud differentiation and development has been studied in Black currant (cv.  Mendip Cross ) during 1961 and 1962. Investigations have shown that under the climatic conditions of the Bologna district, the flower initiation (see plate I: C-D) occurs at about the end of may, i. e. one or two months earlier than in Germany and in the United Kingdom.
42874296|L'Autore riferisce sui risultati di un'indagine, compiuta in provincia di Verona, sui sistemi radicali di alberi di Kaki innestati su Diospyros Lotus, L., e coltivati in due tipi di terreno: l'uno di medio impasto e di origine alluvionale; l'altro, ciottoloso, poco profondo, di origine flluvio-glaciale. Dopo aver descritto l'aspetto delle radici e la loro distribuzione, che  apparsa influenzata dalla fertilit del terreno e dalla natura fisica degli strati che ne costituiscono il profilo, l'Autore riferisce sui reciproci rapporti esistenti fra le radici del diospiro e quelle della vite e del ciliegio, segnalando che, mentre i sistemi radicali delle tre specie esaminate si intersecano liberamente, fra le radici di due diospiri contigui esiste una evidente  repulsione , analogamente a quanto gi segnalato per il pesco. L'Autore conclude auspicando che le future indagini tengano pi largo conto dei reciproci rapporti fra i sistemi radicali degli alberi di una stessa specie e di specie diverse, anche in vista delle possibili deduzioni da trame in merito al problema della successione delle colture in uno stesso terreno. L'A. a effectu des recherches sur le systme radiculaire du Kaki (var.  Lycopersicon , greffe sur Diospyros Lotus, L.) dans le milieu de la province de Verona, avec l'excavation complte des racines de cinq arbres en deux diffrents types de sol. Aprs avoir dcrit l'aspect des racines et leur distribution dans le sol (laquelle parat influence par la fertilit et les proprits physiques du sol mme), l'. donne des renseignements sur les rapports qui existent entre les racines du Kaki et les racines de la vigne et du crisier, en informant que, tandis que les racine des trois spces s'interposent entre elles, les racines de deux arbres de Kaki ne s'interposent pas, de mme faon qu'il a dj signal pour le pcher. L'A. souhaite que,  l'avenir, les recherches puissent renseigner plus diffusement sur les rapports mutuels qui existent entre les systmes radiculaires des arbres d'une mme spce et d'espces diffrentes, mme en vue de possibles dductions  propos du problme de la succession des cultures fruitires dans le mme sol. The A. refers on its investigations on the Japanese persimmon root distribution in two types of soil of the Verona province. On the basis of its observations on the entire root systems of five trees of  Lycopersicon  variety, grafted on Diospyros Lotus, L., the A. puts in evidence that the distribution of roots in the ground is chiefly regulated by soil fertility and structure. The A. also observed that, as for the peach, each Japanese persimmon root system spread in a definite zone of the soil and its roots don't explore the soil that is explored by the roots of neighbouring persimmon tree, even though very near established. On the contrary, the ground where live the roots of the Diospyros is freely explored by vines and cherry tree roots. At least the A. puts in evidence the expedience that the investigations on the roots systems of fruits tree will consider the reciprocal relations between the roots of the same and different species, also in connection with the fruit trees replant problems.
42874880|The Author puts in evidence the importance of natural bud mutations for the fruit trees breeding and emphasizes that the use of mutagenous substances show a wide range of practical applications in this direction. A natural sport of pear variety  Max Red Bartlett  is compared with those artificially obtained by Dommergue in the same variety treated with gamma rays.
42874881|In questo primo contributo l'Autore illustra il comportamento del sistema radicale della fragola nelle condizioni dell'ordinaria coltura, sulla base delle osservazioni condotte, dall'autunno 1960 all'estate del 1962, per mezzo di  finestre  opportunamente applicate nel terreno in prossimit delle piante. Dalle indagini  emerso che lo sviluppo del sistema radicale della fragola  caratterizzato da periodi di accrescimento (febbraio-marzo; luglio; settembre-ottobre) alternati a periodi di riposo (aprile-giugno; agosto; novembre-gennaio), sotto la influenza combinata dei fattori microambientali (temperatura ed umidit del suolo) e di quelli intrinseci alla pianta (attivit della parte aerea, traslocazione stagionale delle sostanze nutritive). The Athor describes the behaviour of the root systems of strawberry plants (cv.  Madame Moutot ) as periodically recorded by the observation trench method, from the autumn 1960 to the summer 1962. The roots, observed through vertical windows held against the soil and sunk in the ground, have shown periods of growth (February-March; July; September-October) and succeeding periods of rest (April-June; August; November-January). Such behaviour may be explained in striking agreement with the soil temperature and moisture, so as with the top/roots physiological relations.
42874882|In seguito a numerosi casi di mortalit delle piante da frutto per asfissia radicale verificatisi nell'inverno 1960-61, 1'A. ha effettuato una serie di ricerche sulla resistenza dei peschi e dei peri ai ristagni di acqua nel terreno. Le osservazioni sono state condotte su peschi, innestati sul franco, e su peri, innestati sia sul franco che su cotogno comune. L'apparato radicale di queste piante  stato sottoposto a periodi variabili di sommersione (15, 30, 45, 60, 75 e 90 giorni) durante l'inverno e l'inizio della primavera. Mentre i peri su cotogno hanno tollerato queste condizioni, i peschi ed i peri su franco sono invece risultati particolarmente sensibili all'asfissia radicale, specie nel periodo del risveglio vegetativo. During the rainy winter 1960-61, many peach orchards were severely damages by waterlogging. Starting from this event the Author carried out researches in view to establish how long the roots of peach and pear seedlings and those of quince, can remain submerged without being damaged. Experiments consisted in submerging the roots of the mentioned stocks for different period (15 - 30 - 45 - 60 - 75 - 90 days) during the winter and the spring. Results have shown that pears on quince stock was not affected, whereas the peach and the pear trees on seedling stocks were damaged in different degrees, in relation to the lenght of submersion and the season of the treatment.
42874883|Dopo avere passato in rassegna le principali ricerche che sono state effettuate sull'impiego dei composti inorganici del ferro e dei chelati fer rici per la cura della clorosi da calcare, l'Autore riferisce i risultati di alcune indagini eseguite in quattro differenti zone della provincia di Palermo. Le prove sperimentali sono state condotte su agrumi, peschi e peri impiegando, secondo diversi metodi di somministrazione, il  Sequestrene 138 Iron Chelate  (Fe EDDHA). I migliori risultati si sono ottenuti scalzando il terreno entro l'area di proiezione della chioma delle piante fino a raggiungere le prime radici, irrorando con il prodotto ben disciolto in acqua, irrigando ed infine ricoprendo con terra la sconcatura. Con l'uso del palo iniettore si  avuto un rinverdimento delle foglie meno rapido ma sempre soddisfacente. L'efficacia dei trattamenti,  comunque, in diretta ragione delle dosi di prodotto impiegate, del pH del suolo nonch dello sviluppo e dell'et delle piante. After having examined the most important researches carried out in the world concerning the use of inorganic iron compounds and the use of chelates for the control of lime induced chlorosis, the Author reports the results of trials carried out in four different places of Palermo area. Control experiments were carried out on Citrus, Peach, and Pear trees with proprietary iron chelates (Fe EDDHA) applied in different ways. The best results were obtained when the materials were applied by broadcasting uniformly in a basin extending over the entire root area and irrigating into the soil. Less rapid but satisfactory regreening was obtained with soil injections. Results were affected by dosage level, soil pH, plant growth and age.
42874886| stato preso in esame l'accrescimento dei frutti di 4 cultivar di pesco sia dal punto di vista dimensionale sia da quello chimico. In particolare sono stati messi a confronto i dati, prelevati settimanalmente, dell'altezza, della larghezza e del peso ed inoltre viene esaminata la variazione chimica del contenuto in zuccheri riduttori, in saccarosio ed acidit espressa in ac. citrico riferito a 100 gr di tessuto carnoso fresco durante il processo di maturazione. Il frutto cresce durante una prima fase; l'accrescimento si arresta in una seconda fase, mentre si sviluppano endosperma ed embrione; infine nella terza fase il pericarpo ha un notevole sviluppo specialmente nelle ultime settimane, che precedono la maturazione. Observations have been carried on four peach cultivars ripening at different time in view to compare the weekly differences recorded in the height, in the width, in the weight and in the chemical composition of the fruits. Chemical change in the reducing sugars, saccharose and acidity (expressed in citric acid) contents, that were refered to 100 gr of fresh matter, was examined during the ripening process. Fruit increased during the first period; its growth stopped during the second period, that is during the endosperm and embryo development; at particulary in last, during the third period the pericarp had a considerable increase particulary in the last weeks before the ripening time.
42874887|Vengono segnalati, nelle zone toscane di Viareggio e di Pescia, alcuni gravi casi di fusariosi vascolare del Garofano prodotti da Fusarium oxysporum f, dianthi (Prill, et Del.) Snyd. et Hans. Dopo una descrizione dei sintomi della malattia e delle caratteristiche del parassita, viene confermata, attraverso prove di isolamento, la capacit di quest'ultimo di infettare le talee. Come mezzi di lotta sono indicati una accurata scelta delle talee sane e la disinfestione con Vapam dei terreni gi invasi dal parassita. The Author reports on a vascular disease of the Carnation caused by Fusarium oxysporum f. dianthi (Prill, et Del.) Snyd. et Hans, in Tuscany. After giving a description of the symptoms, the Author dewels upon the behaviour of the pathogen, particularly about its possibility to infect cuttings. Employment of healthy cuttings and soil disinfestation by Vapam are indicated for the control of the disease.
42874316|Al fine di indagare quale sia l'importanza dell'assenza di luce e dell'umidit nel comune eziolamento praticato nel vivaismo, l'A. riproduce l'eziolamento stesso su due cv. di susino  Mirabolano l'e Marianna  con un procedimento gi impiegato da Gardner, in modo da non provocare un sostanziale aumento di umidit. L'origine delle radici insorte in seguito a tale procedimento, come pure quella delle radici avventizie emesse dai rami interrati nelle margotte di ceppaia di 5 cv. di susini portainnesti  risultata molto simile a quella delle radici preformate di cotogno, melo, pioppo, ecc. Sembra poco probabile che nei susini studiati l'eziolamento agisca sulla radicazione attraverso modificazioni nell'anatomia del ramo. In view to estabilish the rule of the etiolation and the moisture in the layering, shoots of two plum varieties (Mirobalan B and Marianna) were etiolated with the Gardner's method, wich avoiding a considerably increase of the moisture puts in evidence the prevailing importance of the etiolation in the layering process. The origin of roots obtained in this way and of those arising from mound layered shoots (studied in five plum rootstocks) appeared very similar to the method of origin of preformed roots of quince, apple, black currant, a.s.o. It seems unlikely that in the investigated plum stocks, the etiolation influences the roots formation throughout anatomical modifications in the stem structure.
42874319|L'Autore ha effettuato uno studio sulle cultivar di susino diffuse in provincia di Palermo. Sono state individuate sei cultivar:  San Giovanni ,  Caleca ,  Sanacuore ,  Susino della rosa ,  Ariddu di cuore ,  Lazzarino , che sono state, quindi, descritte seguendo una scheda pomologica che considera i caratteri morfologici, biologici ed agronomici. L'Autore ha inoltre indagato sul periodo di fioritura e di maturazione dei frutti delle sei cultivar considerate ed  giunto alla conclusione che la coltura del susino pu essere ulteriormente incrementata orientandosi per la scelta delle cultivar, secondo i seguenti criteri valutativi: a) Per consumo allo stato fresco: cv.  Sanacuore . b) Per trasformazione del prodotto in marmellate: cv.  Caleca  e  Susino della rosa . The characteristcs of the plum  varieties in the Palermo area are described. The following six varieties were identified:  San Giovanni ,  Caleca ,  Sanacuore ,  Susino della rosa ,  Ariddu di cuore   Lazzarino . Consequently they were described following a pomological scheme, which considers the morfological, biological and agronomic characters. The Author also relates about his researches performed on the blossoming and ripening period and he suggests that plum coltivation may be increased. In relation to their commercial value the following varieties have been judged suitable: a) for fresh market:  Sanacuore . b) for processing:  Caleca  and  Susino della rosa .
42874320|The Author relates about the pollination needs of the two new early ripening varieties  Morettini :  Williams'  Citron des Carmes 64  and  Williams'  Citron des Carmes 113 . Investigations have shown that those varieties are self-incompatible, but able to form a few partenocarpic fruits; their most important pollinators have been detected and listed in the paper.
42874321|Investigations have shown that the dwarfing apple rootstock E. M. IX, compared with the vigorous E. M. IV stock, has a reduced water conductivity, fewer but larger vessels and a less porous xylem. On the basis of such differences, the Authors discuss the relations among vigour, water conductivity and anatomical structure of the two rootstocks.
42874322|L'A. riferisce sulle ricerche compiute sul sistema radicale del pesco, nell'ambiente dell'Agro Romano, che presenta caratteristiche pedoclimatiche particolari, rispetto alle altre zone peschicole italiane. Le indagini sono state effettuate su due piante di pesco di 8 anni di et, piantate in terreno poco profondo, con sottosuolo impermeabile, costituito da tufi granulari teneri. L'A. ha messo in evidenza, tra l'altro: a) le radici assorbenti sono prevalentemente distribuite a partire da m. 1 circa dal tronco, e per una profondit di 25-60 cm; b) esse si sono sviluppate oltre la proiezione della chioma e maggiormente nel senso del filare ove non venivano disturbate dai lavori di aratura, che nell'interfilare; c) le radici di una pianta di pesco non s'intrecciavano con quelle dei peschi vicine; d) i lavori di aratura fatti alla profondit di 30 cm circa nell'interfilarc, per interrare le colture da sovescio, hanno provocato lesioni all'apparato radicale. In considerazione di queste osservazioni, l'A. suggerisce i lavori di sistemazione idraulica-agrario atti a favorire lo scolo delle acque in eccesso, e le pratiche tecnico colturali indispensabili al pescheto, in quel particolare ambiente.
42874895|Vengono riferiti i risultati di prove volte ad indagare la persistenza di alcuni erbicidi nel terreno. A circa un anno dalla somministrazione, il composto che ha manifestato di possedere in maggior misura un'azione erbicida residua su Trifolium pratense e Sinapis nigra  rappresentato dal Diuron; seguono in ordine decrescente la Miscela ATA + Simazina e il Dalapon. La persistenza del Monuron, Aminotriazolo e Simazina  risultata minima e quindi difficilmente apprezzabile. The Authors refer about the results of some researches carried out to study the persistance of six herbicides (ATA, Monuron, Diuron, Simazine, Dalapon, ATA + Simazine), a year after their supply in two different kinds of soil. 1) - The above herbicides seem to persist longer in loamy soil compared with the sandy one. 2) - Diuron, Dalapon and mixture ATA + Simazine persist in the soil preventing growth and development of Trifolium pratense and Sinapis nigra giving as well symptoms of foliar chlorosis and nechrosis. 3) - The residues of the tested herbicides at about a year after their supply were not sufficient to interfere with Sinapis nigra and Trifolium pratense development. We can therefore say that treatment with herbicides are not sufficiently efficient after a year and must be repeated.
42874897|Le osservazioni che sono state illustrate nella nota ed i dati esposti nelle tabelle 1 e 2 indicano che: a) - tutti i trattamenti hanno provocato un pi precoce inizio nella formazione del cercine cicatriziale; tale anticipo, modesto nei trattamenti con  Minio ,  Cano  e  Dupont ,  stato invece particolarmente sensibile nel caso dei trattamenti con  Amonn ,  Betabit  e  Vinavil ; b) - lo sviluppo del cercine cicatriziale  risultato pi intenso nel primo anno che nel secondo; c) - la rapidit con cui il cercine cicatriziale ha ricoperto la superficie delle ferite  risultata comparativamente elevata, nel caso dei trattamenti con  Betabit  e con  Vinavil , media, nel caso dei trattamenti con  Amonn  e  Dupont , uguale al controllo, nel caso dei trattamenti con il  cicatrizzante Cano  ed inferiore al controllo, nel caso dei trattamenti con il  Minio . Comparative investigations have been carried out with six different wound dressing substances by the Wenzl method. Results, summarized in the tables 1 and 2, have shown that: a) - all the treatements have promoted an earlier resumption of meristematic activity, the stronger effect being evident in the wounds treated with  Amonn ,  Betabit  and  Vinavil ; b) - The new tissues have developed more rapidly during the first than during the second year; c) - the wounds treated with  Betabit  and  Vinavil  healed more rapidly than those treated with the other substances; any influence has been shown by the  Cano wound dressing  but a negative effect has been exerted by  Minio  on the speed of the wounds healing; d) - from a practical point of view,  Vinavil  appears the most suitable wound dressing substance amoung those tested during the present investigations, in order to the cost of the treatements, the persistance of the product on the wounds and the positive influence on the new tissues formation.
42874898|Da prove d'impollinazione incrociata del nocciuolo  Tonda gentile delle Langhe   emerso che di 12 cultivar impiegate come fornitrici di polline, alcune sono risultate ottime, altre buone, altre cattive impollinatrici. Parallelamente, saggi di germinazione del polline effettuati in laboratorio non hanno messo in luce alcun rapporto fra la capacit germinativa delle cellule sessuali maschili e le fecondazioni ottenute in campo. Poich il polline della  Tonda gentile della Langhe  si  dimostrato inadatto all'autofecondazione, l'autore prospetta l'ipotesi che il fenomeno sia dovuto o ad autosterilit della cultivar od a sterilit del polline od a sensibilit dello stesso ad avverse condizioni microclimatiche. Se il problema della sterilit della  Tonda gentile  permane insoluto sotto il profilo scientifico,  comunque dimostrato che detta cultivar esige di essere consociata ai fini di una efficiente impollinazione. Ulteriori esperienze potranno fornire indicazioni pi attendibili circa la scelta degli impollinatori ed il tipo di consociazione pi razionale. Very significant differences on the action of the pollinators was found out in cross pollination research concerning the filbert  Tonda gentile delle Langhe  and 12 other varieties, supplying pollen. No one relation was found between pollen ability to germinate and the fertilisation obtained in the field, in pollen germination trials. As the pollen of  Tonda gentile delle Langhe  was shown to be unable to produce the self-fertilisation, the phenomenon is supposed to be due either to selfincompatability or to imperfect pollen, or to pollen sensitiveness to unfavourable microclimatic conditions. If the sterility problem of  Tonda gentile delle Langhe  is still now scientifically unsolved, the present research pointed out that this variety has to be growed with some other pollenizers in order to secure the benefits from cross pollination. Further investigations will better indicate the kind and the use of the pollinators to be choosen.
42874899|L'Autore descrive le caratteristiche morfologiche, biologiche e commerciali di un'interessante cultivar tardiva di arancio sorta in un agrumeto della zona di Calatafimi (Sicilia) e denominata  Ovaletto di Calatafimi . I frutti di questa promettente cultivar maturano verso il quindici aprile ma, se lasciati all'albero, si mantengono senza considerevoli alterazioni sino al mese di giugno. The Author describes the morfological, biological and commercial characters of the late ripening orange variety  Ovaletto di Calatafimi , raised by a citrus grower of Calatafimi Valley (Sicily). This promising variety ripens about April the fifteenth, but harvest can be safely delayed as late as June.
42874900|Weekly observations have been carried out from March 1961 to the end of July 1962 on the pattern of strawberry root development beneath black polyethylene mulch. Results, compared with those reached by Baldini (1963) in the same conditions but with strawberries under clean cultivation, have shown that, beneath the black film, the resumption of the root growth occurs later in spring; nevertheless, the mulched root systems rapidly reach a greater size and keep in better conditions during the unfavourable circumstances, both of winter and summer.
42874901|Vengono descritti i principi e le caratteristiche di funzionamento di alcuni mezzi impiegati negli impianti di nebulizzazione per il controllo dell'umidit.
42874342|The Centre for Fruit and Vegetable Breeding has been established in 1950 by the National Research Council; since its foundation it has been directed by Prof. A. Morettini. The director's office and the laboratories are located at Via dei Vespucci (Barco) 1, Florence. The Center is equipped with cool rooms, glasshouses, scientific instruments, machines, tools, a.s.o.; two experimental farms are equipped with large collections of fruit varieties and rootstocks. The main lines of research concern: 1) breeding of fruit trees, with special reference to pear tree, peach tree, plum tree and including the use of labelled cobalt as a mutant agent; 2) vegetables breeding; 3) biological behaviour of the main fruit trees; 3) plant propagation; 4) root systems of fruit trees; 5) fruits thinning; 6) description and selection of varieties. Since 1950 the Centre has published over than 200 contributions; amoung these the  Monografia delle principali cultivar di pesco , the  Miglioramento genetico degli ortaggi  and the  Frutticoltura generala e speciale  are very remarcable books. Ths Centre is editor of the  Rivista dell'Ortoflorofrutticoltura Italiana . Le Centre pour l'Amlioration des Arbres Fruitiers et des Cultures Marachres, a t fond en 1950 par le Conseil National de la Recherche; M. le prof. A. Morettini est le directeur du Centre depuis la fondation. Le Centre a son sige Via dei Vespucci 1 (Barco), Florence et disoose de serres vitres, de celles frigorifres, et de deux fermes exprimentales doues de nombreuses collections de varits et de portegreffes. L'activit scientifique deu Centre concerne: 1) l'amlioration gntique des arbres  fruits et des lgumes, au moyen du croisement varietale et de l'irradiation au cobalt radioactif; 2) la biologie des arbres fruitiers; 3) la propagation; 4) l'clarcissage des fruits; 5) le systme radiculaire des arbres fruitiers; 6) la description et la selection des varits. Depuis 1950 le Centre a publi plus de 200 notes et de trs importants volumes tels que:  Monografia delle principali cultivar di pesco ,  Il miglioramento genetico degli ortaggi ,  Frutticoltura generale e speciale ; le Centre publie aussi la  Rivista dell'Ortoflorofrutticoltura Italiana . Das Verbesserungszentrum fr Obst-und Gemsepflanzen des Nationalen Rates fr Forschung entstand in Jahre 1950 und wurde seit seiner Grndung von Prof. Alessandro Morettini geleitet. Das Zentrum verfgt ber: a) Gebude, zwei Khlanlagen, zwei glasbedeckte Gewchshuser, ein Treibhaus sowie Gebude fr die Unterbringung der landwirtschaftlichen Maschinen, Gerte usw.; b) Zwei Versuchsbetriebe von insgesamt 21,50 Ha Flche. Die eine befindet sich in der Gemeinde von Florenz und die andere in der Gemeinde von Scandicci. Diese Betriebe verfgen ber zahlreiche Sammlungen verschiedenster Obstarten. Die hauptschlichsten Forschungen sind: 1) genetische Verbesserung der Obstarten: Birne, Pfirsich, Pflaume, durch die Kreuzungzchtung und durch die Bestrahlung mit radioaktivem Kobalt; 2) genetische Verbesserung der Gemsearte; 3) Forchungen ber die verschiedenen biologischen Fragen, ber die Biologie des Fruchtens der hauptschlichsten Obstarten, ber die Bewurzelung; 4) Forschungen landwirtschaftlichen Charakters bei: a) Wurzelsysteme der angebauten Baumpflanzen; b) knstliche Ausdnnung des Fruchtbehanges; c) Physiologie der Unvertrglichkeit zwischen Edelreis und Unterlage; d) Dngung; e) Pomologischen Untersuchungen an Birnen-und Pflaumensorten. Seit 1960 hat des Zentrum ungefhr 200 Verfassungen herausgegeben, unter diesen die  Monographie der hauptschlichsten Pfirsichsorten , die Abhandlung ber die  Genetische Verbesserung des Gemses  sowie ber den  Allgemeinen und speziellen Obstbau . Es verffentlicht ausserdem die Zeitschrift des italienischen Gemse-, Blumen-, und Obstbaus.
42874343|The Institute of Fruit Growing of the University of Bologna, directed by prof. E. Baldini, has its seat in the main building of the Faculty of Agriculture (Via Filippo Re, 6); its equipment is modern and its library is rich in periodicals and books, some of wich very rare. In the experimental farm are laid out didactic and experimental orchards (collections of the different varieties, pruning tests, soil menagement trials, a.s.o.), while several other experimental fields have been established in different parts of Emilia-Romagna. Researches concern with the main aspects of the modern fruitgrowing techniques, such as: 1) - description and selection of varieties of apricot, cherry, peach, apple, pear, strawberry, black-currant; 2) - cherry rootstocks; 3) - double-working with apples and pears; 3) - fruit trees manuring; 4) - propagation of strawberries; 5) - soil mnagement, mulching, a.s.o.; 8) - fruit-bud differentiation; 9) - pollination of fruit trees and shrubs; 10) - physiological and technical aspects of pruning; 11) - plant breeding; 12) - influence of climatic factors. L'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de l'Universit de Bologne, dirig par M. le prof. E. Baldini, a son sige dans la Facult d'Agronomie (Via Filippo Re, 6); l'Institut possde un equipment scientifique trs moderne, des serres, une ferme exprimentale et une bibliothque trs riche en publications priodiques et en livres dont quelques uns sont trs rares. Des vergers didactiques et exprimentaux ont t tablis soit dans l'exploitation de rinstitut, soit chez des vergers privs de l'Emilia-Romagna. L'activit de recherche de l'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de Bologne concerne, en particulier, les aspects suivants de la moderne fructiculture : 1) - surgreffage du poirier et du pommier; 2) - portegreffes du cerisier; 3) - propagation du fraisier; 4) - description et slection des varits de pcher, de poirier, de prunier, de cerisier, de pommier, d'abricotier, de fraisier, de cassis etc.; 5) - fumure des arbres fruitiers; 6) exigences d'eau des plantes a fruits; 7) - entretien du sol dans les vergers; 8) - diffrentation  fleur des bourgeons; 9) - pollinisation; 10) - physiologie et technique de la taille; 11) - influence des facteurs climatiques; 12) - amlioration des varits. Das von Prof. E. Baldini geleitete Institut fr Obstbau an der Universitt Bologna besitzt eine Bibliothek und verfgt ber eine grosse Zahl teils sehr seltener Verffentlichungen ber den Obstbau und ber zahlreiche Zeitschriften. Auf dem Versuchsbetrieb sind Obstanlangen fr Lehr-und Versuchszwecke (Obstsortensam-mlungen, Schnittversuche, u.s.w.) und in verschiedenen Gebieten der Emilia sind zahlreiche Versuchsfelder angelegt worden. Die wissenschaftliche Versuchsttigkeit erstreckt sich inbesondere auf folgende Aspekte des Obstbaus: 1) das Unterlageproblem bei den Ssskirsche; 2) Zwischenveredlung beim Apfel-und Birnbaum; 3) Vermehrung der Erdbeere; 4) Beschreibung der Aprikosen-, Erdbeer-, Kirsch-, Apfel-, Birnen-und Pfirsichsorten; 5) Dngung; 6) Wasserbedarf der Obstbume; 7) Bodenpflege (Bodenbearbeitung, Bodenbedeckung, u.s.w.); 8) Bltenknospendifferenzierung, Bestubung; 9) Technik und Physiologie des Schnittes der Obstbume; 10) Einfluss der klimatischen Faktoren; 11) Obsternte; 12) Zchtung neuer Obstsorten.
42874344|The Institute of Fruit Growing of the University of Florence, is located in the main building of the Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry, Piazzale Cascine 18; at present, Dr. E. Casini is encharged of its direction. The Institute is equipped with large laboratory facilities and fulfils its experimental activity in several private farms all over the Italy. At present, the main researches concern: 1) propagation of fruit trees, vines and olives; 2) selection of rootstocks and varieties; 3) floral biology of fruit trees; 4) training of fruit, olive and vine trees; 5) manuring; 6) vegetable growing, with special reference to strawberry plants and plastic materials in horticulture. L'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de l'Universit de Florence a son sige chez la Facult d'Agronomie, Piazzale delle Cascine 18; M. le Docteur E. Casini est actuellement charg de sa direction. L'Institut dispose d'une moderne instrumentation scientifique et exerce son activit auprs de nombreuses fermes prives, situes dans les diffrentes rgions de l'Italie. Les principales recherches en cours concernent: 1) la propagation des arbres  fruits, de la vigne et de l'olivier; 2) la slection des portegreffes et des varits; 3) la biologie florale des arbres fruitiers; 4) la technique culturale des arbres fruitiers, de la vigne et de l'olivier; 5) l'amplographie. D'autres recherches ont lieu dans le domain de l'horticulture et concernent, en particulier, la culture du fraisier et l'emploi des matires plastiques. Das Institut fr Obstbau der Universitt von Florenz befindet sich bei der Fakultt fr Landwirtschaft und Forsten, am Piazzale Cascine, 18. Dr. E. Casini ist zur Zeit beauftragt, das Institut zu leiten. Das Institut verfgt ber einen grossen Laboratorium-Zubehr und fhrt seine experimentelle Arbeit bei Wirtschaften, Gemeinschaften und Privaten durch in den verschiedensten Teilen von Italien. Die haptschlichsten Forschungen im Gange betreffen: a) Die Vermehrung der Obstbume, der Weinstcker und der Oelbume; b) Die Auslesezchtung von Unterlagen und von Obstsorten; c) Die Technik des Anbaus der Unterhaltung und Pflege von Obst-, Reben-und Olivenanlagen; d) Blhens-und Befrunchtungsbiologie der Obstgewchse; e) Erziehungsformen der Obst-und Oelbume und der Reben; f) Steigerung der Bodenfruchtbarkeit; g) Ampelografische Untersuchungen. Andere Untersuchungen befassen sich ber den Gartenbau, in der Hauptsache ber Erdbeeren und ber die Verwendung von Plastikfolien.
42874345|The Institute of Fruit Growing of the University of Palermo, directed by prof. F. G. Crescimanno, is housed in a very new building of the Faculty of Agriculture; it is well equipped with modern scientific instruments and provided with experimental greenhouses, laboratories, and three experimental fields devoted to fruit collection and experimental nursery. The main experimental activity of the Institute of Palermo concerns: 1) the  chilling requirement  of the peach tree and the physiology of the rest period; 2) mist propagation; 3) Citrus breeding; 4) fiorai biology of Citrus species; 5) dubleworking of vine trees; 6) mineral nutrition of citrus and vines. L'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de l'Universit de Palerme, dont M. le prof. F. G. Crescimanno est le directeur, a son sige dans un des nouveaux difices de la Facult d'Agronomie; l'Institut possde une moderne instrumentation scientifique, tel que des serres exprimentales, des laboratoires, et trois champs exprimentaux dvous  la recolte des varits et  la ppinire. D'autres champs ont t crs dans divers lieux de la Sicile. L'activit d'tude de l'Institut de Palermo concerne principalement: 1) le  bsoin en froid  du pcher et la biologie du repos vgtatif; 2) la propagation sous brouillard; 3) la biologie florale et l'amlioration gntique des agrumes; 4) le surgreffage de la vigne; 5) la nutrition minrale des agrumes et de la vigne. Das von Prof. F. G. Crescimanno geleitete Institut fr Obstbau an der Universitt Palermo befindet sich in einem der neuen Gebude der landwirtschaftliche Fakultt. Es verfgt ber moderne Einrichtungen, wie z. B. Versuchsgewchshuser, ein Film-Laboratorium, ein Laboratorium fr Analysen, Instrumente fr radioisotopische Untersuchungen, etc. Zum Institut gehren ferner drei Versuchsfelder mit Obstanlagen und eine Baumschule. Weitere Versuchsfelder befinden sich in verschiedenen anderen Teilen Siziliens. Die wissenschafliche Ttigkeit des Institutes fr Obstbau in Palermo umfasst hauptschlich folgende Punkte: a Kltebedrfnis des Pfirsichbaums und Biologie der Winterruhe; b) Vermehrung mit Nebelberegnungsanlagen; c) Zchtung neuer Zitrussorten; d) Bltenbiologie der Agrumen; e) Umpfropfen des Weinstockes; f) mineralische Ernhrung von Agrumen und Reben.
42874346|The Institute of Fruit Growing of the University of Perugia, directed by prof. N. Jacoboni, is located in the old building of the Faculty of Agriculture (S. Pietro), whilst awaiting transfer to a new building. Attached to the Institute are two plots on wich are planted olive trees, fruits trees and an instructional-experimental vineyard. Research activity of the Institute of Perugia is carried out under conditions wich are very difficult for the fruit trees growing and is dealing with the local problems which concern particularly the olive, the vine and the hazel-nut trees culture. The main lines of research are concerned with: 1) floral biology; 2) training and pruning systems; 3) propagation; 4) description of varieties. L'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de l'Universit de Perouse, dirig par M. le prof. N. Jacoboni,  son sige dans le vieu btiment de la Facult d'Agronomie (S. Pietro) en attendant d'tre transfre dans un nuovel difice. L'Institut possde deux champs exprimentales plants  olivier,  vigne et  verger. Les recherches sont faites dans un milieu trs difficile pour l'arboriculture fruitire et elles sont pour la plupart tournes vars la solution des problmes rgionaux qui concernent la culture de l'oliver, de la vigne et du noisetier. Les principales recherches en cours intressent les sujets suivants: 1) biologie florale; 2) systmes d'levage et de taille; 3) propagation; 4) description des varits. Das Institut fr Obstbau an der Universitt Perugia wird von Prof. N. Jacoboni geleitet. Es befindet sich in der landwirtschaftlichen Fakultt, soll jedoch bald in ein neues Gebude bersiedeln. Zum Institut gehren zwei Versuchfelder, auf denen Oliven-, Obst-und Weinkulturen zu Versuchszwecken und zu Studienzwecken angelegt worden sind. Die wissenschaftliche Ttigkeit, die in einem fr den Obstbau ziemlich Schwierigen Gebiet durchgefhrt wird, erstreckt sich vorwiegend avf die Lsung von Problemen, die sich fr den umbrischen Obstbau ergeben und zwar inbesondere auf den Anbau lbumen und Weinreben und seit kurzem von Haselnssen. Die wichtigsten zur Zeit laufenden Untersuchungen werden durchgefhrt auf: a) Biologie des Blhens und des Fruchtens der Obstgehlze; b) Der Schnitt der Obstgehlze und die Erziehungformen; c) Vermehrung; d) Beschreibung von Oliven-, Trauben-, Pfirsich-, Birnen-und Walnussorten.
42874347|The Institute of Fruit Growing of the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart is situated in Piacenza in the new building of the Faculty of Agriculture. Prof. E. Zanini, is its director. The main facilities (library, greenhouses, climatic cells, electronic microscope, a.s.o.) are used in common of the other Departments of the Faculty, in agreement with a system of centralization of the teaching and scientific services. The experimental farm is located in the province of Cremona. The research activity is mainly concerned with the following problems: 1) influence of climatic factors on fruit trees; 2) root systems; 3) pollination; 4) manuring; 5) pruning; 6) description and selection of varieties; 7) propagation. Some researches concern with the poplar culture. L'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de l'Universit Catholique du Sacr-Coeur a son sige  Piacenza, auprs de la Facult d'Agronomie. M. le prof. E. Zanini en est le directeur. La ferme exprimentale est localis en province de Cremona. La bibliothque et les plus importants instruments scientifiques (microscope lectronique, celles climatiques, serres, etc.) sont d'usage commun de plusieurs Instituts de la mme Facult, sur la base d'une centralisation des services didactiques et scientifiques. Les recherches de l'Institut de Piacenza concernent en particulier les suivants aspects de l'arboriculture: 1) influence des facteurs climatiques; 2) systmes radiculaires; 3) pollinisation; 4) fumure; 5) description des varits; 6) taille; 7) propagation. D'autres recherches concernent la culture du peuplier. Das Institut fr Obstbau an der Katholischen Universitt Hl. Herzens, Piacenza, ist in dem Gebude der landwirtschaftlichen Fakultt untergebracht und wird von Prof. E. Zanini geleitet. Seine wichtigsten Einrichtungen, wie Bibliothek, Gewachshuser, Klimazellen, Elektronenmikroskop usw., werden  im Zuge der Lehrmittelzentralisierung , auch von anderen Instituten in gemeinschaftlicher Regie benutzt. Das Institut hat einen eigenen Versuchsbetrieb in der Provinz Cremona mit Obstanlagen zu Versuchs-und Studienzweck. Die wissenschaftliche Ttigkeit umfasst inbesondere nachfolgende Fragen des Obstbaus: 1) Einfluss klimatischer Faktoren; 2) Wurzelsysteme; 3) Bestubung; 4) Dngung; 5) Beschreibung von Kirsch-, Aprikose-, Feig-, und Traubensorten: 6) Schnitt der Obstgehlze; 7) Vermehrung. Forschungsttigkeit in grsserem Rahmen ist auch dem Anbau des Pappeis gewidmet.
42874348|The Institute of Fruit Growing of the University of Pisa, directed by prof. F. Scaramuzzi, is located at Via del Borghetto 80. The Institute is modernly equipped with a greenhouse for mist propagation, climatic cells, a.s.o., it has also three farms and several experimental fields. The scientific activity is mainly concerned with: 1) - propagation of fruit trees, vines and olives; in this field the Institute carries out deep researches on propagation by cuttings, graft-incompatibility, and rootstocks selection; 2) - pomological investigation and selection of fruit varieties; 3) - orchard training, with special reference to the use of herbicides, mulching with plastic and depth of the soil cultivation; 4) -floral biology; 5) - pruning of fruit, vine and olive trees. L'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de l'Universit de Pise, dont monsieur le Professeur F. Scaramuzzi est le directeur, a son sige en Via del Borghetto 80. L'Institut possde une instrumentation scientifique trs moderne qui comprend, entre outre, une serre pour la multiplication sous brouillard, des chambres climatiques, ecc. L'Institut possde aussi trois fermes et de nombreux champs exprimentaux. L'activit scientifique est surtout dvoue : 1) - la propagation des arbres  fruits: dans ce domaine l'Institut de Pise s'occupe, en particulier, de la propagation par buture, de la disaffinit de greffe et de la slection des portegreffes; 2) - la technique pour la conduite des vergers, avec des tudes particulires sur l'emploi des disherbants, sur le  mulching  et sur la profondeur des travaux du sol; 3) - la biologie florale et la taille des arbres  fruits, de la vigne et de l'olivier; 4) - la description et la selection des varits. Das Institut fr Obstbau der Universitt Pisa wird von Prof. F. Scaramuzzi geleitet und gehrt zu der landwirtschaftlichen Fakultt, die sich in Via del Borghetto, 80 befindet. Das Institut ist mit modernen wissenschaftlichen Einrichtungen ausgestattet, wie z. B. Klimazellen, Mikroskope, Mikrotonanlagen, Gewachshuser mit Nebelberegnungsanlagen usw. Es verfgt ber zwei Versuchsbetriebe und zahlreiche Versuchsfelder. Seine wissenschaftliche Ttigkeit umfasst: a) Vermehrung von Obstbumen wobei sich das Institut besonders auf die Untersuchungen ber die Vermehrung durch Stecklinge und Steckholz, ber die Physiologie der Unvertrglichkeit und ber die Auslesezchtung von generativ und vegetativ vermehrten Unterlagen spezialisiert hat; b) Beschreibung und Charakterisierung von Obstsorten; c) Technik der Anbau, der Unterhaltung und Pflege der Obstanlagen, mit besonderer Bercksichtigung von Unkrautbekhpfung, von Bodenbedeckung mit Plastikfolien und von Tiefe der Bodenbearbeitung; d) Bltenbiologie; e) Schnitt von Obst-und lbumen.
42874349|The Institute of Fruit Growing of the University of Sassari is situated in the provisional building of the Faculty of Agriculture (Piazza Conte di Moriana 8). At present, prof. A. Milella is encharged of its direction. Three experimental farms have been recently established at Sassari, Oristano and Muravera, while some investigations are carried out on private farms of Sardinia. The experimental work of the Institute of Sassari is concerned with the main problems of citrus, olive, almond, and vine culture in Sardinia, while further researches are carried out on the floral biology of such species so as for the peach tree. L'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de l'Universit de Sassari a son sige provisoire dans le btiment de la Facult d'Agronomie, (Piazza Conte di Moriana 8). M. le prof. A. Milella est actuellement charg de sa direction. L'Institut dispose de trois fermes exprimentales situes  Sassari, Oristano et Muravera, tandis que d'autres centres d'tude ont t tablis chez des fermes privs de la Sardigne. L'activit de recherche de l'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de Sassari concerne l'tude de la taille et des principaux aspects de la culture des agrumes, de l'olivier, de l'amandier et de la vigne en Sardigne. Des particulires recherches sont dvoues  la biologie florale des espces qu'on vient de citer aussi bien que du pcher. Das Institut fr Obstbau an der Universitt Sassari hat seinen provisorischen Sitz in der landwirtschaftlichen Fakultt, Piazza Conte di Moriana, 8. Prof. A. Milella ist zur Zeit beauftragt, das Institut zu leiten. Das Institut verfgt ber drei Versuchsbetriebe, die sich in Sassari, Oristano und Muravera befinden. Andere Versuchsfelder sind auf Privatgtern untergebracht. Die wissenschaftliche Ttigkeit ist zur Zeit auf Untersuchungen ber Schnitt sowie Anbautechnik von Zitrus-, Mandel-, Oliven-und Rebenanlagen. Andere Versuche werden ber die Bltenbiologie der vorher genannten Obstarten und des Pfirsichs durchgefhrt.
42874350|The Institute of Fruit Growing of the University of Turin, directed by prof. R. Carlone, is located at Via Pietro Giuria, 15. It is endowed with two laboratories, a large library and two experimental farms, one being located on the Superga hill (particularly equipped for studies on the vine-tree culture), the other in the plane at Mirafiori; in both farms several collection of varieties have been established. The experimental work of the Institute of Turin deals with the following subjects: 1) - breeding of fruit trees, with special reference to the apple, the vine and the hazel-nut trees; 2) - use of plant growth substances and radioisotopes on fruit trees; 3) - description and selection of varieties; 4) - systematic of Pyrus and Malus; 5) - orchards training with special reference to fertilization, pruning, propagation, use of machines, weed control, a.s.o. L'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de l'Universit de Turin, dont M. le prof. R. Carlone est le directeur, a son sige Via Pietro Giuria 15. Il dispose de deux laboratoires, d'une grande bibliothque et de deux fermes exprimentales, l'une situe sur la colline de Superga (dvoue per les recherches de viticulture surtout), l'autre dans la plaine,  Mirafiori. Dans les deux fermes des collections de varits ont t runies. L'activit exprimentale de l'Institut de Turin concerne les sujets qu'on va indiquer: 1) - gntique du pommier, de la vigne et du noisetier; emploi des phythormones et des radioisotopes sur les arbres  fruits; 3) - description et selection des varits; 4) - systmatique des genres Pyrus et Malus; 5) - culture des vergers (fumure, taille, mcanisation, propagation, usage des dsherbants chimiques, ecc). Das Institut fr Obstbau der Universitt Turin, von prof. R. Carlone geleitet, befindet sich in via Pietro Giuria, 15. Es ist mit zwei Laboratorien und einer rumigen Bibliothek versehen und verfgt ausserdem ber zwei Versuchsbetrieben. Die eine befindet sich auf den Hgeln in Superga, ausserordentlich gut fr das Studium des Weinbaus und deren Problemen geeignet; die andere befindet sich in der Ebene, im Ort Mirafiori. In beiden Versuchsbetrieben wurden unter anderen Sammlungen von Sorten der hauptschlichsten Obstarten gebildet. Die Experimentelle Aktivitt des Institut's befasst sich mit folgenden Themen: a) Genetik einiger Obstarten (Apfel, Nsse, Trauben); b) Wirkung der Pflanzenhormone auf Obstbume und Kontrolle der Assorbierung durch Radioisotope; c) Beschreibung von Obstsorten und Systematik der Gattung Pyrus und Malus; d) Anbautechnik mit hauptschlichem Bezug auf die Dngung, die Mechanisierung, den Schnitt, die Vermehrung und die Unkrautbekmpfung.
42874351|The Institute of Fruit Growing and Electrogenetics of Rome, wich comes under the Ministry of Agriculture and is directed by prof. F. Laiatta, is located at Fiorano (West Ciampino) on its own experimental farm. The research which the Institute carries out in the experimental farm and in other experimental fields established in several parts of Italy, is concerned with: 1) - grape, fruit trees and strawberry breeding; 2) - bud differentiation in vine tree; physiology of phosphoric and nitrogenous nutrition, using labelled elements; 3) - manuring of fruit trees; 4) - trials with fruit varieties; 5) - pruning; 6) - soil mnagement (mulching, herbicides, a.s.o.); fruit storage. Among the rich collections of varieties remarcable is that of grapes. L'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire et d'Electrogntique de Rome, qui dpend du Ministre de l'Agriculture et qui est dirig par M. le prof. F. Lalatta, a son sige  Fiorano (Ciampino Ouest) dans la ferme exprimentale. Les principales recherches que l'Institut poursuit dans le vergers de cette ferme et dans les champs exprimentaux tablis dans d'autres rgion italiennes, concernent: 1) - l'amlioration du raisin, des arbres fruitiers et du fraisier; 2) - la differentiation des bourgons de la vigne; 3) - la physiologie de la nutrition phosphorique et azote avec l'employ des radioisotopes; 4) - la fumure des arbres fruitiers; 5) - l'adaptation des varits; 6) - la taille des arbres  fruits; 7) - l'entretien du sol dans les vergers; 8) - la conservation des fruits. Parmi les collection des varits, particulirement riche est celle des raisins  dessert. Das dem italienischen Landwirtschaftsministerium unterstellte Institut fr Obstbau und Elektrogenetik Rom wird von prof. F. Laiatta geleitet und befindet sich in Fiorano (Ciampino Ovest) auf dem eigenen Versuchsbetrieb. Die Untersuchungen, die das Institut in den Obstanlagen dieser Versuchsstation und auf anderen Versuchsfeldern in den verschiedenen Regionen Italiens durchfhrt, estrecken sich hauptschlich auf: 1) Zchtung neuer Sorten von Tafeltrauben, Erdbeeren und verschiedenen Obstarten; 2) Bltenknospendifferenzierung bei der Rebe; 3) Physiologie der Phosphor-und Stickstoffdngung unter Verwendung von Radioisotopen; 4) Dngung von Obstbume; 5) Versuche ber Anpassungsfhigkeit von Obstsorten; 6) Obstbaumschnitt; 7) Bodenpflege (Bodenbedeckung mit Stroh, Unkrautbekmpfung, ecc); 8) Obstaufbewahrung und-lagerung. Besonders reichaltige ist die Sammlung von Tafeltraubensorten.
42874352|The Fruit Research Institute of Verona, established by the local Provincial Administration, is directed by dr. G. Bargioni and is located at Via S. Giacomo 5/A, near one of the two farms with wich the Institute is provided and in which fine collections of fruit varieties may be found. cerning fruit-growing in Veneto and is principally concerned with: 1) - pomological investigations; 2) - plant breeding; 3) - introduction of foreign varieties; 4) - root sistems behaviour; 5) - strawberry culture; 6) - pollination of cherry, pear, and olive trees. L'Institut Exprimental d'Arboriculture Fruitire de Verone, qui dpend de l'Administration provinciale et qui est dirig par M. le dr. G. Bargioni, a son sige Via S. Giacomo 5/A, auprs de l'une des deux fermes exprimentales que l'Institut possde. Dans cettes fermes se trouvent runies d'importantes collections d'arbres fruitiers. L'activit scientifique de l'Institut de Verone concerne principalement les problmes qui intressent la culture des arbres  fruits du Veneto et en particulier: 1) - la description des varits; 2) - l'obtention de nouvelles varits; 3) - l'adaptation des varits trangres au milieu de la rgion; 4) - la culture du fraisier; 5) - la pollinisation du cerisier, du poirier, de l'olivier; 6) - le comportement des systmes raduculaires. Das von Provinzverwaltung abhngige Obstbauversuchsinstitut von Verona wird von Dr. Giorgio Bargioni geleitet. Es ist in der Via S. Giacomo 5/A in einer der beiden vom him unterhaltenen Versuchsbetrieben untergebracht. Hier befinden sich grosse Sortensammlungen der verschiedenen Obstarte: 313 Pfirsichsorten; 78 Birnensorten; 75 Apfelsorten; 32 Kirschsorten. Die wissenschaftliche Ttigkeit ist vorwiegend auf die Lsung von Problemen des venetischen Obstbaus gerichtet und zwar insbesondere auf: 1) Anbautechnik; 2) Obstsortenuntersuchungen-und beschreibungen; 3) Zchtung neuer Obstsorten; 4) Abpassung der neuen Obstsorten an die klimatische Verhltnisse Venetiens; 5) Anbau von Erdbeeren; 6) Bestubung von Kirschen, Birnen und Oelbumen.
42874353|The Fruit and Vegetable Experiment Station of Milan, attached to the Institute of Fruit Growing of the University, is directed by prof. F. Dotti and is situated at Via Celoria 2. Its library is noteworthy with its wealth of books and periodicals. The experimental farm is near Montanaso Lombardo. During the last ten years, the Station has carried out researches in the following sections of horticulture: 1) manuring; 2) fruit ripening and storage; 3) propagation (root promoting substances, graft incompatibility); 4) pruning; 5) bud differentiation; 6) cultural practices (fruit thinning; irrigation; mulching; soil mnagement). Researches on vegetables deal with phosphatic nutrition of tomatoes, poliploidy induction, a.s.o. Many experiments are under way in several regions of Italy (Veneto, Trentino, Emilia-Romagna). La Station Exprimentale d'Hortofructiculture de Milan, annexe  l'Institut d'Arboriculture Fruitire de l'Universit, est dirige par M. le prof. F. Dotti et a son sige Via Celoria 2. Sa bibliothque est trs riche en volumes et en publications priodiques. La ferme exprimentale a son sige  Montanaso Lombardo tandis que de nombreux champs exprimentales ont t tablis dans d'autres rgions italiennes (Veneto, Trentino, Emilia-Romagna). Depuis dix ans la Station de Milan a dvelopp des recherches dans le secteur de l'arboriculture fruitire et de la culture des plantes marachres, en particulier sur: 1) la fumure; 2) la maturation et la conservation des fruits; 3) la propagation des arbres (emploi des hormones dans le bouturage; disaffinit de greffe); 4) taille; 5) differentiation des bourgeons  fleur; 6) entretien des vergers (clarcissage des fruits, travail du sol, irrigation, etc.); 7) fumure phosphatique de la tomate; 8) production de lgumes polyploides. Die Versuchsanstalt fr Obst-und Gartenbau in Mailand, die dem Institut fr Obstbau der Universitt angeschlossen ist, wird von Prof. F. Dotti geleitet und befindet sich in Via Celoria, 2. Die Bibliothek verfgt ber eine bemerkenswerte Anzahl von Bchern und Zeitschriften. Der Versuchsbetrieb ist in Montanaso Lombardo untergebracht. In den letzten zehn Jahren hat die Versuchsanstalt auf folgenden Gebieten des Obstbaus Versuche durchgefhrt: 1) Dngung; 2) Reifung und Lagerung der Frchte; 3) Vermehrung (Anwendung von Wuchsstoffen in der Stecklingvermehrung, Unvertrglichkeit zwischen Unterlage und Edelsorte); 4) Obstbaumschnitt; 5) Bltenknospendifferenzierung; 6) Obstbautechnik (Vereinzelung von Pflanzen, Bodenbearbeitung, Bewsserung, Bodenbedeckung). Die Versuchsanstalt befasst sich auch mit Problemen des Gemsebaus wie z. B. mit der Phosphatdngung von Tomaten, mit der Zchtung von polyploiden Gemsensorten, usw. Auch in anderen Regionen Italiens (Veneto, Trentino, Emilia-Romagna) sind zahlreiche Versuche im Gange.
42874357|Increased vigour and yield of virus-free over standard commercial plants of  M. me Moutot  strawberry were observed during a period of three years. Fruits from the healthy plants were also larger than from standard, virus infected plants.
42874358|The Author relates about some observations concerning the root sistem performance of peach trees grown on uncultivated soil for a period of seven years. This soil mnagement method favoured the ascent of the roots previously damaged by tillage and promoted the development of a great number of thin roots in the layer 25 cm. deep.
42874359|After having summarized the main methods used abroad for budding and grafting walnut trees, the A. relates about his researches carried out at the Centro Miglioramento Piante in Florence on this subject. Good results have been reached by cleft grafting in greenhouse; outside the percentage of graft take was about the half than in greenhouse. Hig temperature and humidity proved to be very important for the success of this grafting method; scions must be well lignified with a small pit and provided with well developed buds. Negative results have been obtained, till now, by pat budding so as by wip grafting with softwood scions.
42874361|Sono state eseguite ricerche sull'arancio amaro (Citrus Aurantium L.) tendenti a stabilire la migliore densit di semina lungo la fila. La distanza tra le file  stata tenuta fissa a 24 cm. Le prove sono state effettuate su terreno di medio impasto. I migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti con densit di 60 e 70 gr. di semi per metro lineare, corrispondenti a circa 450 - 525 semi. The Author reports the results of trials carried out on sour orange (Citrus Aurantium L.) seedbeds to evaluating the suitable number of seed on the rows; the rows have been placed with 25 cm. space between. Optimum viability on germination of seeds was obtained with 60-70 gr. of seeds at ml. (about 450525).
42874363|Gli Autori hanno esaminato dal punto di vista agronomico e da quello anatomico l'effetto di particolari sostanze sul processo di cicatrizzazione di ferite tangenziali praticate su giovani alberi della cultivar di pero  Butirra precoce Morettini  innestata su cotogno. Le osservazioni hanno sostanzialmente messo in evidenza che alcune sostanze accelerano la formazione del cercine cicatriziale, mentre altre la ritardano. Nelle ferite trattate, la pellicola delle sostanze sperimentate esercita una protezione sulle superfici lese. Il tessuto legnoso subisce quindi un'alterazione assai meno profonda rispetto alle ferite testimoni; il tessuto corticale mantiene la sua vitalit fino alle cellule interessate dal taglio; il tessuto cambiale da origine ad una sorta di cimosa a carattere di callo, che entra nel processo di cicatrizzazione. Nelle ferite trattate, eccetto che con  Minio  , il processo di cicatrizzazione si svolge pi rapidamente ma pi irregolarmente. The effect of some wound dressing substances has been practically and histologically examined in tangential wounds made on the stem of young pear trees (cv.  Butirra precoce Morettini  / quince). Observations have shown that some substances speed while others delay the formation of the wound rigde. In the treated wounds, the film of the tested substances protects the injured surfaces. Consequently, the xylem shows a less deep alteration than in the untreated wounds; the bark remains alive up to cells which have been directly cut; the cambium produces a kind of flattened callus, which practically represents the substratum for the cambium of the wound rigde. In the treated wounds, except those with  red lead  , the healing process proceeds more rapidly but more irregularly than in the untreated ones.
42874907|Con riferimento a precedenti ricerche dell'Autore sullo stesso argomento, si riferisce sui risultati di prove effettuate nelle provincie di Palermo e Messina, sull'aborto del pistillo in fiori di limone, delle cv.  Femminello  ed  Interdonato . Il controllo della percentuale di aborto in condizioni di pieno campo ha fatto registrare valori molto elevati: dal 44,59% al 95,10% per la cv.  Femminello , e dal 62,14% all'80,83% per la cv.  Interdonato . Su alcune branche di limone della cv.  Femminello  sono state effettuate inoltre, prove di riscaldamento mediante gabbie rivestite di plastica, con lampade elettriche schermate di diversa potenza.  stato ottenuto in tal modo, con un aumento della temperatura di 5-8 C. rispetto a quella ambiente e per un periodo di 30-50 giorni, un anticipo nella fioritura di circa un mese, ed una non prevista diminuzione delle percentuali di aborto. Vengono formulate ipotesi sul valore dei risultati ottenuti, attribuendo alla pi bassa percentuale di aborto riscontrata in singole branche sottoposte ad alte temperature, il significato di una maggiore disponibilit di sostanze nutritive. The Author, refering to his former researches on this matter, relates about some experience concerning the abortive pistils in  Femminello  and  Interdonato  lemon flowers. The trials have been accomplished in Palermo and Messina areas. A very high percentage of abortive pistils was recorded, under field conditions, values ranging from 44,59% to 95,10% for  Femminello  flowers, and from 62,14% to 80,83% for  Interdonato  . Also, some branches of  Femminello  were artificially heated by means of plastic covered frames, fitted with screened electrical bulbs of different power. Thus, inside the frames, for a length of 30-50 days, temperature being 5-8 C. higher than outside, bloom was reached one month in advance, and an unforeseen decrease of the abortive pistils percentage was observed. The Author hypotizes over the value of such results, and is inclined to think that the lower percentage of the abortive pistils observed in some branches should be connected with a greater nutrient supply.
42874908|Strawberry plants (cv.  Madame Moutot  ) grown in a completely dry soil, kept in good health during two months when their runner plants, connected by a stolon, were grown in a continuously moist soil. This experiment shows that water is able to move along the stolons in an acropetal direction, and suggests that the failure of the matted growing system under dry conditions (clearly related with larger depletion of the soil moisture), might depend on the higher water loss of the soil, related to the direct competition of the different root systems, rather than to the enhanced transpiration of the motherdaugther plants complex.
42874909|Nella zona di Pescia, dove il taleaggio del Garofano viene comunemente attuato in piena terra, si verificano spesso, sui giovani organi in radicazione, attacchi da parte di un fungo riferibile a Fusarium oxysporum (Schl.) Snyd. et Hans. Come conseguenza di tale fatto molte talee deperiscono senza radicare. Le talee rimanenti, anche se attaccate dal fungo, riescono ad isolare i tessuti colpiti da quest'ultimo e a radicare, pur cominciando a vegetare con notevole ritardo. Sempre in queste ultime talee il fungo pu rimanere vitale, nelle parti attaccate, per un lungo periodo, accertato in almeno 18 mesi. Tuttavia, se trasferite a dimora, tali piante non mostrano, nella generalit dei casi, ulteriori danni. Questo fatto  da attribuirsi, in particolare, ad una modesta virulenza dei ceppi del parassita che sembrano abbondare nei terreni dove si sono svolte le indagini. In una prova effettuata, il trattamento al terreno con PCNB o la protezione della base delle talee con Zineb hanno migliorato notevolmente l'esito della radicazione. Ma ci non basta ad incoraggiare il continuo ricorso a tale mezzo di taleaggio che appare irrazionale in una moderna dianticoltura. In the Pescia (Tuscany) district where Carnation cuttings are put to root in the open, often Fusarium oxysporum (Schl.) Snyd. et Hans, infects them. For this reason a great part of these cuttings are unable to root. The remaining ones, even if infected by F. oxysporum, are able to stop the infection and to root, but they start to grow later than healthy ones. The pathogen can remain alive in the diseased portions of these cuttings for a period, at least, of 18 months. When these rooted cuttings are transplanted, they mostly remain without further damage and it is possible to explain this by the low virulence of the pathogen strains which appear to be abundant in the studied soils. In an experimental trial, treatments to soil by means of PCNB or treatments to the cutting ends by means of Zineb have given good rooting results. But this is not enough to encourage the use of this method that appears an irrational method in a modern Carnation plantation.
42874910|I risultati delle prove di protezione delle mele pendenti dalle infezioni di marciume lenticellare, effettuate nel triennio 1958/59 - 1960/61 in Emilia mediante trattamenti anticrittogamici tardivi, sono stati rielaborati con procedimenti pi rigorosi. In tal modo  stata confermata l'efficacia generale dei suddetti trattamenti tardivi nell'ambiente frutticolo emiliano. Si precisano i criteri che devono ispirare il calendario delle loro applicazioni. Results of control trials against lenticel-rot infections of hanging apples, effected through late sprays in the triennal period 1958/59 -1960/61, are analysed again by means of a more rigorous procedure. In such a way the general efficacy is confirmed of the abovesaid sprays in the orchards of Emilia district (Italy). Criteria for performing a late sprays schedule are given.
42874912|L'Autore riporta i risultati di alcune prove di diserbo effettuate in un agrumeto del Palermitano. Dei quattro principi attivi saggiati (Monuron, Aminotriazolo, Simazina, Dalapon) i pi efficaci per durata ed intensit di azione si sono dimostrati il Monuron anche alla dose di 8 Kg/ha ed una miscela Simazina-Aminotriazolo alla dose di 20-30 Kg/ha; una buona azione di diserbo  stata pure ottenuta con trattamenti di 20 Kg/ha di Simazina, effettuati nella fase di pre-emergenza delle erbe. Risultati nell'insieme poco soddisfacenti si sono, invece, conseguiti con i prodotti a base di solo Aminotriazolo o di Dalapon. In ogni caso non sono state osservate alterazioni di alcun genere alle piante adulte di limone; alcune piante di melangolo di quattro anni di et, hanno, per, presentato danni alle foglie di una certa gravit in seguito ai trattamenti effettuati con i prodotti in cui si trovavano in combinazione la Simazina e I'Aminotriazolo. Some chemical herbicides were evaluated for the control of annual and perennial weeds in Palermo citrus groves. The most satisfactory treatments for controlling weeds for some months, were : Monuron (C.M.U.) also at 8 Kg/ha and the mixture Simazine-Aminotriazol at 20-30 Kg/ha. Good results were given also by pre-emergence applications of Simazine at 20 Kg/ha. Results with the product based on Aminotriazol only or Dalapon were not promising. No injury was observed on old lemon trees, but young trees of sour orange were rather sensitive to the mixture Simazine-Aminotriazol.
42874916| stata condotta una serie di indagini su alcune relazioni esistenti, nel nocciuolo adulto, non potato, fra la vigoria dei rami di un anno e l'attivit vegetativa e produttiva degli stessi. I risultati ottenuti hanno posto in evidenza che la pi spiccata attitudine, sia vegetativa che produttiva, sono prerogative dei rami pi vigorosi. Da un'altra indagine  inoltre emerso che i frutti singoli rispetto a quelli aggruppati nelle infruttescenze, risultano pi pesanti, ma non differiscono in volume. The author tabulate and discuss the results concerning some relationships between the length of 1 year wood and vegetative growth and fruitfulness of unpruned filbert. Statistical analysis indicated that the vigorous annual growth in comparision with slower growth produced heavier crop and longer shoots. Other investigations shown that nuts borne singly are much heavier, but not bigger, than those borne in cluster of two or three nuts.
42874383|Nelle due annate 1962 e 1963 sono state condotte delle indagini sul diradamento chimico ed ormonico dei fiori e dei frutti di pesco. Per il diradamento chimico dei fiori  stato usato l'acido dinitroortocresolo (DNOC) a varie concentrazioni. Tale prodotto non ha causato alcun danno alla vegetazione ed ha avuto la maggiore efficacia diradante alla concentrazione di 1000 ppm. Per il diradamento dei frutticini sono stati impiegati vari prodotti ad azione ormonica, a varie concentrazioni, come: 1) il SEVIN 50% che non ha dato risultati soddisfacenti dal punto di vista pratico; 2) il 2, 4, 5T che, ad alte concentrazioni (350 e 400 ppm) ha mostrato una buona azione diradante ma ha danneggiato sensibilmente la vegetazione, sia arrestandone per un certo tempo lo sviluppo, sia ritardando la maturazione dei frutti; 3) I'NAA che ha avuto un'azione simile a quella del precedente; 4) I'NA che, al contrario dei precedenti, non ha danneggiato la vegetazione e, pur non causando un soddisfacente diradamento dal punto di vista applicativo, ha causato un rallentamento nella crescita di numerosi frutticini, che presentavano anche una scarsa persistenza. The Authors relate abouth their investigations on the flowers and fruits thinning of  Morettini 1  peach in the 2 consecutive years 1962 and 1963. The flowers were thinned with DNOC at 300, 500 and 1000 ppm. The best thinning was obtained with 1000 ppm. Hormone products were applied to thinning of fruits, as Sevin 50%, 2, 4, 5T, NAA, NA. The results were: Sevin 50% in concetrations of 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000 and 6000 ppm had no practical thinning effect; 2, 4, 5T in concentrations of 200, 250, 300, 350 and 400 ppm tended to increase the thinning with increasing the concentration but the vegetation was damaged; NAA in concentrations of 50, 100, 150, 200, 250, and 300 ppm had the same results of the previous treatment; NA in concentrations of 50, 100, 150, 200, 250 and 300 ppm had a thinning, which decreased with increasing the concentration. This product did not damage the peach trees and stopped the growth of numerous fruitlets, which dropped easily.
42874385| stato condotto uno studio anatomico su talee legnose di pero, poste a radicare in cassone termostatico, allo scopo di studiare il meccanismo di formazione delle radici avventizie. Dopo aver descritto la reazione dei tessuti alla base della talea viene discussa l'origine delle radici avventizie.  stato chiarito come, nel caso in esame, queste insorgono a livello del taglio basale della talea, a partire da cellule cambiali o comunque immediatamente all'esterno del cambio. Gli abbozzi radicali quindi si evolvono assumendo l'aspetto di estroflessioni del cambio. Successivamente si ha la formazione di un cilindro legnoso centrale delle radichette avventizie connesso intimamente con la cerchia legnosa della talea. Anatomical investigations have been carried out on pear hardwood cuttings rooted in an heated frame in order to study the adventitious roots formation. After the description of the tissues reactions at the cuttings base, the origin of adventitious roots is discussed. It is suggested that, in this instance, the adventitious roots arise from the cambium cells or just outside the cambium at the level of the new floematic cells. The vascular system of the adventitious roots takes immediately close connection with the cutting xilem.
42874386|Si descrivono alcune proliferazioni corticali su piante di pero della cv.  Precoce di Trevoux , apparentemente correlate con la vegetazione stentata dei nuovi germogli primaverili. Dall'esame istologico risulta che le proliferazioni interessano esclusivamente il parenchima corticale, che  abnorme, lacunoso e disordinato. Trattasi di un particolare tipo di  edema , dovuto a fenomeni di iperidrosi. Peculiar swellings apparently correlated with dwarfing of the growth of the spring flush on pear trees  Prcoce de Trevoux  variety, are described. The swellings concern only the cortical parenchyma, that is abnorm, spongy and disorderly. The condition is a particular type of  oedema  due to excess of moisture.
42874387|Viene riportato un caso di forte defogliazione di Begonia  argenteoguttata hort., dovuta all'azione dell'Oidmm Begoniae Putt. Vengono descritti la sintomatologia ed i caratteri morfologici dell'agente. Prove di inoculazione artificiale, su piante della stessa specie, hanno riprodotto la caratteristica defogliazione. La malattia viene efficacemente combattuta con una irrorazione di Caratano allo 0,09%. Observations on defoliation of the Begonia  argenteo-guttata hort., caused by Oidium Begoniae Putt, are reported with the morphological characters of the pathogen and the simptoms on the plants. Tests of inoculation gave positive results. Complete control of the disease was obtained with Karathane at 0.09%.
42874388|Come prova preliminare a un programma di miglioramento genetico del pomodoro da svolgersi in collaborazione fra l'Istituto di Genetica e l'Istituto di Ortofloricoltura dell'Universit di Pisa,  stato osservato il comportamento di alcuni ibridi (F) di pomodoro per caratteri quantitativi di interesse economico rilevati sulla pianta e sul frutto. Si  considerato eterotico per un carattere, l'incrocio che all'analisi statistica si rilevasse significativamente superiore al genitore migliore. In questo senso si sono potuti dimostrare fenomeni eterotici per il carattere  produzione totale per pianta ; tale fenomeno era dovuto a vigore ibrido per il numero dei frutti, mentre il peso per frutto si  dimostrato intermedio. Tale fenomeno  spiegabile con l'aumento di capacit produttiva ( fitness ) normalmente collegato ai fenomeni eterotici. I caratteri  altezza del primo palco  e  rapporti diametrici  dei frutti si sono dimostrati intermedi fra quelli parentali. Non  stata dimostrata eterosi per il carattere  data di fioritura , bench le medie degli ibridi non differissero significativamente da quelle del genitore migliore. As a preliminary work to a tomato breeding programme developed at the Institute of Genetics and the Institute of Horticulture of the University, Pisa, a comparison was made, for some traits of economic value, between some hybrids and their parents. A single cross was considered heterotic for a character when superior to the better parent. In this sense, heterosis was observed for the character  total yield per plant . Of the two components of this character only the number of fruits exhibited heterosis, where as the mean fruit weight was intermediate between the parent values. This phenomenon could be explained by an increased fitness of the hybrid. Both height above ground of the loest inflorescence and fruit shape were intermediate between parent values. No heterosis was ascertained for flowering date, although the hybrid alwajs approached the values of the better parent.
42874389| stata esaminata l'influenza di alcune pratiche colturali  potatura, irrigazione, diradamento dei frutti  sulla conservabilit delle mele di alcune cultivar. La potatura ha influito negativamente sulla qualit dei frutti in quanto tutte le alterazioni, ad eccezione del marciume, appaiono aumentate. Il diradamento ha favorito lo sviluppo del marciume. L'irrigazione ha ridotto le manifestazioni del riscaldo, mentre ha favorito il marciume e l'intenerimento della polpa. We studied the influence of some orchard-factors as pruning, irrigation and thinning, on the apples' cold-storage of some varieties. The pruning excided a negative influence on fruit's quality, because the desases, except the rot increased. The thinning stimulated the rise of rot. The irrigation reduced the scald, increased the rot and lessened firmness.
42874390|Sulla base dei risultati di un quadriennio sulla cascola prefiorale delle gemme di pesco, vengono segnalate le cultivar pi soggette ( Aurora ,  Precocissima Morettini ,  Morettini 5-14 ,  Trionfo peloso ,  Mayflower ,  Amsden  - in Liguria - e la  Charles Jngouf  - in Romagna) e quelle pi resistenti al fenomeno ( Michelini ,  Morettini 1 e 2 ,  Waddel  e  Dessi ). Dall'esame dei dati termometrici pluriennali  emerso che le cause del fenomeno si debbono ritrovare nella scarsit di freddo invernale per la Liguria, nei forti sbalzi termici di febbraio e nell'elevato numero di ore di temperature superiori alla media mensile del periodo 20 settembre - 10 ottobre per l'Emilia e Romagna. Preflowering drop of peach-tree buds was recorded over four years in several cultivars:  Aurora ,  Precocissima Morettini ,  Morettini 5-14 ,  Trionfo peloso ,  Mayflower ,  Amsden  (in Liguria region) and  Charles Ingouf  (in Romagna district) undergo to this fenomenon more strongly while  Michelini ,  Morettini 1 and 2 ,  Waddel  and  Dessi  are more resistant. On the basis of termometrie figures the causative conditions of this fenomenon must be searched for in one unsufficient persistance of cold in winter in the Liguria area; in the area of Emilia and Romagna however excessively large temperature changes in February are involved together with one higt number of hours with a temperature superior to the average in the period from September 20th to October 10th.
42874395| Favorita Morettini  - A new early ripening, yellow flesh peach variety. The Author describes a new peach variety selected among the seedlings  Gialla di Firenze    Fertilia  and named  Favorita Morettini . The fruits of this new variety have yellow flesh and ripen at the same time as those of  Mayflower . The trees are very vigorous and heavy bearing.
42874397|Le ricerche qui illustrate hanno permesso di stabilire quanto segue: a) nella fragola la  traspirazione cuticolare   praticamente trascurabile in confronto a quella  stomatica ; b) le foglie giovani traspirano pi intensamente di quelle adulte; c) la traspirazione  costantemente elevata durante le ore diurne mentre cessa quasi completamente durante quelle notturne; questo comportamento  direttamente legato alla alternanza della luce e dell'oscurit che, a loro volta, regolano il meccanismo di apertura degli stomi; d) in presenza di luce, la temperatura e l'umidit dell'aria influiscono in modo antitetico sulla  intensit della traspirazione  che aumenta con l'innalzarsi della temperatura e con il diminuire dell'umidit relativa; e) la ventilazione aumenta sensibilmente l'  intensit della traspirazione ; f) il contenuto idrico del terreno influisce sulla  intensit della traspirazione ; questa diminuisce infatti notevolmente quando l'umidit del suolo scende al disotto del livello corrispondente ad un valore tensiometrico pari a circa 40 cm./Hg.; g) le diverse cultivar presentano una differente  intensit di traspirazione  ; questa  risultata correlata con la struttura anatomica delle foglie e, precisamente, con lo sviluppo del tessuto lacunoso. Researches carried out during spring and summer 1963, have shown that: a) in the strawberry the cuticular transpiration is practically ngligeable in relation to the stomatal transpiration; b) the transpiration rate of the young leaves is greater than that of the older leaves of the same plant; c) the day rate of transpiration is constantly high while at night the loss of water by the leaves ceases nearly at all; this behaviour is strictly related to the stomatal responses to light and darkness; d) under the light conditions air temperature and atmospheric humidity affect antithetically the transpiration rate, wich increases at the higher temperature levels and at the lower air humidity; e) wind considerabily increases the transpiration rate of the leaves; f) soil moisture affects the intensity of transpiration wich considerably decreases when soil moisture content is lower than that corresponding to a tensiometer reading of 40 cm/Hg. suction value; g) the different strawberry varieties show different transpiration rates, the high levels being related to the anatomical structure of the leaves, that is with the relative thikness of the spongy mesophyll.
42874402|Sono state condotte ricerche per accertare gli effetti della bagnatura sulla radicazione di talee di vite. Si  operato su talee portainnesto 1045 P. e 140 R. Dette ricerche hanno avuto svolgimento nelle annate 1961 e 1963, e si proponevano di fornire indicazioni preliminari e quindi indicative per successive prove. Dai risultati ottenuti  possibile dedurre che la bagnatura della parte basale delle talee agisce profcuamente ai fini di una pi alta percentuale di radicazione e di un maggior rigoglio vegetativo. In corrispondenza di periodi di bagnatura di 60-72-84-96 ore sono stati ottenuti incrementi percentuali di radicazione rispetto al controllo asciutto rispettivamente del 69,4-78,8-65,8-67% e un pi armonico sviluppo delle barbatelle. Risultati migliori sono stati ottenuti con bagnatura completa delle talee abbinata ad un pi frequente ricambio dell'acqua, e con l'uso di acqua tiepida a 30-35, con incrementi dell'ordine del 97,8 e 125%.  stato possibile accertare, inoltre, che l'acqua non sembra esplicare alcuna funzione nei riguardi della mobilizzazione dei principi nutritivi e di radicazione verso la parte bagnata della talea, ma, piuttosto,  probabile che essa agisca in favore del complesso ormonale rizogeno portando in soluzione gli ormoni  antagonisti  alla radicazione. The Author relates about the results of a trial carried out in Palermo, during two years (1961, 1963), on the rooting of 1045 P. and 140 R. vine cuttings, treated with water before plantation. Good results have been obtained dipping the cuttings into water held at the environmental temperature for 60 - 72 - 86 - 96 hours. The best rooting ability observed when cuttings were kept 14 hours in water at 30-35 C, and 22 hours in water at the environmental temperature.
42874404|The A. carried out some observations on root system behaviour of two rose cv. grafted on R. indica maior. The A. concluded the root systems have a superficial distribution and cross quite freely in the ground without showing any mark of incompatibility. No great differences were found among the root sistem of plants belonging to rooted cuttings of different length.
42874405|L'Autore esamina i principali patogeni delle colture di sedano e di cardo in Piemonte ed in particolare nella provincia di Asti. Le colture di sedano nella fase di semenzaio-letto caldo, di solito, sono attaccate dalla  Moria  delle piantine, dipendente da attacchi di Pythium dbaryanum, P. ultimum, Botrytis cinerea, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Rhizoctonia solarii, Fusarium oxysporum, ecc. Contro queste infezioni  necessario disinfettare i semi, per lo pi vettori degli agenti patogeni, a mezzo di preparati rameici (ossicloruri), oppure di sintesi (Phygon, Ferbam, Maneb, ecc), di mercurio-organici (Ceresan, Abavit, Agrosan, ecc); inoltre, anche il letto di semina con i preparati sopra indicati oppure con il calore, il Vapam o la formalina. Le colture di sedano in pieno campo possono essere attaccate, all'apparato radicale, da Rhizoctonia solani, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Verticil-Hum albo-atrum, V. dahliae, Fusarium oxysporum o da altre specie. Questi patogeni si combattono con trattamenti al terreno e alle piante di P. C. N. B. (pentacloronitrobenzolo), oppure di Nabam o con il calore o il Vapam al solo terreno, oltre all'impiego di cultivars resistenti. L'Erwinia carotovora, assai distruttiva per le piante di sedano, si com- batte irrorando le piante e il terreno con preparati rameici (ossicloruri), oppure di sintesi (Ferbam, Maneb ecc), di mercurio-organici (Ceresan, ecc), di pentacloronitrobenzolo, di solfato di ossichinolina o di antibiotici agricoli (Agrimicina, Fitomicina, Biomicna, ecc). La Bremia lactucae provoca sulle piante di cardo danni relativamente gravi, favoriti dalle forti concimazioni azotate e dall'elevata umidit ambientale. Si combatte riducendo i fattori predisponenti e con l'uso di preparati cuprici od acuprici ordinariamente impiegati in viticoltura. Gli attacchi di Septoria apii e di Septoria apii-graveolentis risultano assai frequenti sulle foglie di sedano, apportando, talora, danni rilevanti nella coltura. I mezzi di lotta pi efficaci consistono nella disinfezione del seme e del terreno di coltura prima della semina a mezzo di preparati a base di rame o di carbammati presenti in commercio. Risultano molto efficaci i preparati a base di Guanidina (Cyprex, Melprex), di trifenil-acetato di stagno (Brestan) e di oli minerali. Anche le pratiche agronomiche e le concimazioni equilibrate arricchite con microelementi (Boro, Magnesio, ecc.) riducono l'incidenza delle infezioni. La Cercospora apii e la Phoma apcola non destano gravi preoccupazioni nelle colture. Il virus del mosaico, invece, comincia a preoccupare per le colture piemontesi di sedano. Esso viene trasmesso quasi esclusivamente a mezzo degli afidi. La lotta, infatti, mira a trattare le piante con aficidi sistemici; assai pi vantaggioso  invece l'impiego di cultivars resistenti al virus, ottenuti per selezione o per via genetica. The Author examines the main pathogenous agents of celery and cardoon growing in Piedmont and particularly in Asti district. Celery growings in the warm seed-bed stage, are generally attacked by the  Moria  of small plants, due to attacks from Pythium debaryanum, P. ultimum, Botrytis cinerea, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Rhizoctonia solani, Fusarium oxysporum, etc. To fight these infections, it is necessary to disinfect the seeds, which are for the most par the bearers of the pathogenous agents, by means of cupric preparations (oxychlorides), synthetic ones (Phygon, Ferbam, Maneb, etc.), organic preparations containing mercury (Ceresan, Abavit, Agrosan, etc.); besides even the seed-bed must be disinfected with the above mentioned preparations or with heat, Vapam, and formalin. Celery growing in the open field may be attacked at the root by Rhizoctonia solani, Sclerotinia sclerotiorum, Verticillium albo-atrum, V. dahliae, Fusarium oxysporum or by other species. These pathogenous agents are fought with P. C. N. B. (pentachloronytrobenzene) treatment in the soil and on the plants, or with Nabam, heat or Vapam in the soil only, and besides with the use of resistant cultivars. The Erwinia carotovora, which has a high destructive power on celery plants, is fought by spraying both plants and soil with cupric preparations (oxychlorides), synthetic ones (Ferbam, Maneb, etc.), pentachloronytrobenzene, oxyquinoline sulphate or agricultural antibiotics (Agrimicin, Fitomicin, Biomicin, etc.). The Bremia lactucae causes comparatively heavy damages on cardoon plants and they are favoured by the highly azotate manuring and by the great ambient moisture. It is fought by reducing the causing factors and by using cupric or noncupric preparations normally used in viticulture. The attacks from Septoria apii and Septoria apii-graveolentis are very frequent on celery leaves, and now and then they cause considerable damages in celery growing. The most efficacious remedy is the disinfection of the seeds and of the growing field before sowing, with cupric preparations or carbammates which are on commerce. The preparations which prove to be very efficacious are the ones containing guanidine (Cyprex, Melprex), triphenyl tin acetate (Brestan) and mineral oils. Agronomical practice and right manuring enriched with microelements (Boron, Magnesium, etc.) also reduce the number of infections. The Cercospora apii and Phoma apicola do not arouse serious worries in growing. The Mosaic virus, on the contrary, begins to be a worry for the growing of Piedmont celery. It is conveyed almost exclusively by means of aphides. The cultures, therefore, can be protected by treatments of plant with systemic aphides-killer, but it is much more advantageus the use of resistant to virus cultivars, got trough selection or genetically.
42874411|Nel 1962 e 1963 sono state eseguite prove con prodotti ormonici per determinare il diradamento dei frutticini di melo a Ferrara ed a Lugo di Romagna sulle cultivar  Abbondanza ,  Imperatore ,  Rambour Frank ,  Stark Delicious ,  Staymared  e  Winter Winesap . I prodotti impiegati sono stati:  il 2,4,5 T alle concentrazioni di 25 e 50 ppm, che ha causato un diradamento troppo elevato e notevoli danni alle foglie, specie alla concentrazione pi alta. Tuttavia le piante trattate con questo prodotto hanno presentato l'anno successivo una fioritura simile a quella delle piante di controllo.  L'NAA alle concentrazioni di 15 e 30 ppm, attivato da 70 cc./q.le di Tween 20, ha presentato un diradamento ancora elevato dal punto di vista commerciale, mentre a concentrazioni pi basse di 15 ppm, sperimentate nel 1962, ha effettuato un diradamento troppo scarso. Le soluzioni di NAA hanno danneggiato la vegetazione, specie a Ferrara, tuttavia hanno avuto un'influenza favorevole sull'intensit di fioritura delle piante trattate rispetto a quelle di controllo nell'anno successivo.  Il Sevin alle concentrazioni di 1500 e 2500 ppm ha causato un buon diradamento, che  variato da cultivar a cultivar, e non  risultato fitotossico. Inoltre le piante trattate hanno presentato nel 1964 una fioritura pi abbondante. Tests were carried out during two seasons at Lugo and Ferrara (Emilia) in view to determine the thinning effect of 2,4,5 T, NAA + Tween 20 and SEVIN sprayed on apple trees (cv.  Abbondanza ,  Imperatore ,  Rambour Frank ,  Stark Delicious ,  Staymared  and  Winter Winesap ). The results were:  2,4,5, T at 25 and 50 ppm caused a too much severe fruit thinning and damaged the leaves, but did non influence on the subsequent blossom in 1964;  NAA + Tween 20, at 15 and 30 ppm, caused a severe fruit thinning and a little damage to some leaves. In the following year blossoming was greater.  SEVIN at 1500 and 2500 ppm caused a good fruit thinning, with some differences in relation to the tested varieties, did not show either phytotoxicity or influence on the bloom in the following year.
42874422|Il Morettini presenta una nuova variet di pero, ottenuta dalla selezione delle progenie derivate dall'incrocio della  Butirra Hardy  con la  Passa Crassane , che viene denominata  Eletta Morettini . L'albero  vigoroso e produttivo, il frutto di notevole volume, turbinato, di colore giallo a maturit, maturante nella terza decade di settembre. This new pear variety by prof. A. Morettini has been selected amoung the seedlings raised from the cross  B. Hardy    P. Crassane  and has been called  Eletta Morettini . The trees of the new strain are vigorous and heavy bearing; their fruits are voluminous with yellow skin and ripen since the second week of September.
42874428|One year old plants of two pear cultivars were cut at 40 or 110 cm above the union and 1, 3, 5 or all the naturally occurring shoots were allowed to develop. The results of the first growing season showed that the lenght of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd more developed shoot as not significantly influenced by the number of the other shoots raised by the plant; furthermore the growth increment was proportional to the number of the growing shoots raised by the plant. At the end of the second growing season, during wich all the plants were growed on three branches, the growing differences occurred in the 1st year, almost desappeared. In the trial conditions the hight of the trunk did non significantly influence the growth during the first two years. Only in one cultivar the shorter trunk gave longer shoots, but not higer ponderal increment.
42874429|A seguito dei lavori recentemente pubblicati da alcuni Autori americani sull'uso del Dibromotetracloroetano (DBTCE) nella lotta contro i marciumi dell'uva in magazzino; anche in Puglia, nel 1963 sono state effettuate prove di frigoconservazione di uva  Regina  per saggiare l'effetto fungistatico del DBTCE e del metabisolfito di sodio. La sperimentazione  stata basata su due tesi principali: 1) uva inoculata e non inoculata con Botrytis cinerea Pers., avvolta in fogli di carta trattati ognuno con 250 mg. di DBTCE o con 500 mg. di metabisolfito; 2) uva inoculata e non inoculata, immersa in segatura trattata con 1000 p.p.m. di DBTCE. Sono stati effettuati due immagazzinamenti il 24 settembre e il 10 ottobre 1963. Il rilievo dei dati  stato eseguito il 27 novembre 1963 su una parte del prodotto immagazzinato che pertanto  rimasto in frigorifero 62 e 56 giorni rispettivamente; e il 7 gennaio 1964 su tutto il prodotto residuo, che pertanto  rimasto in frigoriferro 104 e 88 giorni rispettivamente. Dai risultati  sembrato di poter trarre le conclusioni seguenti: a) il DBTCE ha dimostrato un soddisfacente potere fungistatico, nettamente superiore a quello del metabisolfito sodico. Dopo due mesi di immagazzinamento, tuttavia,  parso che l'efficacia del DBTCE sia progressivamente diminuita. b) L'uva immersa in segatura si  conservata in media, meglio di quella avvolta in carta. e) N il DBTCE, n il metabisolfito sodico alle dosi adoperate, hanno alterato le qualit organolettiche del prodotto immagazzinato (sapore e odore). d) L'instabilit dell'umidit relativa, nelle celle frigorifere di cui si  usufruito sembra aver favorito il disseccamento dei graspi, soprattutto. Tuttavia le bacche dei grappoli immersi in segatura, sono apparse pi turgide e fresche di quelle dei grappoli avvolti in carta. I risultati infine, sembrano essere in buona accordanza con quelli ottenuti dagli Autori americani. Preliminary tests with Dibromotetrachloroethane (DBTCE) to control grape decay in cold storage. In order to control Botrytis decay of cold-stored  Regina  grapes, tests were carried out in Apulia, in 1963. These experiments were designed in accordance to the results obtained by Chiarappa et al., (1962) in California. The grape clusters to be stored were divided in two batches: 1) part of them were wrapped in paper wraps individually treated with 250 mg. of DBTCE or 500 mg. of sodium bisulfite; 2) part were mixed in screened sawdust from non-resinous wood, treated with 1000 p.p.m. of DBTCE. Grapes were stored on two different dates: September 24th and October 10th, 1963. The percentage of decay was checked on November 27th on one half of the grape clusters which, thus, had been 62 and 56 days in cold storage, respectively. The rest of the grapes were examined on January 7th 1964; that is after a storage of 104 and 88 days respectively. From the results it seems that the following conclusion can be drown: a) DBTCE proved to be a satisfactory fungistat, far superior to sodium disulfite. Its efficacy though, seemed to decrease progressively after two months of storage; b) clusters mixed in sawdust were found to be in better general conditions than those wrapped in paper; c) neither one of the chemicals tested (DBTCE or sodium disulfite) seemed to affect the flavour nor the taste of the grapes; d) a very high incidence of stem dryness was observed in the clusters mixed with sawdust or wrapped in paper. This might have been also induced by the instability of relative umidity during storage. Nevertheless the berries stored in sawdust had a better and fresher aspect than those wrapped in paper. These results seem to be in good accordance to those obtained in California by the above mentioned authors.
42874431|Gli AA., prendendo in considerazione uno dei problemi pi importanti della estrazione industriale dei succhi bevibili di arancia e cio della qualit della materia prima all'atto della lavorazione, confermano come la temperatura pi adatta al magazzinaggio delle arance sia compresa tra i + 5 C ed i + 6,5C, con umidit relativa oscillante tra 1'85% ed il 90%. Un composto detergente-disinfettante da loro sperimentato permette un prolungamento del tempo di conservazione, riducendo ulteriormente il numero delle arance alterate ed eliminando in toto, fino a 2 mesi, gli scarti per lieviti e muffe.
42874439| stato studiato l'effetto dei trattamenti antibotritici di campo sullo sviluppo della  muffa grigia  in uve conservate in frigorifero. I risultati sembrano confermare la buona efficacia del Captan che ha sempre ridotto la diffusione e l'intensit degli attacchi di Botrytis cinerea Pers. rispetto al testimone. L'efficacia di questo prodotto varia a seconda dell'epoca e della forma liquida o polverulenta di applicazione dei trattamenti. I trattamenti in polvere, infatti, hanno mostrato la tendenza a comportarsi meglio dei trattamenti liquidi; e i trattamenti pre-pioggia hanno dato risultati pi soddisfacenti di quelli post-pioggia. L'aggiunta di Solfato di rame polverizzato al Captan, non ne ha migliorato le prestazioni. Tra gli altri prodotti saggiati, quelli chimicamente vicini al Captan (Phaltan e Orthodifolotan) hanno agito in maniera non dissimile dal Captan stesso. Il Phaltan anzi, in qualche caso, ha mostrato la tendenza a comportarsi meglio degli altri due principi attivi (Captan e Orthodifolotan). Anche il Thiram, soprattutto quando impiegato da solo (trattamenti post-allegagione), ha fornito incoraggianti risultati. Il prodotto a base di Dodina non ha aumentato la serbevolezza dell'uva in magazzino. I risultati sembrano anche indicare che la lunghezza del periodo di conservazione abbia meno influenza sulla gravita dei marciumi, delle condizioni di sanit del prodotto al momento dell'immissione in frigorifero. Pertanto i trattamenti antibotritici di campo per quanto si riferisce a Captan e derivati (Phaltan e Orthodifolotan) e Thiram svolgono una consistente e utile azione protettiva delle uve immagazzinate. Essi per non sembrano sufficienti a garantire da soli una efficiente protezione e vanno considerati come complementari ai trattamenti (anidride solforosa, dibromotetracloroetano) da eseguire in cella frigorifera. The effect of field treatments applied in 1963 in Southern Italy, against Botrytis cinerea Pers. on the development of  grey mold  on cold stored grapes, has been investigated. The results seem to reinforce those previously obtained by other authors in United States and Europe. Captan has always reduced both the intesity and the diffusion of B. cinerea, in comparison to the untreated check. It seems that the efficacy of Captan varies according to timing and type of application (spraying or dusting). Captan dustings had the tendency to be more effective that sprayings. Furthehmore, pre-rain applications of Captan yielded more satisfactory protection than post-rain applications. Captan has always reduced both the intensity and the diffusion of B. cinerea, The effect of Captan oustings was not improved by the addition of pulverized Copper sulfate. The fungicides chemically close to Captan (Phaltan and Orthodifolotan) yielded results similar to those obtained with the former chemical. However in some instances, Phaltan showed the tendency to be more active than Captan and Orthodifolotan. Thiram also proved to be rather effective, particularly when it was applied after fruit-set. On the contrary, Dodine did not seem to have any effect in controlling the severity of Botrytis decay. It seems that the sanitary conditions of the grapes before storage (percentage of infection) are more important in favouring the development of decay, than the lengh of storage time. Thus, field applications of Captan, Phaltan, Orthodifolotan and Thiram may induce a rather satisfactory control of  grey mold  in cold stored grapes. However the control provided by these fungicides alone is not sufficient to protect grapes to any great extent. Field applications must be considered as complementary of other chemical treatments (e.g., solfur dioxide, Dibromotetrachloroethane) to be applied during cold storage.
42874440|The pear variety  Abate Ftel  has, sometimes to a high degree, flowers with supernumerary petals wich persist nearly closed, hindering the honey bees work. The results of the investigation described in this paper show that fruits rising from flowers with supernumerary petals are provided with a lower number of viable seeds than those rising both from the normal flowers, freely or artificially pollinated, and from flowers with supernumerary petals artificially pollinated. Such result suggests that the high frequency of flowers with supernumerary petals, associated with alow activity of the honey bees, might explain, on the basis of a reduced cross-pollination, the poor crop sometimes affecting the  A. Ftel  pear variety.
42874442|Nel quadro di un pi vasto programma volto ad accertare il contributo che l'impiego di ibridi inter varietali F pu portare all'allevamento di alcune specie di piante da orto sono stati saggiati in serra idroponica, nell'inverno 1963-64, alcuni ibridi di cetriolo in confronto con le variet parentali. I risultati conseguiti consentono di concludere che: 1. con l'incrocio intervarietale  possibile ottenere produzioni pi precoci e pi abbondanti rispetto almiglior genitore; 2. solo specifiche combinazioni danno origine ad ibridi soddisfacenti; 3. gli ibridi tra variet lontane sembrano essere i pi promettenti. As a part of wide program carried out at the Plant Breeding Department, University of Perugia, Perugia, Italy, with the purpose to ascertain the intervarietal crosses contribution in the breeding of some vegetables, six hybrids and six parental varieties of cucumber were tested in glasshouse, hydroponic culture, during the 1963-64 winter months. From the results the following conclusions can be drawn: 1. by intervarietal crosses, it is possible to obtain earlier and higher yielding types than parents; 2. only some combinations are better than both parents; 3. hybrids between varieties of very different origin seem to be the more promising ones.
42874445|L'A. riferisce su una sperimentazione condotta contro i Nematodi del garofano allo scopo di accertare se il Nemafos 10% granulare pu conseguire risultati soddisfacenti anche a dosi relativamente ridotte in confronto a quelle gi suggerite da precedenti sperimentazioni. Le parcelle risultarono infestate da Meloidogyne spp. e infette in buon grado da Phialophora cinerescens. Il Nemafos fu impiegato alla dose di 5-9 Kg/Ha di sostanza attiva con trattamento totale sulla superficie e messo a confronto con D. D., Mylone e Trapex. Questi ultimi impiegati a dosi pi elevate delle normali, onde eseguire un severo raffronto per il Nemafos. I controlli finali si basarono, sia per la valutazione dell'effetto nematocida che di quello secondario contro la Phialophora, sul conteggio delle piante morte su campioni di 1.000 piante per parcella. I risultati dimostrarono che in linea generale non sono sufficienti Kg. 5 per Ha di sostanza attiva di Nemafos per trattamenti totali; occorre adottare almeno la dose di 9 Kg. ad Ha: questa  la ragione per cui negli usi pratici si sta confermando la dose ottimale di 12-15 Kg/Ha di sostanza attiva. I brillanti risultati ottenuti con i prodotti di confronto hanno scarso valore pratico in considerazione delle elevate dosi d'impiego adottate nella sperimentazione. Tutte le tesi a confronto hanno dimostrato una buona azione complementare e indiretta contro Phialophora cinerescens. In nessuna tesi sono stati osservati fenomeni di fitotossicit. Author relates about a field trial against Carnation nematodes; the main purpose was to ascertain whether Nemafos 10 G could also give satisfactory results at doses inferior than the suggested ones. Plots were infested by Meloidogyne spp. and infected by Phialophora cinerescens. Nemafos was employed at 5-9 kg/Ha of a. i. by broadcast application. The products was compared with DD, Mylone and Trapex: these products were employed at higher doses than the suggested ones, in order to obtain a very significant comparison. Final controls were made, on dead plants computation in 1.000 plants per plot, for the evaluation of the nematocide effect and against Phialophora. The results showed that 5 kilos of Nemafos a. i. were not sufficient for broadcast application; the minimus dose should be 9 kilos/Ha: this is why in practical applications we found that the best dose was kg 12-15/Ha of a. i. The excellent results obtained with the comparative products have no real value considering the high doses employed in the trial. All treatments showed a good complementary activity against Phialophora. No phytotoxic effect was observed in all the treatments.
42874452|Gli AA. hanno studiato la composizione ed i comportamenti specifici della entomofauna impollinatrice del pero e del melo in due frutteti specializzati della Pianura Padana, uno nel Piacentino (zona non frutticola) e l'altro nel Ferrarese (zona frutticola intensiva), allo scopo di mettere in evidenza le differenze qualitative e quantitative nella entomofauna delle due localit e di precisare, in particolare, il ruolo occupato. dall'Apis mellifera nelle due differenti condizioni di esperienza. I risultati della sperimentazione condotta nelle annate 1963 e 1964 mettono in evidenza la grande importanza degli insetti pronubi nell'impollinazione delle pomacee, la notevole importanza dei selvatici nei frutteti isolati e la insostituibilit dell'ape nei frutteti razionali delle zone frutticole intensive, come il Ferrarese. The Authors have studied the classification and specific behaviours of pollinator insects of pear and apple in two orchards of the Po valley (North Italy): the former near Piacenza (not orchard area) and the other near Ferrara (tipical orchard area), in order to detect: a) the qualitative and quantitative differences of insects in both localities and, b) the role of Apis mellifera L. in such different experimental conditions. Results of 1963 and 1964 observations clearly show the important role played by the insects in pear and apple pollination, and further the great importance of wild bees in isolated orchards and the necessity of the honey bee as pollinator for the orchards located in fruit growing extended areas.
42874453|Vengono riferiti i risultati riguardanti un incrocio tra due variet di Cucurbita pepo L. :  Nano verde chiaro d'Italia , cespugliosa e con frutto allungato, da  zucchini  e  Nishikikanro , di origine giapponese, sarmentosa e a frutto sferico. In F si  avuta chiara dominanza del carattere sarmentoso; nel reincrocio (BC) sul tipo a cespuglio, si sono osservate molte piante con abito di crescita non ben definibile che hanno fatto supporre un condizionamento complesso del carattere sulla manifestazione del quale, nel nostro caso, ha influito anche l'eterosi. I frutti sono risultati di forma allungata in F; in BC si  avuta una variabilit molto maggiore per la comparsa di zucche quasi sferiche e discoidi. The A. refers the results obtained with a cross between two varieties of Cucurbita pepo L. :  Nano verde chiaro d'Italia , bush type with elongated fruits ( zucchini ) and  Nishikikanro , coming from Japan, vine type with spheric fruits. In F the vine type was completely dominant, but in the progeny of the backcross (BC) on  Nano verde chiaro d'Italia  many plants with intermediate habit of growth were observed. Therefore the growth habit in this case is somewhat complex supposed to be influenced by the hybrid vigour of the eterozygouses. The fruit were elongated in F; in BC along with the elongated, spheric and discoid fruits were observed.
42874456| stato effettuato uno studio sulle cultivar di mandorlo diffuse nella zona compresa tra i comuni di Vicari, Caccamo e Mezzojuso (Palermo). Sono state individuate sette variet cos denominate :  Cuti ,  Favar ,  Garranella ,  Nasona ,  Regina ,  Scozzarella ,  Tessitora , delle quali sono descritte le caratteristiche morfologiche, biologiche ed agronomiche, inserendole in una opportuna scheda amigdalografica. The caracteristics of the almond-varieties in the Vicari, Caccamo, Mezzojuso (Palermo) area are described. The following varieties were identified :  Cuti ,  Favar ,  Garranella ,  Nasona ,  Regina ,  Scozzarella ,  Tessitora . Consequently they are described following a scheme, which considers the morfological, biological and agronomic characters.
42874457|Viene descritta una nuova alterazione dei fiori di Strelitzia reginae Banks comparsa in alcune serre della Riviera Ligure nell'autunno 1963, il cui agente  stato identificato come Fusarium roseum Snyd. et Hans. Tra i diversi fungicidi saggiati in vitro contro detto fungillo solfato di ossichinolina, TMTD e Captan si sono dimostrati, nell'ordine, i pi efficaci. A new disease of the flowers of Strelitzia reginae Banks, caused by Fusarium roseum Snyd. et Hans., observed in some greenhouses in Liguria (Italy) during the autumn 1963, is described. Among the fungicides tested in vitro against this pathogen oxyquinoline sulphate, TMTD and Captan have been the most effective.
42874474|The knowledge of the flowering and the bearing habit of the different fruitingwoods is important in relation to the pruning treatements. The results of some observations carried out during 1963 and 1964 on the apricot cv.  Reale d'Imola , show that, on the summer laterals, blossoming is later and ripening is earlier than on the other fruiting shoots, but the fruit set and the fruits size are lower. On the other hand, on the spurs, both the flowering and the ripening times are later, but the fruits are bigger and their set heavier.
42874481|Talee legnose di ramo, prelevate durante il periodo di riposo, possono formare radici avventizie se trattate alla base con I.B.A. a 2.000 p.p.m. e racchiuse ermeticamente in sacchetti di polietilene. Con 5 diverse cultivar di pesco sono state ottenute percentuali di radicazione dall' 85% al 100%. La tecnica, messa a punto presso l'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit di Pisa, ha gi fornito risultati positivi anche con altre specie arboree dotate di scarso potere rizogeno. Non richiedendo alcuna particolare attrezzatura (come invece occorre, ad esempio, per le moderne tecniche della  nebulizzazione  e del  riscaldamento basale ) ed essendo realizzabile con una manualit assai semplice, questa nuova tecnica, oltre ad offrire nuovi mezzi di indagine, prospetta interessanti possibilit di applicazione pratica. Adventitious roots are formed, during the winter dormant period on the cuttings treated at their base with 2.000 p.p.m. of I.B.A. and hermetically sealed into empty polythene bags. Rooting percentage from 85% to 100% was obtained with 5 different cultivars of peach. The technique, setted-up at the Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree of the University of Pisa, has already given good results with other cuttings of woody species having a low rooting ability. Such a technique, being easily carried-out and requiring no particular equipment, offers new means of research and interesting possibilities of practical applications.
42874483|Viene riferito in merito al comportamento di cinque tipi di melanzana importati dall'India e coltivati in Umbria insieme ad un tipo di controllo italiano. I tipi indiani hanno rivelato caratteristiche del cespuglio, dei fiori e dei frutti del tutto insolite nelle melanzane diffuse in Italia. Nonostante la lontana provenienza, tutti i tipi, con eccezione di uno ( Purple striped ), si sono bene adattati alle nuove condizioni ambientali, ma nessuno  apparso decisamente migliore rispetto al controllo. Si conclude che il materiale introdotto pu costituire una preziosa fonte di variabilit genetica cui attingere per il miglioramento di certe caratteristiche dei tipi di melanzana coltivati in Italia. Si ringrazia il Dr. C. N. Sambandam dell'Annamalai University, India, per averci cortesemente inviato il seme dei tipi indiani. Observations were made in Umbria, Italy, on five sources of egg-plant imported from India in comparison with an Italian source. Indian types have shown very different morphological characters from the Italian egg-plant. In spite of their origin the indian sources, except for  Purple striped , demonstrated a good adaptation to the new environment conditions, but none of these was better than the Italian check. It is concluded that the imported material can be used as a source of genetic variability to improve the Italian types of egg-plant. Acknowledgment. - We are indebted to Dr. C. N. Sambandam, of the Annamalai University, India, for his kindness in sending us the seed of the indian egg-plants.
42874484|Dopo aver ricordata l'importanza rivestita nella Riviera Ligure dall'avvizzimento del garofano causato da Phialophora cinerescens (Wr.) van Beyma e le difficolt che si incontrano nella sua lotta, vengono riferiti i risultati di una prova sperimentale di disinfezione del suolo con mezzi chimici nella quale sono stati saggiati in confronto WN/12 (20% di isotiocianato di metile, 80% di dicloropropano-dicloropropilene), Vapam (N-metilditiocarbammato sodico diidrato), DD (dicloropropano-dicloropropilene) e Mylone (3,5-dimetiltetraidro-1, 3,5,2 H-tiadiazina-2-tione) impiegati rispettivamente alle dosi di 100, 100, 70 cm/m e 50 g/m. Nettamente pi efficaci sono risultati i primi due che hanno ridotto rispettivamente del 75 e del 64% il numero delle piante avvizzite rispetto al controllo, determinando incrementi di produzione del 26,30 e del 23,69%. After pointing out the importance of the carnation's wilt caused by Phialophora cinerescens (Wr.) van Beyma in the Riviera Ligure (Italy) and the difficulties there found in its control, the results of an experimental trial on soil fumigation with chemical products are described. WN/12 (20% methyl isothiocyanate, 80% dichloropropane-dichloropropene), Vapam (sodium N-methyl-dithiocarbamate dihydrate) DD (dichloropropane-dichloropropene) and Mylone (3,5-dimethyl-tetrahydro-1, 3,5,2 H-thiadiazine-2-thione), respectively at 100, 100, 70 cc/m and 50 g/m, were tested. The first two above quoted fumigants proved to be the most effective; they reduced respectively the number of wilted plants by 75% and 64% and caused an increase of production by 26,30 and 23,69%.
42874487|Si riferisce su alcune prove condotte con frutti di Limone, al fine di mettere in evidenza gli effetti che, nei riguardi dello sviluppo dei  marciumi  di magazzino, possono esercitare sia alcuni trattamenti anticrittogamici pre-raccolta (con prodotti a base di TMTD, Zineb, Ziram, Captano, Dodina, Ossicloruro di rame), sia la raccolta eseguita secondo il cosiddetto metodo  californiano . I dati sperimentali sono risultati statisticamente significativi ed hanno indicato che, sia i trattamenti anticrittogamici pre-raccolta, sia la raccolta secondo il metodo  californiano  possono esercitare un buon grado di difesa (l'incidenza dei  marciumi   stata talora ridotta di oltre il 50%). I vari prodotti anticrittogamici saggiati non hanno manifestato tra di loro differenze apprezzabili statisticamente. Experiments for testing the influence against storage rots of Lemon fruits of some pre-harvesting sprays (with TMTD, Zineb, Ziram, Captan, Dodine, and Cuoxichloride) and of the method of harvesting used in California, are reported. The results, showing statistically significant differences, point out the positive effects in both cases (fruit rots having been reduced also up to 50%). Fungicides tested showed no differences statistically significant.
42874512|A research was carried out during three years on microsporogenesis in 13 varieties of pear (Pyrus communis) obtained by crossbreeding. It has been found that the process of microsporogenesis in the Florentine and Roman regions takes place early in March, but the beginning may differ notably owing to the climate. The beginning of the process may take place 1 month before if the average temperature is increased above 12 C. during 5-7 days. The process of microsporogenesis, which normally occurs during 4-5 days, is notably affected by temperature. Correlation has been found between microsporogenesis and flowering. All the tested varieties are diploid.
42874516|Facendo procedere alla forzatura dei Prunus sinensis la refrigerazione alla temperatura di 5C. per la durata di 30 gg.  stata dimostrata la possibilit di ottenere la piena fioritura nel periodo natalizio di questi cespugli da fiore allevati in vaso, mentre in condizioni naturali per insufficiente esposizione al freddo la fioritura non si completa nel tempo necessario. Putting Prunus sinensis under refrigeration at a temperature of 5C. for 30 days before the forcing time, it is possible to obtain, during Christmas time, the full blossom of these flower bushes cultivated in vases, while under natural conditions the blossom does not happen within the required time and this is due to a not sufficient exposure to a cold atmosphere.
42874517|L'A. discute dapprima i problemi inerenti la fisiologia della radicazione e riferisce come da taluni Ricercatori sia stato isolato un'inibitore di radicazione creato dalle radici il quale presenta le stesse propriet del precursore dell'inibitore di correlazione, tanto da fare ritenere identiche le due sostanze. Tale inibitore, inoltre, risulta facilmente solubile in acqua. Successivamente sono resi noti i risultati di alcune ricerche riguardanti la radicazione di talee di vite 140 R., 1103 P., 1045 P. La bagnatura prepiantagione delle talee ha aumentato sensibilmente la percentuale di radicazione; sono stati ottenuti, infatti, buoni risultati sottoponendole all'immersione per 72 ore in acqua a temperatura ambiente (13C. circa). Peraltro, migliori risultati sono stati riscontrati immergendo le talee in acqua a 30-35C. per 24 e 72 ore. Infine, nessuna radicazione si  avuta in talee di 1045 P. sottoposte a bagnatura in acqua a 55C. per 12 ore. The A. discusses the physiology of rooting; a regulating mechanism of rooting is provided by a root-initiation inhibitor coming from the roots. This root-formation inhibitor has the same properties as the precursor of the correlation -inhibitor; possibily the two substances are identical. The precursor is easily soluble in water. The result of a trial carried out in Palermo on the rooting of 140 R., 1103 P., 1045 P. vine cuttings are published. Steeping cuttings in water before planting increased rooting; good results have been obtained dipping the cuttings into water held at environmental temperature (13C. about) for 72 hours. The best rooting was observed in cuttings kept for 24 or 72 hours in water at 30-35C. The 1045 P. cuttings did not root when held into water at 55C. for 12 h.
42874518|Un nuovo ciclo di esperienze svolte nella Riviera dei fiori sulla concimazione del garofano, ha ribadito l'opinione, gi conseguente a precedenti prove, che i quantitativi di concimi normalmente usati per la coltivazione di tale pianta in quella zona sono inutilmente eccessivi. A new cycle of experimental trials carried out on the  Riviera dei fiori  (near Genoa) on nutrition of the carnation, confirmed the opinion, already formed from previous studies, that the amount of fertilizer normally used there for growing this plant is needlessly excessive.
42874519|Il congelamento di mele  Abbondanza  inoculate con Gloeosporium album, eseguito dolcemente, ha abbreviato considerevolmente la durata del perodo d'incubazione di tale agente patogeno; un congelamento a  3 C circa per 5 giorni  stato pi efficace di un congelamento a  6 C circa per 20 ore. Altre osservazioni eseguite durante l'esperienza hanno suggerito l'ipotesi di lavoro che il congelamento, in tali condizioni, danneggi pi la mela che la muffa parassita e che pertanto quest'ultima ne venga relativamente avvantaggiata. Nel corso dell'analisi dei dati, prendendo lo spunto dai risultati delle prove di conservazione di mele infette da marciume lenticellare effettuate dal PIERSON (1958), si formula l'ipotesi di lavoro che la durata dell'incubazione regredisca sulla temperatura di conservazione  nell'ambito di temperature considerato  secondo una curva esponenziale; e si applica tale ipotesi per ragguagliare ad un'unica temperatura di riferimento le durate di conservazione di campioni di mele infette effettivamente conservati a temperature diverse.
42874525|L'A. descrive la nuova cultivar di pesco denominata  Favorita II Morettini  (Gialla di Firenze  Fertilia Morettini) che segue per epoca di maturazione la precedente  Favorita I . L'albero  molto vigoroso e produttivo. Il frutto a polpa gialla di ottimo sapore, matura subito dopo la precedente  Favorita I , alcuni giorni prima della  Cardinal  e della  Dixired . The Author describes his new peach variety, named  Favorita Second  and raised by crossing  Gialla di Firenze  and  Fertilia Morettini . Trees are very vigorous and heavy bearing. Fruits have yellow flesh, very good flavour, and ripe immediatelly after the  Favorita First  some days before Cardinal  and  Dixired .
42874527|Dopo brevi notizie sulla coltivazione delle insalate in Italia, si prospettano i problemi tecnici ed economici da risolvere per conseguirne il miglioramento. Si indicano le caratteristiche botaniche agrarie, le esigenze ambientali e colturali della scarola (Cichorium endivia L. v. latifolium Hegi). Si riferiscono i criteri seguiti nella selezione, i metodi di valutazione e la descrizione di alcuni tipi ritrovati nelle zone della Toscana, maggiormente interessate alla coltivazione.
42874533| stato confermato che l'esposizione di mele  Stayman  per 200 ore a temperatura inferiore ai 10C prima della raccolta permette di ridurre le manifestazioni di riscaldo solo se si abbina la stagionatura in magazzino prima dell'introduzione in cella. We have confirmed the riduction of the scald desease is possible when Stayman apples remain preharvest for 200 hours at an air temperature lower than 10C. and they remain in store house for about a month before placing them in cold storage.
42874543|Dopo una premessa sulle possibilit applicative della propagazione per coltura di apici vegetativi, si sono descritte alcune caratteristiche anatomiche e fisiologiche della unit di propagazione. Si  rilevata l'importanza di questa nuova tecnica come mezzo capace di fornire materiale convenientemente sano, soprattutto in relazione alle virosi.  seguita una descrizione della tecnica di laboratorio nelle sue linee generali, riportando anche alcune delle variazioni adottate dai diversi AA. After some preliminary remarks on the meristem culture propagation, some anatomical and physiological features of it are described. The importance of this new technique was emphasized as mean able to give material virus free. In its general lines followed a description of the lavoratory technique, giving as well news concerning some variations used by the different Authors.
42874547|Vengono riportati i risultati ottenuti da una ricerca biennale eseguita nel Veneto (Padova) sulla concimazione minerale della melanzana, dalla quale  risultata una notevole importanza della fertilizzazione fosfopotassica. Questa ha infatti permesso un notevole incremento nella quantit di prodotto, dovuto ad un maggior numero di frutti per pianta, oltre che un anticipo nella fioritura e nella fruttificazione. Di nessuno interesse  invece stata la concimazione azotata che non ha influito n sulla quantit di prodotto n sulla fioritura e sul numero di frutti per pianta. Ha invece determinato un ritardo nel ciclo produttivo. Results concerning a two-years research on mineral fertilization of eggplant in the province of Padova (Veneto) are reported. Fertilization with P and K gave the highest increases in yield and showed up the most important effects on number of fruits per plant and earlyness in flowering and fruiting. Fertilization with nitrogen, did not have any influence on yield, flowering and number of fruits per plant and caused delay in the ripening of fruits.
42874548|Dopo aver sottolineato l'importanza teorica e pratica che la differenziazione delle gemme a fiore presenta, nell'economia della fruttificazione, si cerca di individuare quali sono i processi evolutivi che intervengono negli apici quando questi passano dallo stadio indifferenziato a quello riproduttivo. La ricerca  stata effettuata su 4 cultivar di Pesco: " Amsden ", " Early Elberta ", " Elberta " e " Hale ". Si sono prese in considerazione le gemme doppie, triple e singole comparse sui rametti misti. Le osservazioni furono compiute su materiale prelevato settimanalmente a partire dal 24 giugno 1963 fino al 12 agosto 1963, per identificare le variazioni che si determinavano dal punto di vista morfologico negli apici destinati a tipificarsi nei confronti di quelli a legno. Le indagini, eseguite su preparati dello spessore di 12 micron, debitamente colorati, possono essere cos sintetizzate:  la conformazione esterna passa dalla conica alla cilindrica attraverso fasi intermedie. La struttura citoistologica che viene illustrata, rispettando i concetti della teoria  tunica-corpus , presenta le seguenti caratteristiche:  il numero degli strati di  tunica , negli apici vegetativi indifferenziati,  di 3 o 4, mentre in quelli in cui  avvenuta la differenziazione si riducono a 1 o 2;  la zona delle  cellule madri   limitata negli apici indifferenziati, mentre, accelera la sua attivit nel caso in cui l'apice si differenzia, cos, l'ingrossamento e l'innalzamento medesimo. Gli apici indifferenziati hanno una zonatura citoistologica distinta, mentre quelli riproduttivi hanno una zona altamente meristematica all'esterno e una costituita da cellule mature all'interno. Gli apici vegetativi mantengono l'altezza a partire dall'ultimo nodo intorno ai 40 micron, mentre, quando essa passa a 74 micron, gli apici relativi possono considerarsi in fase di inizio della differenziazione, che noi abbiamo riscontrato il 22 luglio 1963. Tale valore aumenta ancora fino a raggiungere quello medio di 164,5 micron quando gli apici hanno assunto la forma caratteristica a cilindro il 12 agosto 1963. The outward zone of the mother cells is restricted in vegetative apex, on the the identification of the first changes which are noted in the apex destined to become flower in comparison with those apex which have vegetative character. The experiment was carried out through the investigation of 12 micron sections of doubles, triples and individual buds of peach of the cv. " Amsden ", " Early Elberta ", " Elberta " and " Hale ". The first differences are represented by the variation of the layers of tunica which passes from 3 or 4, (in the vegetative or not differenziated apex) to 1 or 2 in the apex which have assumed a definitive direction to flower. The outward feature from its conical form passes to a rounded one then to a cilindrical feature. The outward zone of the mother cells is restricted in vegetative apex, on the contrary it extends itself considerably in those to flower. The height of vegetative apex, from the least knot, is about 40 micron. As the apex passes to flower it assumes the value of 74 micron (value which we have encountered on 22nd - July -1963), while its value arrives to 164,5 micron when the apex has assumed its cilindrical feature on the 12th - August -1963.
42874554|Nel presente lavoro si riferiscono i risultati di prove tendenti ad accertare la possibilit di controllare lo sviluppo di giovani piante di pero, mediante irrorazioni fogliari con B 9 e CCC. L'impiego del CCC a 1.000, 5.000 e 10.000 p. p. m. ha sempre ridotto fortemente l'accrescimento, in misura proporzionale alla concentrazione. Il B 9 ha invece causato la maggior riduzione alla concentrazione minima di 1.000 p. p. m., riduzione peraltro non molto lontana da quella causata dalle concentrazioni di 2.000 e 3.000 p. p. m. Nel complesso, comunque, l'azione inibente del CCC  risultata di gran lunga superiore a quella del B 9. Il raccorciamento degli internodi conseguente al trattamento con CCC, ha inoltre provocato un forte aumento del numero di foglie per unit di lunghezza del ramo, fenomeno che non si  verificato nelle piante trattate con B 9. Leggermente modificate sono risultate anche la forma e la colorazione delle foglie trattate. Le possibilit pratiche d'impiego di tali composti, anche dal punto di vista economico, rimangono per tuttora condizionate dall'accertamento di altri aspetti, quali il numero di trattamenti necessario, la persistenza della loro azione e l'eventuale influenza sulla produttivit della pianta negli anni successivi, anche a seguito di trattamenti ripetuti. B-Nine and CCC sprays applied to two-years-old pears had a strong retarding effect on shoot growth. The degree of growth reduction was stronger and related to the concentration only with CCC treatments. The reduced growth was accompanied by shorter internodes resulting in as much as 100% more leaves per linear unit; leaves was greener and thicker too.
42874555| stato messo a confronto il ritmo di accrescimento dei frutti delle cultivar di mandarino "Avana" e "Tardivo di Ciaculli".  stato rilevato che nella cv. 'Tardivo di Ciaculli" i frutti ingrossano pi lentamente di quelli della cv. "Avana" ed anche a maturazione completa le dimensioni risultano pi ridotte. Si  contemporaneamente seguito l'andamento dei livelli di azoto totale delle foglie su piante appartenenti alle due cultivar.  stato notato che subito dopo la fase critica della fioritura i livelli di azoto si innalzano gradualmente mantenendosi, poi, quasi costanti per tutta l'estate e parte dell'autunno, mentre a fine autunno  stato osservato un ulteriore incremento. A comparative study of the enlargement rythm of " Avana " and " Tardivo di Ciaculli " manderin fruits has shown that the latter increases more slowly than the " Avana " and even when fully ripe, fruits are smaller in size than " Avana ". Meanwhile the seasonal fluctuations in nitrogen level of the leaves are reported; the data suggest that the content of total nitrogen increases after flowering and remains approximately constant during the summer. Leaves show a new increase during late autumn.
42874557|Spraying with NAA, IAA and 2,4 D at 5-10-15 p.p.m. gives some parthenocarpic fruits of tornato (cv. "Marmande"), eggplant (cv. "Tonda violetta pallida") and cucumber (cv. "Bianco precoce"). No parthenocarpic fruit was observed on watermelon (cv. "Cinquantina). Chemical change in the reducing sugars, saccharose and acidity (expressed in citric acid) contents were examined for the treated and untreated plants. Generally the sprays with IAA and 2,4 D increased the reducing sugars and saccharose contents on fruits of tornato and eggplant; they increased the reducing sugars on cucumber and contrary they decreased the reducing sugars and saccharose on fruits of water-melon. The treatments with NAA reduced the saccharose and reducing sugars contents on the 4 examined sortes. The acidity was influenced, in generai, by the sprays. The Authors observed same damages on the external and internai form of the treated tornato, cucumber and water-melon fruits.
42874560|Dopo aver sottolineato limportanza del riscaldamento del suolo nella tecnica di coltivazione di molte specie orticole e floreali, si indicano i motivi ed i vantaggi degli impianti di riscaldamento elettrico rispetto a quelli tradizionali. Si descrivono i principali sistemi di impianto elettrico e si indicano i materiali necessari alla loro installazione con riferimento ai costi di impianto ed ai consumi di esercizio nelle diverse condizioni colturali. Si riferiscono poi le principali applicazioni di tali impianti al settore ortofloricolo. After having stressed the sol-heating importance in vegetables culture and ornamentate, are pointed out reasons and advantages of electric heating compared to the traditional ones. Main systems of electric equipment are described together with the material required to instali it, referring to costs equipment and operation. Finally the most important applications of such electric equipment for vegetable culture and ornamentals are described.
42877602|L'A. dopo aver esposto che nei principali fruttiferi, specie per il melo, gli agrumi, la vite, i susini sono state riscontrate e rese note numerose mutazioni gemmarie, rileva che nel pero, quelle rese note che elenca, sono in numero molto limitato. Dimostra, ci nonostante, che anche il pero  soggetto ad analoghe e numerose mutazioni. Di conseguenza desume che nella scelta dei cloni di pero da propagare si devono adottare con uguale rigore le norme prescritte per gli altri fruttiferi. The A. after having placed in evidence that in the principal fruit trees, especially in the apple, citros, vine and plum-trees numerous sports have been observed and noted, states that in the pear-tree, those noted and listed by him, are in very limited number. He demonstrates nevertheless, that the pear-tree also is subject to similar and numerous sports. As a result he draws a conclusion that in the choice of pear-clones to propagate, the same rigorous rules as prescribed for other fruit-trees should be adapted.
42877603|At intervals from mid April to early June, the Hesperidin contents in flowers of the following sweet orange (Citrus Sinensis) varieties: "Washington Navel", "Vainiglia", "Biondo comune", were determined by U. V. method. The following results are reported: 1) Hesperidin level was generally higher in "Washington Navel" flowers than in "Biondo comune" and "Vainiglia" flowers. 2) The Hesperidin contents increase markedly at full anthesis for all the varieties. Inter-relations of Hesperidin and I. A. A. are also discussed.
42877604|Si sono impiegati fogli di polietilene nero e trasparente di 0,20 mm. di spessore in funzione pacciamante. In una parte della prova sono state altres introdotte campane di plastica con funzione protettiva sulle giovani piante. La pacciamatura con foglio di plastica ha anticipato l'emergenza delle patate ed ha favorito lo sviluppo nei primi stadi vegetativi. Con la plastica nera si  anche ottenuto notevole aumento di produzione. La plastica trasparente e le campane di plastica sono risultati buoni mezzi per l'ottenimento di produzioni anticipate. Results of potato mulching trials with black and transparent polyethylene film (m. 0,20) are referred. Tomato cloches were also used in way to protect the young potato plants. Using the polyethylene film increas the growing in the first vegetative stages. An increase of production was also obtained with black polyethylene. Transparent polyethylene and tomato cloches resulted efficient for obtaining an early production.
42877605|Viene descritto un grave deperimento che colpisce le coltivazioni di Garofano della zona di Pescia nel periodo estivo. Le piante attaccate dalla malattia avvizziscono improvvisamente e manifestano un imbrunimento ed un marciume della base del fusto e delle radici. Le strutture anatomiche di questi organi presentano i vasi legnosi occlusi o con le pareti imbrunite. Questi sintomi, comunque, rimangono localizzati nelle parti ipogee o basali delle piante stesse. Dai garofani malati sono stati isolati, con frequenza particolarmente elevata, due Fusaria: Fusarium oxysporum (Schl.) Snyd. et Hans. e Fusarium solani (App. et Wr.) Snyd. et Hans. Inoculazioni sperimentali effettuate con questi due funghi non hanno per provocato la morte delle piante, ma solo uno stato di sofferenza od una limitazione dello sviluppo statisticamente significativi. Pertanto l'elevata mortalit dei garofani nel campo rimane legata a fattori non del tutto chiariti. La disinfezione del terreno con Vapam, nelle dosi di Kg. 700-1000 per ha,  in grado di contenere validamente il deperimento in oggetto, ma il problema della suddetta disinfezione va impostato anche tenendo conto di altre malattie che ne rendono pi problematica la riuscita. The A. describes a Carnation wilt wich, in summer, causes serious losses to Carnation growers in the Pescia area. Plants affected by this disease wilt suddendly and show a browning and rotting of the base of the stem and of the roots. The anatomical structures of these organs show the occlusion of the wood vessels and a browning of their walls. These symptoms, in any way, are confined to the hypogeous or basal parts of the Carnation. Two Fusaria have been more frequently isolated from affected plants: Fusarium oxysporum (Schl.) Snyd. et Hans. and F. solani (App. et Wr) Snyd. et Hans. However the plants inoculated with these two fungus were not killed, but they appeared with statistical evidence stunted and suffering. Therefore the high mortality of the plants in the field is related to factors not well known. Soil disinfection with Vapam, at Kg. 700-1000 for ha, is able to control the illustrated Carnation wilt, but the problem concerning this disinfection must be solved also considering other diseases which are more difficult to control.
42877606|Dopo aver ricordato il significato dell'espressione  selezione convergente  nel campo delle ricerche genetiche sulle piante entomofile e sull'entomofauna che alla loro impollinazione provvede, gli AA. riferiscono su una ricerca sperimentale partita dall'ipotesi di lavoro che, nell'ambito delle specie da frutto oggi coltivate, si verifichino di fatto le condizioni seguenti: 1) che le cultivar dei fruttiferi presentino tra di loro differenze significative per quanto riguarda la quantit di nettare secreto e la sua concentrazione; 2) che tali differenze conducano, nelle cultivar con una maggiore e pi concentrata secrezione, ad una frequenza di visita, da parte delle api, significativamente maggiore. L'indagine  stata svolta su otto cv. di Prunus persica, L. e su due di P. domestica, L. Per la specie Prunus persica, L., la verifica sul piano sperimentale della prima delle condizioni assunte nell'ipotesi di lavoro, ha avuto esito negativo in quanto, delle otto cultivar esaminate, soltanto una ("Jacoboni 21") ha rivelato differenze significative per quanto riguarda la quantit di nettare secreto e la sua concentrazione. Tutte le altre, infatti, hanno mostrato valori sostanzialmente omogenei rispetto ai caratteri considerati. La mancata verifica del primo punto dell'ipotesi di lavoro ha portato di conseguenza a valori positivi, ma non significativamente diversi da zero, del coefficiente di correlazione tra quantit e concentrazione del nettare e frequenza di visita da parte delle api. Ci avvalora la riserva avanzata dagli AA. i quali avevano pregiudizialmente osservato che se  vero che la produzione quantitativa delle specie entomofile  strettamente legata all'azione impollinatrice del pronubo,  pur anche vero che i genetisti ed i selezionatori, nel lavoro di costituzione di nuove cultivar, hanno da tempo immemorabile tenuto ampio conto del carattere  produttivit  e, quindi, se pure indirettamente, dell'azione svolta dalle api, operando cos, in definitiva, secondo i criteri che sono oggi alla base della teoria della  selezione convergente . Le osservazioni relative a P. domestica, L., non permettono di trarre conclusioni probanti, il confronto essendo stato limitato a due sole cultivar. This paper deals with an experimental research on the fundamentals which have inspired the theory of  convergent selection . As working hypothesis there is the presupposition that in the sphere of today cultivated fruit species in fact exist the following conditions: 1) that the fruit trees cultivar show significant differences from one another as regards the quantity of secreted nectar and its concentration; 2) that such differences lead, in the cultivar with more secretion and also more concentrated nectar, to a more significant visitation rate by honeybees. The observations and analyses have been carried out on eight cultivar of Prunus persica L. and two of Prunus domestica L. As regards Prunus persica L. the first condition of the working hypothesis was experimentally not fullfilled. Out of the eight cultivar of peach trees examined, only one (Jacoboni 21), in fact, showed much higher values with respect to amount and sugar concentration of nectar. All the other cultivar, on the contrary, showed substantially uniform values with respect to these characteristics. Failing the first point of this working hypothesis, the correlation coefficients between amount and sugar concentration of nectar and average number of honeybees per tree showed positive values, but non significantly different from zero. This emphasizes the expressed reserve by the AA., who prejudicially observed that if it is true, as it certainly is, that the quantitative production of the entomophilus species is strictly linked to the pollinating action of the insect, then it is also true that all the geneticists and selectionists in their work of setting up new cultivar have always kept well in mind the characteristic  productivity  and so also, though indirectly, the action of the honeybees. Consequently they operate according to the today basic principles of the theory of the  convergent selection . The observations about "Prunus domestica L." do not allow probative conclusions to be drawn, the comparison having been limited to only two varieties.
42877607|La prova di diserbo sul pomodoro  stata eseguita su semenzai di cv. "S. Marzano" e "Super Marmande" impiegando Hortox - N-(3-chloro-4methylphenyl) -2 methyl-pentanamide - e Amiben - 3-amino-2,5-dichlorobenzoic acid - ciascuno a tre dosi diverse. Mentre l'Amiben appare sconsigliabile, l'Hortox alle dosi di 7 l/ha si  mostrato efficace contro le infestanti ad eccezione del Cyperus rotundus e del Cynodon dactylon. Per il diserbo del cavolfiore si sono impiegati quattro diserbanti: Vegadex - 2-chloroallyl-NN-dithiocarbamate -, Dacthal - dimethyl-2,3,4,6-tetra-chloroterephthalate, Semerone - dimethyl thiotriazine -, Tok E 25 - 2,4 dichlorophenyl-4-nitrophenyle. I migliori risultati si sono ottenuti con il Vegadex alla dose di 12 l/ha. Trials of chemical weed control on tomato seed bed, cultivars "S. Marcano" and "Super Marmande", are referred. Two herbicides, Hortox - N-(3-chloro-4methylphenyl)-2-methyl-pentanamide and Amiben - 3-amino-2,5-dichlorobenzoic acid - at three different concentrations were emploied, while Amiben seems to be unsuitable, Hortox at the rate of 7 l/ha gives a satisfactory control of all weeds except for Cyperus rotundus and Cynodon dactylon. Four different herbicides: Vegadex - 2-chloroallyl-NN-dithiocarbamate -, Dacthal - dimethyl-2,3,4,6-tetrachloroterephthalate -, Semerone - dimethylthiotriazine -, Tok E 25 - 2,4 dichloropheni-4-nitrophenyle -, for cauliflower weed control were also tried. Best results have been obtained with Vegadex at the rate of 12 l/ha.
42877609|Maturazione. Reazioni di depolimerizzazione, di scissione, di ossidazione; esempi. Fermentazione e respirazione. Alternative biochimiche. Atmosfera interna ed esterna, gradienti di concentrazione gassosa, accumulo di essenze volatili nella buccia di alcuni frutti. Maturit nelle sue varie accezioni; indici di maturit. Tasso respiratorio, quoziente respiratorio, curva respiratoria. Frutti climaterici e non climaterici; cause del climaterio. Evoluzione del colore, consistenza, succulenza, profumo della polpa dei frutti durante la maturazione. Conservazione. Influenza dei fattori ambientali sulla sua durata. Livelli minimo, ottimo e massimo dei fattori ambientali e loro spiegazione. Gradualit di effetti, effetti statistici. Modo di azione dei fattori di conservazione. La serbevolezza  il reciproco del tasso di maturazione. Effetto della temperatura. Temperatura massima e disturbi da caldo. Temperatura minima e disturbi da freddo; refrigerazione a breve e lungo termine; refrigerazione con riscaldamento interinale. Congelamento. Gradiente di maturabilit, postmaturazione, maturazione dei frutti a bassa temperatura. Relazione fra serbevolezza e temperatura di conservazione. Effetto della concentrazione dell'ossigeno. Suo meccanismo. Concentrazione minima, fermentazione e morte dei tessuti. Relazione fra concentrazione dell'ossigeno e serbevolezza. Effetto della concentrazione dell'anidride carbonica. Suo meccanismo. Limite massimo della concentrazione. Intossicazione da anidride carbonica e asfissia. Relazione fra concentrazione dell'anidride carbonica e serbevolezza. Gli effetti della temperatura, della concentrazione dell'ossigeno e di quella dell'anidride carbonica sul prolungamento della conservazione sono cumulatoli, ma, essendo i tre fattori in parte reciprocamente dipendenti, non sono additivi (interazione). Effetto delle sostanze volatili. Sostanze gassose (etilene e suo effetto sui frutti climaterici e non climaterici) e vapori di olii essenziali; riscaldo. Effetto dell'accumulo e dell'aereazione; influenza dei frutti maturi sui frutti acerbi. Effetto dell'umidit. Relazione fra umidit relativa e calo peso. Effetti diversi. Formule conservative.
42874569|Gli Autori esaminano lo standard varietale del melo derivante dai principali Paesi Europei, in rapporto alla sua composizione ed alle sue tendenze evolutive. In particolare, dopo avere individuato due distinte aree di coltura (quella centrosettentrionale da un lato e quella centro-meridionale dall'altro) rilevano che a tali aree corrispondono due diversi orientamenti nella scelta e nella diffusione delle cultivar, determinati non solo dalla specifica vocazione ambientale delle cultivar stesse ma anche dalle esigenze dei mercati e dai gusti dei consumatori. Attualmente circa il 75% della produzione deriva da una trentina di cultivar, la maggior parte delle quali, contemporaneamente diffusa in diversi Paesi, conserver un posto di rilievo anche nel futuro standard varietale, risultante dal rinnovamento e dalla espansione degli impianti, quest'ultima  particolarmente accentuata nei Paesi dell'Europa meridionale. Inoltre, in rapporto all'epoca di maturazione, risulta che le cultivar autunno-invernali sono prevalentemente diffuse nelle aree di coltura del centro-sud, mentre quelle estive lo sono assai pi nelle aree del centro-nord, anche se in queste ultime la maturazione dei frutti ha luogo con un certo ritardo. Per quanto riguarda infine l'influenza dell'ambiente, ed in particolare della latitudine, sul comportamento delle cultivar, sono state confrontate le epoche di raccolta, di maturazione e di conservazione naturale dei frutti di alcune delle principali cultivar prodotte in diversi Paesi. The Authors deal with the apple varieties trends in the main European Countries, emphasizing that in the central-north and in the central-south areas exist differents trends in relation to the ecological behaviour of the varieties and to the demands of the markets. At present, about 75% of the apple production in Europe belongs from about 30 varieties (table 2) that, in the main, will keep about the same level of importance in the next years. In relations to the ripening season the summer varieties are mainly grown in the central-north area, while the late varieties are mainly grown in the central-south area. Observations are made about the influence of the environmental conditions on the behaviour of the most important varieties; the harvest and the ripening times, so as the storage ability, of such varieties on the different countries are then compared.
42874570|In a factorial experiment, plants of Capsicum annuum var. grossum (cv. " Quadrato d'Asti ") were exposed to + 6 C night temperature from 6 pm to 9 am for seven of fourteen days just after cotiledon expansion; they were also immersed for 5" in water containing 50 ppm of 6-benzylaminopurine and 70 ppm of Tween 80. Control plants were kept at night temperature higher than + 14 C and immersed in water containing only 70 ppm of Tween 80, respectively. Cold night temperature treatment for seven dark-cycles was ineffective but the fourteen cycle one promoted a significant increase in vegetative growth as well in flower bud production (both were measured seventy-one days after emergence). It also increased the height of stem. The correlation between leaf and flower bud number was unaffected by the seven cycles treatment (r = 0,84 versus 0,69 in the control) while this correlation was significantly changed by the fourteen cycle treatment (r = 0,24). A possible specific, inductive action of cold night temperature on floral initiation is prospected. The chemical treatment did affect leaf and flower bud number but height of stem was unchanged by it. Furthermore, correlation coefficients resulted practically the same in treated and in control plants. These results need some further experimental verifications.
42874572|Dalla prova condotta, in agro di Marano di Napoli, con finalit di ricerca preliminare, si  accertata la reattivit dello spinacio, cv. " Riccio di Asti ", alla concimazione azoto-fosfo-potassica, non limitata all'incremento di produzione, ma estesa al contenuto della produzione in clorofilla.
42874573|L'Autore ha condotto, in provincia di Ferrara, una ricerca sui principali aspetti dell'habitus di fruttificazione di 22 cultivar di pero su cotogno, a tre diversi stadi produttivi degli alberi. Nel complesso, durante il periodo compreso fra la iniziale messa a frutto e la piena fruttificazione degli alberi, si  rilevato un sostanziale cambiamento quantitativo e qualitativo dei vari tipi di ramo a frutto, fra i quali, nei primi anni, prevalgono i brindilli od i rami misti e successivamente, le lamburde. Tali rami a frutto sono prevalentemente  portati  da branche giovani (2 anni) anche se col passare degli anni l'importanza di queste ultime si riduce progressivamente rispetto a quelle pi vecchie (3 o pi anni). Tuttavia notevoli differenze di comportamento sussistono fra le cultivar esaminate, in rapporto a questi caratteri ed al numero medio di frutti per gemma (od infruttescenza), oscillante fra 1,1 e 3,3. Vengono infine esposte alcune considerazioni pratiche sui criteri della potatura di produzione da applicare alle diverse cultivar sulla base del loro specifico comportamento. In the Ferrara orchards area, investigations have been carried on the bearing pattern of pear trees on quince. Observations have been made on 22 varieties at three different ages (3-4 years; 5-7 years; 8-10 years old). Generally speaking, from the beginning till the full bearing a great change occurs in the type and in the amount of the fruiting shoots and branches: with the aging of trees, spurs are prevailing. At the beginning, the bearing shoots are mainly inserted on two-years old branches, while in the older trees the fruiting wood is prevailingly  brought  by the three or more old branches. Great differences exist amoung the varieties in relation to their bearing pattern, as it is emphasized in the  appendix . Some practical suggestions are then supplied on the pruning methods to be applied to the different varieties, in relation to their typical behaviour.
42874574|Dopo brevi cenni sulla tecnica di coltivazione della patata precoce in Sicilia  con particolare riferimento alla sarchiatura ed alla rincalzatura che, nell'attuale momento, contribuiscono ad aggravare in misura notevole il bilancio economico di questa coltura  vengono riferiti i risultati di un biennio di prove rivolte a studiare la possibilit di ridurre alla sola rincalzatura le sopraccennate cure consecutive, affidando al diserbo chimico selettivo la funzione della scerbatura, attualmente assolta dalla sarchiatura. A tal fine sono stati posti allo studio, in confronto con un testimone sarchiato e rincalzato secondo la tecnica tradizionale, nove differenti formulati  Amiben, Alanap 3, Aretit, Gesaprim, Premerge, Tenoran, Weedazin, Alipur e Gesagard  applicati in pre-emergenza allo scopo di eliminare, in tal modo, la prima sarchiatura-scerbatura. Nelle parcelle diserbate chimicamente  stata pertanto eseguita una sola rincalzatura a 30-40 giorni dalla emergenza, con la quale  stato interrato anche l'azoto in copertura.  emerso, in particolare, che l'azione diserbante  influenzata dalla composizione della flora spontanea e dalla entit delle precipitazioni nel periodo immediatamente successivo al trattamento. I risultati offerti da Amiben, Aretit, Premerge e Tenoran lasciano tuttavia intravedere che con l'impiego di questi prodotti si pu eliminare la sarchiatura-scerbatura. Modesta selettivit hanno manifestato invece Gesoeprim, Alanap 3 e Weedazin. After a brief outline of the technique of cultivation of the early potato in Sicily  with particular relation to the weeding and the earthing-up that contribute considerably towards burdening the economic budget of this form of cultivation at the present time  are related the results of two years of tests aiming at a study of the possibility of reducing the above-mentioned consecutive treatments to the earthing-up alone, leaving the function of the eradication of weeds, at the present time carried out by weeding, to chemical selective weed-control. To such an end nine different herbicides have been put under examination, and compared with a hoed and earthed-up test plant according to the traditional technique: Amiben, Alanap 3, Aretit, Gesaprim, Premerge, Tenoran. Weedazin, Alipur, and Gesagard; they have been applied before growth, with the view of so eliminating the first weeding-eradication. In plots which have been chemically freed of weeds, an earth-up only has been applied at 30-40 days from the growth at which the azote has also been earthed. The result is however, in particular, that the herbicidal action has been influenced by the composition of spontaneous flora and by the quantity of rainfall during the period immediately subsequent to the treatment. The results given by Amiben, Aretit, Premerge and Tenoran show that by the use of these products we can eliminate weeding and weed-eradication. On the contrary Gesaprim, Alanap 3, and Weedazin have shown poor selectivity.
42874922|Gli Autori hanno condotto una serie di prove allo scopo di esaminare gli effetti esercitati sugli organi fiorali, sulla allegagione e, infine, sulla fruttificazione di tre specie da frutto (albicocco, pero e melo) da parte di alcuni fra i pi comuni fitofarmaci impiegati durante I'antesi. Sull'albicocco sono stati usati Ziram 80 allo 0,20% e TMTD allo 0,15%, mentre sul pero e sul melo sono stati impiegati Ziram 80 allo 0,20%, Zineb 80 allo 0,20% e Dodina 65 allo 0,10%. I risultati conseguiti hanno messo in evidenza che i danni variano in rapporto alla specie, al prodotto impiegato ed alle condizioni in cui avviene l'impollinazione. Nelle prove di laboratorio e di impollinazione controllata  emerso quanto segue: a) nell'albicocco i trattamenti eseguiti con Ziram, e in particolare con TMTD, hanno esercitato un influenza negativa sulla vitalit del polline ed hanno ridotto l'allegagione in varia misura; b) nel pero i trattamenti a base di Ziram e Dodina hanno diminuito la vitalit del polline e l'allegagione, mentre quelli a base di Zineb non hanno determinato alcun danno; c) nel melo i trattamenti con Zineb e Dodina hanno ridotto la germinabilit del polline e l'allegagione, mentre quelli con Ziram sono risultati dannosi solo quando erano stati praticati sui fiori in piena antesi. Nelle prove di impollinazione naturale e in quelle relative agli effetti sulla produzione non si sono per riscontrate differenze, su tutte e tre le specie fruttifere considerate, tra le piante trattate o meno. The Autors have carried out some researches in view to ascertain the effects of some of the most usual pesticides applied during the flowering, on the flower organs, the fruit set and the yield of apricot, pear and apple trees. The results have shown that injuries change according to the fruit species, the kind of pesticide applied, and the environmental conditions under which the pollination occurs. The laboratory tests and the pollinations trials have put in evidence that: a) in the apricot tree Ziram and, specially, TMTD exert a negative influence on the pollen viability and reduce the fruit set; b) in the pear tree Ziram and Dodina reduce the pollen viability and the fruit set, while Zineb does not produce any injury; c) in the apple tree Zineb and Dodina reduce the pollen germination and the fruit set, while Ziram results noxious only when applied at the full bloom. The pollination trials and the investigations concerning the treatements effects on the yield have not shown differences, in all the three fruit species, among the treated and untreated trees.
42874923|Sono state effettuate ricerche per accertare il fabbisogno di azoto dei fiori su alcune piante di arancio, limone e mandarino e le variazioni di detto elemento nelle foglie. Sono stati accertati consumi variabili da 13,50 gr per una pianta di mandarino " Tardivo di Ciaculli " con 8.663 fiori a gr 107,92 per una pianta di arancio " Biondo Comune " con 27.111 fiori. Parallelamente, seguendo le percentuali di azoto fogliare, si  osservato, in tutti i casi, un abbassamento graduale col procedere della fioritura e un ripristino dei primitivi livelli circa un mese dopo l'allegagione. I dati sono stati discussi con riferimento ai problemi di nutrizione azotata. Experiments were carried on orange, lemon and mandarin trees to determine nitrogen requirement of the flowers, wich varied from 13,50 gr by one " Tardivo di Ciaculli " mandarin, carrying 8.663 flowers, to 107,92 gr by one " Biondo Comune " orange, carrying 27.111 flowers. Fluctuations in the nitrogen levels of the leaves in flowering set are also reported. The data suggest a decrease in the leaves's total nitrogen content in concurrence with increased requirements of the flowers; while about one month after fruit set it climbs back to the previous levels. Data are discussed with particular reference to the problems of nitrogen fertilization.
42874925|In questa nota l'Autore riporta i risultati di alcune ricerche preliminari sulla biologia fiorale degli agrumi, con particolare riferimento all'arancio (" Biondo comune ", " Moro ", " Sanguinello ", " Sanguinello moscato ", " Tarocco "), al mandarino (" Avana ") e al clementine (" Monreal "). Le osservazioni sulla fioritura hanno mostrato che non esiste alcuna correlazione fra periodo di fioritura ed epoca di maturazione dei frutti. Le prove di germinabilit del polline hanno messo in evidenza che le cultivar a frutti apireni (" Tarocco ", " Moro ") possiedono polline scarsamente vitale nei confronti di quelle a frutti non apireni (" Biondo comune ", " Avana ", etc.); il miglior substrato di germinazione si  rivelato quello costituito da soluzione acquosa di saccarosio al 20%. Dalle prove di impollinazione artificiale  emerso che le cultivar " Moro " e " Tarocco " sono " autoincompatibili "; il " Tarocco " tuttavia possiede una notevole capacit a fruttificare per via partenocarpica. Tutte le altre cultivar esaminate sono risultate  autocompatibili , ma si avvantaggiano dell'impollinazione incrociata. In this paper the Author refers about some preliminary researches on the citrus floral biology, with reference to orange (" Biondo comune ", " Moro ", " Sanguinello ", " Sanguinello moscato ", " Tarocco "), mandarin (" Avana ") and clementine (" Monreal "). Observations on flowering showed that there is no correlation between flowering time and ripening. Pollen germination trials have evidenced that in the seedless varieties (" Tarocco ", " Moro ") pollen is less viable than in seedy varieties (" Biondo comune ", " Avana ", etc.); the best germination was found in 20% sucrose solution. Pollination tests showed that " Moro " and " Tarocco " are self-sterile; however " Tarocco " is able to set adequate quantities of parthenocarpic fruits. All above mentioned varieties are proved to be self-fertile, although crosspollination increases fruit-set.
42874926|Sono state esaminate alcune caratteristiche biologiche riguardanti il ciclo di sviluppo ed il sistema riproduttivo dei biotipi di scarola (Cichorium endivia L. v. latifolium Hegi) in corso di selezione presso l'Istituto di Orticoltura di Pisa. In particolare  stato precisato il meccanismo di di Orticoltura di Pisa ed in particolare  stato precisato il meccanismo di fioritura. La fecondazione deve ritenersi allogama con possibilit di autofecondazione. Si  rilevato un accentuato eteromorfismo stilare da ricollegarsi sopratutto al sistema di impollinazione entomofila. Il carattere fertilit, ovvero la capacit di produrre semi integri e germinabili,  risultata assai bassa, per la elevata formazione di frutti partenocarpici e di semi quiescenti. Tale carattere risulta assai variabile nei tre biotipi considerati. Tuttavia  apparso che le piante caratterizzate da un maggior numero di fiori per capolino e da una pi elevata germinabilit del polline, presentano anche una pi elevata fertilit. Some biological characteristics concerning growth and reproductive system of endive (Cichorium endivia L. v. latifolium Hegi) actually selected at the Istituto di Orticoltura dell'Universit di Pisa were tested. It particularly studied the flowering. The fecundation is allogamy yet there is a possibility of autogamy. It was noted a remarkable heteromorphism of stylus probabily due to the pollination system by instects. The fertility character  or the capacity of producing germinable seeds  was rather low for the high formation of parthenocarpic fruits and dormant seeds. Such character appeared quite varying. Nevertheless it was seen that plants having a greater number of flowers on cluster and a high germinability of pollen show an higher fertility.
42874594|The A. discusses the trials of reciprocal grafting of cylinders of bark between plants of high rooting ability and plants with low rooting ability, carried out by MES on Citrus medica and Citrus aurantium and by Scaramuzzi on a rootstock clone of quince and on a pear and a quince variety. After the bark pieces had heald in place, the stems were made into cuttings: the rooting behaviour of the grafted bark pieces was just as it was on intact, nongrafted cuttings. Instead in analogous trials carried out on P. marianna, Mirobalan B and Belgium mirobalan, the rooting ability proper to the plants had not been influenced by the cylinder of bark of other plants of different rooting ability, grafted on them. It is to be concluded that the different results in the experiments carried out by Mes and Scaramuzzi is due to the presence of preformed root primordia in the rings of bark at the time of grafting.
42874597|In the years 1964 and 1965 apple trees of Abbondanza were sprayed with SEVIN 50% at the rate of 2000 and 4000 p.p.m., with NAA at 10 and 20 p.p.m. ( 100 cc/q of Tween 20) and NAD at 40 and 80 p.p.m. (+ 100 cc/q of Tween 20). Each treatment was applied at petal-fall+2 weeks on 4 trees. Branches of unsprayed trees were hand thinned to 250, 200 and 150 fruitlets per 100 blossom clusters at same stage. The results were:  All the treatments resulted, in the 2 years, in a reduction in the number of small fruits (<18).  The application with NAA at 20 p.p.m. had, on the fruit size and weight, a similar effect to that of hand thinning (150 fruitlets/100 blossom clusters), but the vegetation was damaged lightly.  The thinning effect of NAA in concentration of 10 p.p.m. was similar to that of hand thinning (200 fruitlets/100 blossom clusters).  The application with Sevin 50% at 4000 p.p.m. had a satisfactory result, which was similar to that of hand thinning (250 fruitlets/100 blossom clusters) on fruit size and weight. Recommendations are made by the Authors for Sevin 50% in concentration of 4000 p.p.m. for its easy use and for its no phythotoxicity.
42874604|Dopo aver brevemente descritto l'origine delle pesche-noci, viene illustrata Pattuale situazione della coltura in Italia, analizzando le possibili cause che ne hanno finora ostacolata la diffusione, in base ai risultati di una apposita indagine. Esaminata quindi la situazione nel principale Paese produttore di pesche-noci, gli Stati Uniti, vengono brevemente esposti i criteri da seguire nella scelta dell'ambiente, in relazione alle particolari esigenze colturali, nonch alcuni suggerimenti per il confezionamento, conservazione e trasporto dei frutti. Infine, viene riportato un elenco delle principali cultivar italiane ed estere indicando per ciascuna le principali caratteristiche. After a brief discussion on the origin of nectarines, the A. illustrates the results of a special survey, on the present situation of the nectarines culture in Italy, and the possible causes which have up to now hindered its diffusion. Having examined the situation of the nectarines culture in the United States, are then briefly set out the criteria to be followed in the choise of environment, in relation to the particular cultural requirements, as well as some suggestions for the packing, transportation and storage of the fruits. Finally is reported a list of principal Italian and foreign cultivars indicating for each the main charateristics.
42874606|L'A. nel corso di ricerche biennali sull'influenza di alcuni ormoni sulla radicazione delle talee di "Ficus Elastica cv. Decora ", ha potuto stabilire che tutti i trattamenti ormonici migliorano la capacit rizogena delle talee; in particolare i migliori risultati (98,9% di talee radicate) sono stati forniti da una mescolanza di IBA+ IAA, dispersi in talco, alla dose di 5.000 p.p.m. Una percentuale di radicazione leggermente inferiore (91,1%)  stata fornita dalla soluzione del sale sodico di IAA alla concentrazione di 175 p.p.m. During a two-year research on the influence of some hormones on the rooting capacity of cuttings of Ficus Elastica cv. Decora, the A. observed that these hormones increase such capacity. Better results of up to 98,9% were obtained from a mixture of IBA and IAA applied on the talc with a dose of 5.000 p.p.m. A lower percentage of about 91,1% was obtained from a sodic salt solution of IAA at a concentration of 175 p.p.m.
42874610|Vengono riportati i risultati di una ricerca triennale (1963-65) sul trapianto del peperone, effettuato secondo diverse modalit: a mano o a macchina, con piantine a radici nude o provviste di pane di terra. I migliori risultati, come l'anticipo di maturazione e le produzioni pi elevate, sono stati conseguiti mediante il trapianto di piantine rimpiolate con il pane di terra avvolgente le radici. Per questa modalit di trapianto  stata sperimentata una nuova trapiantatrice ideata e realizzata dall'A. presso il C.N.M.A. di Torino. Results are here reported of three years trials, in wich different types of transplanting pepper plants were compared: by hand or by machinery, of plants with bare roots or in soil blocks. The best results, as ripening earliness and high yield of fruits, have been obtained transplanting young plants with soil blocks. In order to use this method of transplanting, an implement has been conceived, constructed and tested by the Author at C.N.M.A. (Torino).
42874617|Viene segnalata, nelle coltivazioni di Viareggio e Pescia (Toscana), una nuova malattia del Garofano di origine batterica. Essa colpisce foglie, steli e calici su cui si formano caratteristiche macchie. Per quanto il batterio non sia stato ancora identificato, dai caratteri della malattia sembra trattarsi di Pseudomonas woodsii (E. F. Smith) Stev. A new bacterial disease of the Carnation is described in Viareggio and Pescia districts (Tuscany). The symptoms are characteristic spots in the leaves, stems and calyces. Though the bacterium, for the present, is not identified, the symptoms of the disease it appears to be a question of Pseudomonas woodsii (E. F. Smith) Stev.
42874619|At the Centro Miglioramento Piante del C.N.R. in Florence, observations have been made on a homogeneus collection of 62 varieties of full-grown pear trees, which had been damaged by spring frost at blossom. The varieties have been classified in three groups according to the percentage of the frost-damaged flowers. Most of principal varieties have shown strong frost hardiness, only "Louise bonne d'Avranches", "Conference", "Beurr Hardy" have shown great frost sensibility. Some of frost damaged varieties have produced a relevant number of parthenocarpic fruits i. e. "Sakesbirne", "Beurr d'Amanlis", "Margherita Marillat", "Goodale" while others, like "Louise bonne d'Avranches", "Leopardo", "Duchesse d'Angoulme", "Precoce di Trvoux", "Beurr Durondeau", "Dr. J. Guyot", "Butirra rosata M.", "William precoce M.", "William", "Morettini 64", an inferior number, and the remaing varieties have produced very few parthenocarpic fruits or none at all. The parthenocarpic fruits have shown modifications, sometimes more and sometimes less obvious, which in some cases have deteriorated the appearance of the fruits.
42874630|The Authors relate about the results of their investigations concerning the genetical behaviour of some characters of the strawberry flowers and fruits, on the basis of the obsevations performed on eighteen F progenies. The main conclusions are: a) the flowering and the ripening times of the F seedlings resulted prevailingly influenced by the phenological pattern of the mother varieties; b) the fruit size and shape and the flesh colour followed an intermediate inheritance, without any apparent connection with the parent behaviour; c) the F pattern of the achenes deepness resulted different from progeny to progeny; d) the sex inheritance has agreed with a Mendelian scheme, the crosses between female and hermaphrodite varieties having rised 50% hermaphrodite seedlings; e) the genetical behaviour of the core type and of the flower size has been prevailingly influenced by the environment conditions. On the basis of such results the Authors conclude with some observations about the strawberry breeding programs.
42874631|The effects of tris-(2-diethylamminoethyl)-phosphate trihydrochloride (SK&F 7997-A) and tris-(2-dimethylamminoethyl)-phosphate trihydrochloride (SK&F 7732-A) on the flowering in the tomato (cv. Michigan-Ohio Hybrid) were investigated. First anthesis was delayed by single application of both the chemicals at 5 mg/ml concentration. The number of nodes subtending the first inflorescence were increased with either compounds. Increase in node number was the function of increase in concentration and duration of the treatment. Effectiveness of SK&F 7997-A increased with the increase in number of applications. Tomato seedlings were most sensitive to the inhibitor treatment during 8 to 12 days following cotyledon expansion in August and from 12 to 14 days in November. The inhibitors ofsteroid biosynthesis had no effects on vegetative growth and number of flowers in the first and the second inflorescences. Number of nodes between the first and the second inflorescences remained unaltered by the inhibitor treatments.
42874632|Nel presente lavoro viene esaminata l'influenza di irrorazioni foliari di Cycocel a differenti dosi sull'accrescimento di giovani semenzali di ciliegio dolce. Alle concentrazioni impiegate (3%o, 6%o e 10%o) le piante trattate hanno subto una diminuzione di sviluppo variabile dal 17 al 50% rispetto al controllo, la lunghezza degli internodi  risultata ridotta e le piante hanno assunto un habitus vegetativo pi raccolto e pi compatto. A nessun livello di trattamento si sono riscontrati danni alle piante, che hanno anzi dimostrato di poter riprendere l'accrescimento, una volta esaurita l'azione del  brachizzante , con una capicit di ripresa vegetativa superiore a quella dello stesso controllo. Nonostante tali positivi risultati  tuttavia ancora necessaria una lunga e complessa sperimentazione, prima di poter considerare i trattamenti  brachizzanti  sul piano di una pratica possibilit applicativa in rapporto ai numerosi problemi tecnici ed economici connessi con la coltura del ciliegio. Cycocel sprays applied to sweet cherry seedlings have shown a strong retarding effect on the shoot growth. The degree of growth reduction varied from 17 to 50%, being nearly related to the Cycocel concentration (3%o, 6%o and 10%o). The reduced growth was also accompanied with a reduction of the internode lenght and an assumption of a compact vegetative-habitus of the trees. Nevertheless further investigations are requested to establish the possibilities of a praticai application of this regulating substance in connection with the different technical and economic problems of the cherry culture.
42874633|La quantit di Co presente come impurit nei concimi utilizzati normalmente per formare soluzioni nutritive tende ad aumentare il tasso di cobalto nelle piante di Solarium Lycopersicum L. allevate in coltura idroponica. Concentrazioni di cobalto nelle soluzioni inferiori a 1,5  10 M non si sono mostrate tossiche per le piante, mentre concentrazioni superiori determinano turbe fisiologiche ed anatomiche nelle diverse parti. L'assorbimento del cobalto da parte della pianta  molto rapido ma le alterazioni compaiono dopo un periodo variabile, influenzate dalle condizioni ambientali. La luce sembra influire sull'assorbimento del cobalto da parte della pianta. Il cobalto si accumula in quantit diversa da specie a specie e nella stessa specie da organo a organo. Diviene tossico quando supera la concentrazione, nei tessuti, di 2 mg % di s.s. Se la concentrazione non  superiore a quella tossica si ha nei frutti di Solanum Lycopersicum L. un aumento del tasso di cobalto che pu superare 30 volte la normale. Alcuni accorgimenti possono essere presi per evitare l'eccessiva concentrazione di cobalto e i danni alle colture. The quantity of Co present as impurity in the manures, normally utilized for forming nutritive solutions, tends to increase the rate of Co in the plants of Solarium Lycopersicum E, raised in hydroponix cultures. Concentrations of Co in the solutions inferior to 1,5x10 M are not shown to be toxic for the plants, while superior concentrations determine physiological and anatomical disturbances in the various parts. The Co is absorbed from the part of the plant very rapidly, but the alterations appear after a variable period, influenced by the surrounding conditions. The light seems to act upon the absorption of the Co. The Co is accumulated in a different quantity from one species to another. It becomes toxic when the concentration in the tissues exceeds 2 mg percent of dry weight. Normally it the concentration is not more than the toxic level, it has in its fruits of Solarium Lycopersicum L. an increase of the rate of Co that can exceed thirty times its normal level. Some devices can be used to avoid the excessive concentration in the solution of Co and, at the same time, the damages to the cultures.
42874642|L'Autore riferisce di alcune ricerche sulla traspirazione dell'arancio e, dopo la discussione dei dati rilevati conclude che, nell'ambiente in cui si  svolta la ricerca, la traspirazione si accentua nel periodo di Luglio-Agosto-Settembre, che la luce esercita una marcata influenza sull'andamento del fenomeno traspiratorio ed, infine, che le foglie giovani manifestano, rispetto alle altre, una maggiore attivit di traspirazione. The Author refers some researches on orange-tree transpiration and, after discussing the data taken, he comes to conclusion that, in the trial environment, the transpiration increases in July, August and September; that light remarkably affects the proceeding of transpiration's phenomenon and, eventually, that the young leaves, in comparison with the others, show a higher transpiration activity.
42874643|Observations carried out during the winter 1962-63 in several orchards of the Ferrara country, have proved that the cold hardiness of the Apple ("Stark Delicious") and the Pear ("Passa Crassana") is directly related to the time of pruning. Indeed, with pruning in the beginning of december, the cold injuries ("trunk splitting") were very evident on the trunks of all the pruned trees; they did'nt appear on the trunks of the unpruned apple trees and were less evident on those of the unpruned pear trees. In the case of the Peach ("J. H. Hale") the early winter pruning did'nt influence the cold hardiness of the flower buds. The Author believes that this different behaviour of the peach tree might be related to its more active metabolism which could extablish some more complete self-defensive mechanism to the cold. Instead, for the apple and the pear trees, the extablishment of this mechanism could be delayed or hindered as a result of an early winter pruning.
42874644|Dopo essersi soffermato sulla importanza dell'investimento unitario e sul particolare significato di questo fattore nella coltivazione della patata, l'A. riferisce i risultati di un triennio di ricerche in ciclo vernino-primaverile, rivolte a studiare l'influenza di investimenti unitari diversi, realizzati mediante tuberi interi o frazioni di questi. A pari quantit di seme, i tuberi interi, in confronto alle relative frazioni, hanno offerto una pi elevata produzione commerciabile, fatta eccezione per la met basale, la cui produzione non si  statisticamente differenziata. Le piante originate dalla met apicale del tubero si sono rivelate pi precoci ma meno produttive di quelle della met basale. Quest'ultimo risultato, sia per i riflessi in campo applicato sia per il contributo che l'analisi delle sue possibili cause pu offrire alla conoscenza della fisiologia del tubero, consiglia di approfondire le ricerche sull'argomento. After an examination of plant population and its meaning in the potato cultivation, the A. refers the results of three years' research carried out to study the influence on yield, of weight/unit area, size of whole or cut tuber and distance apart in planting of seed potatoes in a winter crop in Sicily. With equal weight of seed in a gi yen area, marketable production of the plants originated by the whole tubers was statistically equal to that produced by basal halves and higher than that produced by any other cuts of tubers. The plants originated by the apical half of the tuber were earlier but less productive than those by basal half. This last result, both for the application in the practical field and for the contribution that the analysis of its possible cause can give to the knowledge of the tuber physiology, suggests further research on the subject.
42874645|Tests were carried out during 3 seasons in view to determine the thinning effect of Sevin on a range of commercial varieties. The applications of Sevin at 2000 and 4000 ppm to the 29 apple varieties 14 days after petal-fall reduced the fruit set, with the ecception of the variety "Renetta di Champagne". The varieties, whose natural production of small fruits is low, did not increase the amount of large fruits, even if the reduction of fruit set was remarkable. For the varieties with fruit of small size, the Sevin reduced the amount of small fruit with favourable effects for the trade.
42874646|The Authors relate about Puccinia pelargonii zonalis Doid. in Tuscany. This rust of Pelargonium zonale is quickly spreading in Italy from the South of France, where it has been signaled, firstly in Europe, in 1962.
42874653|Investigations carried out on pear trees of different varieties worked on pear seedlings and Quince A, have shown that: a) the rate of transpiration is higher for the leaves on the fruit spurs that on the long shoots; b) the intensity of transpiration of the same type of leaves and the water conductivity of the stem are directly related, showing differences in respect to varieties and rootstocks. The physciological meaning of these results is then discussed on the basis of some previous references, and the suggestion is made that the intensity of transpiration of the leaves is directly influcenced by the factors which regulate the water conductivity of the xylem. Untersuchungen ber die Transpiration der Bltter von einigen Birnensorten auf Smlings - und Quittenunterlagen haben gezeigt, dass: ) die Transpiration der Bltter der Kurztriebe grsser als diejenige der Bltter der Langtriebe ist; b) die Geschwindigkeit der Transpiration von Blttern derselben Art mit der Wasserleitfhigkeit des Holzes des bezglichen Triebes in direktem Zusammenhang steht. Mit Rcksicht auf die von anderen Autoren durchgefhrten Untersuchungen, wird die physiologische Bedeutung der Ergebnisse errtert und die Vermutung aufgestellt, dass die Menge der Transpiration von den die Wasserleitfhigkeit beeinflussenden Faktoren abhngig ist.
42874654|Maturity studies on "Ovale Calabrese" and "Valencia Late" orange fruits, were carried out from spring to autumn 1966. The ripe fruits of these varieties do not show "abscission layers" at the base of the ovary or at the base of the pedicel. In  regreening  fruits, the soluble solids content is lower than in normal ones, under the same conditions (same juice and total acid contents).
42874655|Nel lavoro vengono riportati i primi risultati ottenuti con l'impiego del Cycocel, in soluzione acquosa, a diversa concentrazione, per il controllo della notevole attivit stolonifera della cv. di Fragola "Madame Moutot". Le concentrazioni usate: 2000 p.p.m., 4000 p.p.m., 8000 p.p.m., 16.000 p.p.m., hanno dato risultati diversi; le dosi pi elevate hanno provocato un sensibile raccorciamento degli internodi con una significanza rispettivamente del 95% e del 99%. Per quanto riguarda il numero dei nodi ed il numero degli stoloni, non ci sono state differenze significative. Sono in corso prove per saggiare le possibilit di estendere la pratica in pieno campo. In the study are reported the preliminary results acquired with the Cycocel employement, on watery solution, to different concentrations, for the control of the remarkables runnering activity of the strawberry variety  Madame Moutot  . Are used the following concentrations: 2000 p.p.m., 4000 p.p.m., 8000 p.p.m., 16000 p.p.m.; and all they have done different results. The dosis more elevated, caused a sensible shortening of the internodes, with a 95% and 99% respectively signification. About the nodes' and runners' number, we have seen, no significative differences. Proofs, for essay the possibility to acquire practice, are just current.
42874656|Gli AA. riferiscono sopra gli aspetti biologici e tecnici riguardanti la pratica dell'innesto del pomodoro, accennando alle origini dei portainnesti resistenti ed al loro ottenimento. Si precisano le condizioni e le modalit di esecuzione, descrivendo un nuovo tipo di innesto chiamato a spacco laterale. The AA. point out on the biology and technique aspects concerning the practice of the tomato grafting, beckoning to the origins of the rootstocks and to their obtainings. The conditions and the modality of execution are underlined, describing a new type of grafting side-split called.
42874657|Nel 1966  stata condotta una ricerca sugli effetti dell'ombreggiamento sulla lattuga (Lactuca Sativa L.). La ricerca  divisa in tre parti: I) Prova su lattuga (cv. "a cappuccio ") in vasi. II) Prova su lattuga (cv. "da taglio ") in terra. III) Prova di germinazione di lattuga in campo con e senza ombreggiamento naturale dato da piante di mais. I trattamenti sono stati: a) riduzione della radiazione del 30%; b) riduzione della radiazione del 50%; e) riduzione della radiazione del 70%; d) testimone non ombreggiato. Nell'esperimento I)  stato eseguito il controllo dei volumi di acqua persi per evapotraspirazione. I risultati hanno mostrato che la riduzione di radiazione ha comportato un aumento della produzione rispetto al testimone con un massimo del 50% di ombreggiamento. L'efficienza del processo fotosintetico  aumentata per la cv. "da taglio" sino a 10 volte circa rispetto al testimone, con il 70% di ombreggiamento. I consumi di acqua, nella prova in vaso, sono diminuiti con l'ombreggiamento sino al 75% rispetto al testimone nelle tesi di massimo ombreggiamento. A research about the effects of shading on lettuce (Lactuca Sativa L.) was carried out in 1966. This research was divided in three separate experiments: I) with lettuce, cv. "a cappuccio "in pots; II) with lettuce, cv. "da taglio "in field; III) test of germination of seedling, with natural shading of corn plants, in field. In experiment I) and II) the reduction of daylight was of 0, 30, 50 and 70%, respectively. The results showed a gain of yield in dry and fresh matter with shading. The maximum yield was reached at 50% of reduction of daylight. The photosyntetic efficiency increased with maximum shading (70% reduction of daylight), till 10 times, in comparison with test not shaded. The water compsumption in pots experiment was reduced at 75% with 70% of shading. The germination of seeds increased significatively with natural shading, too.
42874660|Gli AA. riferiscono sulle ricerche compiute sul sistema radicale del Pero innestato su cotogno, nell'ambiente dell'Agro Romano. Le indagini sono state effettuate su 6 piante di peri della cv. Abate Ftel di 10 anni di et allevate a palmetta piantate in terreno poco profondo con sottosuolo impermeabile. Gli AA. hanno messo in evidenza, tra l'altro: a) le radici assorbenti sono distribuite prevalentemente a partire da 25-30 centimetri dal tronco e per una profondit di 25-50 centimetri; b) esse si sono sviluppate pi nell'interfilarc che sul filare, ove lo sviluppo veniva ad essere limitato per competizione nutritiva a causa della breve distanza tra le piante; c) lo sviluppo delle radici  stato maggiore in un interfilarc che nell'altro, a causa del diverso vigore delle piante dei due filari contigui a quello in esame; d) non si  riscontrata correlazione tra l'orientamento della parte aerea e quella radicale, ma sembra confermato che questa trovi migliori possibilit di sviluppo ove esistono migliori condizioni di abitabilit; e) le radici sviluppatesi a meno di 20 centimetri di profondit sono risultate lese durante le lavorazioni eseguite al terreno. In considerazione di queste osservazioni gli AA. suggeriscono, di eseguire lavori di drenaggio al terreno prima dell'impianto che assicurino il perfetto sgrondo delle acque, che le lavorazioni al terreno non superino mai i 12-15 centimetri di profondit; raccomandano inoltre, al fine di avere un omogeneo sviluppo delle radici nei peri allevati a palmetta e innestati su cotogno, il seguente sesto d'impianto: m 3,30-3,50 tra la fila e m 2,50 sulla fila. Solo per variet poco vigorose si pu scendere a sesti d'impianto inferiori. Records on the root sistem of pear on quince rootstock in the area near Rome are referred. Six plants ten years old of the cv. "Abate Ftel "trained as palmette were observed. They were grown in a not deep soil with a waterproof subsoil. The AA. point out: 1) Absorbing roots prevail at 25-30 cm. from the trunk 25-50 cm. depth. 2) Absorbing roots are more developed between the rows than in the direction of the row. Nutritional competition is the limitating factor caused from too closed spacing between the plants. 3) Roots were more developed in one of the two sides of the row because plants in the two next rows were of different vigour. 4) No correlation was found between development of scaffolds and roots, but the development of root sistem was favoured from better soil conditions. 5) Damages from mechanical cultivation were found in the roots growing at a depth of less than 20 cm. On the basis of the observations they have made the AA. reccommend: 1) To take care of a good drainage of the soil before planting. 2) Mechanical cultivation, to avoid damages to root sistem, has to attempt the maximum depth of 12-15 cm. 3) Particular care is needed on the distance between the trees to have the best root development and to avoid competition. The AA. recommend : the distance of m. 3,30-3,50 between the rows and m. 2,50 between the trees in the sense of the row. Only with poor growing varieties distances could be reduced.
42874667|Investigations have been carried out during three years (1965-67) on 41 peach cling varieties grown in the Experimental Farm of the Bologna University, in order to evaluate their relative winter cold hardiness. The observations have been made by determining, for each variety, at the swelling stage, the percentage of the killed flower buds. On the basis of the results the tested varieties have been classified into the following four groups: 1) low resistant: "Campiel", "Coronado", "Experimental 1", "Experimental 2", "Fortuna", "Gaume", "Halford", "Jeronimo", "Johnson", "Paloro", "Sullivan 2". 2) fair resistant: "Amarillo de agosto 1", "Antonio Di Francia", "Carson", "Corona", "Dixon 1", "Experimental 3", "Experimental 4", "Jolly gialla", "Loadel", "Luscianese", "Percoca di Romagna 3", "Riccia precoce", "San Lorenzo", "Shasta", "Terzarola gialla", "Zaragozano encarnado". 3) resistant: "Amarillo de agosto 3", "Babygold 9", "Pavie Jeronimo", "Stanford", "Sudanell", "Vesuvio", "Wiser". 4) high resistant: "Amarillo de agosto 2", "Babygold 6", "Babygold 7", "Cotogna massima", "Jolly rossa", "Vivian", "Valiant".
42874668|Osservazioni effettuate al termine della stagione vegetativa su rami di pero (cv. "Precoce d'Altedo "), che erano stati amputati alla fine di giugno e quindi trattati con acqua distillata, e con soluzioni di acido betaindolilacetico alle concentrazioni di 0,01; 0,1; 1; 25; 50; 100; 200; 400 e 1.000 ppm hanno messo in evidenza quanto segue: a) nei rami di controllo non trattati non si  formato callo di cicatrizzazione. Al di sotto della superficie lesa dal taglio i tessuti viveriti sono degenerati per un tratto pi o meno profondo e sono stati separati da quelli sani da tessuto suberoso. b) l'acqua distillata ha favorito la cicatrizzazione delle ferite stimolando, seppure in misura limitata, la produzione di callo cicatriziale; c) i trattamenti con acido beta-indolilacetico hanno stimolato la formazione di callo cicatriziale in proporzione crescente fino alla dose di 50-200 ppm, oltre la quale la cicatrizzazione  risultata nuovamente rallentata in misura proporzionale alla concentrazione; d) nelle tesi trattate con acido beta-indolilacetico alle concentrazioni di 25; 50; 100; 200 ppm parte dei rami  risultata con la superficie del taglio completamente ricoperta da callo cicatriziale, nell'interno del quale  stata accertata la presenza di un cambiforme esteso dal cambio cribrolegnoso fino al margine del cercine di cicatrizzazione. Shoots of the pear variety "Precoce d'Altedo "cut at the end of June have been treated with the same amount of beta-indolilacetic acid aqueous solutions ranging from 0 to 1.000 p.p.m. (i.e. 0.00; 0.01; 0.1; 1; 25; 50; 100; 400; 1,000 p.p.m.) An untreated group of shoots has been left as control. Observations carried out at the end of the growing season have shown that: a) the untreated shoots didn't produce any wound callus: beneath the cut surface tissues of wood and bark were altered and dead more or less deeply; in the bark they were separated from the sound ones by korky layers; b) the application of distilled water to the cut surfaces improved the wound healing and sometimes stimulated wound callus growth, probably by preventing the callus cells from drying; c) the application of aqueous solutions of beta-indolilacetic acid greatly affected the wound healing: the stimulating effect of I.A.A. on callus growth increased with rising concentrations and reached the optimum rate at 50-200 p.p.m. level; higher concentrations of I.A.A. caused the callus growth to fall, probably because of a toxic action on the living cells beneath the cut surface; d) the initiation of a cambium has been detected in the callus tissues completely covering the wound surfaces in the shoots treated with I.A.A.
42874669|Su due variet di pomodoro da mensa, "Marmande" e "Nunhem's Tuckqueen", nell'annata 1964-65  stata studiata l'influenza dei trattamenti ai fiori con tre prodotti a base di fitoregolatori (Apiren, Hormo 7 e Tomatotone), somministrati in quattro concentrazioni diverse. Particolare importanza  da attribuire ai risultati relativi alla produzione complessiva la cui entit  rimasta decurtata soprattutto a causa di un minor numero di fiori e di frutti sui grappoli superiori al primo. L'azione di Apiren e Tomatotone  risultata costantemente pi marcata di quella di Hormo 7. La precocit commerciale  espressa dalla quantit di prodotto maturato nelle prime due raccolte   risultata favorevolmente influenzata. I frutti da fiori trattati hanno presentato un aumento dei diametri longitudinale e trasversale, un pi elevato numero di logge e riduzione del peso specifico. In the year 1964-65, the influence of treatments with three phytoregulating chemicals (Apiren, Hormo 7 and Tomatotone) sprayed on flowers at four different concentrations, was studied in the two varieties of table-tomato  Marmande  and  Nunhem's Tuckqueen . The total production was reduced especially in consequence of a lower number of flowers and fruits on the clusters above the first. The influence of Apiren and Tomatotone always resulted as more evident than that of Hormo 7. The amount of yield ripened up to the second harvesting  commercial precocity  was seen to be favourably affected. The fruits from treated flowers showed an increase in longitudinal and transversal diameters and in the number of cells, and a decrease in specific weight.
42874670|Si riferiscono i risultati di alcune prove di conservazione di garofani "Sim" in A.C. usando cabine a refrigerazione indiretta a temperatura di 0 C e umidit 90%. L'esito della conservazione  stato valutato rilevando le variazioni ponderali, la traspirazione e la durata dei garofani post-conservazione. Le estrazioni sono state effettuate ogni 15 giorni fino a 2 mesi dall'inizio delle prove. La prima prova che doveva mettere in evidenza l'influenza dell'O ha mostrato che i migliori risultati si ottengono a bassi tenori di ossigeno: 3 e 8% fino ad 1 mese di conservazione, 3% dopo 1 mese. Nella seconda prova  stato messo in evidenza che livelli troppo bassi di CO 0-1% non sono favorevoli, buoni risultati si sono ottenuti a livelli del 5-20%,  stato inoltre confermato l'esito di bassi livelli di O (1%). Le formule pi indicate per la lunga conservazione dei garofani sono risultate: 5% CO - 1% O, 5% CO - 3% O, 20% CO - 3% O. Results are reported on the possibility to prolong the life of cut flowers (carnation "Sim"). The experiments have been carried out in a refrigerator at 0 C 90% of umidity in controlled atmosphere. Sampling every fifteen days have been taken for two months changin in fresh weght, transpiration and deterioration have been considered. The first experiment pointed out thet the low level of oxigen gave the best result, 3 and 8% during the first month 3% afterword. The second experiment suggested that 5-20% CO levels were recommended while 0-1% CO were too low. The low O level (1%) was also confirmed. The best combinations of O and CO gas mixtures to be used in the refrigerator chamber were: 1%-5%; 3%-5%; 3%-20%.
42874671|Il metodo della  goccia pendente  nella germinazione del polline di Nocciuolo, non da risultati attendibili come invece nelle specie comuni da frutto. Le percentuali di granuli pollinici germinati a carico delle diverse cultivar di Corylus non esprimono la reale vitalit del polline. La individuazione della migliore tecnica che consenta al polline di germinare,  stata oggetto della presente ricerca. Dai risultati  emerso che germinazioni regolari di polline, si hanno quando i granuli non sono inglobati dal substrato, ma solo appoggiati, in un ambiente con giusto grado di umidit. La tecnica consiste nel distribuire su di un coprioggetto, uno strato sottile della soluzione di saccarosio al 20% e gelatina all'1%, da lasciare asciugare all'aria. Sul substrato si esegue la semina e il coprioggetto viene fissato, con vasellina, alla Van Thiegem nel cui interno si pone circa 1/10 di cc di acqua. Alla temperatura di 20 C circa, dopo 24 ore, si ottengono germinazioni regolari e abbondanti. The method of the  leaning drop  in the pollen germination of Filbert, does not offer any results worthy of attention, like in the ordinary fruit trees. The percentages of germinate pollen grains of the several Corylus cultivar do not indicate the true vitality of pollen. The research of the best technique which allows the pollen germination, has been the object of this paper. It has emerged, from results that regular pollen germinations occur when the grains are not enclosed by the substrate, but they are only supported, in the weather with a right amount of humidity. The technique consists in the portioning up on a cover glass, a thin layer of the solution of the sugar up to 20% and the gelatine up to 1%, which must be left to dry in the air. One must execute the sowing on the substrate, and the cover glass is fixed, with vaseline, to the Van Thiegem cell, in the inward of which one must put about 1/10 of cc. of water. At the temperature of about 20C after 24 hours, one can obtain regular and abundant germinations.
42874672|By the observation trench method investigations were made on root growth of a newly planted filbert tree, grown under optimal conditions of soil moisture. Soil temperatures have been recorded at the depth of 20, 40 and 60 cm. by a geothermograph. Results have shown that roots growth continues during the whole year. The rate of growth varies during the season, according the following 5 periods: 1) slowincrease during the early spring-beginning of summer; 2) decrease during the hot summer-months; 3) fast increase at the end of summer-beginning of fall; 4) speed decrease during the fall-beginning of winter and 5) low growth rate during the winther months. Such different rates of growth can be explained by considering both the soil temperature and the vegetative activity of the top.
42874673|Viene esaminata la possibilit di lotta all'avvizzimento del melone dovuto a Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melonis mediante l'innesto della Cucurbitacea sulla Benincasa cerifera, resistente alla malattia. Dopo avere indicato le caratteristiche del portainnesto vengono specificate le condizioni ambientali pi idonee all'allevamento delle piantine prima dell'innesto e lo stadio vegetativo indicato per eseguire l'operazione. Sono infine descritte dettagliatamente le pratiche dell'innesto secondo i metodi  in testa  e  per approssimazione  e le successive cure da usare alle piantine fino al trapianto in pieno campo. The possibility to control the withering of melon due to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. melonis by grafting the Cucurbitacea on the Benincasa cerifera resistant to the disease is investigated. After indicating the characteristics of the graft bearing plant, the environmental conditions most suitable to the plant growing before grafting as well as the vegetative stage suitable to perform this operation are discussed. The various ways of grafting are finally described in detail according to the systems  on tip  and  by approximation  as well as the cares which are to be used with seedlings till they are grafted in open field.
42874680|Piantine di pesco sono state consociate a pesco, albicocco, pomodoro e medica, in coltura idroponica. Parallelamente il pesco  stato allevato a contatto di substrati (perlite) contenenti residui della germinazione delle altre specie sopra elencate (ad eccezione dell'albicocco). Inoltre, piantine di pesco sono state allevate a contatto di substrati (perlite) contenenti estratti di radici di pesco, melo e susino o estratti di rami e di foglie di pesco. Infine,  stato seguito anche lo sviluppo del ciliegio e del pero su substrati contenenti estratti di pesco. Le influenze pi negative sullo sviluppo del pesco sono state provocate dalle due specie erbacee saggiate (pomodoro e medica), sia in consociazione, sia semplicemente attraverso residui nel substrato di coltura. Influenze negative sul pesco sono state provocate dallo stesso pesco, in misura minore dal melo, ancora meno dall'albicocco e solo in misura molto piccola dal susino. Inoltre il pesco ha ostacolato lo sviluppo del ciliegio e, in minor misura, del pero.  stata messa in evidenza una notevole azione negativa esercitata sullo sviluppo del pesco anche dagli estratti acquosi di foglie e di rami, prospettando alcune considerazioni pratiche in rapporto agli attuali indirizzi della meccanizzazione della potatura, tendenti a lasciare in posto il materiale asportato dalle piante. Nel complesso, i risultati mettono in dubbio che le manifestazioni osservate possano essere ricondotte semplicemente a competizioni tronche tra le piante. L'impiego di substrati con livelli nutrizionali ottimali, la mancanza di qualsiasi rapporto fra diminuzione dello sviluppo del pesco e accrescimento delle piante di varie specie ad esso consociate, l'azione ugualmente negativa esercitata da alcune specie nel breve corso della germinazione dei propri semi, l'analoga azione di semplici estratti acquosi di organi diversi, hanno portato a concludere che, nelle condizioni delle prove, la riduzione rilevata nello sviluppo delle piante sia da attribuirsi soprattutto alla presenza di prodotti tossici. L'attivit di queste sostanze, si eserciterebbe non solo su piante della stessa specie dalla quale derivano, ma, talvolta, anche su specie diverse. Si prospettano quindi alcune considerazioni pratiche nei riguardi dei rapporti antagonistici tra colture consociate nonch dei problemi relativi alle successioni colturali ed in particolare ai reimpianti. Peach seedlings were associated with peach, apricot, tomato and alfalfa, in hydroponic culture. In the same way peach was grown in perlite substrata containing germination residues of the other species above cited (with exception of apricot). Besides peach seedlings were grown in perlite substrata containing water extracts of peach, apple and plum roots and also water extracts of stems and peach leaves. Finally peach, cherry and pear seedlings were cultured in substrata containing water extracts of peach leaves. The highest inhibition of peach growth was given by the two species, tomato and alfalfa, tested either in associated culture or simply by their residues. Poor peach growth was also due to the peach extract itself and more weakly to apple and apricot extracts and still less to plum extract. Besides, peach extract inhibited cherry growth and also, in a small way, pear growth. It was shown a remarkable negative action on peach growth also from water extracts of leaves or stems. The AA. give some practical suggestions on damages of mechanical pruning residues into the ground. In the whole, results fail to show that differences of fertility status may cause the growth differences thus observed. The AA. therefore conclude that in trial conditions, toxin products obtained from peach or other species caused poor growth in peach and in other species.
42874681|The winter frost resistance of 40 pear varieties (five years old trees on quince, trained with the palmetta-system), has been investigated. The percentage of death of the flower-buds and the length of the bark-splits on the trunks and the branches, were taken for the evaluation of the frost-damage degree. As any relation has been found between those types of damages, two different lists of frost susceptibility have been compiled for the examined varieties, which have been classified (see table 2): very hardy (++), hardy (+), susceptible () and very susceptible ().
42874682|Investigations have been carried out on the winter cold-sensitivity of ten pear varieties directly worked on quince-trees and doubleworked on eleven intermediates. The death percentage of the flower-buds has been assumed as the cold-sensitivity index of the worked varieties. While doubleworking seems to increase the cold sensitivity of the trees, no general conclusion is available in relation to the effects of the different intermediates, the same of which being able to relatively increase or decrease the winter frost sensitivity of the different varieties worked on it.
42874683|Observations have been carried out, during the spring 1967, on the winter frost damages of four years old trees grown in the experimental field of Cadriano (Bologna) with different training systems. The results have shown that: 1) The percentage of death of the flower-buds is higher on the low trees (i.e. Lepage system) than on the tall trees (i.e. palmetta 2) The bark-splits of the trunks are greater on the "Passacrassana "trees provided with a long stem (i.e. pyramide) than on the trees provided with a short stem (i.e. Bouch Thomas); they are also more frequent on the trees with an everywhere expansed crown (i.e. Spindelbusch) rather than on the edge trees (i.e. palmetta). On the whole, the young trees trained with the palmetta system have shown the highest resistance to the winter injuries.
42874684|Pairs of branches grown up out of adjacent buds, of which the higher situated one was bent during the winter pruning, were compared. The number of developed branches, their length as well as the number and the surface of the leaves were determined. There were determined also the weight of a surface unit of fresh leaves, the percentage of the dry weight of the leaves, the concentration of the cell sap, the transpiration, the water hold-up ability, the intensity of respiration, the activity of catalase, the nitrogen content, the quality of chlorophyll  a  and  b , some carotenoids and the intensity of photosynthesis. It was established that the bent branches and their internodes remained shorter and decrease of the average and total surface of their leaves was observed. The dry weight and the concentration of the cell sap of the leaves increased  the draining of the assimilation products was supposed to be hampered. The leaves of the bent branches transpired more intensively and the water hold-up ability was higher, when the influx of water was cut off.
42874686|Nel presente lavoro  stata studiata l'influenza del contenuto di acqua del terreno su piante di pomodoro allevate in ambiente semicondizionato. I livelli di acqua a cui viene giornalmente riportato il terreno sono tre: 90-60-30% dell'A.D. Dopo 38 giorni dalla semina si  proceduto alla determinazione, per ogni pianta, del peso fresco, del peso secco e dell'area foliare, quindi dai dati giornalieri si sono ricavati i consumi idrici totali e giornalieri. Le piante di pomodoro sono apparse positivamente sensibili ai differenti livelli di umidit del suolo. Le differenze tra tesi sono risultate significative all'I % tra la tesi 90 e le altre, mentre fra le due ultime non hanno raggiunto i livelli della significativit. In this work we have studied the influence of three different irrigation treatments on young tomato plants grown in semi-conditioned ambient. The soil has been daily reported to 90 -60 30% of available water. After 38 days from the sowing we have determined, for all plants, fresh matter, dry matter and leaf area, index (L.A.I.); then from daily data we have drew the daily and total water loss. The tomato plants have been very sensitive to soil different irrigations. The differences have been significative (p = 0,01) between the highest irrigation and the others, while the differences between the second and third irrigation have not been significative.
42874687|Sono descritti alcuni casi di clorosi e necrosi fogliari del Garofano dovuti a cause non parassitane. Un primo caso si manifesta con punteggiature clorotiche che, nelle circostanze pi gravi, diventano necrotiche causando un deturpamento delle foglie. Anatomicamente si rileva la presenza di un gruppo di cellule ipertrofiche costituenti una tipica intumescenza. Un secondo caso si presenta con strie clorotiche parallele alle nervature, che gradatamente diventano necrotiche e determinano un parziale disseccamento delle foglie. Anatomicamente si rileva una plasmolisi ed un successivo coartamento di gruppi di cellule del mesofllo. Questa avversit, che compare prevalentemente in maggio-giugno sui primi steli di garofani destinati alla fioritura estiva, pu ritenersi causata da una mancanza di rifornimento idrico negli organi che ne sono interessati. Some cases of chlorosis and necrosis of Carnation leaves, not due to parasitical causes, are described. A first case appears with chlorotic spots that, in the most severe circumstances, become necrotic and cause a damage to the leaves. Anatomically a group of hypertrophic cells is found, that constitutes a typical intumescence. A second case appears with chlorotic. streaks, parallel to the veins, that gradually become necrotic and cause a partial wilt of the leaves. Anatomically a plasmolysis and a successive contraction of the cells of the mesophyl is found. This disease appears only in May-June on the first flower-stems of the carnations that are destined for summer flowering; the disease seems caused by deficiency of water supply in the stems interested by this case.
42874688|L'A. segnala e descrive un marciume dei frutti di pomodoro causato da una Phomopsis sp. Il fungo si sviluppa bene su A. P. D. e sullo strato di Czapek, ma perde la capacit di produrre picnidi. Si  riprodotta la malattia su frutti di pomodoro a mezzo di inoculazioni meccaniche. The brown-rot of tornato fruits caused by Phomopsis sp. is recorded and described. Good growth of the fungus was obtained on P. D. A. and agar Czapek, but fungusisolates don't produce pycnidia on these mediums. The pathogeneticity tests on tomato fruit were successful.
42874695|L'Autore riferisce di alcune ricerche, condotte in Sardegna, sull'impiego dell'Idrazide Maleica in limoni non rifiorenti appartenenti alla cv. " Interdonato ". Dopo aver controllato la reazione degli alberi in seguito a trattamenti effettuati a diverse concentrazioni e con irrorazioni singole o ripetute, l'Autore perviene alla conclusione che l'HM ritarda l'emissione dei germogli, limita l'allungamento degli stessi, induce alterazioni diverse nelle foglie di nuova formazione, ritarda la fioritura, influenza negativamente le caratteristiche morfo-qualitative dei frutti e favorisce l'allegagione. L'impiego dell'HM, dunque, pur provocando gli inconvenienti messi in evidenza, consente di prolungare il periodo di quiescenza dell'albero conferendogli, perci, maggiore resistenza alle gelate tardive. The Author refers on some researches, carried out in Sardinia, on the use of  Maleic Hydrazide  in not blooming lemon trees of the  Interdonato  cultivar. The Author, having checked the trees reaction to treatments made at different levels and with single or repeated spraying, comes to the conclusion that M H delays the spring shooting, limits their growth, causes various changes in the new leaves, delays the flowering, acts negatively on the fruits morpho-qualitative characteristics and promotes the setting. Then the use of MH, although causing the disadvantages showed, allows to prolonged the tree dormancy making it therefore, more resistant to late frost.
42874696|Giovani semenzali di pesco allevati su substrati artificiali (soluzione idroponica o perlite arricchita di sali minerali) hanno manifestato sintomi di sofferenza (comunemente riferiti a  stanchezza del terreno ) quando al substrato  stato aggiunto un estratto di radici di pesco stesso.  stata studiata inoltre l'influenza di ripetuti trapianti alterni da un substrato all'altro. I semenzali trasferiti da un substrato  stanco  ad uno  sano  hanno mostrato fenomeni di ripresa, rivelando cos una stretta relazione tra malattia e terreno. Il passaggio invece da un substrato  sano  ad uno  stanco   sempre stato seguito da un arresto transitorio dell'assorbimento radicale (con appassimento delle piante) e da turbe dello sviluppo delle radici (con formazione di caratteristiche  radici arricciate  e di  radici esploranti ). Le prove hanno consentito di mettere in evidenza come anche le piante che rimangono su substrati  stanchi  possono manifestare un particolare adattamento ed una ripresa vegetativa soddisfacente, dopo aver superato danni pi o meno gravi nella fase critica iniziale. Peach seedlings grown in artificial media (hydroponic culture or perlite added by nutrients) showed symptoms of sickness (similar to those involved with  peach replant problems ) when peach root extract was added to the nutrient solution. It was also studied the influence of several replants from one to another media. Peach seedlings transferred from a  sick  substratum to a  wealthy  one showed a quick recovering, proving a close relation between disease and soil. On the contrary the transfer from a control ( wealthy ) media to a  sick  one was always followed by an arrest of water absorption (with plants wilting) and by injuries in root development (with formation of  curled roots  and  exploring roots ). The trials pointed out that the plants wich remain on the  sick  media can show a particular adaptation and give a good new growth after having overcomed the injuries of a first critical phase.
42874697|Allo scopo di definire l'epoca dell'anno pi propizia alla radicazione delle talee semilegnose di Nocciuolo, sono stati eseguiti saggi periodici i quali hanno indicato che fra il 25 maggio e 1'8 giugno si verificano, nel nostro clima, le condizioni migliori per una buona radicazione. Per superare il periodo di indurimento, le talee radicate sono state poste in ambiente con forte umidit, senza che il substrato fosse impregnato da troppa acqua. La radicazione di pi cultivar ha fornito indicazioni che quasi tutte rispondono bene alla emissione di radici, occorre per provarle durante il periodo pi favorevole. Le ricerche microscopiche sull'origine delle radici hanno fatto rilevare che gli abbozzi radicali derivano dalla proliferazione di cellule appartenenti al cambio o poste in vicinanza di esso. To define the most favourable time of the year as regards to the rooting of the semihardwood cuttings of filbert, periodical trials have been carried out which have indicated that between the 25th of May and the 8th of June, in our climate, the best environments for a good rooting take place. To overcome the period of hardening, the rooted cuttings have been placed on environment with a high moisture, without an excessive water which could sature the substrate. The rooting of more cultivars has furnished some indications the majority of them, answer the emission of the roots well, but it is necessary, to try them during the most favourabler period. The microscopic researches on the source of the roots have remarked that radical initials derive from the prolification of the cells belonging to the cambium or placed in the proximity of it.
42874698|Vengono riferiti i risultati di una serie di ricerche intese a studiare le possibilit offerte dalla tecnica del  riscaldamento basale  nella moltiplicazione del pero per talea. Ricerche sulle cultivar "William "e "Kaiser ", nonch su semenzali, condotte per saggiare comparativamente il potere rizogeno di diversi regolatori di crescita, a diverse concentrazioni, da soli o combinati tra loro, hanno messo in evidenza che il pi attivo  l'acido indolbutirrico a concentrazioni elevate combinato con adenina e tiamina. Ricerche sulla cultivar "William "effettuate per porre a confronto diversi tipi di substrati di radicazione (perlite, vermiculite, torba, perlite e torba mescolate in parti eguali) non hanno rivelato differenze significative. Altre ricerche sulla cultivar "William", infine, condotte per individuare la pi opportuna epoca di prelevamento delle talee hanno portato a concludere che conviene prelevarle il pi presto possibile all'inizio del periodo di riposo invernale. Trials on pear propagation by hardwood cuttings with  bottom heat  are referred. 1) Research on "Kaiser ", "William "and pear seedlings was done to test rooting ability of different growth regulators at different concentrations, alone r combined. The best result was obtained with indolbutyrric acid combined with alenine and thiamine. 2) Research was done on "William ", to compare different media (peat moss, perlite, vermiculite and perlite-peat moss 1: 1). No differences have been obtained. 3) Research on "William "was done to test the influence of the cuttings collecting and planting time. The trial showed that it is necessary to collect the cuttings as soon as possible after the leaf fall.
42874699|Researches have been carried out on walnut (cv. "Di Sorrento") in order to evaluate the pollen bearing ability and the pollen conveyance by air flow. The pollen production has been evaluated with the aid of a hematocymeter, according to Oberle and Goertzen (1952). The distance reached by the pollen grains have been determined with the aid of glass slides, spread with silicone, and put during the blooming period at increasing distances from the walnut trees (0; 5; 10; 20; 40; 80; 160 meters). Observations on pollen trasport have been carried out also with an electric aspirator provided with a glass slide inside. The results have shown that: a) walnut trees produce a rather high amount of pollen (about 900 grains per anther, that is about 1.8 millions grains per catkin); b) the number of anthers per flower decreases from the botton (about 18) to the apex of the catkins (about 13); c) rather high amount of pollen have been found on the slides placed at the farthest station of observation (160 m).
42874700|Essendo uno dei pochi tessuti aploidi e data la sua importanza per la fruttificazione  stato studiato lo sviluppo del budello pollinico da un punto di vista cariologico. Il polline seminato col metodo della membrana filtrante su di un mezzo composto da agar 0,75%, saccarosio 0,6M HBO 0,01% HO dist. q. b.  stato fissato in soluzione cromo-osmica, idrolizzato con HCI 5N per 18 min. e colorato col metodo del Feulgen. Non  stato possibile porre in evidenza il nucleo vegetativo, mentre il nucleo generativo  visibile fin dalla prima ora dopo la semina. A 20C esso penetra nel budello pollinico tra la 2 e la 3 ora ed avanza nelle ore successive. Indipendentemente dalla posizione che ha nel budello verso la 21 ora (ma in qualche caso anche prima) il nucleo generativo si divide formando due nuclei spermatici. A 20C la mitosi si svolge circa in 120 minuti. Durante la metafase si possono osservare agevolmente i cromosomi che sono n = 17, tutti di lunghezza tra i 2 e 3  e non presentano un centromero visibile. A 25C non si registrano grandi differenze nell'avanzamento del nucleo n nella velocit di divisione, mentre a 10  C e 15  C la mitosi  inibita secondo quanto risulta da osservazioni condotte rispettivamente per 96 e 48 ore. Danni permanenti sono stati riscontrati all'apparato mitotico se il polline inizia la germinazione a temperature aggirantesi sui 10C oppure 15C: infatti si ha una scarsa ripresa del processo mitotico anche se la temperatura  riportata successivamente a livelli pi alti (25C). Peraltro, se la germinazione inizia a 25C e il budello viene lasciato sviluppare per 13 ore, un abbassamento improvviso a + 4, 0C, 6C sospende soltanto la mitosi, ma, con i trattamenti a 4C o 0C soltanto, questa  capace di riprendere abbastanza rapidamente dopo il ritorno della temperatura a 25C. Tuttavia frammenti e ponti anafasici sono pi frequenti che con i 20C costanti. Viceversa la temperatura di 6C appare dannosa al polline che non  in grado di riprendere completamente il processo mitotico al rialzo della temperatura. Being one of the rare haploid tissues and because of its influence on the development of the fruit, the caryology of the pollen tube has been investigated, together with the influence of the temperature on the mitosis of the generative nucleus. The pollen, sown with the membrane method on agar 0.75%, sucrose 0.6 M, HBO 0.01% dist. water q. s., has been fixed by a chrome-osmic mixture, hydrolized with 5 N HCI for 18 min and stained with the Feulgen reaction. While the tube nucleus did not appear in any preparation, the generative nucleus was clearly visualized. At 20C it enters the pollen tube between the 2nd and the 4th hrs and it progress during the following hours. Indipendently from its position into the pollen tube, after 21 hrs the generative nucleus undergoes a division from which two spermatic nuclei rise. Such a mitosis is over in about 2 hrs. The chromosomes can be easily scored during the metaphase: n = 17 can be counted and its length varies from 2 to 3  and do not exhibit any trace of the centromere. At 25C neither the nuclear progression nor the mitotic process are greatly different, while no mitotic nucleus could be scored in the pollen grown both at 10C and 15C respectively for 96 and 48 hrs. Permanents damages are inferred to the pollen when germination occurs at 10C or 15C; in fact a very poor recovery of the mitotic process is exhibited by such pollen, though the temperature is risen to a more healthy level (25C). On the other hand if the temperature is suddenly decreased to very low levels (+4C, or OC 6C) after the germination and pollen tube development was allowed to occur for 13 hrs at 25C, the mitotic process is only suspended but (with + 4C and OC treatments only) is able to start again rather promptly when the temperature is raised again to 25C. However fragments and anaphasic bridges are more frequent than at constant 20C temperature. Conversely decreasing the temperature to 6C appears harmful so that the recovery is not complete when the temperature is raised to higher levels.
42874701| stata saggiata la vitalit del polline di 29 cultivar di Nocciuolo conservato in diverse condizioni. Il rilevamento della germinabilit e della lunghezza dei tubi pollinici sono stati gli elementi presi in esame. La conservazione del polline, in frigorifero, alla temperatura di 2C e con umidit relativa del 50%, ha permesso di mantenere inalterate le sue qualit per circa 45 giorni; dopo 100 giorni la percentuale di germinazione si  ridotta quasi della met. La conservazione in laboratorio, alla temperatura di 22C, ha determinato, dopo soli 13 giorni, la devitalizzazione quasi completa del polline. Una notevole riduzione della germinabilit si  osservata anche nel campione di polline conservato in ambiente esterno, soggetto all'alternanza della temperatura. Pertanto la conservazione in condizioni di basse temperature, si rende indispensabile per chi voglia disporre di polline vitale per un lungo periodo. It has been tested the pollen viability of 29 cultiyars of filbert stored in different environments, by the observations of the germination and of the length of pollen tube. The preservation of the pollen, in the refrigerator, at the temperature of 2C and, with a relative moisture of the 50%, have kept his qualities inaltered for about 45 days; after 100 days the percentage of germination has reduced itself of about a half. The preservation in the laboratory, at the temperature of 22C, has determined, after only 13 days, almost the whole devitalitation of pollen. We have observed a remarkable reduction of the germination also in the pollen stored on outward environment, subjected to the alternation of high and low temperatures. Therefore the preservation, in environment of low temperatures, is indispensable for whomever desires to dispose of living pollen for a long period.
42874702|Per due anni consecutivi sono stati individuati per un lungo periodo i parametri fisico-chimici di maturazione di raccolta delle pere Passa Crassana. Si  notato che i frutti delle prime raccolte commerciali sono in uno stadio molto arretrato di maturazione e che le condizioni ambientali influiscono sulle caratteristiche costitutive dei frutti. Si  inoltre constatato che i frutti possono maturare immediatamente dopo la raccolta.  stato ulteriormente confermato che Timbrunimento interno  direttamente correlato con la precocit di raccolta. During the whole period of two years there have been for a examined chemical and physical parameters of the ripening of Passa Crassana pears which had been gathered for a long period. It has been noted that the fruits of the first commercial crops were in a very late stage of ripening and that the local and climate conditions have influence upon the character of fruits. It has been noted that the fruits can ripe immediatly after the picking. It has been noted also that the internal breakdown is directly correlated with the earliness of the picking.
42874703|The lots of Passa Crassana pears have undergone comparative proves of ripening (normal or fastened according different systems). The fruits ripened according to different techniques have not shown substantial costitutive differences. The ripening obtained by adding ethylene has proved to be the swiftest one and it has given lower percentages of wastage.
42874704|Gli AA. hanno condotto presso l'Osservatorio per le Malattie delle Piante di Pescara, prove preliminari di lotta contro la razza di Ditylenchus dipsaci, che infesta la cv. " Aglio rosso " di Sulmona, usando alcune sostanze di comune impiego in fitopatologa. I migliori risultati si sono ottenuti con l'impiego di ipoclorito sodico al 4% di eloro attivo ed acqua calda. Da queste indagini preliminari  emerso dunque che non  possibile trarre delle precise e definitive conclusioni, mentre sarebbe opportuno ripetere i trattamenti con l'esperienza acquisita in queste prove. Vi sono comunque sufficienti indicazioni che un trattamento efficace dell'aglio per il controllo del D. dipsaci  possibile. Bulbs and scales of "red garlic of Sulmona "infested with Ditylenchus dipsaci with solutions or vapor formulations of chemicals commonly used in sterilizing practices. The control of the nematode infestation was assayed by the use of the Baermann funnel technique and phytotoxicity by the germination and growth of treated cloves. Hot water treatment was the most effective but sodium hypochlorite (4% active chlorine) and water saturated with methyl bromide showed promise. No recommendations are given but the development of effective control methods is indicated.
42874705|Gli AA. hanno condotto delle prove preliminari di lotta chimica su bulbilli di aglio della cv. "Aglio rosso" di Sulmona infestati da Ditylenchus dipsaci. Nel corso di queste prove sono stati impiegati fumiganti, nematocidi specifici a base di composti fosforici e insetticidi sistemici. Da queste indagini preliminari  emerso che non  possibile trarre delle precise e definitive conclusioni, mentre sarebbe necessario ed utile ripetere i trattamenti con l'esperienza acquisita in queste prove. Preliminary trials utilizing chemical dip treatments for the control of Ditylenchus dipsaci infesting scales and cloves were conducted with garlic bulbs of the variety " Aglio rosso " di Sulmona. Systemic phosphates, insecticidal and nematocidal, and fumigante, available as commercial preparations, were used in dip treatments. Fumigante were also tested in vapor treatments. The results were indicatory and no recommendations could be given, but several materials showed promise for potential development.
42874706|The Autor reports on some results on physiological differences between R. muh tiflora (easy-to-root) and R. canina (diffcult-to-root) tissues. The auxin-like substances and rooting cofactors have been estimated with the Avena first internode and mung bean biological tests. The R. multiflora tissues have a higher content in auxin-like-substances expecially in the basic phase, than R. canina tissues. Despite the high rooting capacity R. multiflora tissues have a lower content in rooting promoting cofactors than R. canina. The results point out that the differences in auxin-like substances are not the cause for the failure to root of R. canina cuttings and that the rooting cofactors are not the only factor necessary for rooting. The A. suggests the possibility that the R. canina tissues have a high IAAoxidase content which may destroy the auxins or the precursors; it still is possible that the presence of some substance(s) may inhibit the rooting cofactor action either by inactivating or inhibiting the oxidation process which is necessary for the activation.
42874707|As part of a research programm on mutation breeding in flowers, a study was carried on the effect of Co gamma rays on some varieties (Oscar Mansoer, S. Souci, Johann Strauss, Aristocrate) all triploids but S. Souci (a tetraploid). The possibility of useful mutation breeding has been shown in this material, provided some parameters are taken into consideration, such as the choice of a radiation dose with low physiological effect, a one-year propagation aimed at the stabilization of induced mutations, a thorough knowledge of diplontic selection processes. A serie of 15 different mutations is presented which were obtained at variable frequencies in the 5 varieties under study. Two of the mutations already propagated in vM are to be considered stabilized. Some data on somatic competition processes are also discussed in relation to Gaul's hypothesis of diplontic selection.
42874708|Le analisi morfologiche e chimiche condotte sul Ficus Elastica cv. De cora coltivato in serra idroponica, hanno messo in evidenza la perfetta rispondenza di tale pianta a questo tipo di coltura. I risultati ottenuti hanno posto in risalto come il Ficus Elastica allevato in idroponica abbia un'altezza ed un diametro dei fusti superiori ai controlli, nonch foglie pi ampie e di colore pi verde. L'A. ha calcolato le quantit di fertilizzanti richieste durante le varie fasi di coltivazione in idroponica ed il consumo espresso in gr. di Fosforo, Potassio, Azoto, Calcio, Magnesio e Ferro per pianta.  stata osservata, inoltre, la capacit di ripresa vegetativa della pianta idroponica rinvasata successivamente in terra. A conclusione l'A ritiene che il Ficus Elastica possa essere coltivato in idroponica non solo per utilizzare l'impianto durante i mesi estivi ma per ottenere anche piante pi robuste e di maggior valore estetico. The morphological and chemical analysis conducted on the Ficus Elastica cv. Decora, cultivated in an hydroponics greenhouse, have noted the perfect harmony of such a plant With this type of culture. The results obtained have brought out how the Ficus Elastica raised with hidroponics methods has higher and diametrically larger upper stems in respect to the test controls; let alone broader leaves of a deeper green. The A. has calculated the quantity of fertilizer required during the variaus phase of cultivation in the hidroponics metod and the consumption on gr. of PO, K, N, Ca, Mg. Fe for plant. Furthermore was examineted the capacity of the vegetative resumption of the hidroponics plant successtully replanted in the ground. In conclusion the A. retain that the Ficus Elastica can be cultivated with the hidroponics method not only to utilize the installation during the summer months but also to obtain plants which are more robust and of a greater esthetic value.
42874709|Gli AA. riferiscono i risultati ottenuti a seguito delle prove di propagazione per coltura di apici vegetativi di patata cv. ft Bintje ". Particolare attenzione  stata rivolta alla possibilit ulteriore di moltiplicazione per talea delle piante originate da meristema su substrato contenente acido -naftalenacetico, invece di gibberellina presente nel I o substrato. Dopo aver posto in luce le difficolt inerenti alla sopravvivenza delle plantule nel passaggio dal tubo di coltura al terreno, gli AA. auspicano che le ricerche in questo settore proseguano al fine di ottenere materiale di propagazione di elevata qualificazione sanitaria. The AA. refer on some results on the meristematic culture of potato cv. "Bintje". The apices have been growing on a sterile mineral medium with Gibberellic acid as growth promoter. The new plants reach in a short time 4-5 cm height but have a poor root-system. For this reason cuttings have been made from these plants and transferred on a new medium in the presence of NAA which induced a better root system. This made possible to transfer the material in sand-soil in greenhause conditions whitout any crisis. The possibility of a wide employment of this technique for this kind of crop is considered and discussed.
42878953|Si riportano i risultati delle ricerche collegiali sulla potatura di allevamento del pero condotte in due campi sperimentali impiantati nell'autunno del 1961 rispettivamente presso l'Azienda sperimentale dell'Universit in localit Cadriano (Bologna) (dall'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree di Bologna) e presso l'Azienda del Dr. Mereiai in localit Venturina (Livorno) (dall'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree di Pisa). In entrambi i campi furono messi a dimora astoni identici della cv. " Butirra Precoce Morettini " su franco provenienti dallo stesso vivaio, adottando i medesimi sesti di impianto (m 44,5). Su tali piante allevate a palmetta vennero poste a confronto le seguenti tesi: potatura  a tutta cima , potatura  con spuntatura . A seguito dei particolari indirizzi agrotecnici delle due zone la prova fu integrata nel seguente modo: Bologna: le stesse tesi vennero applicate a piante della stessa cv. incestate su cotogno. Pisa: un gruppo di piante su franco venne allevato a vaso e sottoposto alle due tecniche di potatura suindicate. La potatura venne eseguita dalla stessa manodopera specializzata al fine di evitare influenze soggettive. I risultati di questi primi quattro anni, esaminati statisticamente, hanno permesso di indicare alcune differenze significative attribuibili a diversi fattori. A parit di tutte le altre condizioni (portainnesto, forma di allevamento e tecnica di potatura) l'ambiente pedoclimatico maremmano ha indotto nelle piante una maggiore attivit vegetativa ed una migliore attitudine produttiva. La forma di allevamento a vaso (nello stesso ambiente e con lo stesso portainnesto) ha stimolato l'attivit vegetativa delle piante, ritardando il raggiungimento della maturit. La tecnica di potatura nei due ambienti ha mostrato di influire principalmente sulla precocit della messa a frutto. Il cotogno quale portainnesto ha permesso di ottenere piante meno sviluppate ma con pi precoce messa a frutto, rispetto al franco. In definitiva, nelle condizioni in cui si  operato, la tecnica di potatura sembrerebbe esercitare sulla precocit di messa a frutto un'influenza itiiag giore di quella esplicata dal sistema di allevamento, dal portainnesto e dall'ambiente. Vengono infine riportati per ogni tesi i tempi impiegati nel quinquennio per l'esecuzione della potatura verde e di quella invernale. Data were collected over a period of four years on the growth, fruit yield and labour requirement of pear trees trained as palmettes or goblets, and pruned by thinning one-year old lateral shoots ( tutta cima ), or by cutting back the main shoots ( spuntatura ). Observations have been performed in two experimental plots established near Bologna (North Italy) and near Livorno (Central Italy). The responses to treatments were influenced by the environmental conditions of the different localities concerned. In the Livorno district trees have been more productive and more vigorous than near Bologna. Under the same environmental conditions, therefore, the goblet has shown a higher level of vegetative activity. In both the plots, the pruning method has proved to influence the first bearing of the trees more than environmental conditions or the training systems which have been compared.
42878954|Comparative observations have been made about the main morphological and histological aspects that characterize the vegetative growth of young trees of the cultivar "Golden Delicious" and of its sport "Starkspur Golden Delicious ". These observations permitted to verify that the spur trees compared as follows to the original cultivar: 1) reduced growth; shorter internodes; more numerous leaves; reduced trunk exstension. 2) less terminal dominance. 3) thicker leaf blade, in particular relation to a thicker lacunose layer. 4) vascular system characterized by a wereased translocation capacity. As a consequence of these factors, the spur trees assume a more reduced and compact habitus of growth, with a leaf/wood ratio corresponding to the morpho-functional pattern of the grown up trees.
42878956|Sono state esaminate le foglie di melo " Golden Delicious " e del suo mutante " Starkspur Golden Delicious " per un ciclo stagionale che comprende i mesi di Maggio, Giugno, Luglio e Agosto 1967. Il dosaggio delle clorofille a e b  spettrofotometrico; i risultati esposti nelle tabelle e nei grafici delle figure mostrano che il mutante ha un maggiore contenuto di clorofilla totale, che ci continua a verificarsi al variare del tempo, con campioni di et diversa, coltivati in localit e in condizioni di luce diverse. Inoltre che la clorolla a e la clorofilla b concorrono a formare in modo quasi proporzionale la differenza in contenuto di clorofilla totale. An investigation has been conducted on the chlorophyll content in the leaves of the apple cv. " Golden Delicious " and of its mutant spur " Starkspur Golden Delicious " during the months of May, June, July, August 1967. The spectrophotometric analysis has been carried on according to the method of Cornar and Zscheile (1942). The technique of Mac Kinney (1940) has been used in transferring the pigments from acetone to ether. The results show that the mutant has a greater content of chlorophyll a and b and this difference is shown also at different seasonal samplings in leaves of plants collected in different places and in different light conditions.
42878957|Fruits of 17 peach cultivars have been picked at: commercial maturity, eating maturity and over-maturity. Each time ascorbic acid content of the fruits has been determined immediately. The cultivars most provided with ascorbic acid have been found to be " Vesuvio ", " Panamint ", " Gialla di Firenze " and " Regina Vemberg ". The statistical analysis of data reveals that the ascorbic acid content is significantly influenced by both varietal effect and fruit maturity stage. Moreover the significant interaction between maturity and cultivar could seem to indicate that the ascorbic acid evolution is not similar for all the cultivars during the maturation. For most of the cultivars considered it stands that statisticaly the ascorbic acid content of fruits picked at commercial stage is not less than the ascorbic acid content of fruits picked at eating stage. Fruits of 8 cultivars out of the seventeen have been picked at commercial maturity and stored at room temperature for 4 days, after which the ascorbic acid of these fruits has been determined and it appears that it has not significantly decreased.
42878958|Experiences have been carried out on the rooting physiology of sour orange cuttings under  mist . It has been rather consistently noted that even at times generally unfavorable to rooting (winter), removing the leaves the formation of adventitious roots markedly increases so that it seems the actual presence of the leaves inhibits the rooting. Physiological factors affecting the initiation of root primordia, stem elongation and their inter-relations are also discussed.
42878960|Ricerche intese a saggiare la possibilit di ottenere barbatelle di pesco mediante talee provviste di foglie con la tecnica della nebulizzazione hanno consentito di mettere in evidenza quanto segue. 1) Nel confronto tra i sistemi di umidificazione e nebulizzazione, i migliori risultati si sono ottenuti con quest'ultima, sia come percentuale di talee radicate (75% contro 42%), sia come controllo delle infezioni (10% contro 38%). 2) I trattamenti auxinici hanno sempre incrementato la radicazione; i migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti con IBA + NAA (61%) ed IBA (51%). Meno pratico appare l'uso del 2.4.5.T. 3) La somministrazione di sostanze minerali per via fogliare si  egualmente mostrata capace di fornire ottimi risultati. In particolare, la sola somministrazione di una miscela contenente P, K, Zn, e B ha incre mentato la radicazione dal 15% (del controllo) al 55%. 4) Il ruolo del substrato non  solo meccanico di sostegno. Infatti, talee poste a radicale (mediante opportuni accorgimenti) senza substrato, in presenza di luce o meno, hanno fornito risultati costantemente inferiori a quelle poste in perlite (64% e 55% contro 83%). 5) La radicazione  risultata sempre migliore nei portainnesti (90%) che nelle cultivar da frutto (40%). Tale tecnica prospetta quindi di poter essere pi proficuamente utilizzata per la moltiplicazione di portainnesti clonali. Researches were done in way to improve the rooting ability of peach softwood cuttings under  mist . Rooting percentage was higher under  intermittent mist  (75%) than under continuous  fogmist  (42%). IBA at 750 ppm. was tested either alone or in addition to 2.4.5. T and NAA. The best rooting (61%) was obtained with IBA+NAA (750+350). Several nutrient foliar sprays were tested; the best rooting percentage (55%) was obtained with K (4%)+P(4%)+B(1%)+Zn(1%) solution. The best rooting percentage was obtained with cuttings planted in perlite (83%), but it was as well high with cuttings having their base kept in day-light without any medium. Good rooting was obtained with several peach seedlings (90%), but lower percentages with the cultivars (" Coronet " 42%, " Cardinal " 40%).
42878961|Applicando semplicemente la comune tecnica della  propaggine per trincea  non  possibile moltiplicare il pesco, poich troppo pochi rami vengono emessi dalle piante madri e solo sporadicamente queste riescono a formare qualche radice avventizia. L'impiego di alcuni particolari accorgimenti (intaccatura, decorticazione anulare e trattamenti ormonici), anche se relativamente delicati ed onerosi, pu fortemente incrementare la radicazione fino a raggiungere in certi casi valori superiori ai 70%, cos da prospettare la possibilit di una applicazione pratica. Questi risultati confermano inoltre alcune ipotesi gi precedentemente avanzate per l'olivo (Fiorino l. c.) sul complesso meccanismo che sembra regolare la formazione di radici avventizie. Anche da queste ricerche infatti risulterebbe provata l'interazione di fattori diversi che condizionano la radicazione agendo positivamente con movimento basipeto e negativamente con movimento basifugo (partendo dalle radici). Trials done showed the impossibility of peach propagation by layering since each plant gives very few shoots which root very seldom. Notch, ring bark and treatments with growth substances increase rooting up to 70% so that to show the possibility of a practical employement. Results thus obtained confirm the theory previously done on olive (Fiorino, l. c.) on the mechanism controlling adventitious roots induction. From these researches it is possible to see that rooting is negatively influenced by substances moving from the base upwards and positively in the direction of the base.
42878962|Dopo aver riportato in sintesi quanto finora segnalato dalla letteratura in merito alla incisione longitudinale della corteccia, vengono illustrati i risultati di alcune ricerche condotte sul pero e sul pioppo allo scopo di determinare la reale influenza che questa operazione pu esercitare sull'accrescimento degli alberi. I risultati hanno messo in evidenza che la incisione, praticata ai primi di aprile, non esplica alcuna azione nel successivo accrescimento delle piante. Essa si limita a provocare, in alcuni casi, un temporaneo maggior accrescimento diametrale nella seconda met del periodo vegetativo nell'anno in cui tale incisione  praticata; peraltro ogni differenza tende succesivamente a scomparire. Non risulta pertanto confermato il presunto maggiore acrescimento degli alberi sottoposti a incisione longitudinale della corteccia. After having summarised what the literature already points out on the longitudinal bark incision in woody plants, the A. refers about some trials carried out on pear and poplar trees to determine the real influence of such an operation on trees growing. Results show that early longitudinal bark incision on the trunk and main branches (at the beginning of April) does not promote any larger growth; however during the second half of the vegetative period it was observed in some cases a diametral increasing but anyway differences will disappear later on. Therefore it was not possible to confirm that the longitudinal bark incision may practically affect the diametral growth of the trees.
42878963|Fruit bud differentiation in cold stored strawberry plants of the cv. " Cambridge Favourite " planted in June 1964 was studied. In comparison with plants planted in fall 1963 the beginning of fruit bud differentiation was delayed of about twenty days. A pre-differentiation and four stages of differentiation were examined.
42878964|A new experimental trial of soil disinfection against Phialophora cinerescens (Wr.) v. Beyma has been made in the Pescia (Tuscany) district. The following theses were carried on: 1) Disinfection by DD (dichloropropane-dichloropropene) with kg 400/ha and Vapam (sodium N-methyl dithiocarbamate dihydrate) kg 1500/ha; 2) disinfection by DD, with kg 400/ha, and Vapam, kg 2500/ha; 3) disinfection by Di Trapex (20% methyl isothiocyanate and 80% dichloropropane-dichloropropene) with kg 1000/ha; 4) disinfection by Di Trapex, with kg 1500/ha; 5) check. The trial has been protracted from June 1966 to June 1967 and at this date P. cinerescens had caused the following wilts of carnations: thesis 1, 7,98%; thesis 2, 8,50%; thesis 3, 29,74%; thesis 4, 23,60%; thesis 5, 66,89%. The differences among theses 1, 2, 3, 4 and thesis 5 are highly significant. Besides the differences among these 1 and 2 and theses 3 and 4 are significant or highly significant. The same significance is found among the flower production of the five theses, that is: thesis 1, n. 700; thesis 2, n. 674; thesis 3, n. 602,75; thesis 4, n. 673,75; thesis 5, n. 292,25. At last, some considerations on the cost of soil disinfection and on the related advantages for Carnation production are made.
42878966|During 1961, 1962 and 1963 various piedmontese populations of Capsicum annuum L. (var. abbreviatum Fingh. longhum Sendt. and grossum Sendt.) were examined, in order to make a biometrical assessment of their standards. All the fruits of the plants under observation were harvested, counted and weighted; those considered marketable were also weighted after removal of the core, and the length of the peduncle and the length and breadth of the berry were measured. The most important carpological data thus gathered are indicated in fig. 1, while tables 2,3 and 4 refer to the results elaborated both year by year, and to the over-all data for 1962-63. The most efficacious variables in descriminating between the various factors under consideration seem to be the weight per berry of the marketable fruits, the weigth per berry of the fruits after removal of the core, the length and the breadth of the berry.
42878967|The symptoms are much severe on fruits and we valued more than 80 spots on some fruits (v. " Giallo di Nocera "). The Pathogeneticity test on Pepper, seedlings and fruits, and Tomato fruts were succesful. The pathogen was identified through the usual observations on the morphology, cultural characters, biochemical reactions and Pathogeneticity test.
42874728|Investigations, carried out during 1966 and 1967, have confirmed that the hazelnut variety "Gentile delle Langhe" is practically unfruitfull if self-pollinated. As its pollen is able to germinate and to fertilize other varieties, the biological behaviour of this variety must be related to its self-sterility. Good pollinators are listed on the basis of previous and present researches.
42874730|Researches have been carried out in order to ascertain the effects of B-9 (" Alar 85 ") on the growth and production of strawberry (cv. " Madame Moutot "). Treatments at 6 concentrations, i. e. 0.0.; 500; 1,000; 2,000; 4,000; and 8,000 p.p.m. have been made at beginning, at full and at the end of blooming. Results have shown that: a) concentrations of " Alar 85 " higher than 4,000 p.p.m. decreased significantly the number of fruits per plant; b) treatments higher than 500 p.p.m. increased the number of cull fruits; c) " Alar 85 " did not effect wheight, specific wheight, colour, sugar content, flesh hardness, ripening date of the fruits; d) concentrations higher than 2,000 p.p.m. of " Alar 85 " lowered number and length of the runners; e) leaf area and length of their pedicel have been decreased significantly by treatments higher than 500 p.p.m.
42874731|Osservazioni condotte sull'apparato radicale di albicocchi "Colomer precoce" innestati su tre diversi soggetti (semenzali di albicocco, di pesco e di mirabolano), allevati a distanze di m. 11,4 in file alternate, hanno consentito di mettere in evidenza, oltre al diverso andamento dei tre soggetti, alcune influenze intra ed interspecifiche. Nelle particolari condizioni dell'ambiente in cui sono state effettuate le prove (pianura di Pisa), l'apparato radicale del mirabolano risulta costituito da un numero relativamente basso di radici, di lunghezza rilevante; il pesco viceversa dispone di un maggior numero di radici, le quali mediamente risultano di diametro e di lunghezza inferiore a quelle del mirabolano; l'albicocco infine ha radici meno numerose degli altri soggetti, corte e la cui lunghezza media diminuisce con la profondit. Per il portainnesto mirabolano non sono emersi fenomeni di competizione tra apparati radicali contigui della stessa o di altre specie. Il pesco e l'albicocco sembrano risentire invece di influenze negative derivate dalla presenza di piante della medesima specie, mentre in generale non si notano particolari ostacoli all'accrescimento delle radici verso piante di specie diverse. Anche se competizioni di carattere nutrizionale non possono essere del tutto escluse, queste non sembrano sufficienti a spiegare le vistose reazioni riscontrate per le radici cresciute nel senso del filare, reazioni che, nel caso dell'albicocco, non si annullano neppure qualche anno dopo la scomparsa della pianta adiacente. Observations done on root-system of " Colomer precoce " apricot grafted on three different rootstocks (seedlings of apricot, peach and myrobolan) grown at distances of 1  1,4 m shown some influences intra and interspecific. In the peculiar environment where trials were done (on the plain of Pisa) the myrobolan root-system appears to have a relatively low number of roots of considerable length, whereas peach has a great number of roots which show to be less for diameter and length to the myrobolan ones. Apricot has less numerous roots than the other rootstocks decreasing with depth. For what concerns myrobolan rootstocks, competition actions did not appear among close root-system of the same or other species. Peach and apricot feel the negative effects due to plants of the same kind while generally we do not notice any damage to root growth towards plant of different species. Nutritional competitions, though present, do not sufficiently explain the competition effects observed on the roots grown in the row-way. Thus negative actions in apricot rootstocks remain several years after the plant death.
42874732|Su piante di Albicocco della cv. " Caninos " allevate a  palmetta ,  stata eseguita una prova di diradamento manuale, per stabilire l'epoca e l'entit pi opportuna dell'operazione, allo scopo di ottenere frutti di buona pezzatura. Le tesi individuate sono state le seguenti: A - Controllo - nessun trattamento; B - Asportazione di 1/3 dei fiori in piena antesi; C - Asportazione di 2/3 dei fiori in piena antesi; D - Asportazione, subito dopo la " June drop ", dei frutticini in ragione di 1/3 dei fiori presenti alla fioritura; E - Asportazione, subito dopo la " June drop ", dei frutticini in ragione di 2/3 dei fiori presenti alla fioritura; F - Asportazione, 10 giorni dopo la " June drop ", dei frutticini in ragione di 1/3 dei fiori presenti alla fioritura; G - Asportazione, 10 giorni dopo la " June drop ", dei frutticini in ragione di 2/3 dei fiori presenti alla fioritura. I frutti ottenuti sui rami controllo sono risultati di piccola pezzatura e privi di interesse commerciale. Il miglior esito si  avuto con il diradamento a 2/3 eseguito subito dopo la " June drop ", (Tesi E) che ha fornito frutti di grossa pezzatura, uniformi e di buona sapidit. We have tested the influence of hand-thinning on some apricot-trees, cv. " Canlnos ", breeded as  palmette , in order to establish the proper time and deal, for abtaining the best quality of fruits. We essaied theese thesis: A - Control; B - Thinning 1/3 of flowers during the full flowering; C - Thinning 2/3 of flowers during the full flowering; D - Thinning of fruits with regard to 1/3 of flowers, immediately after the June drop; E - Thinning of fruits with regard to 2/3 of flowers, immediately after the June drop; F - Thinning of fruits with regard to 1/3 of flowers, ten days after the June drop; G - Thinning of fruits with regard to 2/3 of flowers, ten days after the June drop. As result, we obtained on control-branches small fruits, not interesting from the point of view of negotiability. The best thesis was thinning of fruits with regard to 2/3 of flowers immediately after the June drop, (Thesis E). This thesis produced large and standard fruits.
42874733|The effects of the handling injures on apples " Rome Beauty " and pears " Passa Crassana " have been histologically examined. Observations have shown that such injures are similar to the wounds caused by late hails and that the healing processes are only able to partially isolate the killed tissues.
42874734|Budding the "Passa Crassana" with resting buds on quince at different heights (0, 10, 20, 30, 40 cm from the soil) it has experimentally demostrated that greatest vigour (diameter  height) of budded tree is obtained grafting at 0 cm.
42874735|Nella estrazione di alcune sostanze di crescita nella corteccia di melo " Golden Delicious " e del suo mutante " Starkspur Golden Delicious " si  notato che l'etere etilico estrae prevalentemente le sostanze a carattere stimolante, mentre nell'estratto ottenuto con alcool metilico prevalgono le sostanze ad azione inibente.  quindi di particolare importanza la scelta del solvente per l'estrazione delle auxine dal melo. In the extraction of some growth substances from the bark of the apple cv. Golden Delicious and of its mutant spur " Starkspur Golden Delicious " it has been observed that the ether extract contains most of the growth promoting substances while in the methanol extract growth inhibitors are prevailing. The choice of solvents for this type of analysis is therefore very important.
42874736|The experiments which have been made upon " Passa Crassana " pears in order to individualize the influence which a delay in storaging the fruits into refrigerators may exercize upon the appearance of internal browning, rottenness and colour, have permitted to establish that the delay, if limited at most to four days, modifies none of the considered elements.
42874737|Si  cercato di stabilire attraverso una prova comparativa l'effetto di diverse densit di investimento sopra lo sviluppo di tre cv. di scarola: " Bubikopf ", " Cornetto " e " Fiorentina ", in colture svolte nel 1966 e 1967. Sono state provate per ciascuna cultivar tre densit colturali considerando il diverso sviluppo da queste raggiungibile. Le distanze tra le file e lungo le file erano di 22, 30, 38 cm per la cv. " Fiorentina "; 18, 24, 30 per la " Bubikopf " e 21, 28, 35 per la " Cornetto ". I risultati mettono in evidenza gli importanti riflessi dell'investimento colturale sopra lo sviluppo in peso delle piante, il numero delle foglie, il ritmo di accreseimento, la resistenza al freddo e la produzione per unit di superficie. Le distanze di trapianto consigliabili risultano quelle pi elevate poich anche se si determina una minore produzione unitaria a metro quadrato, lo sviluppo in peso  maggiore e pi rapido con possibilit di sfuggire alle avversit ambientali a seguito del pi corto ciclo colturale. La cv. " Fiorentina " inoltre  apparsa pi sensibile ad un aumento dell'investimento accusando un pi elevato ritardo di sviluppo. In the trials described, for Cichorium endivia varieties: " Bubikopf " 18, 24, 30 cm; " Cornetto " 21, 28, 35 cm and " Fiorentina " 22, 30, 38 cm, were used three spacings, in relation to their development. The results obtained in 1966 and 1967 show the important effects of spacings on plants weight, leaves number, rapidity to development, resistance to cold and production for mq. The largest spacings show to be the best even if the production for mq. is less, the development is quicker and the cultivation is shorter. The endivia variety "Fiorentina" is far to sensitive for what concerns the spacing reduction.
42874738|Nel presente lavoro si riferiscono alcune prove di germinazione su  cellager  a scopo di trapianto. Su questo substrato sintetico hanno germinato tutte le specie di semi considerate, ma le piante nate hanno emesso pi foglie quando al cellager  stata aggiunta soluzione nutritiva anzich solo aqua fontis. Il trapianto  stato possibile con opportuni accorgimenti e con le piante cresciute su cellager a cui per era stata aggiunta soluzione nutritiva. Some trials about germination on cellager, in order to transplant, were carried. On this synthetic substratum, all studied seed kinds began to grow but the plants had many leaves and were developped well if nutritive solution instead only water was added to cellager. The transplantation had been possible with some expedients and with plants grown on nutritive solution cellager.
42874743|Premessa la scarsa importanza della coltura del susino in Italia, le susine rappresentando solo il 2,30% della produzione totale degli altri fruttiferi, si espongono le ricerche compiute ed in corso, in Italia, riguardanti principalmente: a) la costituzione di nuove variet di susine per il consumo allo stato fresco e per l'essiccamento mediante l'incrocio, la selezione delle variazioni gemmarie naturali ed indotte con mutageni fisici e chimici; b) ricerche varie inerenti le caratteristiche biologiche e tecniche delle variet esistenti nella collezione ed i soggetti di innesto. Having emphasized how little is the importance of the plum tree culture in Italy, where it represents only the 2,3% of the whole fruit trees production, the Author describes the researches accomplished or in progress with special reference to: 1) breeding of new plum and prune varieties by crossing old varieties or by selection of the naturally or artificially induced bud mutations; 2) the biological behaviour and the agronomical characters of the varieties and the rootstocks grown in the collection of the Institute for Fruit Trees Breeding at Florence.
42874744|Investigations have been carried out on the spring frost resistance of 105 strawberry varieties, assuming the percentage of the killed flowers as a frost-sensitivity index. The amount of this damage has been found statistically related to the origin of varieties, and the flowers position, but not to the blossoming time.
42874745| stata eseguita un'indagine biochimica-analitica al fine di appurare il fabbisogno delle diverse sostanze nutritive e di alcuni elementi oligodinamici da parte di piante di gladiolo coltivati in pien'aria su scala industriale, nella Riviera ligure di Ponente, per la produzione primaverile del fiore da recidere. L'indagine comprende l'intero ciclo vegetativo delle piante e cio: piantagione dei bulbi, germogliamento, levata e fioritura (termine economico della coltura). L'esperienza in cui sono state usate le cv. Elan e J. Strauss, ha portato alle seguenti principali conclusioni, basate sull'analisi chimica della sostanza secca prodotta: 1) Durante la fase di germogliamento, l'assorbimento delle sostanze nutritive  lieve; notevolissimo durante la fioritura. 2) Il rapporto azoto: anidride fosforica; ossido di potassio  quanto mai interessante, dimostrando che l'importanza del  e del  va notevolmente crescendo nelle diverse fasi, da quella di bulbo a quella della fioritura. Esso  il seguente nelle due cv. Elan e J. Srauss: N. : PO : KO N. : P5 : KO cv. ELAN cv. J. STRAUSS Bulbo 1,00 : 0,20 : 0,72 1,00 : 0,19 : 1,35 Germogliamento 1,00 : 0,48 : 1,57 1,00 : 0,36 : 1,75 Levata 1,00 : 0,57 : 2,03 1,00 : 0,67 : 3,25 Fioritura 1,00 : 0,84 : 4,73 1,00 : 1,05 : 3,03 3) Pure le altre sostanze minerali vanno crescendo in percentuale di materia secca, man mano che dalla fase di bulbo si passa a quella della fioritura. 4) L'analisi chimica ha rivelato che sono assorbiti in notevole quantit: rame, manganese, molibdeno, cobalto, zinco, boro, titanio e vanadio; sono risultati presenti in tracce: litio, bario, alluminio, berillio e zirconio. L'analisi chimica del terreno nel quale le piante avevano vegetato ha rivelato la presenza in esso di: rame, manganese, litio, molibdeno, cobalto, zinco, boro, bario, titanio, in notevoli quantit; vanadio, berillio, zirconio in tracce. 5) La produzione media dei fiori per pianta  stata rispettivamente di 1,3 e di 1,0 fiori extra per le cv. Elan e J. Strauss. A biological-analytic research has been carried out to determine the various nutritive substances and certain oligodynamic elements required by gladioli cultivated in the open air, on an industrial scale, along the Western Coast of the Italian Riviera, for the Spring production of cut flowers. The research includes the whole cultural cycle of the plants, that is to say: planting of corms, germination, appearance of flower spikes and blooming (economically profitable period of cultivation). The experiment, in which the Elan and J. Strauss cultivar were used, yielded the following principal conclusions based upon the chemical analysis of the dry organic matter produced. 1) During germination absorption of the nutritive substances is limited; very marked during the flowering period. 2) The ratio nitrogen: phosphorus acid; potassium is most interesting, showing that the importance of both P. and K. increases considerably in the various phases from the corm stage to the flowering stage. It is the following in the two "Elan" and "J. Strauss" cultivar: N. : PO : KO N. : P5 : KO cv. ELAN cv. J. STRAUSS Corm 1,00 : 0,20 : 0,72 1,00 : 0,19 : 1,35 Germination 1,00 : 0,48 : 1,57 1,00 : 0,36 : 1,75 Growth of spike 1,00 : 0,57 : 2,03 1,00 : 0,67 : 3,25 Blooming 1,00 : 0,84 : 4,73 1,00 : 1,05 : 3,08 3) The other mineral substances also increase in percentage of dry matter as the bulb passes from the initial stage to the flowering phase. 4) The chemical analysis revealed that the plants absorb notable quantities of: copper, manganese, molybdenum, cobalt, zinc, boron, titanium, and vanadium; traces of lithium, barium, aluminium, beryllium and zirconium were present. The chemical analysis of the soil in which the plants were grown revealed the presence of: copper, manganese, lithium, molybdenum, cobalt, zinc, boron, barium, titanium; in greater quantities: vanadium and beryllium; traces of zirconium. 5) The average total yield of flowers per plant was of 1,3 and of 1,0 exceptional blooms for the "Elan" "J. Strauss" cultivar.
42874746|Si riferiscono i risultati della selezione e dell'incrocio di alcune cultivar di Cichorium endivia. La autofecondazione ripetuta per tre anni consecutivi non ha prodotto nessuna depressione da imbreeding su due ("Cornetto" e "Bubikopf") delle tre cultivar considerate, mentre  stata evidente nella terza ("Fiorentina"). Gli ibridi F hanno presentato un elevato grado di eterosi soprattutto nelle combinazioni di alcune cv. di Cichorium endivia: "Golda" x "SBT", "Bubikopf" x "SBT" e "Golda" x "SBT"; ed anche in quelle comprendenti cv. di Cichorium intybus: "Pan di Zucchero" x "Golda", "Pan di Zucchero" x "Cornetto", "Pan di Zucchero" x "SBT", "Fiorentina" x "Cicoria verde". Mentre nel primo caso appare difficoltosa la realizzazione di ibridi F nel secondo caso si potrebbe sfruttare la autoin-compatibilit del Cichorium intybus. L'analisi della segregazione in alcune progenie F riguardanti cultivar di Cichorium endivia ha mostrato una eredit complessa per i caratteri lunghezza e larghezza delle foglie e peso del cespo anche se sembra da escludersi un numero molto elevato di geni. Il basso numero delle foglie  risultato invece dominante ed ha segregato nel rapporto 3:1. Le correlazioni fenotipiche hanno rivelato una elevata significativit di concordanza tra numero e lunghezza delle foglie e peso del cespo; minore attendibilit  risultata invece tra i caratteri larghezza delle foglie e peso del cespo a causa di una correlazione negativa esistente tra larghezza e numero delle foglie. Results of selection and breeding of some Cichorium endivia cultivars are referred. The self-fertilization repeated for three years running did not cause on "Cornetto" and "Bubikopf" any imbreeding depression, while it was clear in the third one (Florentina). Hibrids F shown high eterotic effects, above all in some cultivare combinations of Cichorium endivia: Golda x SBT, Bubikopf x SBT e Golda x SBT; and also in those concerning Cichorium intybus cultivars: Pan di Zucchero x Golda, Pan di Zucchero x Cornetto, Pan di Zucchero x SBT, Fiorentina x Cicoria Verde. While in the first case it appears difficult the formation of hybrids F, in the second one it could be possible to use the self incompatibility of Cichorium intybus. The segregation analysis in some progenies of F Cichorium endivia cultivars shown a complex heredity for what concerns lenght and width of leaves and weight of the plant even though it appears to exclude an high number of genes. The low number of leaves resulted instead dominant and segregated 3:1. Fenotipic correlations resulted to be positive between number and leaves lenght and plant weight; less realibility resulted instead between leaves width and plant weight caused by a negative correlation between width and leaves number.
42874747|Sulle cv. di albicocco "Caninos", "Prete" e "S. Castrese" sono state eseguite prove sull'uso dell'ac. 2, 4, 5 TP per anticipare la maturazione dei frutti. Gli effetti pi evidenti dell'ac. 2, 4, 5 TP sono un aumento del peso medio dei frutti ed un anticipo di maturazione di 4-5 giorni. L'efficacia del prodotto aumenta aumentando la concentrazione del p.a. da 15 a 30 ppm, ma non sembra aumentare ulteriormente a 40 ppm. I trattamenti fatti 40-46 gg. prima della raccolta danno una maggiore precocit di maturazione. The effect of 2,4,5, T P to anticipate ripening of the fruit in the apricot cv. "Caninos", "Prete" and "S. Castrese" was studied. The most important effect of 2,4,5 T P is an increasing of the weight of the fruit and an early ripening of 4-5 days. The effect of the product is increasing when the p. a. concentration grows from 15 to 30 ppm, no further effect had a concentration of 40 ppm. Treatment made 40-46 days before picking had more effect in early ripening.
42874748|Vengono riferiti i risultati di prove di trapianto meccanico di semenzali di zucchino allevati in  cellager , substrato spugnoso artificiale di cellulosa. I risultati produttivi sono risultati inferiori dal 18 al 34% rispetto alle tecniche tradizionali d'impianto, pur considerando che questa nuova tecnica consente di effettuare il trapianto meccanico dello zucchino impiegando le normali trapiantatrici per piantine a radici nude con un notevole risparmio di mano d'opera. We state results of tests of mechanical transplanting of marrow sprouts raised in "cellager", an artificial cellulose spongy substratum. The productive results have been of 18 to 34% inferior compared to the planting traditional techniques, even considering that this new tecnique enables to mechanically transplant the marrow using the standard transplanting machines for young essdlings with bare roots with a considerable labour economy.
42874749|Vengono riferiti i risultati ottenuti durante prove di maturazione di pere "Passa Crassana" condotte secondo diverse tecniche. I frutti di pezzatura pi grossa dimostrano una maggiore tendenza al viraggio al colore giallo in confronto a quelli di pezzatura inferiore. There are given the results obteined during ripening prooves of "Passa Crassana" pears made with various techniques. Compared with the fruits of small size, those of big size show a greater tendency to change their colours into a yellow one.
42874750|Comparative observations on the  water conductivity  and the anatomical structure of the stem in young "Golden Delicious" and ' Starkspur Golden Delicious" apple trees have shown that: 1)  water conductivity  is directly related to the vigour of the variety; 2) vascular system of "Starkspur Golden Delicious" is provided by less flattened vessels; 3) "Spur" type trees have shown a translocation ability proportionally higher in the middle and the upper third of the stem, as compared with the original variety. Such results agree with the vegetative pattern of "Starkspur Golden Delicious", which shows a less apical dominance and more regularly developed lateral twigs.
42874751|Citrus mitis or Calamondin has awakened a great interest, in Italy, as ornamental plant. This research establishes that it is possible to propagate it easily by cutting, either employing or employing not rooting hormones. It is possible, moreover, growing the plants in pots, to obtain very good and saleable subjects at the second year from the beginning of propagation. Pruning in January the root cuttings 1-year old, it is possible to obtain, the fructification a short time before Christmas and at the same time, a lot of cuttings for a continuous commercial production.
42874752|From the experiments there has appeared that break dormancy takes place after a staying of about 1000 hours at a temperature of 2C. The preparation of the branches, with or without leaves, the ways of storage (dipping into water or dry) and packing (wrapped in polyetilene or without) has a very little influence on the anticipation of the bloom.
42874753|Con due distinte prove, condotte rispettivamente ad Albenga ed a Torino, si  indagato l'effetto dell'innesto su Pomodoro (ibridi di prima generazione "KVF" della Bruinsma di Naaldwijk, Olanda) sull'incidenza della tracreoverticilliosi (Verticillium dahliae Kleb) della Melanzana (cv. "Violetta tonda") in terreno ad alto e basso livello di inoculo. L'innesto ha ridotto la malattia ed aumentato la produzione in misura altamente significativa in entrambe le condizioni di inoculo. Dato che le piante innestate in terreno fortemente infetto, pur presentando sintomi pi gravi, hanno prodotto pi delle piante franche di piede in terreno leggermente infetto,  sembrato che, almeno in parte, l'incremento di produzione conseguente all'innesto fosse dovuto a condizioni fisiologiche indipendenti dalle infezioni. L'effetto dell'innesto  stato pertanto confrontato su 4 cultivar di Melanzana morfologicamente molto diverse ("Black beauty", "Violetta tonda", "Grossissima di Firenze" e "Violetta lunga"). Nelle cv. "Black beauty" e "Violetta tonda", ad apparato radicale relativamente superficiale, le piante innestate hanno presentato un discreto aumento di produzione. Per contro, nelle cv. "Grossissima di Firenze" e "Violetta lunga", ad apparato radicale pi robusto, hanno prodotto sensibilmente meno di quelle franche di piede. The effect of the grafting onto Tomato rootstocks (seed "KVF", Bruinsma) on the severity of Verticillium wilt (Verticillium dahliae Kleb.) of Eggplant ("Violetta tonda") in soil with high and low inoculum potential was investigated in Albenga (Savona) and Turin. Grafting markedly reduced the disease and increased production under both inoculum conditions. The grafted plants in severely infected soil produced more than the healthier ungrafted ones in mildly infected soil, thus showing that the increase of production resulting from the grafting was partly independent of the infection. The effect of grafting was therefore studied on 4 eggplant varieties ("Black beauty", "Violetta tonda", "Grossissima di Firenze" and "Violetta lunga"). In the "Black beauty" and "Violetta tonda", varieties with superficial roots, grafted plants produced more than ungrafted ones. In the "Grossissima di Firenze" and "Violetta lunga", varieties with more vigorous roots, they on the contrary produced less.
42874754|Sono state condotte prove preliminari al fine di valutare la possibilit di propagare l'albicocco mediante la tecnica della nebulizzazione. Dai risultati delle prove, condotte sulla cv. "Colomer" nei mesi di maggio e giugno,  possibile concludere che: 1) le migliori percentuali di radicazione si sono ottenute con talee basali (cio costituite da porzioni basali di rami dell'anno); 2) delle due sostanze rizogene provate (il sale potassico dell'acido indolilbutirrico e l'acido naftilacetico), la seconda sembra possedere maggiore capacit di stimolo rizogeno essendosi con essa raggiunto l'82% di radicazione; 3) alcune leggere incisioni longitudinali alla base delle talee favoriscono la radicazione. Trials were done to determine the possibility of apricot propagation by cuttings under mist. Results obtained with "Colomer" during May and June showed that: 1) the best rooting percentages were obtained with basal cuttings; 2) of the two growth substances tested (IBAK and NAA) the latter gave the best results, reaching the 82% of rooting; 3) rooting was increased wounding the base of the cuttings.
42877615|L'A. riferisce di alcune ricerche, condotte in un ambiente agrumicolo della Sardegna, sulla relazione intercorrente tra lo sviluppo giornaliero del frutto di Arancio e l'umidit del terreno agrumetato. Dopo aver dimostrato, sulla base dei dati sperimentali, che i due parametri suddetti sono legati da una correlazione positiva espressa dall'equazione di una retta, l'A. conclude che l'accrescimento giornaliero del frutto si pu correttamente assumere come  indice fisiologico  per valutare le esigenze idriche dell'albero e, dunque, per stabilire il momento opportuno dell'intervento irriguo. The Author refers about some researches carried out in a citrus grove of Sardinia, on the relations between the daily growth of orange fruit and soil moisture. The results have shown a positive correlation between fruit growth and soil moisture that can be expressed by a linear equation. The Author concludes stating that daily fruit growth can be assumed as  physiological indicator  to estimate the water requirements of citrus tree, and consequently to establish the watering time.
42877616|Temperature requirements of " Mayflower ", " Southland ", " Golden Jubilee ", " Coronado ", " Sun High " peach varieties, have been evaluated by the exponential system. Flower bud drop records were made on 24 peach cling varieties grown in the Experimental Field of the Palermo University, during 1967-68 winter.
42877619|Negli anni 1965-'66-'67 sono state condotte alcune ricerche allo scopo di conoscere meglio la distribuzione dei rami anticipati negli astoni di pesco e verificare la possibilit di ridurre il numero di questi, al fine di facilitare la potatura di formazione. Sul germoglio destinato a costituire l'astone  stato praticato un accorciamento (nella cv. " Fertilia " e " Dixired ") ed una cimatura (nella " Cardinal " e " Dixired "). L'accorciamento, specialmente se drastico, ha mostrato di deprimere la vigoria delle piante, dando spesso origine anche ad astoni contorti. La cimatura invece, non solo non compromette la vigoria e la forma delle piante, ma ha dimostrato di poter essere vantaggiosamente utilizzata per la produzione di astoni con un ridotto numero di rami anticipati ed una buona percentuale di gemme dormienti all'altezza della impalcatura. L'efficacia pratica di questa operazione ha mostrato di essere influenzata in buona misura anche da diversi fattori, quali la cultivar, l'andamento climatico e l'ambiente pedologico. In the years 1965-'66-'67 trials were carried out in view to know the range of feather shoots on peach maidens and to verify the possibility to reduce their number by pruning practices. The young shoots were: cutted back (on " Fertilia" and " Dixired") or pinched (on " Cardinal " and " Dixired "). Cutting back the shoot reduces, specialty if hard, plant vigour, causing frequently crooked maidens. The pinch may be advantageously utilized to produce good maidens with a low number of lateral shoots and a good average of normal axillary buds from wich the main branches should arise. Many factors may influence partly the effectiveness of this method as the cultivars and the environmental conditions.
42877620|Cycocel sprays, applied three times to " Tulip " peach trees starting from 20 May to 20 July 1967, increased fruit bud differentiation in the year of the treatments. Fruit buds on treated trees were also much less damaged by winter frost; consequently, the flowering and the fruiting amount, in the following year, were higher. The relationship among the mechanism of the growth retardants, the fruit bud differentiation and the frost resistance, are discussed.
42877621|Dalle indagini biometriche sugli stomi delle foglie di pesco  emerso che nell'ambito delle 10 cultivar esaminate non esistono differenze significative nel numero medio di stomi per cmq della pagina inferiore, mentre si sono riscontrate diversit rimarchevoli nella grandezza media degli stomi e quindi nella superficie totale occupata dall'apparato stomatico. From biometrie investigations on stornata peach leaves of 10 cv. it does not appear there are significant differences in the averages of the stornata number for cm on the lower leaf surface; instead there are remarkable differences in the averages of stornata size and therefore in the total surface occupied by stomatal apparatus.
42877622|Sono state valutate 22 cv. di spinacio, coltivate a blocco randomizzato con 3 ripetizioni in parcelle di 6 mq. Questi i caratteri rilevati: peso, n. foglie, lunghezza picciolo, lunghezza e larghezza lembo, bollosit, sostanza secca, clorofilla, acido ossalico; si  messo altres in evidenza la variabilit e le correlazioni tra i diversi caratteri. I valori medi trovati nelle diverse cv. sono compresi tra i seguenti valori estremi: peso pianta 25,9-94,6 gr; n. foglie 19,5-26,6; lunghezza picciolo cm 3,6-12,0; lunghezza lembo cm 5,6-15,6; larghezza lembo cm 5,3-12,8; sostanza secca 9,6-12,4%; acido ossalico totale 4,8-8,1% (sulla sostanza secca); clorofilla totale 0,44-0,75 mgr/cm. I caratteri peso del cespo, lunghezza picciolo, lunghezza e larghezza lembo sono risultati significativamente correlati sia a livello intervarietale che intravarietale, invece a livello intravarietale si  trovata una correlazione positiva tra n. foglie e peso del cespo ed in alcune cv. anche tra n. foglie, lunghezza e larghezza lembo e lunghezza picciolo. Per le caratteristiche qualitative  stata rilevata a livello intervarietale una correlazione positiva tra contenuto in acido ossalico e sostanza secca ed una negativa tra acido ossalico e indice di bollosit. 22 cultivars of spinach were tested, they were grown in block randomized with 3 repetition in parcel of 6 mq. The following characters were studied: weight, number of leaves, stem length, length and width leaves, pimplyness, dry matter, chlorofill, oxalic acid. The variability and correlation among the different characters were as well studied. The average values observed 70 days after sowing were the following: weight plant 25,9-96,6 gr; number of leaves 19,5-26,6, stem length cm 3,6-12,0; length leaves cm 5,6-15,6; width leaves cm 5,3-12,8; dry matter 9,6-12,4%; total oxalic acid 4,8-8,1% (on dry matter); total clorophyll 0,44-0,75 mgr/cm. Positive correlations resulted among the following characters, weight plant, stem length, width and length leaves either inside the variety or between the variety. A positive correlation inside the variety was observed between number of leaves and weight of plant and in some cultivars between number of leaves, width and length leaves, stem length. For the qualitative characters a positive correlation was observed between oxalic acid content and dry matter and a negative one between oxalic acid and pimplyness.
42877623|Per pi anni sono state condotte ricerche nell'ambiente del litorale toscano su piante di albicocco della cv.  Reale d'Imola  innestate su mirabolano, al fine di determinare l'influenza della forma di allevamento (palmetta e vaso) e della tecnica di potatura (con  spuntatura , a  tutta cima , e  libera ) sul comportamento vegetativo e produttivo delle piante. Le piante allevate a palmetta hanno mostrato un numero pi elevato di rami fruttiferi rispetto a quelle allevate a vaso. Non sono state trovate forti differenze per quanto riguarda la distribuzione percentuale dei diversi tipi di ramo tra piante con  spuntatura , a  tutta cima  e  libere , ma queste ultime sono risultate pi fornite di dardi fioriferi. Nell'ambiente considerato i dardi fioriferi hanno rappresentato in tutte le tesi i rami a frutto pi importanti (come numero e produzione). Nel complesso la cultivar in oggetto  risultata scarsamente produttiva, forse a causa del mancato soddisfacimento del suo fabbisogno in freddo. Observations were carried out in the tuscan coast-line environment on apricot trees of  Reale d'Imola  variety, grafted on myrobolan, to determine the influence of training system (open-center or " palmetta ") and of pruning techniques (-a) only thinning of unnecessary shoots = " tutta cima ", b) shortening the terminal shoots of the main branches = " con spuntatura '", c) without pruning cuts = " libera ") on the growing and bearing habit of trees. The trees trained in " palmetta " system showed a greater number of fruiting branches than open-center. Important differences are not found among different pruning techniques, but the trees without pruning cuts were more provided with fruiting  spurs . In this environment the spurs were in every treatments more important, in number and production, than any other shoots. The production of the observed variety is resulted poor, may be even because of an unsatisfied chilling requirement.
42877625|Sono state condotte prove di diradamento manuale e chimico su albicocco (1963 e 1964) e su pesco (1964 e 1965). Il diradamento a mano ha sempre notevolmente ridotto la produzione dell'albicocco, ma non sempre ha aumentato la pezzatura dei frutti. Nell'anno successivo al diradamento le piante diradate hanno prodotto signir ficativamente di pi delle piante testimone. I trattamenti con Sevin e NAD (amide dell'acido -naftalenacetico) non hanno mostrato alcun effetto diradante. Il diradamento manuale precoce del pesco diminuisce la successiva cascola di giugno ed ha un effetto positivo sulla pezzatura dei frutti. Il Sevin e l'amide dell'ac. -naftalenacetico non hanno avuto alcun effetto come diradanti del pesco. Studies of manual and chemical thinning on apricot (1963 and 1964) and peach (1964 and 1965) has been done. The manual thinning remarkably reduced the production in apricots, but did not increased the size of fruits. In the next year the thinned trees have produced significatively more then test trees. Treatments with SEVIN and NAD (amide of the -naphthalenacetic acid) had no thinning effect. The early manual thinning of peach reduces ' June drop ' and has positive effect on the size of fruits. Treatments with Sevin and amide of the -naphthalenacetic acid had no thinning effect.
42877626| stata saggiata la germinabilit del polline delle cultivar di arancio " Moro ", M Sanguinello " e " Tarocco " mediante l'impiego di alcune sostanze di accrescimento (B-9, 2-4-5 T, NAA, MH) aggiunte in diverse concentrazioni (5-10-25-50 ppm) ad un normale substrato di saccarosio al 20% assunto, a sua volta, come tesi di Controllo. I risultati hanno messo in evidenza un'azione generalmente positiva delle predette sostanze sulla vitalit del polline. La maggiore o minore efficacia di queste sostanze, tuttavia,  stata condizionata dalle dosi di impiego e dalle cultivar esaminate. In particolare, i risultati migliori sono stati conseguiti, per le cultivar "Moro " e " Tarocco " col 2-4-5 T a 25 ppm, che ha indotto incrementi di germinabilit pari, rispettivamente, al 266% ed al 157% e, per la cv " Sanguinello " con la MH a 10 ppm che ha aumentato la germinabilit del 40% nei confronti del Controllo. Pollen viability from " Moro ", " Sanguinello " and " Tarocco " oranges was tested with some growth substances (B-9, 2-4-5 T, NAA, MH) added at various concentrations (5-10-25-50 ppm) to a 20% sucrose solution, assumed as Control. The results have shown that addition of the above mentioned substances increased pollen germination percentage, the amount of increase depending on the substance added, the concentration and variety. Particularly the best germination was found, for " Moro " and " Tarocco " with 2-4-5 T at 25 ppm that increased percentage germination by 266% and 157% respectively, while for " Sanguinello " variety MH at 10 ppm increased pollen germination by 40% in comparison with the Control.
42877627|Trials were carried out on some pear trees of different varieties, age and vigour comparing the shoot inarching done at different times from May till February. The inarching never affect the corymbs number in the following spring. An influence could be observed a year later as consequence of the depressed vigour of the new shoots born along the descending part of the inarched branch. The growth gradient of the new shoots is also unaffected at the buds opening. This gradient seems to be impressed in the buds before their opening as an acrotone trend along the inarched and control branches. A secondary gradient later overcomed the first one as a result of different influences which induce weaker growth in the terminal part of the inarched branch.
42877628|Experiments made in order to eliminate the rotting which appears after the picking in hailed fruits, have shown a considerable efficacy giving interesting results confirmed statically. The fruit have been treated dipping the whole box into watery-solutions of fungicides. The product called Euparen has given the best results.
42877629|Experiments made in order to research the possibility of picking fruits when they have reached the size more in demand commercially size that it is not possible to have fruits with good organolectic caractheristics at the moment of consuption. A quick ripening does not change the alimentary value of the fruits.
42877630|Trattamenti con soluzioni di CCC (210) e di B-995 (3,510) a piante di Monstera deliciosa Libm., allevate in soluzione nutritiva, hanno permesso di costatare come tali brachizzanti, oltre ad operare una sensibile riduzione dell'apparato radicale, non hanno affatto alterato il normale sviluppo della parte aerea, riducendo altres i volumi unitari e totali delle soluzioni somministrate. L'azione migliore  stata esplicata dal B-995 che, contrariamente al CCC, non ha ostacolato lo sviluppo delle radici di secondo ordine permettendo cos di ottenere un apparato radicale molto pi compatto e funzionale. Si potrebbe affermare che uno o due trattamenti di CCC o di B-995 nei primi stadi di vegetazione permettono di realizzare un minor numero di rinvasi ed un risparmio delle innaffiature. Monstera deliciosa Libm. plants cultivated in a nutrient solution and treated with solutions of CCC (210) and B-995 (3,510) show that such retardants in addition to operate remarkable reduction of the root apparatus did not change at all the normal development of their aereal part but they reduce the unit and total volumes of the given solutions. The best action has been obtained with B-995 which acting in a way contrary to that of CCC, did not hinder the development of the secondary order roots and allowed a much more compact and functional root apparatus to be obtained. So, one can say, thus that one or two treatments of CCC or of B-995 in the first stages of the vegetation demand fewer repottings and few waterings.
42874770|Research was carried out, in 1968, on the abortive pistils of flowers of "Femminello" and "Monachello" Lemons. The percentage of abortive pistils was low at beginning of the blooming period and incresed when the flowers became more noumerous. There was not difference between old and young trees. The highest total percentages of bortive pistils were observed on " Femminello ". Anatomical observations on buds and flowers of " Femminello ", showed that the degeneration of the tissues of the pistil is evident only when the flowers start developping the ovules. Degeneration of the cells of the psdicel at the point of ot separation from the twig, was early observed on the abortive flowers. This type of abscission is different than the normal abscission layer of the leaves and fruits. It must be the reason of the easy drop of such flowers.
42874771|Investigations have been carried during 1967 and 1968 on the influence of differently coloured PVC tunnels (transparent, perforated-transparent, blue, violet) on the microclimate of strawberry mulched plots (cv. " Gorella "). The following micro-environmental factors have been examined: soil moisture, soil temperature, air humidity and air temperature. Soil moisture was lower in the covered plots; soil temperature has been positively influenced under all the tunnels, but specially under those violet coloured; air humidity has not been influenced while the air temperature has resulted higher under the coloured tunnels.
42874772|Sono state effettuate osservazioni sul comportamento vegetativo e produttivo di piante di pero " Coscia " dell'et di tre anni, innestate su cotogno " E.M. A " e trattate per via fogliare con Cycocel allo 0,5%. I trattamenti sono stati eseguiti il 6-6, il 21-6 ed il 6-7-1966. I rilievi hanno riguardato il comportamento vegetativo delle piante nelle due annate 1966 e 1967, nonch quello produttivo del 1967. Per quanto riguarda il comportamento vegetativo, i risultati hanno mostrato che nell'anno stesso del trattamento le piante risentono fortemente dell'azione del  brachizzante ; solo il trattamento precoce (effettuato cio il 6-6) agisce in maniera leggermente pi blanda e apparentemente mostra di aver esaurito la propria azione sin dalla tarda estate dello stesso anno. Nell'anno successivo si  rilevato un  effetto residuo  sull'accrescimento, limitatamente, per, ai rami di prolungamento, principalmente a carico delle piante trattate il 21-6 e il 6-7. Tutti i rami, invece (ad eccezione di quelli di prolungamento), sembrano essersi svincolati da tale azione inibitrice. Per quel che riguarda il comportamento produttivo, in tutte le tesi  stata favorevolmente influenzata la differenziazione a fiore nell'anno del trattamento ed anche la successiva allegagione risulta incrementata. Ne deriva un conseguente aumento della produzione che, malgrado un intenso diradamento, reso tanto pi necessario data la giovane et delle piante,  praticamente raddoppiata. L'induzione a fiore nell'anno successivo risulta peraltro ridotta. The effects on growth and fruiting of CCC applied as a 5000 p.p.m. spray on June 6, 21, and July 6, 1966 to three-year-old pears var. " Coscia " grafted on E.M. quince A are discussed. Within two weeks of application the treatments had greatly reduced shoot growth but the spray on June 6 was less effective than on other dates and its influence apparently diminished in late summer. Growth in the following season was inhibited only on the terminal shoot of the branches. Flower bud formation and fruit set were greatly increased by all treatments and the crop was often nearly doubled in weight compared with untreated control.
42874773|Vengono riferiti i risultati di alcune osservazioni sul processo della microsporogenesi nell'Arancio dolce appartenente alle cv. Tarocco e Washington Navel, nel Mandarino Avana e nel Clementine Comune. Il processo della formazione dei granuli pollinici appare perfettamente normale nell'Arancio Tarocco, nel Mandarino Avana e nel Clementine Comune; nell'Arancio Washington Navel, invece, le cellule madri del polline degenerano ancor prima dell'inizio della meiosi. Si conclude, cos, che l'androsterilit dell' Washington Navel  di natura genetica, legata probabilmente alla presenza di fattori recessivi allo stato omozigote. Microsporogenesis of "Tarocco" and "Washington Navel" sweet oranges, "Avana" and "Clementine" mandarins have been studied. Pollen development appears completely normal in the "Tarocco" orange and in the "Avana" and "Clementine" mandarins; in the "Washington Navel" orange, on the contrary, pollen mother cells degenerate before the time for the first meiotic division. The "Washington Navel" therefore is completely male-sterily and its sterility is more probably relate to presence of recessive homozygous genes.
42874774|Allo scopo di saggiare la possibilit di un proficuo lavoro selettivo  stata eseguita un'analisi della variabilit genetica esistente in due linee selezionate di pomodoro e una variet commerciale. Tale analisi ha portato a stime di ereditabilit per i caratteri produzione per pianta, numero dei frutti, precocit, ottenute mediante uno schema di riproduzione per famiglie. Parallelamente sono state condotte prove di confronto fra cinque linee selezionate di pomodoro. I risultati ottenuti vengono discussi sia per quanto riguarda le loro implicazioni ai fini applicativi sia per il valore di chiarificazione del meccanismo di trasmissione genetico dei caratteri in esame. With the aim of testing the possibility of fruitful selection work, an analysis of variability has been carried out on two selections and one commercial variety of tomato. Thus, heritability estimates have been obtained for fruit weight, fruit number, earliness, through a family scheme. Contemporarily comparison tests were carried out on five selection of tomato. Results are discussed in relation to their importance for selection work and a better definition ofinheritance mechanisms of the analysed characters.
42874775| stato studiato il comportamento nel terreno agrario di quattro prodotti commerciali a base di chelati di ferro impiegati per combattere la clorosi ferrica. Di ciascuno di essi si sono determinati lo spettro di assorbimento nel visibile e nell'u.v. e la cinetica di decomposizione in soluzione sia in assenza sia in presenza del terreno.  stata valutata l'influenza del pH e del contenuto in calcare sul processo di immobilizzazione del ferro, dimostrando come la valutazione del ferro immobilizzato dopo 24 ore di contatto tra soluzione del prodotto e terreno possa costituire un valido elemento di giudizio sulla prevedibile efficacia del trattamento. The behaviour in soils of four commercial products containing iron chelates and used to prevent and fight the chlorosis has been studied. For each product the u.v. and visible absorption spectrum and the rate of decomposition in aqueous solution either in the presence or in absence of soil have been determined. The influence of the pH and CaCO content has been evaluated. The determination of the immobilized iron after a 24 hours contact between the soil and the product solution can be considered a good evaluation of the expected efficiency of the treatment.
42874776|Dopo aver discusso i criteri che consentono di riconoscere le malattie virus-simili e i mezzi che consentono di prevenirle, sono passate in rassegna le alterazioni virus-simili degli Agrumi riscontrate in Italia. Molte di esse sono segnalate per la prima volta nel nostro Paese. In appendice sono, infine, considerate alcune alterazioni la cui eziologia  ancora dubbia, ma che sembrano assimilabili al gruppo delle malattie virus-simili. Criteria for the identification of citrus virus-like diseases and their control are discussed and a review of these disorders observed in Italy is presented. Many of them are reported for the first time in Italy. Special appendix includes some disorders of undetermined nature.
42874777|The Author relates on the results of a series of microscopical observations carried on the incompatibility of the Sweet Cherry " Bigarreau Moreau " on Prunus incisa rootstock. Investigations have shown that bud union is characterized by large necrotic areas and breaks both in phloem and in xilem. On the basis of these results Prunus incisa has proved to have very few possibilities as sweet cherry rootstock.
42874778|Ricerche su alcuni portainnesti clonali del melo (" M. M. 106 ", "M.M. 111 ", " E.M. VII ", " E.M. IX ", " E.M. 26" ) volte a studiare alcuni fattori capaci di influenzare la radicazione di talee di ramo per mezzo del riscaldamento basale, nonch la conservazione delle giovani barbatelle, hanno messo in evidenza quanto segue: 1) i singoli portainnesti saggiati hanno dimostrato un differente potere rizogeno, probabilmente legato anche all'epoca di prelevamento del materiale. L' " M.M. 106 ", 1' "M.M. 111 " e l' " E.M. 26 " sono caratterizzati da una migliore percentuale di radicazione e da un pi elevato numero di radici per talea, a cui corrisponde quasi sempre un buon attecchimento al trapianto. 2) In generale nei mesi di novembre e di gennaio si sono avuti i risultati migliori, con una sensibile flessione in dicembre. Le talee radicate in novembre hanno avuto un minor numero di fallanze, grazie forse al miglior apparato radicale, costituito da numerose radici molto corte. 3) I trattamenti con IBA a 150-200 ppm. hanno maggiormente stimolato la radicazione. L'attecchimento al trapianto delle talee trattate con 3000 ppm. non  stato per inferiore. 4) Le alte temperature (25C) aumentano la velocit ma non l'esito della radicazione, come dimostrano le percentuali di attecchimento. 5) II trattamento con captano, effettuato prima di quello termico, ha depresso la percentuale di radicazione, ma ha agito in leggera misura positivamente su quella di attecchimento. 6) I substrati e le temperature usate per la conservazione, pur avendo influenzato la radicazione, non hanno dato risultati apprezzabili nei confronti dell'attecchimento al trapianto. Tra i diversi fungicidi impiegati in questo gruppo di prove, il migliore  risultato, in pratica, il T.M.D.T. 7) Le barbatelle dei cinque portainnesti saggiati, dopo 5 mesi dall'impianto, presentavano uno sviluppo diametrico tale da consentire la esecuzione dell'innesto ad occhio dormiente. Studies were made of the rooting and establishment of hardwood cuttings of five apple rootstocks after treatment with IBA and storage with bottom heat. 1) Rootstocks behaved differently in these trials; " M. M. 106 ", "M. M. 111 " and " M. 26 " rooted more readily, produced a higher number of roots and showed a better survival in the nursery than " M. VII " and " M. IX ". 2) Generally cuttings collected in November and January performed best and cuttings collected in November and stored (6C) for 120 days transferred well to the nursery. 3) An IBA concentration of 150-200 p.p.m. (as 24 hours soak) gave a higher rooting percentage (but not survival of rooted cuttings) than 3000 p.p.m. (dip method). 4) The highest temperature in the medium (25C) markedly increased the speed of rooting but did not affect the final rooting percentage. 5) Pre-rooting treatment with captan, made in three seasons, reduced the percentage of rooted cuttings, but slightly benefitted survival after transplanting into the field. 6) Different media and temperatures of storage did not influence survival percentage. Among the four fungicides tested, T.M.D.T. gave the best results. 7) These rootstocks grew to a sufficient size to allow budding in the following September, 5 months after transplanting into the nursery.
42874779|Si riferiscono i risultati di una serie di ricerche condotte negli anni 1967-1968 intesa a studiare l'azione di alcuni trattamenti atti a favorire la radicazione di talee di pesco Missour ed Okinawa poste sotto nebulizzazione. Nelle condizioni delle nostre prove  stato messo in luce che tutti i  trattamenti meccanici  (torsione, schiacciamento, incisioni, ecc.) sono risultati poco efficaci od addirittura controproducenti per la radicazione delle talee, eccezion fatta perT  incisione basale . Trattamenti con elementi nutritivi hanno in molti casi impedito una caduta precoce delle foglie ed hanno sempre aumentato la radicazione, il numero e la lunghezza delle radici. La radicazione  risultata indipendente dalla lunghezza delle talee e dal numero delle gemme, ma  apparsa fortemente influenzata dalla presenza delle foglie. Si  rilevato, infine, che con l'acido naftilacetico  possibile sostituire il trattamento basale delle talee con trattamenti fogliari, di pi facile esecuzione e sicuramente pi economici, essendo possibile distribuirli con la stessa acqua di nebulizzazione. Researches on "Missour" and "Okinawa" peach rootstoks propagation bycutting under mist, have done been in 1967 and 1968. Rooting percentage, roots number and lenght were favourably influenced byperiodic treatments with several spray nutrients. These treatments were also effective to stop early fall leaves. IBA and NAA foliar spray and number of leaves for cutting markatly improved rooting ability. Rooting percentage was not increased by wounding the basal part of the cuttings, except for a longitudinal  basal bark incision .
42874780|Dopo una minima termica di 2C, verificatasi nella pianura di Pisa il 26 di aprile 1967, quando la cultivar di pesco Cardinal era fiorita da 43 giorni, sono state condotte sistematiche osservazioni (anatomiche e morfologiche) su frutti di peschi (Cardinal, Coronet, Dixired e Morettini 1) allevati a palmetta, a vaso basso ed a vaso alto. Le drupe (il cui diametro trasversale minore, al momento della gelata, oscillava da 10 a 25 mm) manifestavano sintomi variabili da un leggero imbrunimento del tegumento seminale a un complesso di alterazioni (necrosi, fenditure, lacune, ecc.) a carico delle diverse parti del frutto. La diversa sintomatologia del danno, che non ha dimostrato alcuna correlazione con l'epoca di fioritura, sembra legata a caratteri varietali. Anche alla manifestazione di danno pi lieve (imbrunimento del tegumento seminale) ha fatto quasi sempre riscontro la caduta dei frutti. Differenze nell'entit del danno sono state rilevate tra le diverse cultivar: relativamente meno danneggiata sarebbe stata la Coronet. Sono risultati meno colpiti i frutticini pi grossi (nel nostro caso con diametro maggiore ai 20 mm), quelli inseriti sui rami rivolti a nord e, in linea di massima, quelli posti nella parte superiore della chioma. Quest'ultima affermazione, valida per il vaso alto, non pu essere sempre estesa alla palmetta. In pratica per, ogni differenza tra le forme di allevamento non ha dimostrato di avere rilevanza, in quanto la produzione  stata in tutti i casi molto scarsa (con frutti prevalentemente piccoli e malformati). An unusual frost (2C) occurred in Pisa plain in the night of April the 26th 1967, 43 days after "Cardinal" peach variety was in full bloom. In view to study the influence of some factors on the severity of damage, anatomical and morfological observations were made on peach fruits of trees ("Cardinal", "Coronet", "Dixired" and "Morettini 1") trained in  palmetta , low open center and high open center systems. The fruitlets, that at the time of the frost had a diameter between 10 and 25 mm, shown different type of damage which appear to be a varietal character. It was found that even the slightest damage (brown membranous seed coat) caused the lost of the fruits. The larger fruitlets grown on the north or in the higher part of the branches seem to be less damaged. The degree of the injury are not variable with the training system, but rather with variety. The few fruits wich reached ripeness were smaller than usual and showed in most cases short cracks in the skin, deep splits in the ventral suture, cavities in the flesh. Mostly of the pits were splitted and nearly all the seeds were aborted.
42874781|L'Autore riferisce i risultati delle indagini condotte in una zona della Sardegna centro-meridionale, durante l'annata 1966-67, sulla casola preantesi delle gemme nelle seguenti cultivar di pesco da industria: Coronet, Dixired, Elberta, Fairhaven, Fortuna, Halehaven, J. H. Hale, July Elberta, Percoca, Redhaven, Southland, Starking Delicious, Triogem e Vesuvio. Per ciascuna cultivar  stata rilevata l'entit della cascola preantesi delle gemme ed  stato seguito l'andamento della fioritura mediante la registrazione delle sue fasi principali. Inoltre sono stati rilevati i dati relativi alle temperature verificatesi nel periodo Novembre-Febbraio del 1966-67. Delle cultivar considerate, soltanto la Redhaven, l' Elberta, la Halehaven e la Vesuvio hanno presentato una cascola preantesi delle gemme superiore al 30%, mentre i valori minimo e massimo sono stati registrati, rispettivamente sulla Fairhaven con l'11,44% e sulla Vesuvio col 44,31%. The Author refers about some researches carried out in South center Sardinia during the years 1966-1967, on the bud-falling of the following peach varieties: "Coronet", "Dixired", "Elberta", "Fairhaven", "Fortuna", "Halehaven", "J. H. Hale", "July Elberta", "Percoca", "Redhaven", "Southland", "Starking Delicious", "Triogem" and "Vesuvio". The percentage of pre-blossoming bud failure and the time of flowering was determined for the above mentioned varieties. The thermometrical data for the period November 1966 -February 1967 were also recorded. Only in "Redhaven", "Elberta", "Halehaven" and "Vesuvio" varieties the bud-falling percentage was greater than 30%, while the highest and lowest values (11,44% and 44,31%) was recorded for "Fairhaven" and "Vesuvio" respectively.
42874782|Si descrive la tecnica della coltura degli embrioni di pesco come  applicata nel programma di miglioramento genetico dell'Universit del New Jersey.  noto che le cultivar precoci di pesco non riescono a completare il processo di maturazione del seme prima della raccolta dei frutti. La coltura dei semi immaturi  praticamente impossibile in terra e si rende necessario l'uso di un substrato artificiale. I migliori risultati si ottengono con frutti raccolti 75-80 giorni dopo la piena fioritura. Operando in ambiente il pi possibile asettico si estrae il seme dal nocciolo. Liberato dei tegumenti, l'embrione si semina in substrato nutritivo agarizzato in un tubo di vetro. Dopo un periodo di ibernazione di 5 mesi in frigorifero ad 1C, gli embrioni si fanno germogliare a 15-16C. Si trapianta poi in vaso dove le piantine vengono lasciate fino al momento del trapianto in campo. The embryculture technique, used for peach breeding at the New Jersey State University, is described. Early ripening peach do not complete seed formation before than fruit ripes. Unripe seeds are almost impossible to germinate in the ground. An artificial mean is necessary. Bestresults have been obtained with fruits picked 75-80 days after full blooming. Embryos pulled out from stones as aseptically as possible are dipped, free from the seed coats, in a nutrient agar substratum in a glass tube. After a period of five months in cold storage at +1C, the embryos are put at 15-16C for germination. After germination the young plants are grown in pots till the transplanting to the field.
42874786|Le ricerche sono state impostate su cinque distinte tesi: 1) Controllo; 2) Trattamento delle talee con acqua di fonte; 3) Trattamento delle talee con IBA a 2000 ppm; 4) Trattamento delle talee con IBA a 4000 ppm; 5) Trattamento delle talee con Acido 2,4,5 Tricolorofenossiacetico a 1000 ppm. Mantenendo a 20C la temperatura del substrato di radicazione si  potuto accertare che l'Acido Indolbutirrico, alla concentrazione di 2000 ppm, provoca l'emissione di una notevole quantit di radici, ampiamente dimostrata da una percentuale di talee radicate pari al 73,3%. Pure positiva rispetto al Controllo  stata l'azione dell'IBA a 4000 ppm, che ha indotto una percentuale di radicazione pari al 60%. Sempre rispetto al Controllo, si  manifestata una riduzione della radicazione, sia nella tesi trattata con acqua di fonte che in quella trattata con Acido 2,4,5 Triclorofenossiacetico. The researches have been planned on five distinct treatments: 1) Control; 2) Cuttings treatment with spring water; 3) Cuttings treatment with IBA at 2.000 ppm; 4) Cuttings treatment with IBA at 4.000 ppm; 5) Cuttings treatment with 2,4,5 Trichlorophenoxyacetic acid at 1.000 ppm. Keeping the temperature of the rooting substratum at 20C it has been ascertained that the Indolbutyrric acid, at 2.000 ppm, issues a large quantity of roots, greatly showed by a deep rooted cutting percentage equivalent to the 73,3%. Also the rooting percentage of the cuttings treated with IBA at 4.000 ppm (60%) has been positive as to the Control. Still as regard to the Control it has been observed a decrease of the rooting either in the treatment with spring water or in that with 2,4,5, Trichlorophenoxyacetic acid.
42874787|Gli AA. descrivono un nuovo ibrido di Philodendron denominato tergestum, ottenuto per incrocio artificiale tra i Ph. imbe  Ph. verrucosum. La nuova entit presenta caratteri morfologici propri, i quali, tuttavia denotano la loro derivazione dai genitori sopra citati. The autours describe the new hybride of Philodendron called tergestum obtained by artificial breeding between the Th. imbe  Ph. verrucosum. The new botanical unit has its own morfological caracters allthough it recalls those of its parents.
42874788|Vengono descritte delle maculature fogliari della Lattuga causate da Ps. cichorii (Swingle) Stapp e da X. vitians (Brown) Dow. Il primo batterio, che attacca anche la Scarola, provoca macchie necrotiche circolari, spesso a zonature concentriche, che possono assumere anche una estension notevole, divenendo, in questo caso, irregolari nella forma; il secondo provoca macchie pi piccole, di colore pi scuro e a margini ben netti. I due patogeni sono stati identificati con osservazioni sui caratteri morfologici, colturali e biochimici. Le inoculazioni effettuate su piantine di Lattuga sono state positive. Leaf-spots of Lettuce caused by Pseudomonas cichorii (Swingle) Stapp and Xanthomonas vitians (Brown) Dow. are described. The former, pathogenic on Endive also, causes round brown spots, often zonate, that can enlarge and become irregular in shape; the latter causes smaller, round and darker spots, with a clear edge. The pathogens were identified through the usual observation on their morphology, cultural characters and biochemical reactions. The pathogeneticity tests on Lettuce-seedlings were succesful.
42874789|Su tre cultivar di pomodoro da mensa ("Supermarmande", "Nunhem's Tuckqueen" e "Moneymaker") coltivate in serra,  stata studiata l'influenza di trattamenti vibranti alle infiorescenze, effettuati a giorni alterni con vibratore manuale, in paragone a trattamenti decadici con acido indol-3-propionico alla concentrazione di 30 p.p.m., al fine di favorire l'allegagione dei frutti. In tutte e tre le cultivar il trattamento con vibratore ha determinato maggiore peso medio delle bacche, minore proporzione di bacche partenocarpiche e pi elevato numero di semi per bacca. Per quanto riguarda la produzione di bacche commerciabili, incremento significativo, sia rispetto al controllo sia rispetto al trattamento con AIP, si  riscontrato nelle cv. "Nunhem's Tuckqueen" e "Moneymaker", nelle quali il trattamento con vibratore ha indotto anche maggiore precocit di maturazione. On three cultivars of tomato ("Supermarmande", "Nunhem's Tuckqueen" and "Moneymaker") grown under glass, the influence of treatments, carried out on alternate days with manual vibrator on flower-clusters, has been studied in comparison with three days treatments with 30 p.p.m. indol-3-propionic acid as to promote the fruit-setting. The treatment with vibrator has produced, in all three cultivars, higher average weight of the fruits, lower proportion of parthenocarpic fruits and higher number of seed/fruit. As for the marketable fruits yield, significant increase, as regard both test and AIP treatment, has been found in the cultivars Nunhem's Tuckqueen and Moneymaker, in which the vibrator has induced a greater earliness of ripening.
42874758|Lo studio pone in luce alcuni aspetti del mercato ortofrutticolo austriaco e, in special modo, l'accoglienza riservata al prodotto italiano. Rilevate le particolari esigenze degli operatori e dei consumatori di quel Paese, vengono esposti i lati positivi e quelli negativi delle esportazioni italiane, messe a diretto confronto con quelle della concorrenza. Lo studio giunge alla conclusione affermando la necessit di adeguare le forniture, soprattutto in fase di produzione, alle esigenze del mercato austriaco, al fine di conservare la posizione, che l'Italia vi occupa.
42874760|Allo scopo di portare un contributo alla interpretazione dei rapporti esistenti negli innesti di pero/cotogno, l'Autore ha condotto una ricerca per mezzo delle colture in vitro su associazioni fra tessuto cambiale di cotogno e tessuto cambiale di diverse variet di pero pi o meno affini. In tutte le unioni pero/cotogno esaminate, sono state ottenute proliferazioni abbondanti che hanno dimostrato l'assenza di influenza negativa di ciascun componente sull'altro. L'esame microscopico del callo di giunzione ha messo in evidenza che esiste una possibilit di continuit per ciascuna associazione. A livello anatomico, anche nelle unioni incompatibili, non esiste quindi inibizione locale; ci dimostra che le eventuali sostanze letali che si accumulano nel cambio e nel floema lungo la linea di unione degli innesti incompatibili, sono in scarsa quantit, dato che in vitro si esauriscono presto. In order to contribute to the interpretation of the relations existing in pear/quince grafts, a research was made, by means of cultures in vitro, on cambial tissue union of more or less compatible pear varieties associated with quince cambial tissue. In all pear/quince unions abundant proliferations were obtained, no component showing to have a negative influence upon the other. Microscopically the observation of joining callus proved that a possibility of an intimate continuity exists in all the unions considered. At the anatomical level no local inhibition can be demonstrated even in horticulturally incompatible unions, which proves that eventual lethal substances which accumulate in the cambium and the phloem near the unions of incompatible grafts, are scarce as in vitro they are soon exhausted.
42874761|In un pereto di Passa Crassane con scarsa allegagione vennero effettuati trattamenti con acido gibberellico a 15 e 20 parti per milione. Il frutteto venne colpito da una brinata dopo una settimana circa; ma gli alberi trattati ebbero salva una parte rilevante del raccolto. Trattamenti eseguiti dopo la brina con acido gibberellico a 25 parti per milione diedero risultati meno buoni; tuttavia fecero realizzare produzioni di 100 ql e pi per ha superiori a quelle di alberi non trattati. Eseguendo un trattamento prima della brina e un altro dopo la brina si ottennero produzioni quasi normali. L'utilit dell'acido gibberellico sule piante colpite da brina  chiaramente dimostrata. Tuttavia si ritiene necessario valutare l'effetto dell'acido gibberellico sulla fioritura dell'anno successivo prima di consigliarne un uso veramente esteso. Gibberellic acid at 15 and 20 p.p.m. was applied in a lowly setting Passa Crassane pear orchard. A severe frost hit the orchard after ten days; however sprayed trees carried a good crop in comparison with unsprayed trees. Trees sprayed with 25 p.p.m. after frost averaged a smaller crop, still they carried 100 and more q/for hectar than unsprayed trees. Spraying before and after frost resulted in a normal crop. Gibberellic acid is very efficient against frost damages; still a control of its effects on flowering during the next season is necessary before recommending it.
42874762|Riportata, nelle sue linee generali, la metodologia attuata nella propagazione in vitro dei meristemi apicali di Cymbidium, gli AA. riferiscono i risultati di alcune esperienze relative alle fasi pi importanti della tecnica. Si conclude che il prelievo degli apici si pu effettuare sia su pseudobulbi vegetanti, come pure su retrobulbi (back-bulb); la prima fase della coltura  realizzata con successo in terreno nutritivo liquido e sottoposto ad agitazione, mentre le fasi successive alla formazione dei protocormi si svolgono bene in soluzione nutritiva liquida ma non agitata. Lo sviluppo delle plantule infine  migliore su substrati agarizzati ed a pi elevata concentrazione ionica. The A. A. refers on some experiments carried out on meristem culture of Cymbidium. Differences depending from the source of material (bulb and backbulb), the medium (solid or liquid) the effect of shaking and medium composition have been examined. The results point out that no difference can be found between bulb and back-bulb. The liquid medium associated with shaking 2 r.p.m. induced higher increase in apex growth with respect to the control. The influence of shaking is not any more significant after protocorm formation. The Knudson C medium enriched in mineral salts gave best results.
42874763|Nella zona di Pescia (Pistoia),  stata effettuata una esperienza di lotta contro Uromyces caryophyllinus (Sehr.) Wint. La prova si  svolta su 56 parcelle di terreno, delle dimensioni di m 1  4, in ciascuna delle quali sono state poste a dimora 100 piante di Garofano della cv. " Valia ", molto suscettibile alla malattia. Seguendo lo schema del blocco randomizzato, le 56 parcelle sono state poi suddivise in 4 blocchi, che sono stati utilizzati per 13 diversi tipi di anticrittogamici ed un testimone. L'esperienza si  protratta dal 25 aprile al 6 novembre 1967 e nel corso di essa sono stati effettuati 18 trattamenti. Al termine dalla prova un controllo statistico sulle infezioni riscontrate nelle diverse tesi ha messo in evidenza che i formulati a base di Zineb, Zineb e Maneb, di propilen-bis-ditiocarbammato di zinco, di Zineb pi solfo colloidale, di Ziram, di Zineb e Ziram, di Zineb pi etilen-tiuramemonosolfuro, di Zineb pi bis-dimetil-ditiocarbamile, di Captano, di Dodina, di Maneb pi T.M.T.D. ed altre sostanze, nonch di un prodotto sperimentale siglato RH 539, impiegati tutti in dosi variabili dallo 0,15 allo 0,3%, hanno dato dei risultati altamente significativi rispetto al testimone, ma non significativi tra loro. Un formulato a base di T.M.T.D., impiegato in dosi dello 0,3%. ha fornito risultati altamente significativi rispetto al testimone, ma significativamente inferiori rispetto a tutti i precedenti prodotti. Nel complesso le infezioni di ruggine sono state modeste anche sul testimone, la cui produzione di fiori  stata tra le pi elevate. Produzioni alquanto inferiori e tali da far sospettare una certa fitotossicit, sono state invece ottenute nelle parcelle trattate con alcuni prodotti ed in particolare con lo Ziram e con il prodotto sperimentale RH 539. In the Pescia (Tuscany) district, control tests against Uromyces caryophyllinus (Sehr.) Wint. are made. The tests have been effected on 56 plots, 14 m, and each 100 plants of Carnation of cv. "Valia", very susceptible to the disease, have been planted. Following the scheme of a randomized block, the 56 plots have been devided in 4 blocks which have been used for 13 different types of fungicides and one check. The tests lasted from April to November 1967, and in this period 18 treatments have been made. At the end of the trial a statistical evalutation of the infection found in the different theses as shown that the fungicides containing Zineb, Zineb-Maneb, Zincpropilenebisdithiocarbamate, Zineb plus colloidal sulphur, Ziram, Zineb-Ziram, Zineb plus etylenetiuramemonosolfide, Zineb plus bisdimetylditiocarbamyle, Captan, Dodine, Maneb plus TMTD and other products and an experimental product indicated as RH 539, have given highly significant results in comparision with the check, but not significant between themselves. All these fungicides have been used in different percentages from 0,15 to 0,30%. A product with TMTD, used at 0,30%, has given highly significant results in regard to the check, but significantly lower with regard to all the other products. In the whole the infection of the rust have been scarse also on the check, which had an high production of flowers. Somewhat lower production have been instead obtained in the plots treated with some of the products and particularly with Ziram and with RH 539. It is possible that these results may be due to a certain degree of phytotoxicity.
42874794|A new cleft grafting technique suitable for walnut in nursery. A new cleft grafting technique has been devised which is suitable for nursery grown walnuts. In order to ensure a fairly high average temperature (18-20C) and a minimum temperature of 10C, this being the range of temperature necessary for a successful take, the grafting period has been delayed until the second half of May. Consequently cold storage of stocks and scions is necessary and this is done at 2C with nearly saturated relative humidity. In this way we have obtained an average take of 81,7% out of 480 plants of Juglans regia and J. nigra grafted with different varieties. We retain, however that this percentage of successful takes could have been higher had all tha scions been of choice quality. To obtain good results : 1 the seedling must be treated in such a way as to give it extensive roots; 2 the scions must be well hardened and ripened; 3 special care must be taken to keep the plants in the shade in the first period after grafting; 4 injury from valnut blight in late autumn must be avoided.
42874795|Gli AA. hanno indagato circa l'influenza di alcune formule di A.C. refrigerata (+ 1,5C), del polietilene e della defogliazione del gambo sulla conservazione del carciofo cv. " Spinoso Sardo " (commerciabilit dei capolini, imbrunimento delle brattee interne, sviluppo della pelosit del ricettacolo, calo peso). La A.C. in tutte tre le sue formulazioni ha fornito risultati estremamente positivi rispetto alla conservazione refrigerata tradizionale. Ottimi risultati, soprattutto per quanto riguarda il calo peso, ha fornito l'imballaggio in sacchetti di polietilene forato, mentre la sfogliatura dei gambi limita la sua influenza alla sola commerciabilit. The AA. have been searched into the influence of some refrigerated (1,5C.) controlled atmosphere formulas, of polyethylene and of the stem defoliation on the storage of globe artichoke (markettability of the flower heads, darkening of the internal bracts, development of the hairness in the receptacle, weight loss). The controlled atmosphere in all the three formulations produced excellent results compared with the common cold storage system. Very good results, especially regarding the weight loss, have been reached with perforated polyethylene bags. The influence of the stem defoliation is limited to the marketability.
42874796|Piante di fragola frigoconservate di 22 cvs.: " Ambrosia ", " Armore ", " Asieta ", " Belle et Bonne ", " C. Favourite ", " C. Vigour ", " Empire ", " Fairfax ", " Fresno ", " Gorella ", " Lassen ", " Lihama ", " Oranda ", " S. Dunlap ", " S. Sengana ", " Shasta ", " Solana ", " Surprise des Halles ", " Tioga ", " Torrey ", "Vermillion ", " Vigerla ", vennero piantate a Cesena, in un terreno fumigato e pacciamato, in tre date differenti: 15-6-1966; 6-7-1966; 27-7-1966.  stato usato un blocco randomizzato a parcelle suddivise con quattro ripetizioni e parcelle di 20 piante. Le osservazioni sono state condotte per 2 anni: 1967 e 1968. Nel 1967 le piante poste a dimora il 15-6-1966 hanno fornito la produzione pi alta, anche la produzione totale (1967 + 1968)  stata la pi alta. La cv. " Surprise Des Halles "  stata la cv. pi interessante fra quelle a maturazione precoce; " C. Favourite ", " Lassen " e " Torrey " fra quelle a media maturazione. Sulla scorta dei risultati si pu consigliare la coltura biennale. Cold stored runners of 22 strawberry varieties : " Ambrosia ", " Armore ", " Asieta ", " Belle et Bonne ", " C. Favourite ", " C. Vigour ", " Empire ", " Fairfax ", " Fresno ", " Gorella ", " Lassen ", " Lihama ", " Oranda ", " S. Dunlap ", " S. Sengana ", " Shasta ", " Solana ", " Surprise des Halles ", " Tioga ", " Torrey ", " Vermillion ", " Vigerla ", were planted in Cesena (Po Valley) in a fumigated, plastic mulched field in three different times; 6-15-1966; 7-6-1966; 7-27-1966. A split-plot design with four replications and 20 plants plot was used. Observations were conducted for two years: 1967 and 1968. In 1967 the runners planted the 6-15-1966 had the highest crop, also the total crop (1967 + 1968) was highest in runners planted the 6-15-1966. " Surprise des Halles " appears the most interesting early ripening variety; " C. Favourite ", " Lassen "and " Torrey " the most interesting mid-season varieties. A two years culture may be recommanded.
42874797|L'A. riferisce i risultati di una ricerca rivolta a studiare l'influenza che l'epoca di semina e la variet esercitano sulle rese e sul calendario di produzione della zucchina (Cucurbita pepo L.) coltivata in ciclo autunnovernino-primaverile, sia in serra fredda che in pien'aria. La copertura con film di PVC, senza ausilio di riscaldamento, si  dimostrata idonea ai fini del conseguimento di un efficace condizionamento termico, per effetto del quale, la precocit e le rese sono state molto pi elevate in confronto al testimone in pien'aria. Fra le tre epoche di semina serimentate (3 novembre, 28 novembre e 20 dicembre), quella intermedia ha offerto i migliori risultati. Tra i 7 tipi posti allo studio, l'ibrido F " Diamant Clause " ha manifestato in senso assoluto la migliore adattabilit alle condizioni ambientali, sia per precocit che per produttivit, per effetto delle positive interazioni con gli altri fattori sperimentati. The Author reports the results of research dedicated to studying the influence that the sowing date and the variety have on the yield and production calendar of the vegetable marrow (Cucurbita pepo L.) cultivated in an autumn-winter-spring cycle, both in unheated greenhouses and in the open air. A covering of PVC film, without auxiliary heating, proved to be suitable in achieving an efficacious temperature; as a result, the precocity and the yields were greatly superior to those resulting from cultivation in the open air. Out of the three sowing dates experimented (November 3rd., November 28th. and December 20th.), the intermediary one produced the best results. Among the 7 varieties subjected to study, the Hybrid F " Diamant Clause " showed absolutely the best adaptability to the environmental conditions, both regarding precocity and productivity, as a result of the positive interactions with the other factors experimented.
42874798|Sono state messe a confronto le tecniche correnti di imbianchimento del cardo e del sedano con altre comprendenti l'impiego di materiali plastici di varia natura, rilevando le variazioni qualitative in zuccheri, clorofilla, sostanza secca e rendimento produttivo. In una prima prova  stata esaminata la copertura completa delle piante con film plastici. Dato l'andamento termico esterno assai elevato gi a due settimane dalla copertura l'imbianchimento sotto queste protezioni era in uno stadio avanzato sia nel cardo che nel sedano. Quindi, se da un lato la copertura completa  apparsa positiva nell'abbreviare il periodo di imbianchimento, si sono avuti ingenti processi degradativi a causa dell'elevata temperatura raggiunta all'interno delle protezioni. Per questi motivi nell'impostare la seconda prova si sono attuate delle coperture parziali lasciando all'esterno la parte terminale delle foglie, consentendo quindi una maggiore aereazione. Tale tipo di copertura ha dato risultati pi soddisfacenti, permettendo altres di contenere le perdite in zuccheri solubili, amido, sostanza secca e di aumentare il rendimento produttivo. Nel cardo in particolare  stato notato come le piante diritte danno un prodotto che si presenta migliore e che si adatta meglio al confezionamento senza le frequenti rotture dei piccioli foliari presenti nei cardi piegati. L'analisi qualitativa ha messo in evidenza che esiste per il contenuto in zuccheri un gradiente positivo a partire dai piccioli esterni verso quelli interni e dalla parte apicale verso quella basale dei piccioli stessi (fg. 6). Whitening trials on cardoon and celery were used in the employement of plastic material for sugar, clorophyll content, dry matter and yeld compared with some other methods. In the first trial the complete covering of plants with plastic material was tested. Two weeks after the covering the whitening was noticed because of the warm climate outside (middle of October). Such condition was suitable for whitening while full covering caused an high temperature inside and therefore plants suffered. In the second trial, in way to avoid the above mentioned damages a partial covering was used either for cardoon or celery leaving outside the end-leaves. Better results were obtained using the above method; soluble sugar, stark content, dry matter and yeld were increased comparing the first trial. Sugar content increases from outside stems towards inside ones and from stems to basal ones.
42874799|Vengono riferiti i risultati ottenuti in una prova sperimentale di vernalizzazione su Lilium regale. Dal confronto dei bulbi sottoposti a basse temperature, con e senza trattamento preliminare in cella termostatica, per periodi di diversa durata e, quindi, posti a vegetare in serra riscaldata, gli AA. hanno rilevato che tutti i trattamenti, nei confronti del testimonio, hanno reso pi rapido il processo di germogliazione e di fioritura. Se, tuttavia, il tempo di germogliazione e di fioritura viene computato dall'inizio della prova, periodo di vernalizzazione compreso, esso risulta pi breve per i bulbi non trattati. Sotto questo profilo sembrerebbe, dunque, possibile raggiungere i migliori risultati semplicemente con la forzatura dei bulbi nelle condizioni di temperatura ed umidit ottenute in serra. The results obtained during the vernalization test on Lilium regale are referred. The tested bulbs were held at low temperature. A part of them suffered a previous treatment in the termostatic cell during different times. All the bulbs were then put in the greenhouse in order to vegetate. All the treatment hastened the germination and the flowering. Including, however, the vernalization in the time required for germination and flowering, the results change. The shortest time is obtained just forcing the bulbs in the temperature and humidity conditions of the greenhouse.
42874800|Da foglie di cetriolo della cv. " Marketer ", presentanti maculature di tipo internervale e paranervale di varia estensione,  stato isolato nella primavera 1967 un batterio di cui  stata accertata la patogenicit, mediante inoculazione artificiale su foglie e frutti. Dalla sindrome riscontrata sulle piante colpite, che erano allevate in una serra del litorale riminese (Forli) e dagli esiti dell'esame microbiologico si ritiene corretto riferire il parassita a Pseudomonas lachrymans (Smith et Bryan) Carsner. From Cucumber leaves of the cv. " Marketer " with variously extending internerval and paranerval spotting a bacterium was isolated in Spring 1967. We have ascertained its pathogenicity through artificial inoculation on leaves and fruits of Cucumber. From the symptoms observed on the diseased plants, which were grown in greenhouses of the Riminese coast-line (Forli), and from the results of the microbiological examination, it appears correct to refer the parasite to Pseudomonas lachrymans (Smith et Bryan) Carsner.
42874932|Osservazioni sono state effettuate per cinque anni, su 120 combinazioni di innesto e di sovrinnesto del pero su cotogno A. Sono stati presi in considerazione i caratteri vegetativi e produttivi con riguardo anche alle caratteristiche pomologiche dei frutti. I numerosi rilievi effettuati hanno permesso di giungere alle seguenti conclusioni: a) il sovrinnesto pu essere conveniente oltre che per le cultivar disaffini con il cotogno anche per quelle cultivar che, pur essendo innestate su tale portinnesto, presentano una eccessiva vigoria o ritardano nel mettersi a frutto; b) si raggiungono i migliori risultati quando le piante ottenute con il sovrinnesto presentano uno sviluppo ben equilibrato, ci che non sempre  attuabile se si utilizzano intermediari molto vigorosi o molto deboli; c) si deve in ogni caso tener presente che l'effetto dei vari intermediari non  costante per tutte le combinazioni di sovrainnesto, ma varia a seconda delle cultivar. Preliminary report on 120 doubleworking combinations of pear trees on quince A. Ten pear varieties directly worked on quince A or doubleworked each with twelve different intermediates, have been observed during a five years period. Observations have been done on the vegetative behaviour of the trees, and on their performance in relation to the fruiting habit. The following conclusions have been reached: a) Doubleworking is convenient not only to overcome the incompatibility that affects some varieties directly worked on the quince, but also in the case of those varieties that, on this rootstock, are too vigorous or delay their bearing ability. b) - the best results are reached when doubleworked trees show a well distributed development of the different branches or shoots. c) - the effect of the different intermediate is not constant, greatly varying with the variety worked on it.
42874933|Nel 1967 sono state condotte quattro prove di radicazione, a mezzo  mist , sulle due cultivar di Susino " Florentia " e " Methley ". Le talee della prima prova (7 marzo) ricavate dai rami di un anno, trattate con IBA a 5.000 p.p.m. e poste in camera di nebulizzazione prima della ripresa vegetativa, hanno germogliato e radicato con una certa prontezza. Le prove successive, condotte su talee erbacee e semilegnose, hanno posto in evidenza la possibilit di propagare convenientemente le due cultivar di Susino, prelevando le talee alla met di giugno e trattandole con IBA a 3.000 p.p.m.; la sopravvivenza delle barbatelle ottenute, in questo periodo, ha raggiunto l'80%. Mist propagation by herbaceous, softwood and hardwood cuttings of two plumtree cultivars. In 1967, four of tests of rooting, on two plum-tree cultivars : " Florentia " and " Methley ", by mist propagation, were carried out. In the first test (7th March), the cuttings, taken away from branches 1-year old before the bud sprouting, treated by IBA 5000 p.p.m. and brought into a mist chamber, sprouted and rooted rather quickly. The following tests, carried out on herbaceous and softwood cuttings, showed that it is possible and advantageous to propagate the two plum-tree cultivars tested, by taking away the cuttings by the middle of June and employing IBA 3000 p.p.m. as a rooting treatment. The rooted cuttings, now, are surviving at a percentage of about 80%.
42874934|Gli AA. hanno studiato il ritmo di accrescimento, le caratteristiche morfologiche e la composizione della radice in 10 variet di carota (Daucus carota L.) coltivate in ciclo autunno-vernino-primaverile, allo scopo di individuare, attraverso indici biometrici e biochimici, l'intervallo entro il quale la radice raggiunge condizioni ottimali di maturit. L'epoca di raccolta, atta ad assicurare con adeguate rese la migliore qualit del prodotto,  risultata compresa fra 185 e 200 giorni dalla semina. Nel particolare ciclo colturale in cui le esperienze sono state condotte, l' " Ibrida n. 65 "  apparsa la variet pi consigliabile per capacit produttiva e per contenuto in  -carotene. Growth, morphologic characteristics and composition of the root in different varieties of carrot (Daucus carota L.) cultivated in autumn-winter-spring cycle. The growth, the morphologic characteristics and the composition of the root in 10 varieties of carrot (Daucus carota L.) cultivated in autumn-winter-spring cycle, in order to characterize, by means of biometrie and biochemical indexes, the interval between which the root reaches excellent conditions of ripeness have been studied. The harvest-time, suitable for giving adequate yield and the best quality of the product, has included from 185 to 200 days from the sowing. "Ibrida n. 65" has appeared to be the variety more suitable for productive capacity and for content in -carotene in the peculiar cultural cycle in which the experiments have been carried out.
42874935|Vengono riferiti i risultati riguardanti la conservazione del gladiolo cv. " Spie e Span ", in atmosfera controllata di tipo abiologico usando cabine a refrigerazione indiretta a temperatura di 1,5C ed U.R. del 90/98%. L'esito delle prove  stato valutato periodicamente in 4 tempi successivi su campioni di 20 fiori, valutando le variazioni ponderali e l'aspetto generale dei fiori.  stato inoltre effettuato il conteggio dei boccioli aperti, dischiusi e di quelli appassiti. I risultati migliori sono stati forniti dalle combinazioni di A.C.: 5% CO -3% O; 10% Co -3% O. La durata massima accertata di conservazione  stata di 25 giorni, ma non  consigliabile superare i 15-18 giorni per ottenere una buona apertura dei boccioli. La CO alla concentrazione del 20% ha causato danni permanenti con decolorazione dei petali. Tanto i bassi tenori di O (1%) che quelli alti (8-13%) non danno buoni risultati. The controlled atmosphere on the storage of Gladiolus " Spie and Span ". Results on the possibility to prolong the life of cut flower (Gladiolus " Spie and Span ") are reported. The experiments have been carried out in refrigetator chambers at 1,5C, 90-98% relative humidity in controlled atmosphere. Longest storage period were fixed on 25 days, however it is not advisable to exceed 15-18 days for having a good flower opening. The best conbinations of O and CO gas mixtures to be used in the refrigerator chamber were 3%-5%, 3%-10%. CO concentration at the 20% level caused flowers decoloration. Low (1%) and high (8-13%) O level it is not favorable.
42874936|Si riportano i risultati delle indagini relative ad alcune fasi della tecnica di propagazione per coltura di apici vegetativi di garofano. Per quanto concerne i substrati gli AA. hanno notato una elevata percentuale di attecchimento degli apici sul mezzo formulato da Murashige e Skoog (29%). La bassa percentuale di attecchimento osservata sul substrato di Morel (3%) pu essere elevata a livelli superiori (7%) se si impiega il mezzo liquido. Sempre nel caso in cui si ottenga un numero ridotto di plantule, si pu procedere ad una loro rapida propagazione mediante la tecnica del taleaggio in vitro. Gli AA. infine riportano i risultati dei saggi su specie indicatrice per l'accertamento dell'infezione virale. The AA. refer on some results relative to the tecnique of carnation apex culture. The different medium composition, the cutting of the young plants and virus assay have been considered. Murashige and Skoog medium gave the highest percentage of plants (29%) whereas Morel the lowest (3%). Morel medium gave a higher percentage (7%) when used in liquid form. The number of the plants may be increased if they are cutted and put in a special medium for rooting. The virus assay although to be with caution may give reiable results if the plants are virus free from the most common virus.
42874937|Durante il periodo fine inverno-primavera del 1968 e del 1969 sono state osservate manifestazioni patologiche su gemme ed infiorescenze di peri in alcune localit italiane. Le manifestazioni della malattia erano rappresentate da:  imbrunimento e mancanza di schiusura di gemme,  necrosi pedicellari e peduncolari seguite da avvizzimento degli organi fiorali. Nell'analisi microbiologica del materiale raccolto si  constatata la presenza di pseudomonadi fluorescenti. La maggior parte degli isolati era riferibile a forme saprofite e solo alcune di esse sono state diagnosticate come tipi fitopatogeni della tassospecie Pseudomonas syringae. La mancanza di correlazione tra gli aspetti sintomatologici osservati nelle gemme e nelle infiorescenze e la presenza di Ps. syringae rende incerta l'eziologia delle alterazioni. Si discute la presenza di Ps. syringae come fattore patogenetico secondario. Diagnostic aspects of Pseudomonas syringae on pear trees. In pear-trees of some Italian countries during the 1968-69 Winter-Spring period, pathological symptoms on buds and inflorescences were observed. The main characteristics of the disease were:  browning and lack of opening of buds;  peduncles and pedicels necrosis followed by subseguent blight of flowers. The microbiological analysis of the available material showed the presence of fluorescent pseudomonads. Most of these isolates have been referred to saprophitic forms, while only a few have been recognized as pathogenic types of the Pseudomonas syringae taxospecies. The absence of a correlation between the Symptomatologie aspects observed in the inflorescences and in the buds, and the presence of Ps. syringae leads toward an uncertain ethiology of the alteration. The presence of Ps. syringae as secondary pathological factor is discussed.
42874938|Viene segnalata e descritta una maculatura necrotica delle foglie di cipolla osservata in Emilia e nelle regioni limitrofe, dovuta a Botrytis squamiosa Walker. Del patogeno vengono brevemente illustrati i caratteri morfologici dei conidiofori e dei conidi. Botrytis squamosa Walker on onion (Allium cepa). A new disease of onion caused by Botrytis squamosa Walker observed in Emilia and limitrophe regions is recorded and described for the first time. Differenzial morfological characters of conidiophores and conidia of the pathogen are also briefly described. Botrytis squamosa Walker sur l'oignon (Allium cepa). On signal et dcrit pour la premire fois en Italie une ncrose foliaire a taches ovalaire de l'oignon caus par Botrytis squamosa Walker. De ce champignon on a mit brivement en evidence les caractres morfologiques des conidiophores et des conidies.
42874816|In the first part of this paper, the physiological features concerning the ripening process are examined, with special reference to the eflects of the different harvesting times on the fruits quality. In the second part, the main picking and harvesting methods are reviewed, starting from the traditional method based on the use of ladders and baskets. The advantages of the bulk harvesting are then put in evidence, and the amount of labour required by the different harvesting diagrams are compared.
42874817|La attivit dell'acqua di vegetazione delle olive  stata valutata mediante una serie di test biologici comprendenti: germinazione (cocomero), accrescimento di radici ed ipocotili (cocomero), senescenza di porzioni di foglia (fagiolo ed orzo) ed abscissione (fagiolo, pomodoro e ciliegia). Sia la germinazione che l'accrescimento sono stati fortemente ridotti alle concentrazioni di 50 e 100 mg/ml. Questa inibizione  stata tuttavia temporanea giacch il materiale ha mostrato una ripresa dello sviluppo quando trasferito in substrati privi di acqua di vegetazione. La senescenza di porzioni fogliari, misurata come variazione del contenuto in clorofilla,  stata ritardata dai trattamenti con acqua di vegetazione. Tale ritardo  probabilmente da correlare alla presenza di zuccheri e sostanze minerali nel substrato. L'acqua di vegetazione  risultata molto attiva nel promuovere la abscissione tanto su espianti quanto in condizioni naturali. Spray fogliari (5 mg/ml) hanno causato una forte riduzione della resistenza al distacco in ciliegie acide (Montmorency). Sullo stesso materiale ma in condizioni di laboratorio, l'acqua di vegetazione ha mostrato una attivit crescente in proporzione alla et dei frutti. Risultati analoghi sono stati ottenuti anche su frutti di pomodoro. Quando l'acqua di vegetazione  stata cromatografata su carta con isopropanoloammoniaca-acqua (10-1-1 v/v) sono state ottenute due larghe zone di inibizione (misurata come sviluppo di coleoptili di grano) tra Rf 0,0 e 0,4 e tra Rf 0,5 e 0,9. The biological activity of a water soluble residue, derived from the extraction and separation of olive oil from olive fruit, was evaluated in number of bioassays including germination (cucumber), root and hypocotyl elongation (cucumber), leaf senescence (bean and oat) and petiole and fruit abscission (bean, tomato and cherry). Cucumber seed germination and elongation of the radicle and hypocotyl were significantly inhibited at concentrations of 50 and 100 mg/ml of the olive water fraction (OWF). This inhibition was transitory for seedlings recovered after being transferee to a growing medium in the absence if OWF. Leaf senescence was delayed, as indexed by loss of chlorophyll. The delay in senescence is probably related to the presence of sugars or minerals. The OWF is active in promoting the abscission in excised and intact systems. Foliar sprays (5 mg/ml) on sour cherry (Prunus cerasus L.) resulted in a 35% reduction of fruit removal force within 9 days. Greater abscission activity was found in old (62% reduction of fruit removal force) than in young (16% reduction) cherry fruit expiants. Similar results were found for tomato fruit expiants. When the crude OWF was chromatographed on paper using isopropanol-ammonia-water (10-1-1 v/v) as the developing solvent, two broad areas of inhibition (elongation of wheat coleoptile segments) were noted; one at Rf 0,0-0,4 and the other at Rf 0,5-0,9.
42874818|Gli AA. studiano razione del B-995 a 2000 p. p. m. irrorato 2 o 3 volte alla distanza di 15 giorni a partire dalla terza decade di maggio sul Prunus sinensis cv. alba. Le prove dimostrano che il B-995 riduce lo sviluppo e la variabilit delle lunghezze dei rami della pianta, riduce la superficie delle foglie, aumenta il numero di nodi per unit di misura, aumenta l'intensit di fioritura e diminuisce lo sviluppo dei germogli all'ascella dei fiori durante la forzatura. Le prove comportano anche l'azione di due differenti periodi di freddo durante la dormienza delle piante sulla intensit della fioritura e del germogliamento. On Prunus sinensis cv. alba, respectively two and three 2000 p.p.m. B-995 sprayings were applied at fortnight intervals since 24 May 1967. Sprayings retarded branch development and reduced variation in branch lenght. Leaf surface was reduced while node number for unity of lenght was increased, and flowering rate waspromoted. During flower forcing a check effect on shoots growth at flower axils was noticed. Observations are reported also on the effect of two different periods of cold during dormancy onflowering rate and sprouting. Les AA. tudent l'action du B-995 sur le Prunus sinensis cv. alba. La pulverisation au niveau de principe actif de 2000 p. p. m. a t applique deux ou trois fois tous les quinze jours ds la dernire semaine de mai. Les essais dmontrent que le B-995 a rduit l'longation des axes vgtatifs, la variabilit des longuers des rameaux et le limbe des feuilles. Le B-995 provoque aussi une augmentation du nombre de neuds par unit de mesure et du taux de fleuraison, ainsi qu'une rduction de la pousse des bourgeons axillaires pendant le forage. De plus, les essais tudent le taux de fleuraison et de pousse par suite de l'application de deux diffrents priodes de froid aux plantes en dormance.
42874819|Durante il biennio 1967-68 sono state condotte ricerche su alberi di noce della cv. "Sorrento" per studiare il processo della differenziazione a fiore, in rapporto all'epoca della induzione antogena ed alle varie fasi della evoluzione morfologica delle gemme fiorifere maschili e femminili. Le indagini anatomiche sono state condotte su campioni di gemme prelevate ogni dieci giorni a partire dalla ripresa vegetativa fino all'autunno; le ricerche sull'epoca della induzione antogena sono state effettuate mediante defogliazioni scalari di intere branche. I risultati delle ricerche hanno messo in evidenza che : a) le prime manifestazioni morfologiche delladifferenziazione sono comparse per le infiorescenze maschili dopo 35-45 giorni dall'inizio della ripresa vegetativa e per quelle femminili dopo 125-135 giorni da tale fase fenologica; b) tra la ripresa vegetativa e l'epoca in cui l'induzione a fiore diviene irreversibile  intercorso un intervallo di 25-35 giorni per le infiorescenze mascili e di 115-125 giorni per quelle femminili. During 1967-68 anatomical and physiological researches have been carried out on flower bud development in the walnut (cv. " Sorrento "). Results have shown that: a) the first evidence of flower bud differentiation occurs 35-45 days after the beginning of growing for the maleand 125-135 days for the femaleflower buds; b) the floral induction becomes irreversible 25-35 days after the beginning of growth for the maleand 115-125 days for the female flower buds.
42874820|Investigations have bee carried out during 1967 and 1968 on the influence of differently coloured PVC tunnels (transparent, perforated-transparent, blue, violet) on the growth and the bearing of " Gorella " cv. The following features have been examined: blossoming and ripening times; average number of leaves and runners per plant, average leaf area, average production. In comparison with the uncovered plots, the transparent PVC protected plots have shown an earlier ripening time and an heavier bearing. The other differently coloured PVC tunnels gave the same or slightly better results in comparison with the transparent tunnels; the perforated transparent film is somewhat interesting since it does'nt require to be shifted during the warmest hours in the day. The blue and the violet tunnels gave the worst results, owing to the unsatisfactory compliance of the physiological requirements of the plants.
42874821|Si riportano i risultati relativi ad uno studio sull'influenza della temperatura e di alcuni altri  fattori  sulla germinazione e sull'allungamento dei budelli del polline di Nespolo del Giappone. Al di sopra di ogni altra interferenza, il  fattore  che  risultato esercitare l'influenza maggiore sulla germinazione  stato la temperatura; sull'allungamento dei budelli pollinici il tempo. Nel complesso, le germinazioni migliori sono state ottenute a partire da 6 ore con le temperature pi alte (25 C e 30C); con il substrato agarizzato e con la temperatura di 30C, germinazioni significaivamente elevate sono state ottenute anche dopo solo 2 ore. Per l'allungamento dei budelli pollinici, le condizioni migliori sono risultate invece essere un tempo lungo (24 ore), abbinato ad una temperatura intermedia (20C) ed al substrato liquido. La concentrazione di saccarosio (10, 15 e 20%), presa in considerazione solo per la germinazione, non  risultata esercitare alcuna influenza. The results of a study on the influence of temperature and some other factors on the germination and on the tube growth of loquat pollen are reported. Among the examined factors, temperature particularly influenced germination whereas time influenced tube growth. In general, the higest germinations were recorded after 6 hrs. at 25C and 30C. However, on the agar medium, significantly hig germinations were obtained already after 2 hrs. at 30C. The most favourable conditions for tube growth were obtained by combining long time exposures (24 hrs.) with intermediate temperatures (20C) and liquid media. Sugar concentrations (10, 15, 20%), taken into account only in relation to germination, did not exert any appreciable influence.
42874822|Nel corso del triennio 1966-1968  condotta una serie di osservazioni per determinare gli effetti esercitati dalla diversa tecnica colturale del terreno sull'evoluzione della vegetazione spontanea in un impianto di noccilo situato sull'Appennino Tosco-Romagnolo a circa 600 m.s.m. L'inerbimento sia totale sia a strisce ha favorito la diffusione nell'associazione floristica di alcune specie, in particolare graminacee, che possono considerarsi positive dal punto di vista agronomico. Questa tecnica colturale ha contemporaneamente determinato la riduzione o la scomparsa di alcune infestanti quali il Rubus fruticosus, la cui presenza  da considerarsi negativa agli effetti dell'inerbimento. Il diserbo con i disseccanti dipiridilici ha provocato la maggior diffusione di alcune specie ed in particolare del Rubus fruticosus, la cui presenza prospetta gravi inconvenienti di carattere tecnico. Nelle parcelle sottoposte a lavorazioni superficiali ripetute la flora spontanea ha subito profonde modificazioni. Sono rimaste soprattutto quelle specie caratterizzate da semi duri oppure da una disseminazione anemofila od entomofila. During 1966-1968 observations have been carried on a hazel-nut orchard on the appennines mountanin area. Results of these observations have shown the increase of some erbaceous species (barren brome grass, quack grass, ray grass, slender foxtail) by grassmulch and strip cultivation; moreover these tecniques have been the cause of the death of black berry shrub (Rubus fruticosus). Weed control with "Paraquat" caused the largest diffusion of some species, particularly black berry shrub: the presence of which point out a grave difficulty of technical nature. Surface cultivation provoked several modifications of spontaneous flora and only species by hard seed, anemophilous or insect transmission could survive.
42874823|Si esamina il comportamento di 8 cultivar di garofano durante la conservazione in atmosfera controllata, per verificare la possibilit di una applicazione pratica del sistema anche a quantit considerevoli di fiori. Si  adottata la formula di conservazione gi stabilita in precedenti prove come la pi adatta e cio: temperatura 0C, U.R. 90-98%, O 3%, CO 5%. Sono state impiegate quattro cultivar del gruppo SIM e quattro del gruppo  Mediterraneo  percomplessivi 8.000 garofani, utilizzando una cella di plastica (brevetto Bonomi) a refrigerazione indiretta. Le cultivar del gruppo SIM, si sono conservate con esito positivo per un periodo di 30-40 giorni,invece quelle del gruppo  Mediterraneo  hanno manifestato bassi limiti di conservazione ad eccezione della cv. " Andal ". The behaviour of 8 carnations cultivars during storage in controlled atmosphere are referred, and the possibility of a practice application of system also to large quantity of flowers are examined. The best formula of storage established in the preceding trials are employed: temperature 0C; R.H.90-98%, O 3%, CO 5%. Four cultivars of SIM group and four of " Mediterraneo " group, for 8.000 flowers amount are emploied, utilizing a store room of plastic (Brev. Bonomi) to indirect refrigeration. The cultivars of SIM group, are preserved very well, till to 30-40 days, on the contrary the cultivars of " Mediterraneo " group, lower limit of storage nave show except cultivar " Andal ".
42874945|L'Autore riferisce su una prova preliminare, effettuata su pompelmo, allo scopo di ridurre la taglia delle piante. I risultati compendiano un quinquennio di osservazioni su piante di pompelmo Duncan innestate su arancio amaro. In questo esperimento il portinnesto  stato piantato con una inclinazione rispetto al terreno di 45 circa, mentre la marza  stata allevata senza particolari costrizioni. Con tale sistema, adottando una densit di 5.000 piante per ettaro, si  raggiunto lo scopo di ridurre la taglia degli alberi, esaltando la loro produttivit, tanto che al quinto anno dall'impianto sono state raggiunte produzioni intorno ai 1.100 quintali per ettaro. The Author relates about a preliminary trial on a new method used for restricting trees to a small size. Researches have been carried out on the combination Sour orange-Duncan grapefruit. In 1963, the rootstocks (about 5000 per Ha) were planted with a 45 inclination, while the scions, budded onto them, have been straightly grown. Such inclination and density per unit area have remarkably dwarfed the trees. On the contrary, the production has not been negatively affected. In 1968, about 1.100 quintals of fruits per hectare were produced.
42874946|Vengono riferiti i risultati di alcune prove effettuate con trattamenti fogliari a base di Idrazide Maleica (1, 2 e 3) e di Cycocel (3%, 4% e 5%) su tre cultivar di fragola ("Cambridge Vigour", "Oranda" e "Surprise des Halles") allo scopo di controllarne la stolonizzazione. Dai rilievi effettuati sull'allungamento degli stoloni e sulla produttivit delle piante nell'anno successivo ai trattamenti  emerso che: 1) Entrambi i composti usati hanno quasi sempre esercitato una azione inibitrice sulla attivit stolonifera. Tale azione si  manifestata in misura diversa in relazione alle concentrazioni e alle cultivar saggiate 2) Quasi tutti i trattamenti hanno sensibilmente ridotto il numero degli stoloni secondari. 3) La lunghezza media degli internodi misurata sueli stoloni principali  apparsa minore soltanto nelle piante trattate con CCC. 4) Due trattamenti effettuati con MH al 2 e 3 sono risultati eccessivi deprimendo sia la vigoria che la produttivit delle piante. 5) Analogamente a quanto constatato sull'attivit vegetativa, anche la produttivit  variata sensibilmente con le cultivar e concentrazioni impiegate. 6) I migliori risultati sono stati conseguiti con le cultivar "Oranda" e "Cambridge Vigour" trattate con CCC al 3% e 4% e con MH allo 1. In order to inhibit runnering in strawberry, plants of "Cambridge vigour", "Oranda" and "Surprise des Halles" varieties were sprayed with Maleic hydrazide and Cycocel respectively at concentrations of 1, 2, 3 and 3%, 4%, 5%. The only MH was sprayed twice at 35 day interval. Results obtained in the same year of the application, as well as on yield of the following one, were : 1) Runner growth was well controlled in all varieties by both chemicals with the exception of " Surprise des Halles " which was weakly affected by CCC. 2) Secondary runner growth was always well controlled both in number and lenght. 3) CCC treated plants showed reduction of the internode lenght on the principal runners. 4) The highest concentrations of MH were depressing on vigour and productivity. 5) Yield was differently affected according to the concentrations and varieties. The best results were obtained with the "Oranda" and "Cambridge vigour" varieties treated with CCC at 3% and 4% and with MH at 1.
42874947|The effects of "Beurr Giffard", "Butirra precoce Morettini", "Starkrimson", "Dr Guyot", "Comice" and "Beurr Clairgeau" as intermediates for doubleworked pear varieties have been studied in relation to the specific rate of transpiration, to the total amount of transpiration and to the growth of four varieties ("Clapp's Favourite", "Anjou", "William" and "Kaiser") The main results have been as follows : 1) some intermediates, like "Beurr Giffard", reduced the rate of the specific transpiration of the different varieties, while others, like "Dr. Guyot", increased it; on the contrary, the total transpiration of each variety has been reduced or increased by the different intermediate ("Starkrimson" and "Butirra precoce Morettini" respectively). 2) tree growth of the different varieties has been modified by double-working, but no direct relationship exists between the rate of specific transpiration and growth, which are generally indipendent and modified in different directions by the intermediate stem-piece used; on the contrary, a positive correlation exists between the total transpiration and the growth of varieties; this correlation appears susceptible to be modified in the same direction by the same intermediate. Starting from these results, the Authors discuss the double-working practical application to regulate the growth and the water balance of some pear varieties as regards the ecological conditions were they are grown.
42874948|Germogli verticali di alberi di pesco, dell'et di 12 anni, sono stati sottoposti, il 20 di maggio 1969, ai seguenti trattamenti: (A) cimatura, (B) curvatura, (C) curvatura e cimatura. Un gruppo  stato lasciato intatto (D) come controllo. Dalle osservazioni compiute  emerso che i diversi trattamenti hanno influito: 1) sulla durata dell'accrescimento; 2) sulla lunghezza totale dei rami; 3) sulla formazione di germogli anticipati; 4) sulla velocit di accrescimento. La cimatura ha ridotto la durata dell'accrescimento e la lunghezza totale favorendo inoltre la formazione di germogli anticipati. La curvatura non ha esercitato alcun effetto sulla durata dell'accrescimento. Ha invece ridotto la lunghezza media totale dei rami ed ha impedito la formazione di anticipati. Nella tesi C l'effetto della cimatura, in rapporto alle formazioni anticipate,  stato in parte annullato dalla curvatura. Solo in rami particolarmente vigorosi, infatti, si  avuta la emissione di qualche germoglio anticipato. Vertical shoots of peach trees (12 years old) have been submitted to the following treatments: (A) tipping, (B) bending, (C) bending and tipping. One group has been left intact (D) as control. Results showed that the different treatments affected the duration and the speed of growth, the total lenght of the shoots, and the feather shoots formation. Tipping reduced the duration of growth and the total lenght of the shoots, and increased the feather shoots formation. Bending did'nt affect the duration of growth, reduced the total lenght of the shoots, preventing the feather schoots formation. The eflect of tipping on the formation of feather shoots has been hindered by the bending.
42874949|Gli AA riferiscono i risultati di alcune ricerche volte a studiare le possibilit offerte dalla tecnica del "riscaldamento basale" nella moltiplicazione del nocciolo per talea. Le prove, condotte sulle cv. "Gentile delle Langhe", "Nocchione", "Nocchia Rosa" e "Tonda Romana", hanno avuto un esito poco soddisfacente avendo le percentuali massime di radicazione raggiunto livelli non superiori al 25% nella cv. "Gentile delle Langhe" ed al 41% nella cv. "Nocchia Rosa". Tuttavia  stato possibile trarre alcune considerazioni di carattere orientativo quali ad es. l'inefficacia del solo trattamento termico, la probabile maggiore azione dell'NAA rispetto all'IBA, l'opportunit di usare a l'NAA concentrazioni superiori a quelle impiegate, ecc. Gli AA concludono che ulteriori approfondite indagini sono necessarie prima che tale tecnica possa esere eventualmente impiegata o definitivamente esclusa per la propagazione del nocciolo su scala vivaistica. Trials on hazel propagation by hardwood cuttings with bottom heat are referred. Results on "Gentile delle Langhe", "Nocchione", "Nocchia Rosa" and "Tonda Romana" varieties, were not very satisfactory, since the best rooting percentages were as much as 25% in "Gentile delle Langhe  and 41% in "Nocchia Rosa". Nevertheless it was possible to get some useful considerations regarding to: weak influence of temperature treatments alone; probable better activity of NAA in comparison to IBA; necessity to test NAA at higher concentrations, etc. More detailed experiments are needed before giving any final judgement about the possibility of introducing these techniques in nursery practices.
42874950|Investigations have been carried out, during the spring 1969, on 37 cling peach varieties grown in the same experimental plot, in order to evaluate their relative winter cold hardiness. The observations have been made determining, at the bud swelling time, the percentage of the killed flower buds. On the basis of the results, the varieties have been classified in the following three groups: a) low resistant: "Babygold 8" (P.E.C. 490), "Campillo" (P.E.C. 300), "Fino Calabacero" (P.E.C. 301), "Gialla di Papignano", "Howard", "Jeronimo" (clone I.C.A.), "Jeronimo" (P.E.C. 516), "Maruja" (P.E.C. 302), "McKnight", "McKune", "Merrill Gem" (P.E.C. 135), "P.E.C. 299", "Roqueta Gelat" (P.E.C. 152), "Selma" (P.E.C. 126), "Tres Dias" (P.E.C. 143); b) fair resistant : "Andross", "Carson", "Clone 32A" "Dixon 1", "Escarolita" (P.E.C. 147), "Gomes", "Groe Anis" (P.E.C. 495), "Jeronimo" (P.E.C. 338), "Mallorqui" (P.E.C. 140), "P.E.C. 536", "Roqueta Gelat" (P.E.C. 142), "Shasta", "Starn", "Ximelis" (P.E.C. 496), "Xixos" (P.E.C. 141); c) resistant: "Coral" (P.E.C. 144), "Clone 167 A", "Golden Queen" (P.E.C. 565), "P.E.C. 112", "S. Marti" (P.E.C. 307)," Sudanell" (P.E.C. 564), "Vivian".
42878101|Une illustration est donne des plus importants et rcents progrs scientiphiques obtenus en Italie, qui ont contribu d'une faon considrable  perfectionner les tchniques de propagation des essences  bois et des cultures en ppinire. It is illustrated the most recent scientific acquisitions recently obtained in Italy which have considerably contributed to the progress of the propagation technics of the ligneous species and of the nursery cultures.
42878102|La ppinire fruitire belge prsente un certain nombre de caractristiques que l'orateur dveloppe successivement en suivant le schma qui lui a t propos: 1) Elle est concentre dans le Nord du pays, rgion  sol lger et climat maritime; 2) Elle a subi, il y a 20 ans, une premire crise suite  la disparition de vergers haute-tiges; elle accuse actuellement le contre-coup de la crise fruitire du March Commun; 3) Elle maintient un chiffre d'exportation (principalement vers la Hollande et l'Allemagne) qui reprsente une partie non ngligeable de sa production; 4) Elle possde dans son ensemble un caractre familial typique et la superficie moyenne de ses exploitations dpasse rarement 2 ha; 5) Elle est diffcile  caractriser en ce qui concerne l'quipement qu'elle utilise (cf. caractre familial des exploitations); 6) Elle s'efforce cependant de suivre l'volution des techniques modernes, notre arboriculture fruitire se caractrisant par un dynamisme certain; 7) Elle est le plus souvent mixte c'est--dire que le ppiniriste produit  la fois des arbres ou arbustes fruitiers d'ornement et (ou) forestiers; 8) Elle s'oriente plus spcialement vers la production de pommiers et de poiriers dont le nombre de varits diminue d'ailleurs d'anne en anne; 9) Elle accorde une importance non ngligeable  la multiplication de plants de fraisiers dont cependant 10  15% seulement (soit 10  15 millions de plants) sont achets dans le commerce, le reste tant obtenu par le fraisiriste lui-mme  partir des plantes ayant port des fruits; 10) Enfin elle attache beaucoup d'importance au contrle de sa production, spcialement dans le domaine de plants exempts de viroses pour laquelle notre Pays  consenti des efforts qu'il importe de mentionner. Cette recherche de plants sains se manifeste aussi bien en culture fruitire (pommier) que dans le domaine du fraisier. Aspects of nursery production in Belgium. Belgian fruit nurseries have a number of characteristics which the speaker develops successively along the lines proposed to him. 1) They are concentrated in the north of the country, a region with light soil and a maritime climate. 2) 20 years ago they experienced a slump when standard-trees orchards disappeared; they are at present feeling the repercussion of the Common Market fruit slump. 3) They maintain an export figure (mainly to Holland and Germany) which represents a not negligible part of their production. 4) On the whole they are of a typicaly family nature and their average area seldom exceeds 2 ha. 5) They are difficult to characterize as regards the equipment they use (cf. their family nature). 6) They endeavour, however, to follow the evolution of modern techniques, and there is certainly vitality in our orcharding. 7) They are most often of the mixed typs, i.e. the nurseryman produces ornamental and fruit bushes or trees and or forest trees. 8) They mostly grow apple and pear trees, the number of varieties of which is diminishing year by year. 9) They attach a not negligible importance to the multiplication of strawberry plants, of which only 10 to 15% (about 10 to 15 million plants) are bought in the trade, the rest being obtained by the strawberry-grower himself from plants that have borne fruit. 10) They attach a lot of importance to control of production, especially as regards plants free from virus disease, a field in which our country has made efforts worthy of mention. This seeking after healthy plants is evidenced both as regards apple trees and as regards strawberry plants.
42878103|La production des plants fruitiers, troitement lie au dveloppement des plantations, fut trs prospre au cours des annes qui prcdrent la priode 1956-1959 (8.956 hectares de ppinires en 1956). A partir de 1960, on assiste  une rcession progressive de la ppinire (2.813 hectares en 1967) et la mvente des plants connat une crise particulirement aigue en 1968. Au cours de cette dernire priode, la production de plantes d'ornement tend  se substituer (dans de nombreuses ppinires,  celle des plants fruitiers; par ailleurs, sur le plan rpartition gographique, on assiste au maintien, mme au dveloppement des Etablissements situs au voisinage des zones importantes de production fruitire; une tendance se manifeste galement en faveur du regroupement de plusieurs Etablissements mettant en commun leurs possibilits techniques ou leurs organisations commerciales. Les varits pour lesquelles la commercialisation des plants est autorise en France doivent figurer au Catalogue Officiel des Espces et Varits (sujets portegreffes et varits fruitires). Il faut souligner que depuis une quinzaine d'annes, un effort important est fourni par de nombreux Etablissements de multiplication (production de sujets portegreffes et de scions greffs), ceux-ci se soumettant volontairement  un contrle rigoureux du matriel utilis et lev en ppinire, afin de fournir aux utilisateurs des plants de valeur agronomique incontestable et d'tat sanitaire satisfaisant. Garantis indemnes de viroses graves connues. Grce  cette possibilit de fourniture de plants de qualit et au dveloppement probable des plantations he haute densit d'arbres  l'hectare, la ppinire franaise peut envisager l'avenir avec confiance. La production de plants de fraisiers organise par le  Syndicat National des Producteurs de plants de fraisiers officiellement contrls , et soumise au contrle du  Service Officiel de Contrle  voit son importance s'accrotre d'anne en anne (24 millions de plants en 1968). Actuellement, 6 varits sont multiplies sous contrle officiel, les plants tant livrs avec vignette garantissant  la fois leur authenticit et leur tat sanitaire. La qualit des plants ainsi produits, dont la proportion en " plants frigo " s'accrot sans cesse, doit permettre  cette production de se dvelopper dans l'avenir. The production of fruit trees, closely connected with the new plantation trends, has been very flourishing in France during the years before the period 1956-59 (in 1956 the area of the nurseries was 8960 hectares). Since 1960 there has been, on the other hand, a progressive set-back in nursery activity (2813 hectares in 1967) which in 1968 went through a particularly grave crisis. During the last few years the production of ornamental plants has begun to replace that of fruit trees in many nurseries; on the other hand, from the geographical point of view, there has been a definite development of nurseries situated near the most important fruit areas; at the same time another tendency has appeared: that is, towards a grouping of several firms in order to share their technical skills and commercial organization. The  cultivar , the trading in whose plants is authorized in France, must be registered in the official catalogue of Species and Varieties (root-stocks and  cultivar ). It is worth emphasizing that for about fifteen years, a great effort has been made by many nurseries (production of root-stocks and grafted plants) which have voluntarily placed themselves under a rigorous control of the propagation materials used and raised in their own propagation fields, in order to supply to the fruit growers, plants of unquestionable agronomic value, raised in satisfactorily healthy conditions and guaranteed to be free from serious known viruses. Thanks to this possibility of supplying plants of high quality and thanks also to the probable development of new plants which have a high density per hectare, French nurseries can look confidently towards the future. The production of strawberry plants, organised by the officially controlled National Syndicate of Strawberry Plants Producers, in subject to the control of the Official Control Service; this increases in importance from year to year (24 million plants in 1968). At present, six  cultivar  are propagated under official control; the plants are distributed with a label guaranteeing at the same time their genuineness and their healthy condition. The quality of the plants so produced, of which an increasing percentage are represented by plants from cold storage, must help the development of nursery production in this sector in future years.
42878104|La production des ppinires d'arbres fruitiers de l'Allemagne Fdrale a eu, indpendamment de la tendence gnrale du ppinierisme fruitier, ses hauts et ses bas aprs la seconde guerre mondiale. L'anne 1950 a vu la cultivation du plus grand nombres d'arbres et d'arbustes  fruits depuis la guerre. Il a fallu satisfaire une assez forte demande reste en arriere  cause des difficults de fourniture pendant les annes de guerre.  ce point la production a subi une rduction junsqu'en 1956 et a rejoint un niveau qui n'a t dpass que par le minimum de 1966. Dans l'entre-temps il y a eu des annes avec tendence  l'augmentation jusqu'en 1961, suivies par d'autres qui tendaient vers la rduction junsqu'en 1966. Cela pourrait tre interessant de suivre ces fluctuations qui ont chang en un rhythme de 5 annes, mais notre rapport se limite  considrer le development de la production d'arbres fruitiers pendant les cinq ans qui vont de 1963  1967. The production in fruit tree nurseries in the Federal Republic of Germany had, independent of the general tendency in the entire sector of tree nurseries, its ups and downs after the 2nd World War. 1950 saw the largest number of cultivated fruit trees and bushes since the war.There was a certain backlog demand to be satisfied, which came about as result of imperfect supplies during the war years. The production then receded until 1956, and reached a low that was superseded only by the all-time low of 1966. In between lay years with a rising tendency until 1961, followed by a falling tendency up to 1966. It might prove interesting of follow the fluctuations, which changed in a five year rhytm, however, this report is restricted to the development in fruit tree production in the 5-year period 1963 to 1967.
42878105|Le ppinierisme, ce scteur dlicat et fondamental de l'agriculture, est souvent li, en Italie,  des schmas d'organisation  traditionaux . La production italienne d'arbres fruitiers est actuellement suffisante comme quantit pour rpondre aux ncssits de la demande intrieure et elle est aussi capable de suffire  une certaine exportation. Dans ce domaine il serait donc utile d'obtenir une amlioration qualitative plustt qu'une augmentation des quantits produites. Il faudrait, avant tout, arriver au plus tt  raliser ce que depuis longtemps nous avons rpt  propos d'une rvision rationelle des dispositions lgislatives qui actuellement rglent ce scteur, sur la base des indications qui ont t mises en lumire par la Confrence Nationale des Cultures Maraichres, Horticoles et Floricoles, tout en tenant compte des consquences immdiates et futures des obligations comunitaires. Certains problmes particuliers, pour lesquels il a t prsent des solutions qui ont obtenu des consentements unanimes, pourraient tre affronts en adoptant des mesures immdiates, eventuallement dans l'attente d'une rvision plus complte de la lgislation en vigueur. Il s'agit de mesures indispensables, souhaites depuis longtemps, examines rcemment par une enqute du Conseil Suprieur de l'Agriculture. Dans le cadre des engagements qui doivent nous relier aux autres pays du M.C.E., il faut valoriser en temps voulu la production ppinieriste, et la mettre en condition d'accomplir sa fonction au bnfice de l'arboriculture fruitire europenne. Fruit breeding, this basic and sensitive branch of agriculture, is still often linked in Italy with traditional methods of organization. The production of fruit trees in Italy is today sufficient to satisfy internal requirements and is also capable of supporting a certain export trade. In this field, therefore, it would be useful to obtain a higher quality of production rather than an increased quantity. It is necessary, above all, to implement with great urgency, a fundamental revision of the legislative regulations which at present control this sector, based on information already issued by the Conferenza Nazionale per l'Ortoflorofrutticoltura, and also keeping in mind present and future reactions of the communal associations. Some particular problems, for which solutions have already been proposed and unanimously agreed upon, could be faced by the adoption of immediate measures, while waiting for a complete revision of the current regulations. It is a question of long-desired, essential measures, which have also been examined in a recent inquiry by the Consiglio Superiore dell'Agricoltura. In the framework of the obligations which should unite us with other countries of the ECM, it is necessary to improve in good time the production of our nurseries, putting them in a condition to perform their proper function in support of fruit cultivation in Europe.
42878106|La culture des arbres fruitiers aux Pays-Bas est presque entirement dirige vers l'autarcie de notre industrie nationale asser extensive. Aussi bien les exportations et les importations d'arbres fruitiers et de matriel vgtal de fraisiers sont de moindre importance en comparaison de ceux d'autre matriel. Par consquent on ne cultive que les variets et porte-guffes de fruits  ppins et  noyau demants par l'industrie fruitire. Bien que le nombre des variets de fruits  ppins et  noyau soit encore grand, seulement peu de variets sont rellement importantes. Des pommes, les variets les plus importantes sont Golden Delicious, Cox's Orange Pippin, James Grieve, Red Jonathan et Schone van Boskoop; de poires, les variets Conference, Charmeux et Doyenn du Domice; des prunes, les variets Victoria et Ontario; des cerises, les variets Morelle et Early Rivers. En 1967, la superficie totale de fruits tait de 47,000 ha.: 68% de pommes, 22% de poires et 10% de prunes, cerises et pches. Le nombre des entreprises aux Pays-Bas s'occuyant de production fruitire s'est fortement baiss dans les dernires annes (1963: 34,500; 1967: 23,500) et on croit que autres 10.000 entreprises abandonneront la production fruitire dans les annes  venir, par suite d'une rationalisation et mcanisation plus pousse et d'un augmentation d'chelle. A cause d'une technique de culture plus intensive  plus d'arbres par ha  la superficie annuelle replante de fruits  ppins et  nogau diminue toujours, mais non pas le nombre des arbres replants. Le nombre des ppincires aux Pays-Bas est prs de 3000, 500 tant ocupes de la culture des arbres fruitiers et des porte-guffes, avec une superficie totale de 550 ha. La plupart des ppinires dans notre pays sont de petites entreprises o les travaux sont mcaniss et excuts par les membres de la famille. Comme nous l'avons dja dit, la culture des arbres fruitires aux Pays-Bas est dirige vers la production pour la march intrieur, de sorte que les variets cultives dans les entreprises fruitires. Des plants des genres Malus, Pyrus et Prunus peuvent tre librement imports dans notre pays du 10 octobre jusqu'au 15 avril, pourvue que les envois soient accompagns d'un certificat du service phytosanitaire tranger, montrant que les plants sont exempts du pou de San Jos (Quadraspidiotus perniciosus Comst.), de la maladie bactrienne fire blight (Erwinia amylovora (Burrill) Winslow et al.) et de l'infection par la maladie de virus plum pox (Sharka). L'importance conomique de la production des plantes d'ornement, compris la production de matriel vgtal d'arbres fruitiers, est grande aux Pays-Bas comparativement  d'autres pays, savoir 1% du revenu national. Dans notre pays le systme d'organisation pour la production des plantes d'ornement est centralis; outre Ministre de l'Agriculture et des Pches, des corporations publics comme le Bureau de l'Agriculture, les organisations commerciales et les fdrations industrielles, les Services de Contrle et d'Inspection jouent un rle. Fraises : En 1968 plus de 2600 ha de fraises furent cultives en pleine terre et 240 ha sous verre aux Pays-Bas. La valeur de production de 1 ha sous verre est dix fois celle de 1 ha en pleine terre. Aux Pays-Bas une parcelle de fraises n'est gnralement retenue que pendant deux annes. Pour des plantations nouvelles 40 millions de plants sont requises annuellement. Chaque anne prs de 10 millions de plants de fraisiers homognes et exempts de virus  certifis par N.A.K.-B.  sont fournis  la pratique comme matriel de base. Les varits les plus importantes sont Gorella, Senga Sengana, Redgauntlet et Glasa. Aux Pays-Bas l'intrt aux varits remontantes va s'augmentant. Fruit-tree breeding in The Netherlands is almost entirely directed towards self-sufficiency of our fairly extensive national industry. Both exports and imports of fruit trees and strawberry plant material are of minor importance, compared with those of other arboricultural material. Consequently such varieties and rootstocks of pome and stone fruits are grown as are demanded by the Dutch fruit industry. Although the number of pome and stone fruit varieties is still large, only a few varieties are really important. With apple, the leading varieties are Golden Delicious, Cox's Orange Pippin, James Grieve, Red Jonathan and Schone van Boskoop; with pear, the varieties Conference, Charneux and Doyenn du Comice; with plum, the varieties Victoria and Ontario; with cherry, the varieties Morelle, Early Rivers and Meikers. In 1967 the total area of fruit production was over 47,000 ha., of which 68% was planted with apples, 22% with pears, and the remaining 10% with plums, cherries and peaches. The number of enterprises in The Netherlands concerned with fruit production has decreased considerably in recent years (1963: 34,500; 1967: 23,500) and it is expected that again some 10,000 enterprises will abandon fruit growing in the coming years, as a consequence of further rationalization and mechanization and an increase in scale. Due to a more intensive cultivation technique  more trees per ha  the area annually replanted with pome and stone fruits decreases steadily, not however the number of trees that are replanted. The number of tree nurseries in The Netherlands is about 3,000 of which 500 are concerned with the growing of fruit trees and rootstocks, with a total cultivated area of about 55 ha. Most of the tree nurseries in our country are small holdings, where as much as possible family labour is employed and work is mechanized. As already stated, fruit tree breeding in The Netherlands is geared to production for the home market, so that the varieties encountered in the tree nurseries are practicall the same as those grown on the fruit farms. Plants of the genera Malus, Pyrus and Prunus may be freely imported into our country from October 10 to April 15, provided the shipments are accompanied by a certificate of the foreign Phytopathological Service concerned showing that the plants are free from San Jos scale (Quadraspidiotus perniciosus Comst.) and the bacterial disease fire blight (Erwinia amylovora (Burrill) Winslow et al.) and from infection by the virus disease plum pox (Sharka). The economic importance of the production of ornamentals, including the production of plant material of fruit trees, is high in The Netherlands compared with that in other countries, namely 1% of the national income. In our country the organization system for the production of ornamental crops is centralized; besides the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, public corporations, such as the Agricultural Board, the Trade Organizations and Marketing Boards, Control and Inspection Services, play a part. Strawberries: in 1968 over 2600 ha of strawberries were grown out-of-doors and 240 ha under glass in The Netherlands. The production value of one ha under glass is ten times that of one ha in the open. In the Netherlands a plot of strawberries is generally no longer retained than for two years. For new plantations 40 million plants are annually required. Every year about 10 million true-breeding, virus-free strawberry plants  certified by the N.A.K.-B.  are supplied to pratice as basic material. The leading varieties are Gorella, Senga Sengana, Redgauntlet and Glasa. Interest in everbearing varieties is increasing in our country.
42878107|La situation de l'amlioration gntique obtenue en Italie pour les espces horticoles est illustre ici. Aprs avoir rappel les aspects les plus importants des conditions de milieu, l'A. passe  illustrer la situation actuelle de la production de graines, et en particulier de celles des principales espces maraichres. The situation of the genetic improvement obtained in Italy for horticultural plants is illustrated here. After reference to the most important aspects of environmental factors, the present position of seed production is illustrated, with particular regard to the principal vegetable species.
42878108|La production de semences horticoles n'a jamais pu tre faite sur une grande chelle en Belgique, en raison d'un climat dfavorable, et les cultures de porte-graine n'occupent qu'un secteur trs rduit de notre culture marachre. Ces dernires sont ralises par les marachers eux-mmes et pour leurs propres besoins. Exception doit cependant tre faite en ce qui concerne les semences de Pois pour l'industrie de la conserve, la Chicore de Bruxelles et la Scorsonre, ces deux dernires cultures, typiquement familiales, tant toutefois relativement importantes. En consquence, le commerce des semences potagres est absolument libre en Belgique. Les varits de diverses espces peuvent cependant tre inscrites  la liste des varits, sur demande et aprs examen. Un projet de loi relatif  la protection des obtentions vgtales est  l'tude et la ratification de la Convention de Paris est attendue. It has never been possible in Belgium to produce horticultural seeds, on a large scale, on account of the unfavourable climate. In our market-gardening, the culture for seed crop takes only a small place. These are grown by the market gardeners themselves to supply their own needs. Exception has to be made however for the seeds of Processed Pea, Brussels chicory and Scorzonera; these last two are, although typical family cultures, rather important. In consequence, the vegetable seeds trade is absolutely free in Belgium. On request and after control, the varieties of some species can however be added on the variety list. A bill concerned with the protection of new varieties is being examined and the ratification of the Convention of Paris is expected.
42878109|La production des semences marachres en France est de tradition trs ancienne, en raison de conditions climatiques et agrologiques favorables, surtout en Anjou et en Ile de France. Cependant la quantit de semences marachres importe de l'tranger n'est pas ngligeable, surtout pour le haricot et le pois destins aux industries de transformation, soit du fait de prix de revient levs, soit par absence de varits nationales adaptes. Aprs cette introduction d'ordre statistique et conomique, le rapporteur traite de l'organisation de la production grainire en France  partir des tablissements de slection fournissant les porte-graines aux producteurs qui effectuent la multiplication sous contrat pour un ensemble de 12 767 ha (1968). Est ensuite indique l'orientation suivie pour la cration de nouvelles varits tant pour la culture de pleine terre que pour la serre, ce travail relevant maintenant, outre les tablissements privs et l'I.N.R.A. (Versailles et Montfavet), d'une Association de Crateurs de varits potagres et florales (A.C.V.P.F.). En ce qui concerne la protection des nouvelles varits, l'Auteur dcrit le systme d'inscription au  Catalogue des varits  institu en France par dcret de 1932 et remplac par celui du 22 janvier 1960. Sont ensuite considrs les principaux aspects de la technique culturale propre aux productions grainires et dcrits,  titre d'exemples, le cas de la carotte (espce bisannuelle) et celui de la laitue (espce annuelle). L'Auteur termine en examinant les caractres qualitatifs des semences et les mthodes retenues pour permettre de garantir entre autres l'authenticit varitale et leur tat sanitaire. Il cite pour terminer le rle des divers organismes qui, en France, ont la charge des contrles ducatif et reprssif dans le domaine de la production et de la commercialisation des semences potagres. Vegetable seeds production has a long tradition in France favorred by the good climatic and soil conditions; especially in  Anjou  and  Ile de France . Nevertheless the trade mark of the foreign vegetable seeds is very important as for as beam and peas for industry are concerned because of the lower price and better quality of the foreign varieties. The author discusses the organisation of seeds production in France, how the basic seed are produced and haw seeds are given to the growers for multiplication. The author described the techniques used by plants breeders for the formation of new varieties either for field or greenhouse crops. The research-works is carried aut by the Experimental Station (I.N.R.A. of Versailles and Montfavet) or by the plant breeders Association for vegetable or flowers production (A.C.V.P.F.). The author shows haw the new varieties are registered in the  Register of varieties  which has been adited in 1932 and brought up-to-date in 1960. The principal aspects of cultural techniques for seed vegetables are then described taking as examples carrots and lettuce. Finally seed qualitative characters and evalvation eriteria for health and quality control are discussed; particularly, organisations taking care of seed control in France under C.E.E. supervision, are described.
42878110|La production de semences des lgumes a, en Allemagne, une vieille tradition, et jouit jusqu'  la premire guerre mondiale et aprs celle-ci d'une renomme mondiale. A cause des vnements politiques les dbouchs se perdirent, la continuit de la culture fut perturbe et beaucoup d'exploitations perdirent, de par leur transplantation en Allemagne de l'ouest, leur emplacement privilgi, leur capital d'exploitation et leur main d'uvre qualifie. Aprs le redressement en Allemagne de l'ouest, la culture des semences de base, presque uniquement, se fit  l'intrieur, par les cultivateurs allemands, tandis que la culture des semences de vente se fit au contraire  l'etranger, dans les rgions o le climat tait le plus favorable. Les rgions de culture les plus favorise sont l'Italie, (particulirement pour les varits bisannuelles telles que carottes, oignons, poireaux, betteraves, celerie etc.) les Pays Bas (pinards, carottes etc.) et les pays des Balkans. Depuis quelques annes la culture des plantes lgumineuses se fait de prfrence en Afrique du Nord et en Afrique de l'Est. Avec la rduction des droits de douane de la CEE au dbut des annes soixante, les cultivateurs allemands dciderent de renoncer  un enregistrement et  une entre exempte de douane de leurs semences cultives  l'tranger, et  importer plutt en tant que  semences d'importation  les semences aprs deux ou trois reproductions  l'tranger. Depuis ce temps-l, les enqutes sur les terrains de culture  l'tranger sont incompltes et il est impossible d'avoir des informations exactes sur les tendues et emplacements. Les points de vue sur le choix des rgions de culture sont discuts et l'organisation de la production des semences en Rpublique Fdrale d'Allemagne est dfinie. Le bilan commercial des semences de lgumes montre que la Rpublique Fdrale d'Allemagne est un pays importateur de semences. Il faut cependant tenir compte, dans ces recherches statistiques, du fait qu'il s'agit, quant aux exportations allemandes (mises  part vers l'Autriche, la Belgique, le Luxembourg et la Suisse) surtout de semences de base de haute valeur, et quant aux importations, il s'agit principalement des semences de vente, reproduites  l'tranger,  partir de semences de base allemandes. Les semences allemandes doivent faire face  une concurrence des plus en plus grande des importations trangres. Comme suite du dveloppement, des fusions on lieu, en ce moment, entre les maisons de selection de semences. En plus de la concentration et de la rationalisation qui y est lie, la production de semences de la plus haute qualit (entre autre pour le semis monograine) devrait tre  l'avenir, plus au premier plan des intrts, qu'elle ne l'a t jusqu' prsent. Vegetable-seed-produciion has a long tradition in Germany, and, until the First World War and later, possessed a worldwide reputation. However, markets were lost through political events, the continuity of breeding was disturbed, and many growers were deprived of their favourable sites, their capital, and experienced staff, through the emigration to West Germany. After the rebuilding in West Germany, practically only basic seed is propagated by the German home breeders, whereas the commercial seed is produced in climatically favourable areas abroad. Favourite propagation areas are Italy (especially for biennial species like carrot, onion, leek, beetroot, celery etc.), the Netherlands (spinach, carrot etc.), and the Balcan States. Leguminosae have, for several years, been favoured for propagation in North and East Africa. When the Common Market import duties were lowered at the beginning of the 1960's, German breeders began to renounce registration and the custom-free import of their foreign propagation and to import their seeds, after two or three propagations abroad, as " imported seed ". Since then, information about propagation areas abroad has been incomplete, and exact details about size and site are not available. Aspects of the choice of propagation areas are discussed and the organisation of seed production in West Germany described. The trade figures for vegetable seeds designate West Germany as a seed-importing country. However, when considering these statistics, it should be taken into account that German exports are mainly concerned (except to Austria, Belgium-Luxemburg and Switzerland) with high-value basic seed, and imports mainly with standard seed from German basic Seed propagated abroad. German seed is exposed to increasing competition through foreign imports. As a consequence, amalgamations are taking place at present amongst German seed firms. Besides the concentration, and the rationalisation connected with it, the propagation of highest quality seed (amongst others for the single corn deposit) will in the future be even more in the foreground of interest than before.
42878111|La production de semences maracheres a une importance fondamentale, et reprsente une activit complexe  cause de diffrentes conditions du milieu et des adresses culturales. Nanmois les conditions sont trs favorables  une production de semences de bonne qualit, obtenus en plusieurs cas par des firmes qui ont une adeguate prparation et outillage. D'aprs une rechrche conduite au but de donner des indications du moins orientationes, qui jusq'a aujourd'hui manquaient, il resuite que en 1968 le mouvement commercial des semences marachaices a interess en total q.li 84.525,62 ainsi rportes: q.li 31.693,50 (37,49%) produits en cultures spcialises, q.li 43.388,87 (51,34%) importes, q.li 2.032,18 (2,40%) rcueilli en cultivations ordinaire, q.li 7.411,0 (8,77%) de diffrente provnience. De cette rechrche il resuite aussi que la distribution des semences d'specs marachres est effectue en Italie par 400 Firmes  peu prs, dont une bonne partie trs petites. Il est aussi result qu'il y a une tendance particulire enverse l'importation des semences marachres, peut-tre due au plus grand nombre de nouvelles variets disponibles et bien reclamises, et aux plus bas prix de production et de distribution aussi qu'il y a dans quelques pay etrangers. On sait nanmois qu'en Italie on emploie un nombre trs grand de variets marachres (540 d'aprs un rechrche A.I.S.S.) qu'il serait utile de rduire aprs avoire individu les plus adaptes et aprs un travail d'amlioration genetique. Le dernier travail est affectu per une quipe de rechrche rcemment organis et financi par le Conseil National des Recherches, avec la partecipation de nombreuses Instituts Universitairs. On rapporte ensuite les rgles du control de la qualit des semences promulgues pendant le periode prebellique et les ordinance plus rcentes pour la certification et l'institution des Registres des variets. On met en vidence enfin la liaison, qu'il y a entre l'amelioration gentique, la production de smences qualifies, la concervation en purit et le contrle sanitaire des nouvelles et vieilles variets. Une troite collaboration est donc ncessaire entre les Instituts de rechrche, les Stations exprimentales, les Crateurs de nouvelles variets et Firmes sementires au but d'atteindre cette ide de solidariet fondamentale entre science e pratique, puisqu'elle convergent pour donner aux cultivateurs les bonnes semences (Peglion, 1957). Mais sourtout est vident la necessit emprorogable d'une lois unique qui rgle, coordonne et contrle la production des semences. The vegetable seeds production is one of the most important for the Italian horticulture, yet it is very complex for the different soil and environmental conditions. However there are good firms which give an high production of first quality seeds. The Author from a person investigation gives an idea of the trade mark for 1968 of the vegetable seeds which reached the total of 84.525,62 ql, sheared in 31.693,50 ql (37,49%) from specialised cultivations, 2.032,18 ql (2,60%) from normal cultivation, 7.411,07 ql (8,77%) from other sources and 43.388,87 ql (51,34%) from abroad. In Italy there are about 400 firms dealing with seed production yet many of those have a small businnes. The growers' interest towards foreign varieties is due to the very higt quality of the varieties themselves and their lower price. There is in Italy an high number of varieties (about 540 from an A.I.S.S. investigation) therefore it is necessary to riduce it by making a serious selection and working more in plant breeding. In Italy there exists a National group working in this area granted by the C.N.R. National Council of Researchs) and many University Institutes operate in it. The A. report the pre-war rules on seeds quality incluse the new laws and the varietal Register. Finally the A. points out that plant breeding, seed quality production, keeping in purity and wealth condition of new and ild varieties are close together. It is by no means necessary a collaboration among the University Institute, Experimental Station, plant breeders and commercial firms,  in way to reach the idea of a joint between Science and practice for obtaining good seeds  Peglion 1957. The A. points out the necessity for a new law capable to co-ordinate and check the seeds production.
42878112|La culture marachre, hautement dveloppe aux Pays Bas, trouve un soutien important dans le travail des entreprises d'amlioration des semences potagres. Cette amlioration est stimule par les recherches scientifiques fondamentales des Instituts gouvernementaux et par la protection des droits d'obtenteur. Les amliorations dans l'assortiment des varits qui ont eu lieu, sont spectaculaires. Le dveloppement de varits nouvelles et la production de semences potagres est commis  des entreprises prives qualifies. Il existe une cooperation intensive avec les instituts scientifiques. Le travail d'amlioration est intensifi fortement encore toujours. Toutes les activits des producteurs et des ngociants de semences potagres sont surveilles selon un systme appropri par un Service d'Inspection (N.A.K.G.), authoris par le Ministre d'Agriculture sur la base de la loi. Enregistrement de tous les producteurs et distributeurs de semence est obligatoire. Il n'existe pas de systme obligatoire de certification et pas de liste restrictive de varits acceptes pour la distribution. Beaucoup de pris est attach au contrle d'un tiquettement juste et  la liste des varits recomandes qui est revise chaque anne. The highly developed vegetable culture in the Netherlands finds an important support in the breeding work of the Dutch seed industry. This breeding work is stimulated by fundamental research work of Governmental Institutes and by the granting of Breeders Rights. Spectacular improvements in the assortment of varieties can be indicated. The breeding of new varieties and the vegetable seed-production is in hands of qualified private seed firms. There is a close cooperation with scientific institutes. Breeding work is still strongly intensifying. All activities of the seed producers and seed traders are supervized, according to an adequate system, by an Inspection Service (N.A.K.G.), duly authorized by the Ministry of Agriculture on basis of the seed-law. Registration of all seed producers and seed distributors is obliged. There is no obligatory certification scheme and no restrictive list of varieties accepted for distribution. Much value is set on the control of struely labelling and on the yearly revised list of recommended varieties.
42878113|Aprs une rapide introduction dans laquelle l'auteur montre l'utilit de la protection juridique des obtentions vgtales, il expose les difficults d'ordre philosophique et juridique qui se sont opposes jusqu' une poque trs rcente  l'adoption d'une lgislation spcifique pour protger les droits des crateurs de nouvelles espces ou varits de plantes. Ce n'est que depuis l'adoption de la Convention de Paris du 2 Dcembre 1961 que le droit de l'obtenteur est solennellement reconnu et dot d'un Statut juridique prcis. Dans une deuxime partie il examine deux problmes qui se posent dans ce domaine : Tout d'abord l'absence actuelle de lien entre la Convention de Paris et le March Commun, puis le problme du cot pour l'obtenteur de la protection. Dans sa conclusion l'auteur exprime son vif espoir que l'ITALIE se joindra bientt aux autres Etats qui ont ratifi la Convention, car l'agriculture italienne en tirera certainement un grand bnfice. L'auteur a joint dans une premire annexe le texte de la Convention de Paris du 2 Dcembre 1961. Dans une deuxime annexe il donne un rapide aperu des lgislations dj en vigueur dans ce domaine ou sur le point d'tre mises en oeuvre dans divers pays. The Author of the Report introduces his subject by emphasizing the usefulness of legal protection for new  constitutions  in the field of cultivated plants : then he proceeds to enumerate the difficulties of principle and of legal character that, up to very recent times, have prevented the adoption of statutory rules which could protect the rights of the developers of new varieties, rights which were solemnly recognized and given a precise legal standing by the Paris Convention of December 2, 1961. The Author then proceeds to examine some fundamental problems connected with the subject, and in particular the as yet non-existent relations between the Paris Convention and the Common Market, and the problem of the cost involved in obtaining protection today. In conclusion, the Author is strongly of the view that Italy should, as soon as possible, join the other countries which have ratified the Paris Convention, and expresses his conviction that Italian agriculture cannot fail to derive considerable benefits from such action. Attached to the report is the full text of the Paris Convention and a brief but useful review of the Statutory Rules on this subject already existing or on the point of being adopted in the various countries.
42877651|"Prodigiosa Morettini"; selected from the progeny derived from "J. H. Hale  Redhaven" is a new variety, with yellow flesh, late-ripening, 6-7 days before J. H. Hale. The morphological, agronomical and commercial characters described give evidence, particularly, of the high productivity and the very good commercial characteristics of this variety which therefore appears superior to those ripening in the same time.
42877652|Peach trees of the free stone varieties "Redhaven", "Dixigem", "Southland", "Cardinal" and "Coronet" and of the cling varieties "Amarillo de Agosto 2", "Vivian" and "Campiel", were sprayed with "CCC" at 4000 ppm, three times starting from 20 May to 20 July 1968. The following results have been reached: 1) in the year of treatments, "CCC" increased the total number of fruit buds on "Dixigem", "Cardinal" and "Campiel", but the total amount of leaf buds was not affected; 2) the fruit buds on treated trees of varieties "Dixigem", "Southland" and "Cardinal" were much less damaged by winter frost, and, consequently, the flowering in the following spring were higher; 3) in the next season the fruiting quality were positively affected by "CCC" in the case of the varieties "Dixigem" "Cardinal" and "Coronet"; this character was not examinated in cling peach varieties. On the basis of these results, the Authors discuss the "CCC" practical application on peach trees, in view to regulate their vegetative and productive behaviour as regards the response of the diffrents varieties to "CCC" and to the ecological conditions.
42877653|Si riferisce sopra una prova di confronto in serra tra 14 ibridi F ottenuti dalla combinazione delle seguenti variet: "Martarum", "Motabo", "Piertarum", "Marmande V 19", "Marmande RAF", "Roma" e "Patio". Sono stati rilevati i seguenti caratteri: produzione, precocit, dimensione ed uniformit dei frutti, forma e colore dei frutti, n. delle logge, consistenza (grado penetrometrico) dei frutti, peso specifico, sostanza secca, solidi solubili (residuo ottico), acidit titolabile, zuccheri solubili, rapporto zuccheri/acidit, Vitamina C, gusto, resistenza alle malattie. L'eterosi comincia a manifestarsi a partire dalla produzione del 3 palco, e di conseguenza una minore precocit contraddistingue inizialmente gli ibridi Fj. Gli ibridi migliori superano i genitori alla 4 raccolta. Altri effetti eterotici si sono rilevati per il contenuto in vitamina C (con aumenti del 10-30%) e per la consistenza dei frutti. Caratteristiche intermedie ai due genitori sono state rilevate per i seguenti caratteri: forma dei frutti, dimensione, n. delle logge. Mentre invece si  rilevata una tendenza alla diminuzione per i seguenti caratteri: contenuto in sostanza secca, solidi solubili, zuccheri solubili, acidit e rapporto zuccheri/acidit. Per il rapporto zuccheri/acidit  stata rilevata anche una correlazione positiva (0,498) significativa per p = 0,05 con il gusto, che risulta utilssima per il miglioramento qualitativo. The AA. refer about the comparison trial in glasshouse among 14 tomato hybrids Fi obtained from this varieties: Martarum, Motabo, Piertarum, Marmande V 19, Marmande RAF, Roma e Patio. Have been examined the following data: production, hearliness, fruits uniformity and size, hardness, specific weight, dry matter, total soluble solids, soluble sugars, titratable acidity, sugar acidity ratio, Vitamina C, taste testing, disease resistance. Heterosis (a single cross was considered eterotic for a character when superior to the better parent) begins at 3rd truss for the production, consequently the hybrid F are less early than their parents. The better hybrids are superior than parents only at 4th harvest. Others heterotic effects have been observed for the Vitamina C content (with increasing of 10-30%), and for the fruit hardness. Value intermediar compared with parental varieties are been found for this caracters: shape and size of fruit, number of locules. While lower values of the parental varieties are resulted for the following caracters (not significantly for p = 0,05): dry matter, total soluble sugar, acidity, sugar/acidity ratio. For the sugar/acidity ratio a positive correlation with the tast testing (0,498) significantly for p = 0,05, are noted.
42877654|Researches carried out in 1968 and 1969 on twelve-year-old walnut trees have shown that, like the other stone fruits, walnut fruits exibit a double sigmoid growth curve. The rate of growth decreases during the pit-hardening, i.e. the date when the tip of the pit begins to harden, corresponds to the date at wich the fruits enter the period of slow growth. During this period sensible modifications begin in the chemical composition of the fruits: there is a continuous decrease of the moisture and a steady increase of ash potassium and nitrogen.
42877655|Si riferisce su una prova sperimentale effettuata a Sanremo per reperire un valido e selettivo erbicida nella coltivazione del garofano. Sono state effettuate una prova a blocchi randomizzati ed una prova estensiva. Nella prima sono stati confrontati i seguenti diserbanti: 1) Alipur 3,5 kg/ha 2) Trif 3   3) Desormone 2,5   Buoni risultati sono stati ottenuti con tutti gli erbicidi, ma il migliore effetto  stato ottenuto con il Trif. Sono stati presi in esame i seguenti dati: peso e numero delle infestanti, numero e qualit dei fiori, e le eventuali alterazioni fisiologiche degli stessi; dai primi dati sono risultate differenze significative, mentre nessuna significativit  risultata dalle altre osservazioni. An account is given about an experimental trial carried out at SANREMO in order to find an effective and selective weed-killer in carnation cultivation. It was carried out a trial on randomised parcels and an extensive compared: 1) Alipur 3,5 kg/ha 2) Trif 3,0   3) Desormone 2,5   Good results were obtained with all herbicides, but the best result was obtained with Trif. The cultivation as checked for: the weight and the number of the weed, the number and the quality of the flowers and physiological disorders; significant differences were found in the first case, while no differentiable effect was noted with regard to others observations.
42877656|L'impiego di un indice di raccolta basato sul rapporto residuo secco reirattometrico/acidit totale consente di conoscere, al momento dell'immagazzinamento, con un limite di probabilit dell'80%, se le pere Passa Crassana saranno soggette all'imbrunimento interno nel corso della conservazione. La validit del metodo, avendo operato su quatit massive di prodotto di diversa provenienza,  stato statisticamente dimostrato. The possibility that "Passa Crassana "pears may be subjected to internal browning during storage can be predicted by using ripening index based on refractometer index/total acidity ratio, within range of 80% of probability. The method has been demonstrated statistically reliable by checking it on bulk amounts of the product from different sources.
42877657|Si  studiato l'effetto di due temperature (17 e 23 C) sulla manifestazione della partenocarpia in una linea di cetriolo da sottaceto. Si  osservato che lo sviluppo partenocarpico dei frutti avviene regolarmente a 17 mentre a 23 i frutti non impollinati non sono in grado di svilupparsi. Sembra confermato che la formazione di frutti partenocarpici aumenti passando da nodi basali verso quelli superiori. Nella cella a 17 i frutti impollinati si sviluppano pi rapidamente di quelli non impollinati e forniscono produzioni totali significativamente superiori. The effect of two levels of temperature (17 and 23 C) on the manifestation of parthenocarpy in a pickling cucumber line has ben studied in the controlled environment of the phytothrone of the Horticultural plant Breeding Institute (Wageningen - Holland). Parthenocarpical development of fruits appeared to occur regulary at 17C while 23C unimpollinated fruits did not grow up. Results seem to confirm that setting of parthenocarpical fruits increases from basal nodes to the upper ones. At 17C degrees pollinated fruits did grow faster that unimpollinated ones and appeared to yield significantly more.
42874871|In occasione della 4 Biennale Ortofrutticola Internazionale (" Eurofrut '69 ")  stata svolta una inchiesta tra i consumatori di mele e di pere sottoponendo ad una serie di test oltre 9.000 persone le quali hanno espresso, per mezzo di una scheda, le loro preferenze in merito ad alcuni caratteri (colore, forma, aspetto, confezione, caratteristiche organolettiche, prezzo in rapporto alla qualit, ecc.) dei due tipi di frutto. Circa 6.000 risposte elaborate in rapporto all'et, al sesso, alla attivit degli intervistati, hanno permesso di ottenere informazioni in merito alle attuali preferenze dei consumatori ed utili indirizzi per il lavoro di miglioramento genetico. During the International Fruit Exhibition " Eurofrut '69 " an enquire has been performed with the aim to detect the orientations of the consumers when faced by various characters of apples and pears. Over 9,000 visitors have answered to the questions posed by a simple form, on the basis of five tests for apples and four tests for pears. About 6,000 selected replies have been processed by a computer, according to a programme able to lead the optional opinions of the visitors, classified in order to their age, sex and activity. Conclusions have been drawn of interest for marketing and fruit breeding.
42874872|Morphological, biological and commercial characteristics of the plum variety " Burmosa " (" Burbank "  " Formosa ") are described. This variety developed by the Agricultural Experiment Station, Davis (California), in 1940 and released in 1952 has not yet been tested in the Italian - fruit growing conditions. Observations made at the Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree of Pisa University show that " Burmosa " is a promising variety for new planting of early plums.
42874873|Vengono riferiti i risultati di alcune ricerche condotte nel 1968 volte a studiare l'azione di sostanze nutritive per via fogliare (B, Fe, Zn, Mn, NPK) atte ad agevolare la radicazione e la funzionalit di talee di " Prunus mahaleb " poste sotto nebulizzazione. Nelle condizioni in cui si sono svolte le prove si rileva che alcuni microelementi (B, Fe e Mn) hanno aumentato la percentuale di radicazione ed hanno preservato le talee da fenomeni di filloptosi. Si  rilevato che esiste un sinergismo tra alcuni spray fogliari ed i trattamenti ormonici basali.  stato infine possibile mettere in evidenza una correlazioni inversa tra percentuale di radicazione e filloptosi, nonch una correlaziohfe diretta tra percentuale di radicazione e numero di gemme schiuse. Queste correlazioni sono risultate molto marcate quando il materiale aveva ricevuto trattamenti ormonici basali. Researches were done in 1968 to improve the action of some periodic treatments with several spray nutrients, on rooting of  Prunus mahaleb " cuttings under mist. Foliar applications (B, Fe and Mn) increased rooting percentage preventing the defoliation. A sinergy between some foliar sprays and hormonic treatments on the base of cuttings was noted. An inverse correlation between rooting percentage and defoliation could be pointed out as well as a stright one between rooting percentage and open buds number. Such correlations resulted strongest when cuttings received hormonic treatments on their base.
42874874|Sono state studiate le correlazioni esistenti tra resa totale in seme, percentuale di semi singoli e doppi e peso delle mandorle sia in guscio che sgusciate. Dall'analisi dei risultati  emerso, tra l'altro, l'esistenza di una correlazione negativa tra resa totale in seme, peso delle mandorle in guscio e percentuale di mandorle a seme singolo, mentre una alta correlazione positiva tra resa totale in seme e percentuale di mandorle a seme doppio. Correlation between total yield of seed, percentage of single and double seed and weight of shelled and unshelled almond were studied. Results show the existence of negative correlation between total yield of seed, weight of unshelled almond and percentage of single seed almond, while an high and positive correlation does exist between total yield of seed and percentage of double seed almonds.
42877673|The following new strawberry varieties have been selected and patented by Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree, University of Bologna : " Precoce di Romagna ", (" Pocahontas " x " Blakemore "): plants vigorous, upstanding, rather sparse; berries conic, medium in size, regular, deep red, provided with a firm, dark pink, flavorred flesh; ripening time: one week earlier than " Gorella ". " Rossella " (open pollinated seedling of Paymaster): plants rather vigorous, tufty; berries medium in size, oblate, shiny, deep red; flesh firm, bright red, juicy, good flavoured; ripening time: five days earlier than " Gorella ". " Isabella ": (" Pocahontas " x " Surprise des Halles "): plants very vigorous, upstanding, tufty; berries large, conic to long wedge-shaped, light red; flesh firm, pink, juicy, aromatic, pleasant; ripening time: five days earlier than " Gorella ". " Tardiva di Romagna ", (" Macherauch Spternte " x " Cambridge Favourite ": plants very vigorous, spreading; berries large, conic to short wedge, deep red; flesh firm juicy, deep red, subacid, very aromatic; ripening time: nearly ten days later than " Gorella ".
42877674|At the end of a three-years' irrigation trial on " Morettini 1 ", " Morettini 5/14 ", " Aurora ", " Dessi " and " Morettini 9/14 " peach carried out in the province of Alessandria (Italy), it has been shown that the current habitas of watering the plants either in response to the wilting symptoms or according to the farmers' experience result empirical, because do not are coinciding with inflections of growing fruit curve under equilibrium conditions which are proper to determine the periodical real water needs.
42877675|Two Italian apricot varieties, " Reale d"Imola " and " Precoce d'Imola " were tested on ten different rootstocks. Five of them were P. myrobolana (" belgian ", " 1/14 ", " Bautlende ", " de Lesdain ", " white "), two apricot seedlings (" Canino " and " Mech-Mech "), two peach seedlings (" Missour " and " A/VI ") and, at last, "Rigotti 1/II " seedling (P. persica  P. davidiana ?). The field trial has been carried out in a typical foot-hill apricot area of Emilia-Romagna region. During the first three years it was observed a very different behaviour of the rootstocks in relation to their genetical source, to the rate of incompatibility and to the interaction with the scions. " Reale d'Imola " trees were more vigorous than " Precoce d'Imola ", but the latter came to bear more rapidly. " Rigotti 1/II " showed a complete incompatibility (confirmed by an anatomical investigation) with both apricot varieties, while the " Mech-Mech " seedlings did'nt give good results with " Reale dimola " owing to the high percentage of grafting failures. It was found a very great heterogeneity among the five myrobolan varieties: " belgian " induced either vigorous and earliest bearing trees; other myrobolans (e.g. " Lesdain ") induced high growth of the scions too, but trees came to bear later; " white " myrobolan gave the smallest trees and the lowest crop. On " Canino " apricot seedlings, trees showed good growth as well as on " A/VI " peach seedlings (grafted with " Reale dimola "); they got out an early bearing also and bigger fruits than those obtained from the trees on some myrobolans (" Lesdain " and " Bautlende "). Another way to estimate the " tree efficiency " was the ratio between the fruit yield and the trunk cross-section area, that showed a good efficiency of the " Precoce d'Imola " trees grafted on " belgian " and " 1/14 " myrobolans as much as those on " A/VI " peach seedlings and on " Canino " apricot seedlings.
42877676|The Authors describe the morphological, agronomical, biological and commercial characters of the nectarine " Precoce Castelli ", selected and raised in the Ravenna country. This variety, which ripens five weeks after " May Flower " (few days after " Redhaven "), is characterized by large yeld, resistance at the diseases, excellent and firm fruits, suitable for the exportation.
42877677|Si  studiata la topologia dei fiori ermafroditi in piante intere di melone Charentais allevate in serra su corde. Si  visto che i fiori perfetti compaiono sui primi due nodi dei rami secondari e terziari, con frequenza proporzionale all'altezza d'inserzione di tali rami sul ramo primario: questa regola non viene fondamentalmente alterata n dalla cimatura, n dall'asportazione delle foglie, n dalla moltiplicazione vegetativa. Si suggerisce che la comparsa dei fiori perfetti sia dovuta alla presenza di particolari ormoni nella pianta adulta, e si prospetta la possibilit di anticiparne l'emissione utilizzando per l'impianto materiale moltiplicato per talea da piante gi in produzione. Topology of perfect flowers in unpruned plants of cataloupe Charentais grown up strings in glasshouse has been studied. Perfect flowers appear on the first two nodes of the secondary and tertiary branches, their number increasing with increasing height of the branching on the primary stem: this rule was not substantially altered by removal of the terminal bud or of the leaves, nor by vegetative multiplication. Anticipated production of perfect flowers was obtained planting cuttings from yielding plants. It is suggested that production of perfect flowers is due to hormonal factors.
42877678|Gli Autori hanno condotto una prova per esaminare l'accumulo dei nitrati (N-NO) in Cichorium endivia L. latifolium Hegi in relazione alla concimazione azotata, formulata con diverse forme di azoto (solfato di ammonio, nitrato di calcio, urea, nitrato di ammonio) e con diverse dosi delle singole forme (0, 120, 180, 240 kg N/ha). L'analisi dei nitrati  stata effettuata secondo il metodo Woolley e al. (15) sulla sostanza secca (calcolata per singoli trattamenti) di diverse parti della pianta: cuore (costituito esclusivamente dalle foglie bianche), picciolo e lembo fogliare delle foglie esterne del cespo completamente verdi. I risultati hanno messo in evidenza che l'accumulo dei nitrati nelle diverse parti  diverso: risulta maggiore nel picciolo, minore nel lembo fogliare e minimo nel cuore. In generale a dosi pi elevate di azoto corrispondono contenuti maggiori dei nitrati solo nel picciolo, non nel cuore e nel lembo fogliare. Le varie forme di azoto non influiscono in maniera significativamente diversa sulla produzione. A trial has been carried out to examine the nitrate accumulation in Cichorium endivia L. Itifolium Hegi by applying different types of nitrogen fertilizers (Ammonium sulphate, calcium nitrate, urea, ammonium nitrate) in different amounts (0, 120, 180, 240 kg N/ha).. Nitrate was analysed according to Wolley et al (15) in dry matter of all treatments for tree parts of the plants: heart, formed by white leaves, stalk and blades of the external green leaves. The nitrate accumulation was different in the different parts of the plant: higher in the leaf stalk, lower in the leaf blade, lowest in the heart. Increasing nitrogen fertilization increases nitrate accumulation only in the stalk of the green external leaves, not in the heart and in the leaf blade. The different types of nitrogen fertilizers did not influence the nitrate accumulation. The results of the production are referred. The production was influenxed by different amounts of nitrogen fertilizers not by different types of nitrogen fertilizer.
42877679|Si riferiscono i risultati di una prova di pacciamatura con films plastici effettuata in carciofo cv. " Violetto di Toscana " in coltura asciutta in localit " Vada " nel 1968. Queste le tesi adottate in uno schema a blocchi randomizzati con 4 ripetizioni. 1) Testimone non pacciamato; 2) Pacciamatura con film nero di Polietilene (0,15 mm di spessore); 3) Pacciamatura con film trasparente (0,15 mm di spessore) in Polietilene e diserbo con Camparol 1817 (3 kg/ha); 4) Diserbo con " Camparol 1817 ". (3 kg/ha) L'effetto dei due tipi di pacciamatura non  risultato significativamente diverso, tuttavia quella con film trasparente  apparsa superiore grazie al maggiore anticipo ed anche al diserbante che ha controllato perfettamente le infestanti. L'impiego del film trasparente ha permesso rispetto al testimone un anticipo di 4,2 giorni nella raccolta del 1 capolino e di 5,2 giorni nella raccolta del 4 capolino. Il numero totale dei capolini per pianta  stato aumentato da 15,7 a 19,9. Results of a mulching trial with plastic films on artichoke cv. " Violetto di Toscana" are referred. The treatments in randomized scheme with four repetition are the followings: 1) Test no mulched. 2) Mulching with black film of polyethylene (0,15 mm of thickness). 3) Mulching with transparent film of polyethylene (0,15 mm of thickness) and weed control with Camparol 1817 (3 kg/ha) 4) Weed control with Camparol 1817 (3 kg/ha). The effect of the two types of mulching are not resulted significantly different, however the treatment with transparent film appeared superior for the earliness. The Camparol 1817, has determined a good weed control. The mulching with transparent film determined earliness of 4,2 days in the harvest of the 1st head and 5,2 days in the harvest of the 4th head, with respect to Test. The total number of heads for plant increased from 15,7 to 19,9.
42877680|La Sesia del ribes provoca in Romagna, gravi danni alle colture di kaki scavando gallerie subcorticali nel tronco e nei rami principali. Dai primi studi effettuati sulla biologia dell'insetto risulta che gli sfarfallamenti iniziano in maggio e terminano in settembre, interessando cos un periodo di circa cinque mesi. Fra i metodi di lotta sperimentati, i migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti con trattamenti insetticidi al tronco e ai rami principali, nel periodo estivo durante la nascita delle larve, con Parathion da solo o unito a Lindano. Riguardo al numero di trattamenti su piante molto danneggiate, si consigliano almeno tre interventi annui da effettuarsi rispettivamente nella prima decade di giugno, nella prima decade di luglio e verso la seconda met di agosto. Per piante poco infestate saranno sufficienti due trattamenti annui da effettuarsi rispettivamente in giugno e in luglio. Coi trattamenti si ottengono risultati veramente positivi solo se si bagnano i tronchi e i rami bene e con abbondante soluzione insetticida, aggiungendo un po' di bagnante per facilitare la penetrazione del liquido nelle anfrattuosita della corteccia. Risultati soddisfacenti contro l'insetto si ottengono anche con raschiature e spezzolature ai tronchi a fine inverno, seguite da trattamenti insetticidi. The Currant Clearwing Moth (Synanthedon tipuliformis Cl.) cause heavy ravages to kaki cultivations in Romagna (Italy), by boring tunnels under the bark of trunks and of main branches. The emergence of the adults begins in May and ends in September, so it concerns a period of about five mouths. Among the methods of fight tried, the best results have been obtained by the application of spray insecticides, Parathion only or mixed with Lindane, to the trunk and to the main branches, in Summer during the birth of the larvae. As for the number of treatments on very damaged plants, three yearly treatments at least, are advisable. The must be effected in the first ten days of June, in the first ten days of July, and in the second half of August, respectively. Two yearly treatments, which must be effected in June and July, will be enough for not very damaged plants. Really good results can be obtained by the application of spray insecticides only if trunks and branches are thoroughly sprinkled with abundant insecticidal solution. Satisfactory results in the control of this insect can also be obtained by scraping and brushing trunks at the end of Winter, followed by the application of spray insecticides.
42877684|Vengono riferiti i risultati di prove condotte con MH (1 , 2, 3) e CCC (3%, 4%, 5%) somministrati per via fogliare e per due anni consecutivi su due cultivar di fragola (" Oranda " e " Cambridge Vigour "). I suddetti composti, hanno mostrato di modificare profondamente il comportamento vegetativo e produttivo delle piante, nonch il contenuto di alcune componenti immediate della polpa determinato mediante analisi chimiche dei frutti. Results of trials carried out with MH (1, 2, 3) and CCC (3%, 4%, 5%) sprayed consecutively for two years on " Oranda " and " Cambridge Vigour " strawberry varieties, are referred. These compounds influence the growth and yeld behaviour of the plants and the chemical components of the fleshy part of the fruits.
42877685|Nel presente lavoro sono riportate alcune osservazioni preliminari sul comportamento in vivaio di astoni di pesco delle cultivar " Dixired ", " Redhaven ", " Southland " e " J. H. Hale " innestati su portinnesti diversi (" G. F. 305 ", " S. Giuliano di Murcia ", " susino di Castellinaldo ", " susino di S. Anna ", " Damasco 1869 ", " susino di Pontevico ", " Brompton ", " S. Giuliano Ibrido N. 1 " e " G. F. 655/2 ") I risultati conseguiti sono stati i seguenti:  la percentuale di attecchimento degli innesti, effettuati a gemma dormiente,  risultata complessivamente soddisfacente, sia sul pesco franco " G. F. 305 " (86%), che sui susini (media 81%). Anche durante il ciclo vegetativo del 1970 le piante innestate non hanno manifestato sintomi esterni di disaffnit di innesto;  l'accrescimento delle piante, valutato sia come altezza degli astoni che come sviluppo dei rami anticipati,  risultato variabile in relazione all'impiego dei diversi portinnesti, tra i quali i susini hanno condizionato uno sviluppo in altezza dell'astone inferiore del 40% rispetto alle piante innestate sul franco " G. F. 305 "; lo sviluppo totale della vegetazione (astone + rami anticipati) nelle piante innestate sui susini  risultata inferiore del 60% rispetto allo sviluppo delle piante innestate su " G. F. 305 ";  l'intensit dell'accrescimento  risultata anch'essa diversa e le piante innestate su susino hanno dimostrato nell'arco dell'anno un ritmo di crescita inferiore ma pi uniforme rispetto a quello delle piante innestate sul pesco " G. F. 305 ". Dopo la stasi estiva le prime hanno inoltre presentato una ripresa vegetativa molto meno accentuata. Sulla base di tali risultati viene confermata la necessit di procedere a sperimentazioni di pieno campo e vengono discusse le possibilit di utilizzazione del susino quale portinnesto del pesco. One year old nursery trees of four peaches varieties (" Dixired ", " J. H. Hale ", " Redhaven ", " Southland ") have been tested on nine rifferent rootstocks, one of which was the peach seedling " G. F. 305 " whilst the others were different clones of Prunus spp. (" Brompton ", " G. F. 655/2 ", " Damas 1869 ", " S. Julien Hibrid 1 ", " Murcia S. Julien ", " Castellinaldo ", " Pontevico " and " S. Anna "). The main results were: 1) Pudding failure have been very low with all the tested stocks. 2) Tree growth has been affected by the different rootstocks in relation both to the total development of the shoots and to the periodical growth during the season. The Authors conclude that some preconizing of the tested rootstocks could be usefully applied to peach growing in some peculiar soil conditions.
42877686|Morphological, biological and commercial characteristics of the new cultivar of sweet cherry " Vittoria " (" Moretta di Cazzano "  " Durona di Padova ") originated in Verona, Italy, by G. Bargioni, Verona's Experiment Institut for Fruit Growing, are described. The most important characteristics of " Vittoria " are : a) all the cherries ripen at the same time (second half of June) and, b) at ripening time, the fruit removal force (FRF) has a very low value and all the cherries fall very easy, without the pedicel, in consequence of shaking of the branches; the point of insertion of the pedicel on the fruit, at the abscission level, remains suberised. For that, " Vittoria " seems to be able to give an important help to the solution of the problem of mechanical harvesting of sweet cherries.
42877687|La fruttificazione di alcune specie da frutto (pesco, albicocco, ecc.) viene talvolta compromessa da gelate tardive durante il periodo di fioritura. Allo scopo di saggiare l'azione di alcuni fitoregolatori sulla schiusura delle gemme a fiore, sono state condotte alcune prove sulle cultivar di pesco " Cardinal " e " Dixired ". I trattamenti sono stati eeffettuati alla met di ottobre, prima della caduta delle foglie. Sono stati impiegati 3 composti alle seguenti concentrazioni: Alar 2000-4000-6000 ppm; Idrazide maleica 500-1000-1500 ppm; NAA 500-1000-1500 ppm. I risultati conseguiti, nelle condizioni in cui sono state condotte le prove, possono cos essere sintetizzati: su entrambe le cultivar l'NAA a tutte le concentrazioni ha ritardato la data di piena fioritura di un periodo variabile da 1 a 2 giorni e mezzo. Lo stesso risultato  stato ottenuto nella " Cardinal " anche con l'Alar a 6000 ppm. L'NAA, alle concentrazioni pi elevate, ha provocato, sia sulla " Cardinal " che sulla " Dixired " danni alle foglie pi giovani ed ai rami non completamente lignificati. Le piante trattate con questo composto hanno mostrato un notevole ritardo nella caduta delle foglie, una minore percentuale di fiori schiusi ed infine una pi bassa fruttificazione. Anche i trattamenti con Alar hanno determinato una riduzione della produzione. In generale i fitoregolatori impiegati non hanno mostrato di influenzare sensibilmente l'attivit vegetativa delle piante. Fruit production (e.g. peaches and apricots) is frequently damaged by late frost during blossom period. Some growth regulators were tested as for their effectiveness in delayng blossoming. Peach trees (cv. " Cardinal " and " Dixired ") were sprayed in middle October, when leaves were still green, with Alar (2000-4000-6000 ppm., MH (500-1000-1500 ppm.). and NAA (500-1000-1500 ppm.). Under the conditions of this trial it was found : all concentrations of NAA used on both varieties delayed blossoming only two days. The same results were obtained using Alar, 6000 ppm., on " Cardinal ". NAA (on both varieties at higher concentrations) damaged the young leaves and the immature parts of shoots, delayed leaves fall and decreased the flowering percentage. Generally, all the trees sprayed with NAA or Alar produced lower yelds. The growth of the treated shoots not showed particular secondary effects.
42877688|Among the earliest pear cultivars, one of the leading is the cv. " Mirandino rosso ". This cultivar, original of Moglia (Mantova), is characterized by: pyriform fruit, attractive, yellow skin extensively red-stained; firm flesh, not subject to core break-down, suitable for local market and shipping; ripens fifty days before " William "; tree vigorous also on quince-rootstock, very productive; fairly rsistent to principal criptogamic diseases and to low temperatures during the winter and the springtime. Since the " Mirandino rosso " is resulted self-sterile, some good impollinator cultivars are enumerated.
42877689|Gli autori riassumono bibliograficamente l'influenza degli elementi minerali, della quantit e intensit luminosa, della temperatura, della genetica, dello stato di maturazione alla raccolta, della conservazione e delle preparazioni casalinghe sul contenuto di vitamine e di sali minerali negli ortaggi. The influence of minerals, of the amount and intensity of light, of temperature, the role of genetics and of maturity at picking time, the effect of storage and home preparation on vitamins and minerals contents in vegetable crops are bibliographically summarized by the authors.
42877690| stata messa in evidenza la possibilit di ottenere la defogliazione e di procedere ad una estirpazione precoce degli astoni dal vivaio, operando con trattamenti a base di " Alar " seguiti da " Ethrel ". L'" Alar " applicato il 2 settembre ha ridotto la crescita dell'apice in astoni di melo " Mutsu " e " Idared " innestati su EM 26, MM 106 e MM 111. La formazione della gemma terminale  risultata accelerata, principalmente nella " Mutsu ". L'" Ethrel " applicato il 2 ottobre a 1000 e 2000 ppm. ha esplicato parzialmente la sua efficacia sulla sola combinazione " Mutsu "/EM 26. L'applicazione successiva, il 9 ottobre a 2000 o 4000 ppm, ha prodotto una defogliazione spinta nella " Mutsu ", pi blanda nella " Idared ". I trattamenti a base di " Alar " non sembrano interferire con quelli di " Ethrel ". Il 2 novembre sono state trattate con " Ethrel ", olio minerale ed una combinazione di questi due composti piante di Prunus avium F 12/1, Cydonia oblonga " di Provenza ", Rubus albescens e meli delle cv. " Idared ", " Monroe " e " Mutsu ". I trattamenti a base di " Ethrel " hanno sempre indotto una notevole defogliazione. " Alar " followed by " Ethrel " gave early defoliation and permitted earlier digging of apple nursery stock. Applied on 2 September, 2000 ppm. " Alar " reduced shoot growth on " Idared " and " Mutsu " maidens on rootstocks EM 26, MM 106, and MM 111; terminal bud formation was much accelerated on " Mutsu ". " Ethrel " applied 2 October at 1000 or 2000 ppm. effectively defoliated " Mutsu "/ EM 26 but was not effective on other stions. October 9 applications of " Ethrel " at 2000 or 4000 ppm. produced commercial defoliation of " Mutsu " and was of significant benefit on " Idared ". The earlier " Alar " treatment enhanced response to " Ethrel " sprays. On 2 November, drenching sprays of 2000 ppm. " Ethrel ", 2% mineral oil were applied to Prunus avium cv. F 12/1, Cydonia oblonga " Provence ", Rubus albescens, and " Monroe ", " Idared " and " Mutsu " apple. The " Ethrel " sprays stimulated defoliation on all test subjects.
42877691|Vengono riferite alcune prove effettuate allo scopo di saggiare, per un numeroso gruppo di susini portainnesti del pesco, i diversi metodi di moltiplicazione vegetativa. Dalle prove  emerso che: la propaggine per trincea  una tecnica sufficientemente valida per il " Damaschino di Tolosa ", mentre la talea di radice  pi conveniente per la " Regina Claudia "; la nebulizzazione si adatta, invece, molto bene al " S. Giuliano A ", al " G. F. 655-2 ", al " P. E. 43 "nonch al " Brompton 4/3 ", mentre il riscaldamento basale sembra la tecnica pi consona al " Damaschino di Tolosa ", al " P. E. 43 " ed al " Damaschino C ". Researches on propagation methods of some plum clonal rootstocks have been done in different years. The results showed that: the layering is a method quite good for the " Black Damas ", while the root cutting was much more convenient for the " Green Gage ", mist is very suitable to the "St. Julian A ", " G. F. 655 2 ", " P. E. 43 ", " Brompton 4/3 ", and the bottom heat seems like to be suitable to " Black Damas ", " P. E. 43 "and " Damas C ".
42877692|Observations have been carried out in order to ascertain the effects of plastic net covering on the honey-bees behavior in an apple orchard (cv. " Jonathan "). Results have shown that: a) the number of honey-bees visiting the flowers was significantly less on the trees under net covering; b) the decrease of bee-visit has not been accompained by a reduction of fruit set neither of number of seeds per fruit.
42877693|Gli Autori hanno esaminato, sotto il profilo istologico, la struttura del fusto in astoni di melo " Golden Delicious " trattati con TIBA a 1.000 ppm all'inizio della stagione vegetativa. I principali effetti del trattamento sono rappresentati dalla formazione di una maggiore quantit di corteccia e, per quanto riguarda il legno, dalla presenza di bande concentriche di legno di tensione, con vasi pi piccoli e meno numerosi. In base a questi rilievi gli Autori concludono mettendo in rilievo la minor efficienza del sistema conduttore delle piante trattate. Anatomical investigations have been performed on the stem of " Golden Delicious " maiden trees treated, during early summer, with TIBA (1.000 ppm). This treatment stimulated bark development, with special reference to the cortex, and determined the formation of a less porous xylem, provided with few and small vessels and characterized by the presence of some continuous rings of tension wood. On the basis of these observations the reduced conductivity of the stem in the treated plants is emphasized.
42877694|Researches have been carried out, in 1969-70, on thermic requirements of 3-yearsold filberts, ccvv. " Mansa ", " Rampolla ", " S. Maria di Ges ", grown in pots. Temperature requirements have been evaluated by the exponential system. Two methods have been applied for the evaluations of chilling requirements: the sum of the exponential actions and the sum of the temperatures (this second method values the amount of low temperatures by the number of hours below 7C). These researches have provided data which led us to draw the following conclusions:  The typical relation between " heat units " and " cold units " is an exponential curve.  In plants of " S. Maria di Ges " and " Rampolla " budded on rootstock " S. Maria di Ges ", the chilling requirements were higher than the ones observed in suckers of " S. Maria di Ges "and " Mansa ".  The chilling requirements of staminate flowers were considerably lower than those of leaf buds and pistillate flowers.  Generally, pistillate flowers have very low heat requirements. Peculiar aspects of the pollen germination, of the growth of the pollen tubes in the style and of the evolution of female gametophyte in conditions of lack of adequate chilling, have been also examined.
42877695|Si espone una prima parte dei risultati ottenuti in una sperimentazione sulla coltura forzata del melone " Charentais " : agli investimenti maggiori (5 piante/m) si sono ottenute le maggiori produzioni unitarie nonostante diminuisse la produttivit delle singole piante; la cimatura del ramo primario, generalmente praticata per provocare l'emissione dei rami secondari, ha ritardato la produzione.
42877701|Gli AA. esposta l'evoluzione verifcatasi nell'ultimo quindicennio della coltura del pesco, nel suo standard varietale nazionale e nella sua produzione; nell'intento di intensificare l'ancora deficiente raccolta di pesche nei mesi di maggio e giugno, pi agevolmente commerciabili, descrivono sommariamente le numerose cultivar  Extraprecoci  e  Precocissime  che si prestano allo scopo. Le prime comprendono le cultivar che maturano i frutti prima della "May Flower", le seconde quelle che maturano fra la "May Flower" e la "Dixired". Delle  Extraprecoci  sono considerate n. 18 cultivar fra le pi note e n. 8 delle meno note. Delle  Precocissime  ne vengono descritte n. 19 fra le prime e n. 10 delle seconde. Delle pi note, di entrambi i gruppi,  indicata: l'origine, l'epoca della loro diffusione, le principali caratteristiche agronomiche e commerciali, con particolare riguardo al fabbisogno in freddo, l'epoca della fioritura e della maturazione dei frutti. Nelle Tabb. n. 4 e 5 sono state riassunte tutte le suddette caratteristiche per ciascuna delle 55 cultivar descritte. Queste caratteristiche consentono ai peschicoltori di poter scegliere, fra le pi precoci, quelle che si prestano per essere coltivate nelle zone pi calde del nostro Paese, nelle quali  possibile produrre pesche a partire dalla met di maggio, in condizioni ordinarie d'ambiente ed ai primi di maggio in colture protette. Si anticipa vantaggiosamente in tal modo il ciclo produttivo del pesco. Sono infine indicate fra le  Extraprecoci  le cultivar pi promettenti, disposte in ordine di maturazione e cio: "Flordasun" e "Flordawon" (limitatamente alle zone con climi invernali molto miti), "Vhynot", "Royal Gold", "Springtime", "Armgold", "Springold" (pi adatta per le zone Centro-Settentrionali), "Favorita I Morettini", "Merrill May Lady" e "Earlibelle" da coltivare nelle regioni pi calde dell'Italia. Fra le  Precocissime  vengono consigliate le seguenti: "Favorita II Morettini", "Merrill Bonjour", "Springerest ", "Favorita III Morettini", "Desertgold", "Collins , "Merrill Gemfree 1", "June Gold" (limitatamente negli ambienti pi confacenti). In considerazione della mutevole variabilit degli ambienti che caratterizzano anche il nostro Meridione e le Isole, prima di utilizzare le suddette cultivar per impianti di pescheti industriali,  necessario, in special modo per le cultivar a fioritura molto precoce, sperimentarle in precedenza. The Authors expose the last fifteen years' evolution of the peach culture, of its national varietal standard and of its production. They intend to intensify the actually deficient yeld of peaches in may and june, just when they are easily marketable. So they give a brief description of the "Extraearly" and "Earliest" varieties, particularly suitable for this aim. In the first group they include the varieties ripening before "May Flower" and in the second those ripening between "May Flower" and "Dixired". In the first group 18 of the best-known varieties and 8 of the less-known are considered; in the second are described 19 best-known and 10 less-known varieties. For both these groups and for the best-known varieties are indicated: origin, date of diffusion, principal agronomic and commercial characters with special reference to chilling requirement, flowering season and ripening season. In the tables 4 and 5 these characters are indicated for each of the 55 described varieties. These characters allow the grower to chose, among the earliest varieties, the most suitable for the warmest regions of our country, where peaches can be obtained about mid may in field and at the beginning of may in protected culture. So it is possible to advance the productive cycle of peach trees. Among the "Extraearly" varieties are then indicated the most promising, in order of earliness, and viz: "Flordasun" and "Flordawon" (only for the mild-winter regions); "Vhynot", "Royal Gold", "Springtime", "Armgold", "Springold" (more suitable for the Central-Northern regions); "Favorita I Morettini", "Merrill May Lady" and "Earlybelle", to grow in the warmest Italian regions. Among the "Very early" varieties are indicated the following: "Favorita II Morettini", "Merrill Bonjour". "Springerest", "Favorita III Morettini", "Desertgold", "Collins", "Merrill Gemfree I", "June Gold ", (only in the most suitable milieux). Since the milieux are very different in Southern Italy and in the Isles, before of adopting a variety for a new commercial peach orchard it is better to try it, particularly for the varieties having a very early flowering season.
42877702|In questa nota l'Autore esamina il ruolo della temperatura sul processo produttivo degli Agrumi. Le ricerche sono state condotte su piante di agrumi della cv. " Tarocco ", allevate in contenitori, sistemate in celle climatiche e divise in tre tesi con temperature di + 12C per 1.440 ore (A); + 5C per 720 ore (B) e + 5C per 1.440 ore (C) a partire dal 20 dicembre. L'Autore conclude affermando che temperature inferiori a + 12C, sebbene determinino una minore emissione di fiori, fanno diminuire notevolmente la percentuale di cascola per cui le piante tenute a + 5C per 720 e 1.440 ore hanno dato una maggiore produzione di quelle tenute a + 12C per 1.440 ore. In this paper the Author examines the role of winter temperatures on the productiveness of the orange trees. The researches carried out with the experimental plan successively described on four years old " Tarocco " variety cultivated in containers. Thesis A: continuous temperature of + 12C for 1.440 hours starting from december 20th; Thesis B: continuous temperature of + 5C for 720 hours starting from december 20th; Thesis C: continuous temperature of + 5C for 1.440 hours starting from december 20th. Every thesis contained five trees that, concluded the period of permanence in climatic cell, were moved in the open air, in normal conditions. The results of the research above mentioned enhance: 1) the allegation percentage was higher in two theses where the trees were kept under temperature of + 5C than those submitted for 1.440 hours under temperature of + 12C; 2) the blossom drop percentage was lower for the trees exposed at the temperature of +5C and such percentage is reduced with the rise of the permanence in the thermic value above mentioned; it was of 12,5% in the thesis B (720 hours at +5C) and of 4,54% in the thesis C (1.440 hours at +5C) indeed. Much more high and namely egual to 65% was the blossom drop for the trees kept at +12C for 1.440 hours (thesis A); 3) the entity of the production was therefore higher in the trees kept at +5C for 720 hours and, in way much more sensible, than those kept at same temperature for a period of 1.440 hours.
42877703|Researches done in 1968-1969 have ascertained that the pollen of some entomophilous species (such as apple, pear and cherry) was carried by the wind to relatively high distances from trees. However it was not yet ascertained whether the air borne pollen was also able to germinate and to fertilize. During 1969-1970 this particular problem has been studied in the apple (cv. " Golden Delicious ") by the following observations: a) comparison of the setting of flowers emasculated before the anthesis and isolated in plastic net bags, with the setting of flowers left to the free pollination; b) comparison of the setting of flowers artificially pollinated by  contact  with the setting of flowers pollinated by  dropping . Both pollination methods have been carried out with pollen of "Jonathan". Pollination by  contact  has been carried out by rubbing the stigmas with a bee strewn with "Jonathan" pollen. Pollination by  dropping  was instead effected by dropping pollen grains over the stigmas of the flowers; c) comparison of the growth of the pollen tubes in the pistil of flowers pollinated either by  contact  or by  dropping , and either in the orchard or in the laboratory. The results of the researches have shown that: 1) the presence of pollen in the air is not a sufficient condition to ensure fertilization. In fact branchlets isolated by plastic nets have produced only parthenocarpic fruits or no fruits at all; 2) the setting of flowers pollinated by  contact  was significantly higher (10.58%) than the setting of flowers pollinated by  dropping  (5.41%); 3) the speed of growth of the pollen tubes was slower in the pistils pollinated by  dropping , than in those pollinated by  contact . It is not easy to single out the causes that have determined this slower growth. It may be presumed, first of all, that a quantity of pollen fallen on the stigma of flowers pollinated by  dropping  was lesser that the quantity received by the stigmas pollinated by  contact . It may also be presumed that this fact has determined a lesser  population effect , with a consequent reduction of the ability to germinate and of the speed growth of the pollen tubes. It is furthermore probable that in flowers pollinated by  dropping  the pollen grains came to a less intimate contact with the surface of the stigma and this fact has reduced their germination ability and also the speed growth of their tubes. The almost total absence of setting of the flowers, which were isolated in net bags, might be ascribed, at least in part, to the same causes assumed to explain the lesser setting of flowers artificially pollinated by  dropping  compared with those pollinated by  contact .
42877704|Piante di Acer palmatum Thumb., coltivate in ville della collina di Torino e di Rivoli (TO), sono state colpite da disseccamento. Dai tessuti vasali necrosati dei rametti  stato isolato un fungo che, per i suoi caratteri morfologici,  stato classificato per Verticillium dahliae Kleb., di cui  stata accertata la patogenicit. Le prove di lotta, attuate con Biomicina + 8 allo 0,02%), Benlate (allo 0,06%), Chinosan (allo 0,1)%, hanno dato risultati altamente significativi rispetto al Testimone. Biomicina +8 e Benlate sono apparsi i pi efficaci contro la verticilliosi dell'Acer palmatum Thumb. During the 1970 Summer some plants of Acer palmatum Thumberg showed twig wilting, with evident darkening of the lower leaf edge and folding toward the upper side. The wilted twig cortical tissues, when observed under the microscope, showed a greyishviolet colour, clearly different from the normal ones, which are green. Inside the xylem tissued showed a dark circular colouring due to the presence of gummy matters, of tilli and fungal mycelium. From these tissues fragments were taken off and placed on agar-carrot-glucosate (pH= 6,5); a hyaline, granular, sectate as verticillium, mycelium, with two or four phyalides bearing conidia also hyalines, unicellular, ovoidal measuring as an average 1,5-3x3,5 -5 micron. On the base of the morphological characters this fungus has been recognized as Verticillium dahliae Kleb. The pathogenicity tests have shown that the fungus, in the inoculated plants has reproduced the same disease already observed in the cultivated plants. It has been observed that the fungus exhibits a pathogenic activity very slow and sometimes no activity at all through the healty cortical tissues, while it is very rapid in presence of wounds produced by meteoric agents, or soil labours and insects. In order to inhibit the infection spreading, we have made test of comparative control, according to the randomization method, with following procedures:  Biomycin + 8 (Polyantibiotics + 8-oxichinoline sulphate) at the dose of 0,02%;  Benlate (50 + acid 1 (butil-carbamoil - 2-benzimidazol carbamic) at the dose of 0,06%;  Chinosan (80% ortho-oxichinoline sulphate) at the dose of 0,1%;  Control: no treatment. The products have been sprinkled on the plants, with frequency of three weekly applications. The results obtained (shown on table n. 1) indicate that the three products have statistically controlled, with reference to the control, the pathogen activity of V. dahliae. Byomicine + 8, especially, was most effective against the pathogen; Benlate has shown a slightly lower effectiveness. However both products, in comparison to Chinosan, have given the best results in the control of V. dahliae Kleb. infections in the Acer palmatum Thumberg plants.
42877705|Si riferiscono i risultati di una prova riguardante la variazione del contenuto in Vitamina C dei frutti di pomodoro durante l'intero periodo di raccolta. Sono stati esaminati gli ibridi F, i loro progenitori, un ibrido F ed una variet commerciale al fine di confermare il fenomeno dell'eterosi riscontrata per la Vi- tamina C in un precedente lavoro. Si esamina anche la variazione del contenuto in Vitamina C durante la maturazione dei frutti.  stato posto in evidenza quanto segue: il livello della Vitamina C varia notevolmente durante il periodo di raccolta,  minore all'inizio, maggiore alla fine sia negli ibridi che nelle variet. Il fenomeno dell'eterosi negli ibridi F risulta confermato per solo limitatamente all'ultimo periodo di raccolta cio a partire dai frutti del 3-4 palco. Il livello di Vitamina C varia anche durante le successive fasi di maturazione del frutto, aumenta dal verde al rosso e diminuisce nella fase di supermaturazione. Results of a trial upon the variation of Vitamina C content in tomato fruits during the harvesting period are referred. The cultivars "Patio", "Piertarum", "Marmande V 19", "Marmande Superprecoce SAIS", and the hybrids F "Patio  Piertarum", "Patio  Marmande V 19", "N. 6427" are sowing at 19-1-70 and transplanted in plastichouse (PVC) at 5-3-70. The analyses are conducted on samples of tomato fruits at the stage of colour changes from green to red, with the 2- 6 diclorphenolindophenol titration method. The analyses are carried-out weekly from the beginning to the end of harvesting. The content of Vitamina C changes during the harvesting period, from minimum 15,7 mgr 100 gr fr.s. to maximum 31,9 mgr. The lowest values are found at the beginning of production in the first truss, and the highest values at the end of production in the last truss. This variation in Vitamina C level is greater in hybrids F than in the cultivars. However it is confirmed the heterosis for Vitamina C contents in "Marmande V 19  Patio" hybrid, noted in a previous trial. This heterosis effect results in fruits of 3-4  and following trusses. An other serial analysis has regarded the variation of level Vitamina C during the fruits ripening. In this case the content of Vitamina C increases from green to red stage, decreases from red to deep red stage. This variation is important for sampling and for alimentation.
42877706|In esperimenti condotti per due anni consecutivi sul melone " Charentais " in coltura forzata in serra si sono provati diversi sistemi di allevamento e diverse distanze di impianto. Agli investimenti maggiori (fino a 7,4 piante per metro quadrato) si ottennero le maggiori produzioni per unit di superfice, nonostante diminuisse la produttivit delle singole piante. La cimatura del ramo primario, in serra, ritarda la produzione e ne riduce l'entit; se alla cimatura segue l'allevamento di due rami anzich di uno solo, per si ha un aumento della produzione (non della precocit), purch le piante siano sufficientemente illuminate. Anche nelle prove condotte in coltura semiforzata a terra,  risultato che la cimatura, nella cv. "Charentais ", non porta n ad un anticipo della produzione, n ad una maggiore produttivit. Experiments were carried on in 1968 and 1969, growing muskmelon cv. "Charentais "in hot house with the string method. 1968 trials were directed to study pruning methods and spacing between plants, in relation to production and earliness of plants and best exploitation of covered space. Three pruning treatments were tried: (I) No pruning of primary stem; (II) stopping primary stem at two leaves and growing one secondary stem as main stem; (III) stopping primary stem at two leaves and growing two secondary stems as main stems. Main stems were trained up strings; lateral shoots with perfect flowers were stopped two leaves above the fruitlet, and those without perfect flowers were stopped at one leaf. Pruning treatments were combined with four spacing treatments: a) ternate rows (5 plants /sq. m); b) coupled rows (3,3 plants /sq. m); c) single rows with plants at 50 cm in the row (2 plants /sq. m); d) single rows with plants at 30 cm in the row (3,3 plants /sq. m). The two stems of treatment III were either grown as a V or as a lattice-work. At wider spacings number of fruits per square meter decreaesed and increased number of fruits per plant; production of treatment I was 20% greater than that of treatment II; production of treatment III was greatly affected by plant disposition: lattice-work grown plants produced less than V-grown ones, probably because the first ones shaded each other. Maximum early yield per square meter (see graphs 1-5) was obtained training the primary stem as the main stem. Stopping the primary stem, followed by training two secondarystems delayed but increased production, stopping the plants followed by training one secondary stem both delayed and reduced yield. No difference in earliness was found between lattice-work grown and V-grown plants in single row treatments (treatment n. 10 and n. 11, graph 4); earliness was not even significantly affected by number of plants per square meter. Different treatments strongly affected number of hermafroditic flowers and seemed to affect their position on the stem (graph 6-8). In the year 1969, only the two pruning treatments that had given the best results were tried (no stopping of primary stem and stopping primary stem followed by training two secondary stems as main stems), and a wider range of spacing was tested: from 7,4 to 2,2 plants per square meter. It was confirmed that cropping was closely related to plant spacing: at narrower spacings yield of each plant was depressed, but the increase of production due to greater number of plants per sq. m generally was much larger than the decrease of single plant production. To obtain a high density of plants, it is better to plant at narrow spacings in the row than between rows, to avoid shading. Plants grown with two main stems produced twice as much than plants grown with the primary stem at the same spacing, but early yield was remarkably depressed by stopping the primary stem. Orientative experiments on commercial cultures of muskmelon cultivar "Charentais " on the ground forced in hot beds and under plastic tunnels, showed that stopping the plants affects neither the early nor the total yield.
42877662|Indagini condotte sulla biologia fiorale della " Ruth Gerstetter " e di altre cultivar di susine europee hanno permesso di individuare: a) gli impollinatori pi idonei per la " Ruth Gerstetter "; b) il grado di autoincompatibilit delle cultivar oggetto dell'indagine; c) la capacit impollinante della " Ruth Gerstetter " nei confronti delle cultivar in esame.  risultato pertanto che le migliori cultivar reciprocamente impoUinatrici con la " Ruth Gerstetter " sono: " Lincoln ", " Joris Plum ", " Claudia Mostruosa ", " Stanley "e "President ". The " Ruth Gerstetter " is a cultivar belonging to the group of the European plums, recently imported to Italy, which tends to propagate because of its precocity and the favourable characteristics of its fruits, more suitable to the export than those of the Chinesefapanese cultivars riping in the same period. Into this cultivar and others tested as its pollinators, the following researches have been done: 1) Finding of the most efficient pollinators of the " Ruth Gerstetter "; 2) Determination of the degree of self compatibility of plum's cultivars, subject of the research. 3) Check of the pollinating function of the " Ruth Gerstetter " in comparison with the tested cultivars. From the results reached we can say that: 1) The most effective pollinator cultivars for the " Ruth Gerstetter " are: " Claudia Mostruosa ", " Lincoln ", " Stanley ", " Joris Plum ", " Giant "and " President "; 2) Among the tested cultivars, only the "Lincoln "proved itself to be selfcompatible, the "Claudia Mostruosa " limitedly, and even more limitedly the cultivars " Giant ", " Precoce di Ersinger ", " Stanley ". All the other cultivars proved to be selfincompatible. 3) The " Ruth Gerstetter " resulted an excellent pollinator of the following cultivars: " Lincoln ", "President ", " Joris Plum ", rt Claudia Mostruosa ", " Ltzlachser ", " Maddalena Nomblot ". Therefore the best cultivars reciprocally pollinators with the "Ruth Gerstetter "are: "Lincoln ", " Joris Plum ". " Claudia Mostruosa ", " Stanley " and '' President ". These cultivars can then be recommended for a rational association with the " Ruth Gerstetter ".
42877663|Le indagini sono state condotte allo scopo di accertare se allo specifico grado di resistenza al freddo invernale caratteristico delle diverse cultivar di pesco corrispondevano variazioni cronologiche quantitative e qualitative nel contenuto degli idrati di carbonio presenti nelle gemme a fiore. I risultati conseguiti hanno confermato che nelle diverse cultivar di pesco esiste una positiva correlazione tra contenuto in zuccheri solubili nelle gemme e resistenza al freddo. Questi zuccheri, principalmente rappresentati da glucosio e fruttosio, aumentano progressivamente durante tutto Tin verno anche se le temperature si mantengono relativamente miti. Si  potuto cos dimostrare che lo stimolo che determina tale aumento sembra seguire pi un determinismo genetico che l'andamento termico caratteristico del periodo di quiescenza invernale delle gemme stesse. Fruit buds of four peach varieties  " Cotogna Massima ",  Vivian ", " Campiel "and " Experimental 1 "  were compared biochemically. The cold hardiness degree is very high in the first two varieties and low in the two latter. The analyses were made in order to attend the content of total sugars and starch during the winter and to identify the sugars by thin-layer chromatography. The results indicate a significant correlation between the hardiness degree and sugars content,  specifically glucose and fructose  which increases during the winter even if the temperature keeps relatively mild (Figgs. 1 and 2). In this way evidence exists that cold hardiness depends on the specific gentical pattern of the different varieties rather than on the winter climatic conditions.
42877664|La Muffa grigia prodotta da Botrytis cinerea Pers. arreca di solito, gravi danni alle produzioni di Fragola coltivata in pieno campo e sotto tunnel di polietilene. Prove preliminari di lotta sono state eseguite contro la Botrytis cinerea della Fragola, cv. " Gorella " sotto forzatura, cv. " Senga Sengana " in pieno campo, mediante l'impiego di Benlate alle dosi di gr 45 e di gr 60 per ettolitro e di Captan alla dose di gr 250 per ettolitro, in presenza di Testimoni; entrambi i prodotti furono applicati con motopompa a spalla, ogni 10 giorni. I risultati delle indagini su parcelle randomizzate eseguite nei due tipi di ambienti colturali, hanno messo in evidenza che il Benlate possiede un'attivit specifica contro la Botrytis cinerea della Fragola. Sia in serra che in pieno campo la dose di gr 60/hl  apparsa significativamente superiore a quella di gr. 45/hl. II Captan (gr 250/hl)  risultato assai meno efficace, probabilmente per una minore persistenza o scarsa distribuzione del film funghicida sui frutti. L'applicazione di questo preparato e del Benlate alla dose di gr 45/hl dovrebbe avvenire con cadenze pi ravvicinate (settimanali). Il Benlate, quindi, alla dose di gr 60/hl consente di ottenere i migliori risultati, in quanto il principio attivo, distribuito sia in serra che in pieno campo in modo omogeneo sotto forma di film continuo, esplica una maggiore persistenza (e difesa) sui frutti che risultano ugualmente gustosi e fragranti, sani e conservabili. The " Grey Mold " caused by Botrytis cinerea Pers. damages usually quite severly the Strawberry crops both in field and under polyetilene tunnel. Tests were made for forced crops with "Gorella "cultivar as well as for field crops with "Senga Sengana "cultivar. In both tests the control of Botryits cinerea Pers. was performed by the randomizing method, using and comparing the following treatments: Benlate [50% Acid 1 (butyl-carbamoyl) 2-benzimidazol carbamic]: at 0,045% commercial product; Benlate (as above): at 0,060% commercial product; Captan (50% N-trichlorometyl-thio-tetraidroftalymide): at 0,25% commercial product; Control: No treatment. These treatment were applied: 1) at blossom season, 2) at the end of blossom, 3) at the beginning of fruit ripening, at weekly intervals or at intervals of 8-10 days. Phytosanitary observations of each plot were effected for each treatment and at harvest time of the fruits in their respective environments. The test results, as shown in Table 1, have indicated trat Benlate has a specific activity against Botrytis cinerea Pers. of Strawberry. In particular we can observe that in the two crop environments, Benlate at the dose of 60 gr/hl was significatively more effective that at 45 gr/hl. Captan (25 gr/hl) was much less effective, probably owing to its shorter persistence or too little distribution of the fungicid film on the fruits. Application of Captan at 25 gr/hl and of Benlate at 45 gr/hl shold be effected at weekly intervals. Only Benlate at 60 gr/hl allows to obtain the best results, inasmuch as its active principle, both in greenhaouse and in field, as a continuous, homogenous film, in more persistent and performs a better defense on the fruits which are tasty, healthy and will preservable.
42877665|Peschi " Southland " su franco, posti a dimora nell'autunno 1961, vennero sottoposti a periodiche lavorazioni del suolo fino all'estate 1966. Nell'autunno di tale anno venne inerbita met delle parcelle. Fino a tutto il 1970 le parcelle inerbite vennero periodicamente sfalciate, mentre le altre vennero ordinariamente lavorate.  stata periodicamente rilevata la umidit del suolo, sono stati inoltre registrati l'incremento annuo del diametro dei tronchi, il peso del materiale asportato con la potatura invernale, l'entit e l'anticipo della produzione, nonch, al termine della prova, il contenuto in azoto dei rami in un anno. Soil moisture tension at the depth of 60 cm (Fig. 2), trunk diameter and weight of pruning (Tab. 1), fruit yield (Tab. 2 and Fig. 1) and nitrogen content of 1-year-old branches were compared, during a four years period, for clean cultivated and grass mulched plots of a peach orchard established in 1961. The sword, sown in 1966, consisted of clover and grasses. Tree growth was the same in the clean cultivated and in the grassed plots. Fruit yield was greater in the cultivated then in the grassed sections, but, in the latter, the fruit ripened earlier (Tab. 2). In 1970 the nitrogen content of young branches was lower (-2.24% o) in the grassed than in the cultivated plots.
42877666|In un vivaio di astoni di melo " Golden delicious " e " Stark delicious "  stata condotta una prova di defogliazione con trattamenti a base di -alanina + KI a dose intera (1% + 0,3%) e dimezzata, con e senza aggiunta di DMSO allo 0,5%. L'andamento della prova mette sinteticamente in rilievo che il DMSO da solo non ha alcuna efficacia defogliante e che aggiunto al trattamento con -alanina + KI a dose intera non ne modifica sostanzialmente le capacit defoglianti. Per contro la sua aggiunta al trattamento a dosi dimezzate ne migliora l'effetto defogliante anche se si ottiene una defogliazione equivalente a quella provocata da -alanina + KI a dose intera con un ritardo di circa 10-15 giorni. Fruit plants, as well as grapes and ornamental species, need to be defoliated when early taken out from nursery soil; for this purpose -alanine and KI treatment have been proposed. A trial has been carried out on " Golden delicious " and " Stark delicious " plants grown for one year in nursery applying these chemicals. Taking into account DMSO's properties, a treatment has been deviced with DMSO on its own and together with -alanine + KI, both at full strength and halved, aiming to check whether such association could be more efficient and economic, or not. It has been observed that DMSO on its own is not effective at all as a defoliant, while added to -alanine + KI full strength (1% + 0,3% respectively) it does not clearly affect their activity. On the contrary when DMSO is added to half dose theatment of -alanine + KI (0,5% + 0,15%) it enhances the effectiveness of the spray, giving results comparable with those from -alanine + KI full strength without DMSO; the only remarkable difference is in the rate of defoliation, which comes to be almost 10-15 days slowered. It can be concluded that adding DMSO allows lighter doses of amynoacid and KI to be used, so reducing the cost of the treatment.
42877667|Questo articolo si riferisce agli impianti fitti in frutticoltura adottati in Alto Adige secondo le direttive tecniche impartite dal Centro di Consulenza fruttiviticola. Con speciale riguardo si trattano i seguenti temi:  variet e sesti d'impianto consigliati;  la potatura dello " Spindel " su EM IX;  prime produzioni degli impianti fitti (al secondo anno di trapianto);  confronto di produzione tra un impianto a palmetta ed un impianto fitto al sesto anno;  confronto di costi d'impianto tra un impianto a palmetta (750 piante per ettaro) ed un impianto fitto (2400 piante/Ha). This article refers to the intensive planting system in fruit-growing adopted in Alto Adige according to the technical instructions given by the Centre of Fruit-Viticultural Consultation. Particular care has been employed for the treating of the following subjects:  varieties and plant-distances recommended;  Pruning of the " Spindel " on EM IX;  first yields of the intensive planting systems (at the 2nd year of transplantation);  Comparison between the production of a " palmetta w planting and a intensive planting system at the sixth year;  Comparison of planting costs between a palmetta-planting (750 plants/Ha) and a intensive planting system (2400 plants/Ha).
42877668|Il riscaldo delle mele Golden Delicious viene controllato dall'etossichina, ma si hanno effetti secondari (ustioni) specialmente se l'etossichina viene miscelata con T. B. Z. L'impiego della lecitina assicura una minore perdita di peso e ostacola l'ingiallimento dei frutti. Treatments with ethoxyquin may control scald diseases in " Golden Delicious " apples. Using ethoxyquin some injuries can occur in the epidermis especially after the fruits have been stored and kept at ambient temperature. When ethoxyquin is mixtured with TBZ to prevent rots, the injuries are very serious. Using boxes without packing paper the damages are few, because the product is not gathered on the bottom of the box. As far as to the wax treatments (lecithin, wax, CMC) anything occurs because the scald does not appear, but we get less losses in weight and a low amount of shriveling, especially in the lot of green-yellow fruits. Lecithin causes a slow yellowing in the apples referring to the test samples, and referring to the other wax treatments.
42877669|Si riferiscono i risultati ottenuti in un biennio di esperienze condotte nella provincia di Napoli su cultivar di zucchino italiane e di provenienza estera. Buone possibilit di adattamento sono state manifestate dalle cv. " Ambassador ", " Diamant ", " lite zucchini " e " Storr's green ", che hanno fornito le pi elevate produzioni commerciabili. Per la durata del ciclo biologico sono risultate a ciclo precoce le cv. " Greyzini ", "Verde striato di Napoli " e " Black-jack ". Per i caratteri morfologici sono state osservate apprezzabili variazioni in particolare nel portamento della pianta, nella forma e colore del frutto; tuttavia sono state accertate cultivar tra loro molto simili. Results are referred on a two-yearly pumpkin variety test carried out during 1967-68 in the Naples area (South-Italy). Some foreign origin strains gave higher yields compared to local cultivars; " Ambassador " variety reached the highest marketable production level. Varieties "lite-zucchini and Ambassador " had the highest number of fruits per plant. Good adaptability has been shown by the varieties " Ambassador ", " Diamant ", " lite-zucchini "and " Storr's green ", that obtained highest market values. As concerns lenght of biological cycle early varieties resulted " Grey-zini ", " Verde striato di Napoli " and " Black-jack ". The average time range between early and late varieties was eleven days. Notable differences between morphological characters were observed with regard to plant and fruit shape and colour of fruits; notwithstanding many varieties were very similar.
42877711|In recent years new planting systems have been developed, especially for apple culture, in wich the number of trees per ha has risen from a few hundreds to some thousands. A high number of trees per ha, made possible by reducing the planting distances and using dyarfing rootstocks, has many advantages, among which the most important are the following: a) early and high production of fruit per ha, wich is a prerequisite for a higher land use efficiency; b) better light utilization by the tree canopies, which leads to a better fruit quality; c) easier and faster pruning and fruit harvesting, which can be carried out from the ground, without ladders. The results of the intensive planting systems depend on the solution of some tecnical and economical problems, the most important of which concern the varieties, the rootstocks, the control of the tree size, the training systems, the yield-density relationship, the pattern of planting (single or double rows, bed-system), the cost for establishing the orchard, with particular reference to the planting material. By solving such problems particular attention must be payed to the environmental conditions, wich can affect the growth vigour and the fruiting ability of the trees.
42877712|Il processo di meccanizzazione che ha ormai conquistato quasi tutti i settori della tecnica frutticola sta interessando sempre maggiormente anche la potatura. Questa operazione, che incide sensibilmente sul costo di produzione della frutta, ha infatti subito, nell'ultimo decennio, una graduale evoluzione nel senso che da una potatura completamente manuale si  gi passati alla cosiddetta potatura integrata per giungere fino alla potatura meccanica, nella quale cio il lavoro manuale viene quasi totalmente sostituito dall'intervento' delle macchine. L'A. dopo aver illustrato i motivi che hanno determinato la diffusione della potatura meccanica in numerose zone frutticole degli Stati Uniti e pi recentemente anche in Israele, passa a descrivere le macchine con le quali essa viene attuata, le modalit, i tempi ed i costi di esecuzione, nonch le eventuali reazioni negative della pianta a questo particolare tipo di intervento cesorio. Pur senza rinunciare alle fondamentali direttive oggi seguite, l'A. conclude richiamando l'attenzione dei tecnici e dei frutticoitori affinch vengano tenuti presenti tutti quegli accorgimenti che potrebbero dimostrarsi preziosi nella eventualit che una potatura meccanica venga a rendersi indispensabile anche nel nostro Paese. The process of mechanization that has conquered almost all sectors within the fruitculture tecnique is becoming more connected with the pruning process. This operation, which makes a significant effect on the cost of fruit production, is at present carried out exclusively by hand. Recently, other mechanical techniques have been developed such as platforms equiped with power pruners. If it is true that the adoption of such mechanisms has brought a reduction in labor costs (as a share of the total costs of production) and a reduction in pruning costs, it is also true that the mechanization of this operation has much wider objectives and in some cases it has attained results worthy of consideration. Very interesting results has been obtained in the U.S. where, in many areas of fruit production this operation has now been almost fully mechanized. In fact, for more than ten years evergreen/and deciduous fruit trees, trained in the usually way or in hedge  rows have been pruned with sickle bar or sow bar propelled by a tractor or a special self  propelled machine. It regards, obviously, of pruning techniques that tend to standardize to the maximum this operation, applied not because of technical requirements in the productive process, but in order to obtain more economic results. Therefore, with the American experience and after having explained the reason for the adoption of a full mechanized pruning process, the Author comes to describe the various machines with which this mechanization has been achieved and the modality, time and costs of execution, and the eventual negative reactions of the trees to this particular type of pruning. Without renouncing the fundamental methods followed today, the Author concludes asking for the attention of pomology technicians and fruit-growers for the eventual adoption of this mechanical device for pruning if this becomes necessary in our country.
42877713|L'Autore analizza l'evoluzione in atto, sotto il profilo varietale, nelle colture del melo, del pero e del pesco. La produzione frutticola di queste tre specie  ormai eccedentaria; nel corso del 1970 sono stati sottratti dal mercato, attraverso gli interventi dell'AIMA, poco meno di 6.000.000 di q.li di pere oltre a quantitativi minori delle altre specie. Conseguentemente, nella Valle Padana, alcune migliaia di ettari di frutteto specializzato sono gi stati estirpati. Attraverso questi abbattimenti non si persegue soltanto lo scopo di ridimensionare l'offerta e di riequilibrare quindi il mercato, ma anche quello di migliorare lo standard qualitativo e varietale.  infatti probabile che, nei prossimi dieci anni un incremento di consumo di frutta fresca  gi molto elevato rispetto agli altri Paesi  possa avvenire soltanto mediante un deciso miglioramento qualitativo della produzione; un settore che dovrebbe registrare incrementi di consumo proporzionalmente maggiore  invece quello della frutta trasformata. Per quanto riguarda l'evoluzione varietale della coltura del melo nell'ultimo decennio solo la "Golden Delicious" e la "Jonathan "hanno registrato un cospicuo incremento; altre importanti cultivar come le "Delicious rosse" e il gruppo delle "Imperatore Rome Beauty" appaiono stazionarie. La maggior parte delle cultivar invernali (come "Abbondanza", "Winter Winesap", "Annurca", ecc.) ha invece perduto notevolmente d'importanza. Molte speranze sono ora risposte sui meli di tipo spur, ed in particolare sulle mutazioni della "Starking", sebbene queste non sembrino possedere caratteristiche organolettiche migliori della cultivar di origine. Maggiori riserve sono formulate sugli "spur" della "Golden Delicious", anche per la instabilit genetica che sembra contraddistinguere questi cloni. Un certo interesse suscitano poi le nuove cultivar di melo "Golden simili" ("Primegold", "Mutsu", "Sungold", ecc). anche a motivo della loro resistenza alla rugginosit e dell'anticipo (o ritardo) di maturazione che presentano rispetto alla "Golden Delicious" (es. "Chehalis", "Ozark Gold", ecc). Fra le cultivar pi tardive solo la "Granny Smith" sembra avere qualche possibilit di espansione, affiancandosi cos alla stessa "Golden Delicious". Assai diversa sotto il profilo varietale  la situazione della coltura del pero. Al momento nessuna nuova cultivar sembra ppter essere in grado di sostituire le vecchie e tuttora valide "William", "Abate Ftel", "Kaiser", "Decana del Comizio", "Passa Crassana" ecc.  probabile tuttavia che qualche cultivar, ancora poco diffusa, come ad es. la "Conference", la "Packham's Triumph" e la "Decana d'inverno" accresca la propria importanza. Infine nel settore peschicolo occorre anzitutto registrare l'elevato numero di cultivar di origine specialmente americana, che ogni anno viene introdotto e diffuso dai vivaisti, e che va ad accrescere il gi eterogeneo standard produttivo di questa specie, le cui tendenze possono, nel complesso, essere cos sintetizzate: 1) Si riscontra una crescente espansione delle cultivar a polpa gialla, che nello scorso anno hanno costituito il 63% della produzione. Le pesche bianche, tuttavia,  anche per le loro inconfondibili caratteristiche organolettiche  sono ancora apprezzate dal mercato, purch corrispondenti ad un elevato standard qualitativo. 2) La maggior parte della produzione  concentrata nel mese di luglio ed ni parte di agosto e proviene (per oltre il 65%) dalle regioni settentrionali. 3) Un rilevante interesse colturale viene ora risposto sulle nuove pesche gialle precocissime (es. "Armgold", "Springold", "Springerest", "Earlired", ecc.) e su quelle che maturano dopo la "Redhaven" ("Redtop", "Glohaven", "Suncrest", "Cresthaven", ecc). Il primo gruppo  importante per le regioni centro meridionali ed il secondo per quelle settentrionali, dove asseconda due due differenti orientamenti produttivi che sono parzialmente complementari e corrispondono alla vocazione delle rispettive aree territoriali. 4) Molte nuove nettarine sono state da poco introdotte in Italia. Poich i prezzi finora spuntati dalle prime produzioni ottenute sono risultati assai alti, molti peschicoltori stanno estendendo tale coltura senza avere una sufficiente conoscenza sul loro comportamento e sulle future capacit di assorbimento dei mercati. 5) Per vari motivi  ancora assai scarsa l'importanza della coltivazione delle pesche da industria, ma recentemente c' stato un risveglio di interesse per questo tipo di pesche, favorito pure esso, dall'introduzione delle percoche americane. The Author points out the situation and the development trend of the apple, pear and peach crops in Italy, with special reference to the varieties. In the last years there was a high surplus of all these kinds of fruits but specially of pears (600,000 tons of pear crop have been withdrawn from the market during 1970); as a consequence some thousand of acres of orchard were pulled out during the last winter in the Po Valley region. So it is very important to eliminate the old poor varieties and to improve the quality of the valuable crop. In Italy the per-capite consumption is already very high for the fresh market fruits, but instead is very low for the processed fruits. In the next ten years these latters should increase proportionally more than the firsts. The biggest market troubles involve more the apple and pears than the peaches. Concerning the apple topic only "Golden Delicious" and "Jonathan" increased in the last 10 years; others, like "Red Delicious" (and its sports), and "Rome Beauty" (and its sports) appear stationary. Most of the winter varieties (like "Abbondanza", "Winesap", etc.) decreased very much their importance. The great hopes are now set overall on the "Delicious spur" varieties although it seems these don't improve the standard flavour of the "Red Delicious". Perhaps the "Golden spur" sports show more disadvantages. Also the newest "Golden-like" varieties ("Primegold", "Mutsu", "Sungold", etc.) have been tried since some years for their resistance to russeting and because some of them advance the "Golden" season maturity (e.g. Chehalis, "Ozark Gold", etc.). Among the latest apple varieties, only "Granny Smith" has gained a lot of favours for the high prices obtained on the North European markets. Concerning the pear varieties there are very few possibility to introduce new strains, because the old varieties ("Bartlett", "Passa Crassana", "Cornice", "Beurr Bosh", Abb Ftel) are yet the best. May be, Conference and Packham's Triumph will spread in the next future. It doesn't say the same for the peaches which every year add new american and Italian varieties to the others grown. The outline of the peaches situation can be summarized as follows: 1) The yellow freestone peaches grew up last year to the 63% of total amount of peach crop. 2) The white varieties are again appreciate only if they show a superior standard quality. 3) The most part of the crop ripens in July and August (Cardinal, Dixired, Redhaven, "Hale" etc.) and come from North of Italy. Great interest now is placed on the early varieties (Armgold, Springold, Springerest, Merrill Gem Free, Earlired, etc.) and on the middle-season varieties, which ripen after Redhaven ("Redtop", "Glohaven", "Suncrest", "Cresthaven", etc.). The first group is important for the South and the Middle Italy and the latter for the North of Italy, where is concentrated more than 65% of the total amount of the peach crops. 4) A lot of new Nectarines have been recently introduced in the North and in the South of Italy. Since the price of the first crops have been higher than that of normal peaches, many growers wish to extend this kind of peaches, but there is not enough experience and knowledge about the behaviour of these varieties and their future results on the European markets. 5) For other reasons the clingstone peaches industry has still now very poor importance in Italy.
42877714|Yield, trunk diameter, weight of pruning, size of fruits, and labour requirement for pruning and harvesting from Butirra Precoce Morettini trees were recorded for 5 years in established palmettes. Some trees were grafted on quince, spaced at 2.53.5 m, and some others were grafted on seedling, spaced at 4.04.5 m. All trees were pruned by thinning the 1-year-old laterals but in both rootstocks some trees had cutted back the main shoots (variant A) and in some others did not (variant B). The results show that in established trees in no case the yield and growth have been changed by the method of pruning. Instead greater was the rootstocks influence concerning either yield or growth: actually the trees grafed on quince had less development as compared with the trees grafed on seedling. This dwarfness allows to plant more trees per hectar; consequently, the yield is greater for the trees grafed on quince, in spite of the lake of influence of the rootstocks on the yield. Pruning labour per hectar was greater with the trees grafed on quince, owing to the greater planting density; instead, the time required for harvesting was more in the trees grafted on seedling. There was no significant difference in fruits size.
42877715|La tecnica dell' inerbimento , adottata in alcune zone del nord Italia e nell'Europa settentrionale, si contrappone alle periodiche lavorazioni che costituiscono la ordinaria tecnica colturale dei frutteti della valle Padana. I terreni sottoposti ad  inerbimento  non vengono lavorati, su di essi vengono soltanto frequentemente sfalciate le erbe, spontanee o seminate, lasciandole decomporre sul posto. Il relatore, dopo aver brevemente esaminato gli aspetti pratici pi immediati presentati dalle due tecniche, sintetizza i risultati delle ricerche sperimentali condotte sull'argomento ed in particolare sui seguenti aspetti: 1) effetti dell' inerbimento  sulle caratteristiche fisiche del suolo (protezione esercitata nei riguardi del costipamento provocato dalle macchine e dalla erosione degli strati superficiali del suolo: effetti sulla porosit, permeabilit e capacit idrica del terreno; arricchimento in sostanza organica; influenza sulla temperatura del terreno, ecc); 2) effetti dell' inerbimento  sul contenuto idrico del suolo; 3) effetti sulla nutrizione, lo sviluppo, la produttivit degli alberi e la qualit dei frutti. Il relatore conclude quindi indicando i limiti di impiego dell' inerbimento  fondamentalmente legati alla disponibilit idrica locale per interventi estivi di soccorso in mancanza dei quali gli effetti negativi dell' inerbimento  possono divenire tali da sconsigliarne l'adozione. Grass mulch is frequently applied in some fruit areas of the northern sides of Italy and the north Europe. Grass mulched soils are not cultivated, the grass being frequently cut down without removing it from the orchard. The A. gives a short account of results of some experimental researches carried out in grass-mulched and clean cultivated orchards with special relation to the following effects of grassing down: a) soil physical caracteristics; b) moisture competition; c) nutritrion, growth and fruit set of trees and caracteristics of fruits. The A. concludes suggesting that grassing down is profitably allowed by a naturally hight soil moisture content or by irrigation.
42878554|Gli AA. studiano gli effetti dell'Ethrel, della GA e dell'Alar sull'espressione sessuale, sullo sviluppo vegetativo, sulla produzione, sulla precocit e sulla forma dei frutti del melone cv. "Charentais" (andromonoica). Le sostanze sono state tutte usate a 4 livelli di principio attivo e cio 0, 150, 300, 600 p.p.m. per l'Ethrel, 0, 25, 50, 100 p.p.m. per la GA e 0, 750, 1500, 3000 p.p.m. per l'Alar ed irrorate due volte a 1-2 e 3-4 foglie vere. L'Ethrel modifica profondamente l'espressione sessuale agendo non solo come  femminilizzante , ma anche come  demascolinizzante : la sostanza esprime una diversa intensit di azione sui due tipi di fiori e sull'abbassamento del nodo di comparsa del primo fiore ermafrodita sull'asse primario secondo la concentrazione usata ed egualmente esprime un pi o meno intenso effetto brachizzante ed un effetto nullo o vistoso sulla forma dei frutti. La GA manifesta alle dosi pi alte un leggero effetto mascolinizzante, un effetto positivo sulla produzione, mentre non modifica lo sviluppo delle piante e la forma dei frutti. L'Alar non varia in modo apprezzabile l'espressione sessuale, riduce leggermente la produzione, non modifica la forma dei frutti e provoca una notevole brachizzazione soprattutto alle dosi pi alte. Ethrel, Gibberellin A and Alar effects on sex expression, growth, yield, earliness and shape of muskmelon cv. "Charentais". (1st part). Ethrel, GA and Alar effects on sex expression, growth development, yield, earliness and shape of muskmelon cv. "Charentais" (andromonoecious) were studied. Chemical were used at the following four concentrations on active material basis: Ethrel 0, 150, 300, 600 p.p.m.; GA 0, 25, 50, 100 p.p.m.; Alar 0, 750, 1500, 3000 p.p.m. and twice sprayed at 1-2 and 3-4 true leaves. Ethrel strongly modifies sex expression both increasing production of hermafrodite flowers and decreasing male flowers. It strongly acts on the lowering of the node number of the first hermafrodite flower on the main stem and delays the appereance of the male flowers: the evidence of the first effect is bigger at lower concentration, the opposite for the second effect. For a substantial femaleness a 150 p.p.m. level (on active material basis) may be used; for a certain period inhibition of male flowers appearance a 600 p.p.m. level will be necessary. Practically two sprayes of 600 p.p.m. delay more than one month the appearance of the first male flower. Ethrel may be therefore used as a strong gametocide for muskmelon. Ethrel modifies the morphological aspect of the plant: it removes the apical dominance and causes the shortening of the internodes. Fruit deformation due to progressive transversal diameter reduction and contemporary longitudinal diameter increase results at higher concentrations. Average fruit weight does not change. GA slightly modifies sex expression: at the higher concentrations increases the number of male flowers and the fruit production. It has no effect on growth development of the stem and on fruit shape, but it retards of about two days the picking time. GA don't neutralize neither reduce Ethrel femaleness and Alar retardation of stem growth. Alar has no significant effect on sex expression: ratio hermafrodite/male flowers does not change because a slight reduction of the number of both is obtained. It gives a slight advance in hermafrodite flowering and a small delay in male one. Alar gives a strong retardation of stem growth: higher percentage reduction can be seen in the lower internodes with highest concentrations. It slightly decreases the yield, slightly delays the picking maturity of fruits and does not affect the fruit shape.
42878555|Si riportano i risultati sul proseguimento di ricerche condotte per un quinquennio sulla potatura di allevamento dell'albicocco. Le indagini effettuate su piante della cv. "Reale d'Imola" innestate su mirabolano ed allevate in parte a palmetta ed in parte a vaso, sono state condotte per ulteriori cinque anni praticando in entrambe le forme di allevamento il sistematico raccorciamento dei rami negli alberi che nella fase di allevamento erano stati sottoposti a "spuntatura" ed il diradamento dei rami stessi in quelli precedentemente allevati a "tutta cima". I risultati ottenuti mettono in evidenza che nel vaso la potatura con raccorciamento continua a favorire un maggior sviluppo e una maggiore produttivit degli alberi, mentre nelle piante allevate a palmetta i diversi criteri di potatura non hanno praticamente influenzato n lo sviluppo n la produttivit degli alberi. Le piante allevate a palmetta hanno anche richiesto per l'esecuzione dei diversi interventi di potatura, una quantit di lavoro maggiore di quella richiesta dalle piante allevate a vaso. Per quanto riguarda i tempi di lavoro per la raccolta questi sono risultati praticamente uguali per tutte le tesi nelle quali, peraltro, era stato adottato un unico sistema di raccolta. Data were collected over periods of 5 years on the fruit yield, trunk diameter, weight of pruning, size of fruits and labour requirement for pruning and harvesting of apricots trees trained as globets or palmettas and pruned (A) by cutting back lateral shoots of the trees previously grown by cutting back the main shoots of the leader and the main branches, and (B) by thinning the lateral shoots of the trees grown without cutting back the frame. In general the responses to treatments have shown that the (A) treatment in globel stimulate vegetative activity, fruit size and production. With palmettas in no case the yield and growth have been changed by the method of pruning. There was no significant difference in need harvesting. The pruning labour per hectar was greater with the palmetta form, owing to the greater planting density.
42878557|AA. have conducted a series of field and laboratory trials for determining the most suitable pollination period and the time during which the stigmas are receptive in Cornice pear. The researches concern following points: 1) Macrosporogenesis has been followed during 12 floral phases. 2) Artificial pollination has been effectuated every day for 7 days on a fixed number of flowers of this cv. (which had been before emasculated and isolated) with pollen of the "Kaiser" pear (7 thesis); for the comparison, some thesis have been left to the free and self pollination (8th and 9th thesis). 3) Microscopical observations with fluorescent light (Martin method, 1959) have been done about the development of pollen tubes in the styles of flowers of each thesis artificially pollinated, in order to establich haw long is receptivity of stigmas and how much time it takes to complete the fertilization process. Microscopical observation on point 1) have confirmed that macrosporogenesis belongs to the normal Angiospermic type. It is a rather early development which finishes just before the flower full anthesis. From the field trials about the point 2), we can see that for the 7 controlled pollination thesis, the fruiting percentage has always been higher than that of the control thesis, left to the free pollination. It has also been possible to see that Cornice pear is near completely self-incompatible. As for the observations about the growing of the pollen tubes in stigmas (point 3) there have not been significative variations among the various thesis. Generally, fertilization happens 24-48 hours after pollination in all the thesis. From the obtained results, we can say that in emasculated and unpollinated flowers, stigmas are receiptive for a rather long period and that ovaric system last also for a long while. In the examined case, this longevity has been of 7 days.
42878558|Sono riportati i risultati di un anno di osservazioni sugli effetti dei fitoregolatori Alar ed Ethephon sulla cultivar di melo " Stark Delicious ". I trattamenti con Alar sono stati eseguiti a due concentrazioni (1000 e 2000 ppm) ed in tre differenti epoche (all'inizio dell'antesi, 21 e 70 gg dopo la piena fioritura). Due settimane prima della raccolta  stato eseguito un trattamento con Ethephon a 500 ppm sia su una parte delle piante trattate con Alar a 1000 ppm 70 gg dopo la fioritura, sia su piante di controllo. I trattamenti con Alar hanno fornito interessanti risultati riducendo la cascola pre-raccolta, intensificando la colorazione dell'epicarpo ed aumentando la consistenza della polpa; alcuni trattamenti hanno presentato effetti collaterali negativi, come la minor allegagione (rispetto al controllo), provocata dal trattamento all'inizio dell'antesi e la riduzione della pezzatura dei frutti causata dalle irrorazioni eseguite 70 gg dopo la piena fioritura a 2000 ppm. I frutti delle piante trattate con solo Ethephon due settimane prima della raccolta hanno presentato un pi elevato residuo secco solubile ed una minor consistenza della polpa rispetto a quelli delle piante di controllo o trattate con Alar. I trattamenti con Alar eseguiti in fioritura e tre settimane dopo hanno indotto una maggior fioritura nell'anno successivo. Inoltre l'Alar ha influito positivamente sull'entit del  riscaldo  durante la loro conservazione. L'impiego abbinato delPEthephon e dell'Alar non ha fornito risultati soddisfacenti probabilmente a causa dell'elevata dose usata per il primo prodotto. "Red Delicious" apple trees were sprayed with Alar at two different rates (1000 & 2000 ppm.) and in three different dates (at the beginning of flowering, 21 and 70 days after blossoming); later Ethephon (500 ppm) has been sprayed both on a group of trees sprayed with Alar 70 days after flowering and on a group of control trees. Trees sprayed with Alar at the beginning of flowering time showed a fruit set lower than the control trees. Trees sprayed with Alar have been affected by a lower pre-harvest fruit drop, and showed an increased of skin color and of flesh firmness, but treatments at 2000 ppm 70 days after blossoming reduced the fruit size. Trees sprayed with Ethephon only showed, at the harvest, a higher content of soluble solids but a lower firmness of their flesh. Treatments at 1000 and 2000 ppm 21 days after blossoming increased the flower bud differentiation. Alar sprayes decreased scald during cold storage. Supplementary treatments with Ethephon 500 ppm two weeks before harvesting time have not satisfactory effects, probably owing to the high rate used for these treatments.
42878559| stata saggiata la resistenza ad Alternaria porri (Ell.) Saw. f. sp. cichorii (Nattr.) Schmidt di numerose cultivars di Endivia (Cichorium endivia L.) e di Cicoria (Cichorium intybus L.). Questa malattia risulta dannosa soprattutto durante i primi stadi di sviluppo e nel periodo dell'attecchimento dopo il trapianto. Nella presente ricerca le piantine sono state inoculate all'et di 2 mesi con una sospensione conidica contenente 50.000 conidi per cm, e sono state mantenute in condizioni di elevata U.R. La intensit degli attacchi  stata determinata valutando la estensione dell'area fogliare colpita. Sono state considerate resistenti o tolleranti le piante aventi una superficie fogliare colpita inferiore al 10%. Tutte le cultivars di Cicoria saggiate si sono dimostrate resistenti mentre tutte quelle di Endivia sono risultate suscettibili, pur notando tra di esse una leggera differenza di reazione. I risultati ottenuti inoculando ibridi di Endivia x Cicoria dimostrano che il carattere di resistenza all'alternariosi, posseduto dalle due cultivars di Cicoria "Pan di Zucchero" e "Verde di Milano",  dominante e monofattoriale (AA). Resistance to leaf spot caused by Alternaria porri (Ell.) Saw. f. sp. cichorii (Nattr.) Schmidt has been tested on several endive (Cichorium endivia L.) and chicory (Cichorium intybus L.) cultivars. This disease is serious in the early stage of growth and after transplantation. In the present research two months old plants were inoculated with a suspension of 50.000 conidia/ml, and maintained at high R. H. conditions. The intensity of disease were determined evaluating the leaves area infected. The plants with leaves area infected less than 5% were considered resistant or tolerant. All the chicory cultivars had high livel of resistance. On the contrary all the endive cultivars were very susceptible, only a small difference in susceptibility having been shown among the tested varieties. Results obtained inoculating hybrid progenies from crosses between endive and chicory showed that resistence is provided by one dominant gene (AA).
42878560|Le indagini svolte in pieno campo sulle malattie da virus della lattuga in Campania, hanno portato alla identificazione di quattro virus: il virus del mosaico della lattuga (VML), il virus del mosaico del cetriolo (VMC), il virus del mosaico dell'Arabis (VMA) e il virus della necrosi del tabacco (VNT). Il VML causa danni notevolissimi inducendo i sintomi ben noti. Il VMC, anch'esso molto diffuso, produce mosaico giallo e necrosi sulle foglie; i sintomi indotti da questo virus sono spesso simili a quelli causati dal VML, sopratutto perch le piante colpite non riescono a formare il grumolo. Il VMA causa un nanismo clortico e qualche necrosi sulle foglie; il virus  presente nei terreni dai quali sono stati isolati nematodi del genere Xiphinema (probabilmente X. italiae). Il VNT appare dannoso sopratutto su alcune variet locali quali la "Sarnese" e il "Cavolo di Napoli", sulle quali induce riduzione di sviluppo e necrosi fogliare, in particolare sulle nervature; nei tessuti radicali delle piante malate sono stati rinvenuti sporangi del fungo Olpidium brassicae. Il VNT  stato isolato anche da radici di piante senza sintomi fogliari; i danni prodotti da questo virus sembrano direttamente collegati all'et della pianta al momento dell'infezione. I sintomi delle malattie studiate sono stati riprodotti in piante di lattuga con inoculazioni in serra. Sono stati rinvenuti numerosi ospiti naturali del VML e del VMC. L'identificazione dei virus studiati  stata effettuata anche con l'ausilio di prove sierologiche. The research carried out in the field on the virus diseases of lettuce in Campania (Italy) led to the identification of four viruses: lettuce mosaic virus (LMV), cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), Arabis mosaic virus (AMV) and tobacco necrosis virus (TNV). LMV causes heavy losses producing the well known symptoms. VMC is also widespread and causes yellow mosaic and necrotic lesions on the leaves; the symptoms cused by this virus are very often similar to those caused by LMV, for instance, the plants fail to develop hearts. AMV causes a chlorotic stunt and necrotic spots on the leaves; the virus was isolated from soil samples in which nematodes of the gen. Xiphinema (probably X. italiae) were found. TNV seems dangerous especially on some local varieties of lettuce, e.g.  Sarnese  and  Cavolo di Napoli , wich show light stunting and necrotic spots on the veins and roots; in the root-tissues were found several sporangia of the fungus Olpidium brassicae (Wor.) Dang., TNV was isolated also from roots of symptomless plants; it seems that the damage caused by this virus is strictly related to the age of the plants at the time of the infection. The symptoms of the diseases were reproduced on lettuce plants, in greenhouse, by mechanical inoculation. Several natural hosts of LMV and CMV were found. The identification of the viruses was performed also with the aid of serological tests.
42878564|Ricerche effettuate sul melo (cv. "Jonathan" su franco) nel biennio 1969-70 in due aziende del Friuli ed in una del Veronese, hanno permesso di accertare che la copertura con reti antigrandine riduce la colorazione dei frutti ed il loro accrescimento, mentre non influisce sull'epoca di maturazione. Nei frutteti coperti sono state rilevate temperature leggermente inferiori e soprattutto sensibili riduzioni dell'energia luminosa, variabili dal 7% al 20% a seconda dell'altezza da terra, dell'ambiente e delle condizioni metereologiche. Nessun effetto invece  stato osservato sull'umidit relativa dell'aria. Si ritiene che gli effetti negativi riscontrati sulla qualit dei frutti dipendano principalmente dalla riduzione dell'energia luminosa provocata dalle reti antigrandine. Si prospettano alcuni possibili accorgimenti tecnici al fine di attenuare e forse eliminare tali effetti negativi. During 1969-70 researches have been carried out in two different environments in order to ascertain the effects of covering with plastic netting on the microclimate of the orchards and on the quality of the Jonathan apple fruits. The covering reduced both the extent and the intensity of the red color of the fruits. The extent of color was reduced from 10% to 16% according to the distance of fruits from the soil and the environmental conditions. The covering reduced also the fruit growth, so that the mean diameter of the fruits under plastic net was slightly smaller. The effects of the covering seemed to vary more or less with the environmental conditions and probably with the training system of the trees. Not marked differences in fruit maturity were observed between trees under and out the covering. The covering did not modify the relative humidity, but decreased the air temperature and especially the solar radiation (as far as 20%). The negative effect of the covering on both color and size of the fruits seems mainly to be a consequence of the lowered light energy. The Authors point out that only the covering with plastic netting allows a safety protection from the hail and suggest some possibilities for the minimization of the observed disadvantages.
42878565|Gli AA. riferiscono dati relativi alla costituzione di tre nuove linee di pomodoro da mensa. Il lavoro selettivo,  stato condotto su alcuni incroci, effettuati nel 1963, di cultivars di pomodoro locali. I criteri selettivi sono stati: frutto tondo liscio, pezzatura media e maturazione del frutto completa. Dalle diverse linee di partenza solo tre, la n. 1 (Lintorpa Prinz  Gloria di Milano), la n. 2 (Kaki  Italo 61) e la n. 3 (N. 5 Satolli  Prezioso) presentano le caratteristiche, per le quali siano state selezionate, fissate e tra queste la linea n. 2 si annuncia promettente sia per la produttivit che per gli altri caratteri. Prima del giudizio definitivo  necessario per procedere alle prove di ambientamento. The AA. report on some data concerning three new tomato varieties. The selection work was started in 1962 on the base of a breeding programme developed at the Institute of Horticulture. The hybrids have been compared with their parents and selection for fruit weight and shape, maturation of the fruit date and small size of the plants was carried out. Three new lines have been obtained, n. 1 (Lintorpa Prinz  Gloria di Milano), n. 2 (Kaki  Italo 61) and n. 3 (N. 5 Satolli  Prezioso). The number 2 (Kaki  Italo 61) seems to be the most promising one. The behaviour of the new line in different areas of Italy is necessary before considering it commercially useful.
42878566|Le indagini sono state effettuate nella primavera-estate 1971 su vasi di pesco "Southland" di 10 anni. Si sono confrontati gli effetti del diradamento chimico con quelli del diradamento meccanico e manuale, assunto quest'ultimo come controllo. Sono stati impiegati i seguenti prodotti: P.R.B. 8 (2000 ppm in piena fioritura), NPA (200 e 300 ppm 3 giorni dopo la fioritura), 3 CPA (150 e 300 ppm 30 giorni dopo la fioritura), Ethephon (30, 60, 120 e 180 ppm 34 giorni dopo la fioritura). Il diradamento meccanico  stato effettuato con un scuotitore portatile (limbshaker)  Homelite . Tutti i prodotti chimici sperimentati e lo scuotitore meccanico hanno provocato un diradamento uguale od anche superiore (nel caso dell'Ethephon a 120 e 180 ppm) a quello delle piante di controllo. Le piante diradate chimicamente per hanno presentato una cascola disforme dei frutti, alla quale non ha fatto riscontro un adeguato aumento del loro peso medio e, pertanto, la produzione complessiva  risultata minore di quella delle piante diradate a mano. Le piante diradate meccanicamente, pur producendo anche loro meno di quelle diradate a mano, hanno per portato a maturazione frutti di uguale pese medio a quello delle piante diradate manualmente. Chemical and mechanical fruit thinning trials have been carried out on peach trees, "Southland" variety, during 1971. Treatments have been done with PRB 8 (2000 ppm) on full bloom, NPA (200 and 300 ppm) 3 days after blossoming, 3 CPA (150 and 300 ppm) 30 days after blossoming and Ethephon (30, 60, 120, 180 ppm) 34 days after blossoming. A limb shaker has been used for mechanical thinning. With all the treatments the number of the fruits has been reduced nearly to that of hand thinned trees, and more with Ethephon at 120 and 180 ppm. The fruit medium weight and the total production of the chemically thinned trees have been lower than those of hand or mechanically thinned ones, which have shown also a more regular size of their fruits. Further investigations seem necessary to find uot the reasons of these inexplicable effects of the chemicals used on the final size and the uniformity of the thinned fruits.
42878567|Alcune ricerche condotte in Sardegna nel biennio 1969-70 hanno messo in evidenza che la distanza degli impollinatori pu influenzare notevolmente l'attivit produttiva del Clementine "Comune", cultivar, com' noto, autoincompatibile. Infatti la vicinanza del Mandarino, che fungeva da impollinatore, ha migliorato efficacemente l'entit dell'allegagione, la produzione e la qualit dei frutti. Ovviamente, alcune caratteristiche, come il numero dei semi per frutto e la percentuale di succo, sono state leggermente peggiorate in conseguenza dell'impollinazione incrociata. Si conclude, quindi, che per ottenere regolari produzioni nel Clementine  necessario, fra l'altro, adottare una migliore distribuzione degli impollinatori nell'ambito dei singoli appezzamenti. Some researches carried out in Sardinia during 1969 and 1970 have evidenced that distance from pollinators can greatly affect the productive behaviour of self-incompatible Clementine trees. Field plots consisted in a four rows of Clementine trees block and in un adiacent four rows of Mandarin trees block, being the last ones pollinators. Therefore four different treatments were compared: A -Clementine trees 5 m distant from Mandarin trees B -Clementine trees 10 m distant from Mandarin trees C -Clementine trees 15 m distant from Mandarin trees D -Clementine trees 20 m distant from Mandarin trees In both years various observations were made on flowering and fruit-setting. Data on yields and fruit quality were also recorded. The results have shown that fruit-set, yield and fruit quality as much were improved as nearer was the distance from Mandarin trees. Obviously, some fruit characteristics, like seed number and juice percentage were depreciated as productivity increased. The Author concludes that to reach regular yields a better pollinators distribution should be necessary in self-incompatible Clementine orchards.
42878568|I primi risultati di una prova di concimazione azotata al Pothos (Scindapsus Aureus Lindl.) hanno messo in evidenza la forte reattivit della specie all'elemento nutritivo che ha esaltato le caratteristiche vegetative della pianta con l'aumentare dei livelli distribuiti. Si  poi notato che la concimazione al substrato agisce sulla altezza e diametro del fusto oltre che sul numero medio di foglie per pianta, mentre le dimensioni delle stesse (lunghezza e larghezza) vengono maggiormente influenzate dalla distribuzione fogliare. A study over Pothos' (Scindapsus Aureus Lindl.) fertilisation has shown that nitrogen has positively influenced vegetative growth of the plant. When nitrogen is given to the substrate, stem's height and diameter and leaf number per plant are significantly modified while, foliar distribution seems to show its action particularly on leaf's length and width.
42878569|Cultivar di patata "Ricciona" e "Piattellina" gravemente degenerate per infezioni virali sono state guarite. La combinazione della termoterapia con la coltura di apici meristematici di piante di patata infette da PVX risulta di notevole interesse dal punto di vista del risanamento. Mediante abbinamento delle due tecniche si sono ottenute 34 piante sane su 42, mentre con la sola tecnica della coltura di apici sono state ottenute 7 piante sane su 59. Da piante infette contemporaneamente da PVX, PVY, PVS e PVM sono state ottenute soltanto 2 piante sane su 34. Most of the Italian potato cultivars are seriously infected by severe virus diseases and are disappearing from Italian cultivation. The eradication of some viruses from infected potato plants of "Ricciona "and "Piattellina" cvs by combining thermotherapy with artificial culture of meristem tips has been achieved. Plants of "Ricciona" cv infected with potato virus X (PVX) were grown under artificial light with an air temperature alternating from 33C (in dark) to 35C (in light) for 20 days. Longer treatment was too harmful for the plants. Meristem tips (apical dome plus two leaflets) were then excised and cultured on nutrient medium of Murashige and Skoog, supplemented with gibberellic acid (0.1 ppm), agar (0.5%) and sucrose (2%). They were cultured under artificial light (4000 lux for a 16-hour photoperiode) and at a temperature of 24C in a growth cabinet until they grew into plantlets, and then transferred to soil. The number of PVX-free plants was 34 out of 42 as a result of using thermotherapy combined with meristem tip culture; only 7 out of 59 PVX-free plants were obtained by using meristem tip culture alone. Meristem tips from plants of "Piattellina" cv infected simultaneously with PVX, potato virus Y (PVY), potato virus S (PVS) and potato virus M (PVM) were excised after the same treatment of thermotherapy and cultured in exactly the same conditions. Only 2 virus-free plants were obtained from 34 plants; 32 out of 34 plants were still infected with PVX while none of them were found to be infected with PVY. PVS and PVM were occasionally present. Survival of explants was high: 135 out of 303 meristem tips grew into plants. The advantage of combining thermotherapy with meristem tip culture in order to eliminate PVX from potato plants is discussed. The difficulty of obtaining a high percentage in virus-free plants when PVX, PVY, PVS and PVM are simultaneously present is also discussed.
42878573|Peschi "Southland" su franco posti a dimora nell'autunno 1961 furono sottoposti a periodiche lavorazioni del suolo fino a tutto il 1967. A partire dalla primavera 1968 alcune parcelle sono state diserbate mediante trattamenti disseccanti con dipiridilici mentre le altre sono state periodicamente lavorate.  stata periodicamente rilevata l'umidit del suolo e sono stati inoltre registrati l'incremento annuo del diametro dei tronchi, il peso del materiale asportato con la potatura invernale, l'entit della produzione nonch, al termine della prova, il contenuto in azoto dei rami di un anno ed il contenuto in azoto totale, in anidride fosforica assimilabile ed in ossido di potassio scambiabile del terreno. Nel 1971 sono stati inoltre effettuati saggi penetrometrici sul terreno. I risultati non hanno permesso di rilevare sostanziali differenze a livello agronomico tra i due indirizzi colturali a confronto che possono essere quindi valutati essenzialmente in termini economici. Trunk diameter and weight of pruning (tab. 1), fruit yield (tab. 2), nitrogen content of 1-year-old shoots, soil moisture and mineral composition were compared during a three years period, for clean cultivated or chemically treated plots of a peach orchard established in 1961. At the end of the trial the soil strenght has been tested with a penetrograph. No significant differences have been found among the differently treated plots as far as concerns soil physical conditions and tree growth and yield.
42878574|Sono state condotte ricerche al fine di valutare la possibilit di impiegare il 3 CPA e l'Ethrel come diradanti dei frutticini di pesco, in diverse epoche (6 maggio, 11 maggio, 18 maggio, cio a 37, 42, 49 giorni dalla piena fioritura, quando i frutti avevano una lunghezza di 25, 28 e 30 mm) ed a varie concentrazioni (10-25-50 ppm. per l'Ethrel e 100-200-300 ppm. per il 3 CPA). Dai risultati ottenuti  scaturito che l'epoca di trattamento (vista in funzione delle dimensioni del frutticino) riveste importanza fondamentale per il 3 CPA, meno per l'Ethrel la cui azione diradante sembra esser funzione sia dell'epoca che della concentrazione. In alcune tesi sono state ottenute soddisfacenti percentuali di diradamento alle quali per non ha sempre corrisposto un equivalente incremento della pezzatura; per il 3 CPA anzi si  potuto constatare una azione inibitrice dell'incremento volumetrico dei frutti. Va segnalato che i trattamenti con queste due sostanze e principalmente con l'Ethrel, hanno modificato alcune caratteristiche del frutto maturo, quali la compattezza della polpa e l'incidenza dei frutti  scatolati  , modificando la stessa epoca di maturazione (circa 5 gg. di anticipo per l'Ethrel ed un paio per il 3 CPA). Two growth regulators (3 CPA and Ethrel) was applied to 7-years-old Cardinal peach trees when the fruit length was 25, 28 and 30 mm. Degree of thinning of 3 CPA was related to length of fruit at time of application. The treatment which induces a good thinning, was 300 ppm. at 28 mm fruit length. With Ethrel treatments, thinning percentage was not so related with fruit length; the effect was more related directly with concentration and inversely with growth of fruit. Treated fruits showed, with different degree, ripening advance and lower flesh firmness than hand-thinned fruits; additionally Ethrel increased split-pit.
42878575|During 1970-71 observations have been carried out on the morphological and anatomical aspects of flower bud development on chestnut (Castanea sativa, L.). Results have shown that: a) the earliest indications of the flower differentiation have been detected 30-40 days after the beginning of growth; at this stage tipical structural modifications have been observed in the apical meristems, that lead to the development of a catkin primordia; b) the development of these primordia stops at the end of summer, and start again in the spring, at the beginning of growth; c) the development of the several male flowers in the catkin and of the female inflorescence occurs during the first stage of the spring growth, before the bloom; d) the development of the male flowers in the catkins starts before that of the female inflorescences.
42878576|Le prove effettuate nella zona del litorale tirrenico (zona litoranea pisana) miravano a stabilire l'ingrossamento medio specifico caratteristico di ciascuna specie e variet. A tale scopo sono stati impiegati diversi calibri per un totale di 23 tesi. Si sono altres compiute alcune prove di tecnica colturale onde stabilire il metodo di coltivazione pi adatto all'ambiente. Durante la fioritura si  determinato il rapporto intercorrente tra le dimensioni del bulbo e la percentuale di piante fiorite. Alla raccolta si  provveduto, mediante campionamenti, a stabilire il tasso medio d'ingrossamento dei bulbi nel corso del periodo colturale. Si  cos potuto mettere in evidenza il periodo di tempo necessario ad ottenere dimensioni del bulbo tali da consentire una buona fioritura, nonch le specie e di ciascuna specie le variet pi adatte all'ambiente in cui si sono svolte le prove. The test were conduced in the tyrrenian coast area (coast belt of Pisa) and looked to establish the medium specific increase for each species and variety by using several calibres of bulbs for a total number of 23 plots. Cultural practice trials were also conduced to look for the properest growing bulbs practice for that area. It was also tedermined the blossoming season, the relation between the size of the bulbs and the percentage of peants in bloom. The medium rate increase of bulbs during growing period was established after harvesting by sampling and was counted also the medium number of bulbils yielded by each bulb. By this test the time for the bulb to reach sufficient size to allow a good flowering was pointed out as well as the species and, of these, the properest varieties for the ambience where the test was conduced.
42878577|Nell'Iris e nel Tulipano l'induzione alla fioritura  determinata, sopratutto, dalla dimensione e dall'origine del materiale impiegato e, dalla serie di temperature diverse a cui sono sottoposti i bulbi a partire dal momento della loro raccolta. Sono stati riportati grafici che rappresentano per alcune variet di " Iris Amoena " il rapporto intercorrente tra il calibro impiegato e la percentuale di fioritura ottenuta;  stata fatta inoltre la distinzione fra bulbi tondi, bulbilli e spicchi di bulbo e si  visto quale differenza esista fra questi e quale sia la loro diversa origine. Si  inoltre illustrato come sottoponendo i bulbi a trattamenti termici adeguati, si possa anticipare l'epoca di fioritura ed addirittura nell'" Iris Amoena " indurre a fiorire anche i calibri pi piccoli. The Iris and Tulip flowering induction is mostly caused by the size and the origin of the material used and also by the different temperatures ranges to which bulbs are undergone from their harvesting period. A sequence of graphs of some " Iris Amoena " varieties representing the connection between the calibre used and the percentagee of the bloom obtained are reported. Classes of round bulbs, bulbils and cloves of bulbs were made and it was checked what was the difference in between and what different origin they had. The author explaines how it possible to anticipate the flowering period by subjecting the bulbs to suitable thermic treatments. By this technique even the smallest calibres of cv. " Iris Amoena " bulbs are stimulated to flower.
42878578|Dopo aver esposto alcune cosiderazioni sul significato e sui vantaggi della  non lavorazione del terreno , vengono riferiti i risultati relativi ad una coltura primaverile-estiva nell'anno 1969 di zucchino cv. "Store green", reperiti nell'ambito di una successione di colture ortive su terreno non lavorato. Le tesi poste a confronto erano le seguenti ripetute sul medesimo terreno a partire dal 1967:  terreno lavorato e letamato;  terreno lavorato e non letamato;  terreno non lavorato e non letamato;  terreno pacciamato, non lavorato, non letamato. Il numero ed il peso dei frutti prodotti risulta depresso in modo significativo dall'assenza di distribuzione del concime organico. La mancanza di lavorazione non ha prodotto una ulteriore diminuzione di resa. Nel caso di terreno pacciamato la produzione si riporta ad un valore non dissimile da quello della coltivazione ordinaria. Lo sviluppo fogliare delle piante e il numero di foglie emesse da ciascuna pianta  pi accentuato nelle tesi pi produttive. After having briefly discussed the concept of  no tillage  and its advantages, some results dealing with a crop of zucchini "Store green" grown during spring and summer 1969 are referred. The present experiment is a part of a poliennal research on vegetable crops rotation. Starting from 1967 the following treatments replicated on the same soil were provided:  tillage and manuring;  tillage and no manuring;  no tillage and no manuring;  mulching, no tillage, no manuring. Number and weight of fruit decreased significantly in the absence of manure but did not furtherly decrease on the no tillage treatment. Yield of the plants on mulching treatment was not significantly different from that of conventional soil preparation. Leaf area and number of leaves produced by each plant were highest on the more productive treatments.
42878579|In una prova sperimentale condotta nella Piana del Sele (Salerno) con due cultivar di pomodoro, "Roma" e "Fiaschetta", allo scopo di saggiare gli effetti di 4 densit d'investimento (30.000-45.000-60.000-75.000 piante per ha), in vista della raccolta meccanica, si  constatato che la quantit di prodotto maturo  aumentata con l'aumento dell'investimento, raggiungendo i q/ha 530,78 nella densit pi elevata. Dalla prova  emersa, altres, la maggiore attitudine della cv. "Roma" al tipo di allevamento e alla raccolta unica. Trials with two varieties of tomato, "Roma" and "Fiaschetta", were carried in the Piana del Sele (Salerno) area to test 4 plant densities (30.000-45.000-60.000-75.000 plants per hectare) in twin rows, for mechanical harvesting. Harvested fruits were sorted into: green, turning, ripe and cull. The total productions and the productions of ripe fruits were increasing as increased plant population. This pattern was confirmed by significancy of the linear component. In particular, ripe fruit yield per hectare rose from qls 385,60 to 530,78 in population range from 30.000 to 75.000 plants. Moreover, about the ripe product the two cultivars gave similar results, while the berry resistance to the parasitic and nonparasitic diseases was better in the cv. "Roma ". Therefore, in order to reduce the loss of production involved by the special cultural pratice and by the one pick harvest, it is necessary to achieve higher plant densities than the commonly realised for the hand-harvest in the area of the trials.
42878580|Vengono descritti gli obbiettivi ed il lavoro svolto per la selezione di nuovi portainnesti delle drupacee presso la Station de Recherches d'Arboriculture fruitire de la Grande Ferrade. Sono inoltre descritte le caratteristiche dei portainnesti gi selezionati e cio: Pesco INRA GF 305, San Giuliano ibrido n. 1, 2 e 3, Ibrido pesco-mandorlo INRA GF 557, Ibrido pesco-mandorlo INRA GF 677, Susino INRA GF 43, San Giuliano INRA GF 655-2, Damasco INRA 1869, Albicocco INRA GF 1236, Mirabolano INRA GF 31, Susino Regina Claudia INRA GF 1380, Santa Lucia INRA 64, Marianna INRA GF 8/1. The objectives and work carried out at "La Grande Ferrade "Experiment Station on the selection of new stone-fruits rootstocks are described. The main characteristics of the selectioned rootstocks are also described: Peach INRA GF 305, S. Julien n. 1, 2 and 3, Hybrid Peach-Almond INRA GF 557, Hybrid Peach-Almond INRA GF 677, Plum INRA GF 43, S. Julien INRA GF 655-2, Damas INRA 1869, Apricot INRA GF 1236, Myrobalan INRA GF 31, Plum Reine Claude INRA GF 1380, Mahaleb SL 64, Marianna INRA GF 8/1.
42877752|Biological and agronomical behaviour has been determined for some french and Spanish table olive varieties which were introduced at the "Belvedere" farm situated at Bolgheri (Livorno). We have been led to conclude that it is not convenient to grow these varieties as we have observed that: 1) The blossoming time of these table olive varieties generally precedes the blossoming time of the local oil varieties by as much as 15-16 days. 2) The poor production of the French and Spanish varieties is due to the lack of contemporaneity in blossoming between the oil and table varieties. 3) Flower and fruit biology has shown that only the "Bouteillan" variety is definetly self-fruitful while both "Grossanne" and "Gordales" are scarcely self-fruitful. "Aglandaou", "Picholine", "Verdale", "Tanche", "Salonenque" and "Manzanilla" are definitely not self-fruitful. 4) Among the better pollinators for the varieties taken into consideration, we found the self same varieties but also the "Coratina" imported from the Puglia and the "Razzo" which is a variety occasionally found in the Maremma hills. 5) It is necessary to determine in particular the behaviour of every new variety of table olives, both from the biological and the pedoclimatic point of view, specially if they come from a different ecological milieu although there they might be considered of particular value. The same rule must be applied rigorously to oil varieties.
42877753|From the cross "Moretta di Cazzano  Durona di Padova" as been obtained by Bargioni (1970) a sweet cherry variety ("Vittoria") (Prunus avium, L.), whose fruit, at maturity, loosen easily from their pedicel. Researches have been carried on the anatomical and histochemical changes associated with the abscission of fruits of this variety. Results have shown that: 1) abscission layer formation in the maturing fruits occurs in the transition zone between the fruit and the pedicel; 2) the abscission layer, consisting of 4-5 rows of cells, was first detectable from its low affinity for haematoxilin; 3) the walls of the cells in the abscission layer contain less total polysaccharides, the pectines and the cellulose are partially degraded, and the Ca and Mg level decreases during the maturation. Therefore, the anatomical and histochemical process of abscission occurs in the fruits of "Vittoria" variety in the same manner observed in the fruits of the sour cherry.
42877754|L'A., in una nota  II Brusone del Pero  pubblicata nel 1968 su l'Italia Agricola, dimostrava che l'annerimento delle foglie di alcune cultivar di pero, noto con il nome di  brusone , frequente nei mesi di luglio e di agosto, era provocata da squilibrio fisiologico delle piante e non dal Ragno rosso. L'A., nelle annate dal 1969 al 1971 ha continuato le indagini in varie localit della Toscana, del Pavese e del Ferrarese e su numerose cultivar di pero, confermando quanto aveva precedentemente affermato e cio che il  brusone   provocato da alterazioni di carattere fisiologico e non dal Ragno rosso. The A., in his note  Il Brusone de Pero  published in 1968 on the  Italia Agricola  showed that the blakening of leaves in some pear cultivars, well known as  brusone , which often occurs in July and august, was due to a physiological lack of balance in the plants and not to the Red spider. The A., who followed his experiences through the 1969-1971 period in different parts of Tuscany, of Pavia and of Ferrare regions and on a number of pear varieties, confirms his precedent statement, that the  Brusone  is effectively due to a physiological alteration and not to the Red spider.
42877755|Gli Autori riferiscono su tre anni di ricerche condotte sulla biologia fiorale di 62 cultivar di susino europeo (Prunus domestica L.). Per ciascuna cultivar  stata determinata l'epoca di fioritura media e la autocompatibilit o la autoincompatibilit. Per 13 cultivar sono stati anche individuati alcuni efficaci impollinatori. Le cultivar sono state quindi classificate in tre categorie: autocompatibili, parzialmente autocompatibili e autoincompatibili. Research have been carried out during a three years period (1969-1971) on the pollination of 62 plum varieties. The blossoming time of each variety has been determined and graphically expressed in the fig. 1. The results of the artificial self- and cross -pollination of the different varieties are summarized in the table 1. In the conclusions the tested varieties have been listed in three groups: fully selfcompatible; partially self-compatible and self-incompatible. Some good pollinators for 13 varieties have been listed.
42877756|Si sono esaminati gli effetti dell'Alar sulla cv. di melo "Golden Delicious". I trattamenti sono stati eseguiti a due concentrazioni (1000 e 2000 ppm) ed in tre differenti epoche (all'inizio dell'antesi, 20 e 70 giorni dopo la piena fioritura). I trattamenti con Alar hanno aumentato la consistenza della polpa ma anche la  rugginosit  dell'epicarpo dei frutti; il trattamento in fioritura a 1000 ppm ha quintuplicato l' indice di rugginosit  dei frutti. I restanti caratteri esaminati ( cascola ,  peso medio ,  residuo secco rifrattometrico ,  acidit  e  calo peso  dei frutti) sono risultati sostanzialmente uguali in tutte le tesi, controllo compreso, probabilmente a causa della concentrazione usata, troppo bassa per la "Golden Delicious". Non si sono riscontrati sintomi di fitotossicit a carico delle piante. "Golden Delicious" apple trees were sprayed with Alar at two different rates (1000 and 2000 ppm) and in three different dates (at the beginning of flowering, 20 & 70 days after blossoming). All the treatments with Alar increased the firmness of the flesh and the russeting of the skin. Pre-harvest drop, sugar content, acidity, and shreveling of the fruits have not been affected, probably owing to the rate used, too low for these treatments.
42877757|Si riferisce di un'esperienza su 6 cv. di fragola ("Albritton", "Cambridge Vigour", "Gorella", "Pocahontas", "Sunrise", "Surprise des Halles") tendente ad accertare l'influenza delle dimensioni iniziali delle piante sulla produzione e sulla precocit di maturazione. La prova venne effettuata con piante  fresche  (non frigo-conservate) trapiantate il 20 settembre 1969 su file binate e pacciamate con film di PVC nero da 0,05 ottenendo un investimento pari a 41.600 piante/ha. Le piante vennero suddivise in tre gruppi: piccole, medie, grandi e successivamente pesate. La produzione risult influenzata dalle dimensioni delle piante in misura significativa al confronto tra le  piccole  e le  grandi ; questo effetto fu determinato principalmente dal numero dei frutti prodotti che aument progressivamente all'aumentare delle dimensioni delle piante mentre il peso unitario degli stessi non fu influenzato dai trattamenti a confronto. Le cultivar manifestarono una diversa precocit di maturazione; le pi produttive risultarono la "Focahontas" e la "Surprise des Halles". Results of a trial on six different cultivars of strawberry ("Sunrise", "Pocahontas", "Surprise des Halles", "Gorella", "Cambridge Vigour", "Albritton") with the aim to know the effect of the initial plant size on production and on earliness of ripening are referred. The experiment, carried out at the Institute of Horticulture and Floriculture of the University of Turin, started on September 20, 1969 using plants not cold stored which were transplanted on double rows mulched with black PVC 0.05 thick. Plant density was about 41.600 plants/ha. Plants were divided into three groups: small, medium and big and weighed. Factorial combination of the treatments allowed to control the interaction between cultivars and initial weight of the plants. Production was significantly influenced by plant size: big size plants produced more than small one. This effect was caused by fruit number which increased with the increasing of plant size. Mean fruit weight was not influenced by any treatment compared; the interaction "cultivar  plant size" was constantly not significant. Cultivars showed different earliness of ripening; "Pocahontas" and "Surprise des Halles" gave the highest production.
42877758|Nella presente indagine  stata esaminata la "traspirazione specifica" su piante di un anno non innestate dei seguenti portinnesti: "Pesco franco G. F. 305", "Damasco 1869", "Brompton", "Susino di Castellinaldo", "Susino di S. Anna", "S. Giuliano 1" e su astoni, pure di un anno, delle cv. "J. H. Hale", "Redhaven" e "Southland" innestate sui predetti portinnesti. Si sono evidenziati alcuni punti quali: i valori assai pi elevati della  traspirazione specifica  dei susini portinnesto rispetto al Pesco franco; il generale abbassamento dell'intensit di traspirazione a seguito dell'innesto sia nel caso della combinazione pesco/susino che in quella pesco/pesco; la correlazione inversa esistente fra i valori della traspirazione specifica e quelli della vigoria delle diverse combinazioni di innesto. Ci significa che un elevato livello dell'intensit traspiratoria indotta dal portinnesto in una combinazione di innesto debole pu arrivare a determinare un effettivo fabbisogno idrico uguale, oppure anche superiore, a quello di una combinazione di innesto vigorosa. Investigations carried out on the transpiration rates of maiden trees of the peach varieties J. H. Hale, Redhaven and Southland budded on peach seedlings (G.F. 305) and on five plum rootstocks (Damas 1869, Brompton, Castellinaldo, S. Giulien 1 and S. Anna). The main results were: 1) The transpiration rates of the plum rootstocks were higher than that of the peach seedlings; 2) Budded trees showed a transpiration rate lower than that of unworked rootstocks; 3) An inverse correlation has been found between the transpiration rate and the average length of the feathers assumed as index of vigour.
42877759|Nel 1970 fu impostato il presente lavoro al fine di fornire un contributo circa l'influenza dell'intensit luminosa su alcuni caratteri morfo-fisiologici di Spinacia oleracea L. cv. "Riccio d'Asti". I risultati ottenuti possono essere sintetizzati nel seguente modo: l'ombreggiamento ha favorito lo sviluppo vegetativo delle piante ed il prolungamento dello stadio di rosetta, mentre ha limitato il numero delle foglie della rosetta ed il loro contenuto in acido ascorbico. Riguardo all'espressione sessuale fu riscontrata  nelle parcelle ombreggiate  una maggiore differenziazione di individui femminili in contrapposizione ad individui maschili (B  + L ), peraltro, non statisticamente significativa. The work here reported was begun in 1970 as a contribution to research on the influence of intensity of solar radiation on some morpho-physiological characters of Spinacia oleracea L. cv. "Riccio d'Asti". The results obtained can be synthetized as follows: shading favoured vegetative growth and prolonged the pre-shooting stage, while it limited the number of leaves produced on the shoots and their ascorbic acid content. With regard to sexual expression, a greater though not statistically significant differentiation of female as compared to male plants (B  + L ) was found in the shaded plots.
42877795|Le indagini, che rappresentano una tappa preliminare nella messa a punto di un nuovo modello di telaio raccoglitore, sono state condotte al fine di determinare le caratteristiche tecnologiche del  piano collettore  del telaio di raccolta e del  dispositivo di decelerazione  destinato a rallentare la caduta dei frutti prima del loro impatto sul piano collettore. Per il  piano collettore   stato usato uno strato di 20 mm di gommaspugna rivestito rispettivamente di un foglio di gomma telata di mm 1,5 o di un foglio di polietilene di 0, 1 mm. Il  dispositivo di decelerazione , posto a 20 cm al disopra del  piano collettore ,  stato approntato mediante una serie di strisce parallele di gomma telata o di tela di canapa, in entrambi i casi larghe 6 cm e disposte a 2 o a 4 cm di intervallo l'una dall'altra, con o senza collegamenti trasversali; inoltre  stato provato anche un piano di gommaspugna con fori di 5 e 6 cm di diametro. Per valutare l'efficacia delle diverse soluzioni costruttive, mele della della cv. "Imperatore" sono state fatte cadere da un apposito contenitore installato all'altezza di 4 m sopra il telaio. Questi frutti sono poi stati singolarmente esaminati per accertare la natura e l'estensione dei danni riportati in seguito alla caduta sul telaio raccoglitore. I risultati ottenuti hanno posto in evidenza che l'applicazione del foglio di gomma telata sullo strato di gommaspugna e l'adozione di un adeguato  dispositivo di decelerazione  consentono di ridurre sensibilmente il danneggiamento dei frutti. Researches, representing a preliminary study for a new type of catching frame, were carried on the technological characteristics of the catching platforms and the fruit deceleration devices. An experimental catching platform has been prepared with 10 mm playwood, covered with 20 mm sponge rubber and with a Texilten sheet 1.5 mm, or a poliethylene film 0.1 mm thick. The deceleration systems, placed 20 cm over the catching platform, consisted in rubber or canvas parallel strips, both 6 cm wide, spaced 2 or 4 cm and transversally connected each other or not; a sponge rubber frame, provided with holes 6 or 5 cm wide, has been also tested. In order to test the different solutions, apples cv. "Rome Beauty" have been thrown from a container placed 4 m over the catching frame. These fruits were then examined to determine how much they were bruised. The best results have been obtained covering the sponge rubber with a Texilten sheet and using a deceleration system fitted with connected rubber strips or a rubber sponge holed frame.
42877796|Applicando la tecnica della  margotta di ceppaia  non  possibile moltiplicare convenientemente alcuni portainnesti di pesco ("Missour I", "Missour II" e "Nemaguard") poich spesso pochi rami vengono emessi dalle piante madri e solo sporadicamente questi riescono a formare radici. L'impiego di un particolare accorgimento, quale quello di porre sopra le ceppaie una rete prima della schiusura dei germogli, eseguendo poi le normali pratiche colturali, pu incrementare la radicazione fino a raggiungere valori vicini all'80%, cos da prospettare concretamente la possibilit di applicazione pratica. Tale tecnica, il cui onere  praticamente uguale a quello della normale  margotta di ceppaia , presenta poi altri vantaggi quali la eccellente radicazione delle barbatelle ed una pi facile asportazione del materiale radicato. Inoltre  possibile estendere i risultati ottenuti con tale accorgimento ad altre specie quali il mandorlo e, con i dovuti accorgimenti, ad altri sistemi di moltiplicazione quali la  propaggine per trincea . Trial was done showing the possibility of peach propagation by a simple modification of the stooling method. Stumps cut back of "Missour I" "Missour III" and "Nemaguard" was cavared in early springtime, before bud brake, with a steel strip of screen. As the new shoots develop, grow upward, and growing in diameter, the screen begin to girdle them. This girdling promotes rooting above the gridle upward 75% and facilites the separation of the new shoots from the mother trees. With a adjustment of this sistem was also possible to induce rooting in other species difficult to root, like almond and cherry.
42877797|Si riferiscono i risultati di alcune esperienze relative all'impiego di substrati derivanti dal mezzo colturale di Phillips su apici vegetativi di garofano. Gli AA. hanno rilevato che un innalzamento della quantit dei sali minerali e l'introduzione di una sorgente di azoto ammoniacale nel substrato di Phillips aumentano la percentuale dei meristemi che si sviluppano in plantule. I substrati utilizzati permettono un accrescimento del meristema fino a plantula evitando il rinnovo del mezzo nutritivo. The composition of the culture medium is one of the most important factors influencing the success of the meristem culture. The Writers refer to results relative to the meristem culture of carnation plants using Phillips modified medium. The meristems were isolated under a stereomicroscope, under as sterile conditions as possible. Meristem-tips (apical dome plus two small leaves) were then put into Phillips medium with a higher content of mineral elements supplemented by NH and molibdeno. They were grown under artificial light (150 f.c. for a 16 hours photoperiode) and at a temperature of 22 C, until they grew into plantlets. It has been found that the percentage of the isolations which is succesful, is high when the concentration of the mineral salts is increased in the medium. The number of the plants may be increased if ions NH are present. In our conditions it is not necessary to transplant the meristems after rooting in fresh medium without NAA since good plantlets are obtained.
42877798|Prove di auto-ed eteroimpollinazione sono state effettuate nel 1971 sulla cv. "Granny Smith", usando come impollinatori le cv. "Cox Orange", "Golden Delicious", "Idared", "Morgenduft", "Mutsu", Rome Beauty", e "Starking". In base alla entit della allegagione, buoni impollinatori sono risultati le cv. "Starking", "Golden Delicious", "Morgenduft", "Rome Beauty" e "Cox Orange". Risultati meno soddisfacenti sono stati invece forniti dalle cv. "Idared", mentre la "Mutsu", ha dimostrato una attitudine fecondante molto ridotta. Osservazioni sul colore e sulla forma dei frutti non hanno messo in evidenza alcun fenomeno di carpoxenia. Apple producers of some italian areas, where "Granny Smith" has been introduced during the last 10-15 years, often complain poor and sometimes erratic fruit set and more or less wide reddish blush over the green ground color of this apple variety. During 1971 researches have been carried out, in order to ascertain whether the above troubles depend on the influence of the pollinator variety. The results of self - and cross - pollinations have shown that: a) the "Granny Smith" is self incompatible; b) among the seven tested varieties, "Starking ", "Golden Delicious", "Rome Beauty", "Morgenduft" and "Cox Orange" resulted the most suitable pollinators and gave similar or even higher percentages of fruits set respect to open pollination; "Idared" did not result a good pollinator and "Mutsu" gave extremely low percentage of fruit set. c) the pollen parent variety did not affect neither the skin color, nor the shape of fruits of "Granny Smith".
42877799|Si  realizzato uno studio genetico e biochimico su progenie segreganti, derivanti dall'autofecondazione di due variet commerciali di garofano ("5774" e "480p"). Si sono analizzati i seguenti caratteri: resistenza in acqua del fiore reciso e numero dei petali (presi come esempio di caratteri sotto controllo poligenico), colore del fiore e aberrazioni morfologiche. Si  effettuata la stima dell'ereditabilit che  risultata sufficientemente alta per un efficace lavoro di selezione. Questi risultati sono stati confermati dalla selezione divergente che ha permesso di aumentare la resistenza in acqua del fiore reciso nella cv. "5774" (1,28 giorni) ed il numero dei petali (26,55 nella "6774" e 10,69 nella "4800"). L'analisi dei pigmenti ha rivelato la presenza dell'antociano pelargonidin-3-monoglucoside variamente acilato con radicali fenolici. L'analisi genetica del colore dei fiori ha permesso l'identificazione nella cv. "5774" di almeno due geni (forse I e A) eterozigoti. I dati relativi alla cv. "4800" sono risultati pi complessi e non hanno permesso una completa interpretazione in termini genetici. Una variet ("4800")  risultata eterozigote per molte caratteristiche morfologiche (nanismo, foglia larga, assenza di cera, giallo-verde), di cui una (nanismo) risulta controllata da un singolo gene recessivo. Si discutono, infine, i dati ottenuti in ordine all'interesse generale per il lavoro di selezione nelle piante a propagazione vegetativa. A genetic and biochemical analysis has been carried out on the segregation progenies, deriving from selfing of two commercial varieties of the carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus) ("5774" and "4800") The following characters have been analysed: vase-life of cut flowers and petal number (taken as examples of characters under polygenic control), flower color and morphological aberrations. Estimates of heritability were carried out and found to be sufficiently high for an efficient selection work. Divergent selection for vase life and petal number confirmed these results and gave an increase in vase-life in "5774" (1,28 days) and in petal number (26,55 for "5774" and 10,69 for "4800"). Pigment analysis showed the presence of pelargonidin-3-monoglucoside with a varying number (0-2) of phenolic radicals. Genetic analysis of flower color revealed the presence of at least two genes (may be I and A) heterozygous in "5774". Data for "4800" were more complex and did not allow a complete interpretation in genetic terms. One variety ("4800") was shown to be eterozygous for several morphological characters (dwarfism, wide-leaf, waxless, yellow-green), one of which (dwarf) was shown to be controlled by a single recessive gene. The data obtained are finally discussed in view of their general interest for selection work in a vegetatively propagated plant.
42877800|L'Autore propone un nuovo metodo per ottenere una misurazione pi precisa della forza di attacco dei frutti all'albero. Questo metodo fornisce la Resistenza Integrata, attraverso l'elaborazione dei dati riguardanti la resistenza dinamometrica e la cascola dei frutti, questi ultimi calcolati numericamente e riferiti al totale di quelli presenti sulla pianta. The Author propounds a new method to obtain a more precise measurement of the force required to pull the fruits from trees. This method provides the Integrated Resistance through the combination of the data regarding the dynamometric resistance (measured by means of a special equipment) and the spontaneous fruit drop, which is numerically calculated and referred to all the fruits actually on the tree. The formula is: $F\,val\,0\, - \,\frac{{Fc.\,Fm}}{{Ft}}$ $Ri\, = \,\frac{{Rd\, \times \,(Fm\,---\,F\,val\,0)}}{{Fm}}$ F val 0 = Fruits with resistance zero Fc = Number of dropped fruits Fm = Number of fruits for which the dynamometric resistance has been determinated Ft = Total number of fruits on the tree Ri = Integrated Resistance Rd = Dynamometric resistance
42877801|Il peperone  soggetto, in Campania, alle infezioni di numerosi virus. Sino ad oggi sono stati individuati il virus del mosaico del Tabacco (VMT) ed il virus  Y  della patata (VYP), ambedue molto diffusi. Il VMT  presente sul peperone sottoforma di due ceppi: il ceppo del pomodoro ed un ceppo che pu assimilarsi a quello comune del tabacco. Il primo ceppo, che  il pi diffuso, causa mosaico giallo vivace, riduzione delle dimensioni delle foglie, necrosi dei fusti, defogliazione, riduzione dello sviluppo, deformazione e maculatura gialla dei frutti. Il secondo ceppo, induce mosaico internervale, leggero, riduzione delle dimensioni delle foglie, defogliazione, riduzione dello sviluppo, deformazione leggera dei frutti che appaiono pi piccoli di quelli sani. Le variet "Yolo Wonder 43" e "Yolo Wonder L." vengono infettate localmente solo dal ceppo comune del VMT da noi isolato. Sono descritti anche i sintomi indotti su altri ospiti erbacei. Il VYP lo si riscontra sottoforma di due ceppi: il ceppo normale (Y) ed il ceppo necrotico (Yn). Il primo causa tipiche bande in corrispondenza delle nervature fogliari, mosaico indistinto, riduzione dello sviluppo, aborto fiorale, deformazione dei frutti che manifestano anche strie clorotiche; il secondo appare pi dannoso e provoca necrosi delle nervature fogliari, mosaico, deformazione e riduzione di sviluppo delle foglie, aborto fiorale, deformazione e maculature necrotiche dei frutti, riduzione accentuata dello sviluppo delle piante. Le variet di peperone pi sensibili al VYP sono: "Pimiento", "Rosso di Nocera", "Giallo di Nocera" e "Marconi". Sono descritti anche i sintomi indotti da ceppi diversi del VYP su numerosi ospiti erbacei. I due virus, VMT e VYP, sono stati identificati anche con l'ausilio di prove sierologiche e di osservazioni al microscopio elettronico. In Campania (Italy) the pepper is affected by several virus diseases. Till now two viruses have been identified: tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) and potato  Y  virus (PYV). TMV is present as two strains, tomato-strain and common-strain. The first one is the most diffused and causes bright-yellow mosaic, reduction in size of the leaves, necrotic spots on the stem, leaf abscission, stunting, deformation and yellow-spots on the fruits. The latter causes a mild interveinal mosaic and reduction in size of the leaves, leaf abscission, a milder stunting, reduction in size of the fruits that are much smaller than the healthy ones. An other strain that causes a mild mosaic in pepper and tomato was isolated; the strain produces the same symptoms in other test-plants as the tomato-strain does; we called it, tentatively,  mild-atypical tomato strain . PYV is present as two strains, the normal (Y) and the necrotic one (Yn). The  Y -strain causes a typical vein-banding, faint mosaic, reduction in size of the leaves, stunting, flower-abortion, deformation and chlorotic streaking of the fruits. The  Yn -strain is more dangerous than the  Y  one, and causes vein-necrosis, severe-stunting, deformation and reduction in size of the leaves, flower-abortion, deformation and necrotic spots on the fruits, necrosis and splitting of the stem. The most sensitive varieties to PYV are:  Pimiento , "Rosso di Nocera", "Giallo di Nocera" and "Marconi". Symptoms caused by different strains of PYV on several hostplants are also described. TMV and PYV were also identified with the aid of serological tests and electronmicroscopical observations.
42877802|Vengono riferiti i risultati di alcune osservazioni microscopiche sulla megasporogenesi nell'Arancio dolce (cv. "Tarocco" e "Washington navel"), nel Mandarino (cv. "Avana") e nel Clementine (cv. "Comune").  stato rilevato, anzitutto, che nel Mandarino e nel Clementine la formazione del sacco embrionale si completa normalmente dando luogo ad ovocellule perfettamente funzionali. In qualche caso nel Mandarino "Avana"  stata osservata la formazione di due tetradi di megaspore nello stesso ovulo, derivanti probabilmente da due megasporociti. Negli Aranci "Tarocco" e "Washington navel"  in misura maggiore nel secondo  il gametofito femminile degenera prima del completamento del sacco embrionale. La degenerazione si manifesta pi frequentemente dopo la meiosi, coinvolgendo i nuclei delle quattro megaspore, ma interessa talvolta anche gli stati bi - e tetranucleati del sacco embrionale. Tale forma di ginosterilit, gi nota nella cv. "Washington navel",  stata riscontrata, come si  detto, anche nel "Tarocco", una delle cultivar pi rappresentative del patrimonio agrumicolo Italiano. Da un punto di vista strettamente pratico, se da un lato la sterilit dell'apparato sessuale femminile porta indiscutibili vantaggi per le cultivar che ne sono caratterizzate  dal momento che comporta una pressoch totale assenza di semi nei frutti  dall'altro ne limita notevolmente l'utilizzazione nei lavori di ibridazione. In this paper the results of some microscopic observations on megasporogenesis in the "Tarocco" and "Washington navel" sweet oranges, "Avana" and Clementine mandarins are reported. First of all it has been observed that in the "Avana" and Clementine mandarins embryo-sac development normally occurs up to functional egg-cell formation. Occasionally in the "Avana" mandarin two megaspore-tetrad are formed in a ovule, probably arising from twin megasporocytes. In the "Tarocco" and "Washington navel" sweet oranges  to a greater extent in the last one  the female gametophyte very often degenerates before embryo-sac development is completed. With both varieties such degeneration occurs only after the row of four megaspores has been formed, or even, occasionally, until one of the spores has divided to form the embryo-sac. This kind of female sterility, already known in the "Washington navel" orange, has been found also in the "Tarocco" orange, one of the most representative Italian Citrus varieties. From the wiewpoint of the consummer, the one general important horticultural advantage of female sterility lies in the resulting absence or scarcity of seeds, but obviously low generative fertility is a serious hindrance to the use of a variety in hybridization.
42877803|Si descrivono due malattie del Ranunculus asiaticus, non ancora segnalate in Italia, causate dal virus del mosaico del cetriolo (VMC) e dal virus della necrosi del tabacco (VNT). Il VMC provoca un caratteristico mosaico e fenomeni di cromoclasi a carico dei petali. Il VNT induce clorosi nervale, nanismo delle piante e scarsa produzione di fiori. Two virus-diseases of R. asiaticus, not yet described in Italy, were found in Campania region (Italy). The diseases are caused by two different viruses: cucumber mosaic virus and tobacco necrosis virus. CMV causes a typical mosaic and breaking of flower colours. TNV produces vein-chlorosis, stunting and poor flowering.
42878587|Viene descritto un nuovo modello di  telaio raccoglitore  progettato dagli Autori e realizzato dal Centro Studi di Tecnica Frutticola del C.N.R., Bologna, in vista della raccolta meccanica dei frutti. Questa macchina, prevista come trainata nella versione del suo prototipo sperimentale,  costituita da una sola  unit  capace di sviluppare, al di sotto della chioma degli alberi, una doppia ala rientrabile opportunamente provvista di un dispositivo di decelerazione. A new experimental model of "catching frame" projected by the Authors and built by Centro Studi di Tecnica Frutticola del C.N.R. Bologna, is here described. It consists in a single unit able to extablish under the head of the trees a double frame hydraucally operated, and provided with deceleration strips.
42878588|Trattamenti con olio bianco in combinazione o meno con "Benlate" (metil l-butilcarbamoil-2-benzimidazolo carbammato) o con "Alar" (acido dimetil amino succinamico), effettuati rispettivamente su alberi di ciliegio e di pesco, hanno dato come risultato un anticipo e una maggiore uniformit di maturazione dei frutti nelle cultivar trattate circa 2 settimane prima della raccolta; nessun effetto  stato invece ottenuto sulle cultivar trattate circa 6 settimane prima della maturazione. Le ricerche che sono state effettuate su campioni di ciliegie, nel presupposto che l'effetto dell'olio bianco sulla maturazione potesse essere correlato ad una maggiore produzione di etilene, non hanno permesso di accertare alcuna differenza tra la produzione di tale ormone nei frutti trattati e in quelli di controllo. Gli Autori sono grati a Iain C. MacSwan, patologo dell'Extension Service dell'Universit dell'Oregon a Corvallis e a Bill Manji, ricercatore associato dell'Universit di California a Davis, per l'assistenza tecnica prestata durante il corso della presente indagine. Il "Benlate 50 W" e l'"Alar 85" sono stati gentilmente forniti dalle Societ E. I. DuPont de Nemours Inc. e dalla Uniroyal Corp. rispettivamente. Sweet cherries and freestone peaches treated with oil, either singularly or in combination with Methyl 1-[butylcarbamoyl]-2-benzimidazolecarbamate (benomyl, Benlate) or succinic acid 2,2-dimethyl hydrazide (Alar) ripened earlier and more uniformly than fruits from untreated trees or those sprayed with Benlate alone. The oil treatment was effective when applied within 2 weeks of harvest but not when applied 6 weeks before the fruits became marketable. The oil apparently hastened the ripening of the less mature fruits thereby decreasing the variability in maturity. Analysis of the atmosphere of jars containing oil  and water  treated cherries indicated that the oil treatment did not enhance ethylene evolution.
42878589|Le prove mirano a stabilire l'influenza dell'"Ethrel" irrorato pre raccolta sull'anticipo e contemporaneit di maturazione del melone cv. "Viadanese" allevato in coltura protetta. La sostanza non ha rivelato alcuna controindicazione, se si esclude un leggero abbassamento del tenore zuccherino, mentre ha fornito notevoli vantaggi circa il raccorciamento del periodo di raccolta, la riduzione del numero delle stesse, la produzione lorda e la riduzione del numero di frutti spaccati o marci. I migliori risultati sono stati conseguiti con la concentrazione di 600 ppm di prodotto attivo. Trials were carried on for cv. "Viadanese" (andromonoecious) grown on the ground and pruned once over the second true leave. The cultivation was done under P.V.C. tunnel (m. 5,5  m. 2,3  m. 90) mulched by polyethylene. "Ethrel 68-250", sprayed two days before picking of the first fruits, was used at the following four concentrations on active material basis: 0, 300, 600, 900 ppm. Fruits were normaly picked every day and occasionaly twice a day. Ethrel has no significant effect on the marketable and extra yiel d (quintals per ectare). Increasing Ethrel concentration fruits number per plant increases, while fruits weight decreases always manteining extra choise size. Ethrel at 600 and 900 ppm strongly shortens the picking period: harvesting of the mass production is reduced to a fortnight with evident profit. Finishing muskmelon cultivation 3-4 weeks before time, allows an earlier succession cropping (for istance strawberry). Ethrel reduces the number of picking: at 600 and 900 ppm the reduction is respectively of 1/3 and 1/2. Ethrel strongly decreases the craked or rotted fruits: the effect is as more evident as higher is the concentration. The weight of under-size muskmelons does not change; the soluble solid slightly decrease. The 600 ppm concentration gives the best results.
42878590|Si  operato il diradamento dei frutti, su tre cultivar di pesco e precisamente le cv. "Halford 1", "Montecorona" e "Shasta", adottando concentrazioni di 50, 100, 150 e 250 ppm di 3 CPA (ammide dell'acido 3 clorofenossi-alfa-propionico), quando il seme presentava dimensioni di mm 8-9. La prova dimostra che la concentrazione di prodotto da impiegare, agisce in rapporto inverso al vigore vegetativo delle cultivar. Buoni risultati si ottengono con 50-100 ppm di 3 CPA nella cv. "Halford 1", poco vigorosa, con 150 e 250 ppm nella "Montecorona", mediamente vigorosa, mentre, neppure 250 ppm sono sufficienti ad operare il diradamento, nella "Shasta", molto vigorosa. We have carried out a trial on the fruit-thinning of three peach varieties "Halford 1", "ontecorona"and "Shasta", and used 3 CPA (3-cloro-phenoxy--propionic acid ammide) at the following concentrations: 50-100, 150 and 250 ppm., when the ovules were 8-9 mm long. The trial shows that so stronger is the cultivar's vegetative vigour, so higher must it be the 3 CPA concentration to use. Good results shows 3 CPA at 50-100 ppm at the cv. "Halfod 1", 150-250 ppm at the cv. "Montecorona". The cultivar "Shasta" did not response to any concentrations used.
42878591|Sono provate due epoche di raccolta, la refrigerazione immediata e ritardata, quattro atmosfere e precisamente CO = 0%, O = 2,5%; CO = 3 % O = 2,5%; CO = 5%, O = 2,5%; frigorifero tradizionale. Le variabili esaminate sono: durezza e tessitura della polpa, colore di fondo della buccia, incidenza di riscaldo, di maculatura lenticellare e di marciumi. I risultati migliori si ottengono raccogliendo le mele "Morgenduft" ad uno stadio di maturazione piuttosto arretrato, facendole prematurare a temperatura ambiente per 12-15 giorni e refrigerandole poi a 2,5 -3 C con il 3% di CO e il 2,5 di O. Experiment try to find out harvest and refrigeration optimum stage of maturity for C.A. (+ 3 C) and to find out the best gas mixtures. Four formulas (CO = 0%  O = 2,5%; CO = 3%  O = 2,5%; CO = 5% = O = 2,5%; air = traditional cold storage), two maturity stages at harvest with immediate and delayed storage are compared. Storage ended at June 10th. As far as gas mixtures are concerned, C.A. with or free of CO, give better results than traditional cold storage. Flesh firmness is highter (1,3  1,5 pounds) than in air. Between the different C.A. mixtures there are not significative differences. Crisper and juicer flesh texture is obtained in C.A.: best results are obtained in CO enriched ones. Ground color remains greener in the same way. Scald incidence is highter in 5% CO mixtures than in other C.A. and in air. The C.A. free of CO gives less scald than the traditional cold storage. All the differences are very significative. Lenticel spot is completely controlled by C.A. free or with CO . Rotting are greatly reduced by C.A., mostly by those with CO . Cv. "Morgenduft" does not show a particular sensitivity of maturity stage at harvest: in fact it does not show differences as for fruit firmness, texture, ground color and scald incidence. It most be pointed out however that early harvest (15 days before the common practice in the area) reduced to about a half the rotting and increased lenticel spot which is tipical of common storage. Immediate or delayed refrigeration does not give any differences as for scald, rotting, fruit firmness. Immediate refrigeration certainly improves fruit crispiness and juiciness, while on the opposite increase lenticel spot. Trials seem to recommend the following practice: sufficiently early harvest time, 12-15 days delayed storage with anti-scald treatment, 2,5 C - 3 C, controlled atmosphere storage with 3% CO and 2,5% O.
42878593| stata effettuata un'indagine sull'efficacia dell'impiego della cera vegetale e della lecitina per la prevenzione dallo "spot" della mela "Jonathan", effettuando i trattamenti su frutti raccolti precocemente o tardivamente; per entrambe le raccolte le mele sono state refrigerate immediatamente, o dopo un intervallo di 15 giorni.  stata constatata l'inutilit dei due trattamenti, in quanto non  stata contenuta la percentuale delle alterazioni. L'impiego della cera provoca inoltre un aumento delle percentuali dei marciumi. Il migliore mezzo per contenere l'insorgenza dello "spot" si  dimostrato la rapida refrigerazione immediatamente dopo la raccolta. Researches have been carried out on the efficacy of vegetable wax and lecithin to prevent Jonathan spot, treating the fruits picked up either too early or too late. Apples have been refrigerated either immediately or after a fortnight interval. The uselessness of both treatments has been observed because the per cent of the disease has not been reduced. Furthermore, waxing increased the rot per cent. The better way to control the uprising of the spot is only the refrigeration, performed immediately after the picking up.
42878601|Viene segnalata e descritta una nuova cultivar di pesco da industria selezionata in Giappone presso la Stazione sperimentale di frutticoltura di Hiratsuka ed introdotta dall'Autore in Italia. Questa nuova cultivar  caratterizzata da una accentuata precocit, per cui potrebbe consentire un anticipo di circa una settimana nella lavorazione delle pesche sciroppate da parte dell'industria conserviera. A new cling variety, obtained by the Hiratsuka Experiment Station (Japan) and introduced into Italy by the Author in 1968, is here described. This new variety appears to be interesting owing to its early ripening time (a week before "Fortuna"), which could allow to start earlier the canning cycle of cling peaches.
42878602|Vengono riferiti i risultati di alcune prove aventi lo scopo di studiare l'azione del Cycocel sul comportamento vegetativo e produttivo di alcuni vitigni coltivati in Toscana, quali il "Sangiovese", il "Trebbiano", il "Canaiolo", la "Malvasia", la "Vernaccia" e il "Ciliegiolo". In particolare si  voluto indagare sulle possibilit offerte da tale composto nel controllo della cascola post-fiorale o  colatura  cui vanno soggette numerose variet coltivate. Dalle prove, con le quali sono state saggiate l'azione delle concentrazioni, delle epoche di somministrazione del prodotto, nonch l'effetto esercitato da applicazioni singole o ripetute 2 o 3 volte sulle medesime piante,  emerso che il CCC: 1) ha mostrato di controllare pi efficacemente la  colatura  quando somministrato alla dose di 500 ppm. 15 giorni prima della fioritura; tale trattamento ha determinato un incremento di produzione del 50% rispetto al controllo; 2) ha quasi sempre determinato una modificazione della struttura del grappolo (pi corto, con acini pi numerosi e pi piccoli del controllo) ed una riduzione del grado glucometrico del mosto; 3) ha ridotto pi o meno sensibilmente lo sviluppo dei tralci e la lunghezza degli internodi, con la sola eccezione dei trattamenti effettuati 10 giorni dopo la fioritura che non hanno mostrato variazioni rispetto al controllo; 4) tra le varie cultivar esaminate, il CCC non ha mostrato di influenzare il comportamento produttivo del "Sangiovese", mentre ne ha ridotto lo sviluppo vegetativo. A study was conducted to evaluate the effect of Cycocel on vegetative growth and production of some grape varieties cultivated in Tuscany. Particular attention was paid to the effect on coulure. The cv. "Ciliegiolo", which shows the greatest incidence of coulure among those tested, was treated with Gycocel at 500, 1000 and 1500 ppm., 15 days before bloom, at bloomtime, or 10 days after bloom, either as a single spray or repeating the spray two or three times. Results showed that: 1) the treatment with 500 ppm. of Gycocel sprayed 15 days before bloom was the most effective in reducing coulure and for that matter yields were 50% higher than in the non treated plants. 2) Cycocel treated vines produced shorter clusters, with more berries of smaller size and lower sugar content than the controls. 3) All treatments, except those carried out after bloom, caused a reduction in stem and internode length. The cv. "Sangiovese", "Trebbiano", "Canaiolo", "Malvasia" and "Vernaccia" were treated with Cycocel only at 1000 ppm. 15 days before bloom. The cv. "Sangiovese" was not affected significantly but all the others showed responses similar to those described for "Ciliegiolo".
42878603|Si riportano i risultati sul proseguimento di ricerche condotte per un quinquennio sulla potatura di allevamento del pesco. Le indagini effettuate su piante della cv. "Dixired" innestate su franco ed allevate in parte a palmetta ed in parte a vaso, sono state condotte per ulteriori cinque anni praticando in entrambe le forme di allevamento il sistematico raccorciamento dei rami negli alberi che nella fase di allevamento erano stati sottoposti a  spuntatura , il diradamento dei rami stessi in quelli precedentemente allevati a  tutta cima  ed inoltre, il raccorciamento dei rami  stato praticato anche su piante precedentemente allevate a  tutta cima . I risultati ottenuti mettono in evidenza che nel vaso la potatura con diradamento continua a favorire una maggiore produttivit degli alberi, mentre nelle piante allevate a palmetta i diversi criteri di potatura non hanno praticamente influenzato n lo sviluppo n la produttivit degli alberi. Le piante allevate a palmetta hanno anche richiesto per l'esecuzione dei diversi interventi di potatura, una quantit di lavoro maggiore di quella richiesta dalle piante allevate a vaso. Per quanto riguarda i tempi di lavoro per la raccolta questi sono risultati inferiori nelle piante allevate a palmetta. Over periods of 5 years fruit yield, trunk diameter, weight of pruning, size of fruits and labour requirement for pruning and harvesting were recorded on mature peach tree trained as gobelet or palmetta and pruned (A) by cutting back laterals shoots of the trees previously grown by cutting back the main shoots of the leader and the main branches, (B) by thinning the laterals shoots of the trees grown without cutting back the frame and (C) by cutting back lateral shoots of the trees grown without cutting back the frame. In general the responses of trees hawe shown that the (B) treatment in gobelet stimolates the production. With palmettas the yield and growth have never been changed by the metods of pruning. The labour requirements for harvesting was greater with gobelets. The pruning labour per hectar was greater with palmettas owing to the greater planting density.
42878604|Vengono riferiti i risultati di osservazioni pluriennali su di una collezione di cultivar di pero a maturazione estiva costituite nell'Unione Sovietica: "Lida", "Tiena", "Podarok", "Olgwa", "Malenkaia Radodia", "Pieredovaia", "Bieresimlia", "Okulbrakaia", "Osenneia". Oltre alla scheda pomolgica, di ogni cultivar,  riportata l'epoca di fioritura e di maturazione. The Author refers the results of observations made during several years on some summer ripening pear-tree cultivars constituted in the Soviet Union: "Lida", "Tiena", "Podarok", "Olgwa", "Malenkaia Radodia", "Pieredovaia", "Bieresimlia" "Okulbrakaia", "Osenneia". Besides the pomogical index-card of every cultivar has been reported the period of flowering and ripening.
42878605| stata esaminata la composizione minerale del melo "Golden Delicious" e del suo mutante "Starkspur Golden Delicious" durante un intero ciclo vegetativo (aprile-dicembre 1969). Differenze statisticamente significative tra la cv. di origine e il mutante spur si verificano a livello del contenuto in Ca e Mn, che presentano un maggior accumulo nel mutante spur. The chemical composition of leaves was compared between four years old trees of standard "Golden Delicious" apple and of the spurtype mutant "Starkspur" from April to December 1969. A similar set of analyses was previously carried on in 1968. The 1969 set shows a greater physiological maturity of the trees: several seasonal variations in the mineral content appear reduced and the total content of the elements investigated is generally at normal levels. The higher Ga content of the spurtype mutants is confirmed also in this variety. Only the Mn content, which did not previously show appreciable differences between the standard and the spurtype mutant, is in 1969 much higher in the spur, with particularly high values in the leaves of the flower buds.
42878606|During a number of years, the Author has conducted some researches on flowering and fruiting biology of the Comice pear, an appreciate autumnal variety, typical for its variable and often low productivity. These researches have been conducted in different places of the country surrounding Florence, Siena and Modena. They can be divided in three parts: 1) Researches concerning the macrosporogenesys - It has been followed the development of the female gametophyte, in order to control the correspondance among the different phases arid the different moments of flowering, from the beginning of the bud growing to the end of the anthesys. 2) Controlled pollinisation field trials, with pollen of diploid varieties. 3) Microscopical observations with fluorescent light on the pystil of artificially pollinised flowers in different dates in order to establish the receptivity period of the stygmas and the time required by fcondation. It has resulted that: 1) Macrosporogenesys begins very early and the ovule appears completely differenciated a little before the flower complete anthesys. It seams also that a certain number of ovules decay at different stages of their development, both when they are not yet ripened, before fecondation, and when they contain well formed embryos. The first sympthomes of that phenomenon are the very appearent differences in the embryosacs development of a same ovary. The tendency to decay of the ovule seems to be a typical character of the Comice pear (Jaumien, 1968) 2) The variety seems to be practically selfuncompatible and very little parthenocarpic. The percentage of fruiting changes following the pollinising variety and the period in whith pollinisation occurs. Among the tested varieties, best pollinisators seem to be: "Mirandino rosso", "Conference", "Clapp's Favourite", "Kaiser", "Passe Crassane ", "Williams". 3) Microscopical observations in fluorescent light have revealed the increasing degree of pollinic tubes in the stygmas, which seems to be influenced, first of all, by atmospheric temperature. Fcondation occurs generally between 24 and 48 hours after pollinisation. The period of receptivity in the stygmas is rather long (7-10) days, according to environmental conditions.
42878607|Si segnala un forte attacco di peronospora su melone (cv. "Arancino") in Umbria. La diffusione della malattia sembra correlata all'aumento delle colture di cucurbitacee e all'andamento climatico piuttosto umido verificatosi questa estate. Tentativi di contenere l'infezione con prodotti a base di rame e ditiocarbammati, non hanno dato risultati apprezzabili. Si consiglia pertanto l'introduzione di cv. resistenti. A serious attack of downy mildew on muskmelon (cv. "Arancino") in Umbria is reported. The recent spreading of the infection in this country seems related to the increase of cucurbit cultivations and humid weather of this summer. Attempts to control the disease with several cupric compounds and dithiocarbamates failed. The use of resistant varieties seems suitable.
42878608|A circa settanta anni dalla introduzione del termine clone, il suo significato  tutt'altro che chiarito. Alcuni studiosi intendono il clone un gruppo di individui geneticamente omogenei, altri un gruppo di individui non necessariamente omogenei. Da alcuni, in frutticoltura, viene attualmente seguito il primo concetto. Sulla base delle conoscenze sulla struttura dell'apice vegetativo delle piante chimeriche e della loro evoluzione nel tempo, possono essere fatte le seguenti considerazioni: 1 - nel caso in cui non si verifichino mutazioni spontanee in qualsiasi stadio della vita della pianta madre (dall'embrione alla pianta adulta), in ognuno dei suoi istogeni e negli stessi individui del clone, il clone sar geneticamente omogeneo. 2 - Quando si verificano mutazioni non rilevabili fenotipicamente, il clone risulter fenotipicamente omogeneo, ma geneticamente eterogeneo. 3 - Nel caso in cui la pianta madre che da origine a un clone sia una chimera instabile, con una mutazione vistosa in uno strato profondo e quindi non visibile, si possono avere, negli individui che ne discendono, diverse combinazioni istogenetiche. Alcune di queste combinazioni permetteranno di supporre che il clone  geneticamente eterogeneo. 4 - Quando la pianta madre chimerica  stabile e la mutazione si trova in un istogeno profondo questa pu risultare, anche se vistosa, fenotipicamente non apprezzabile. 5 -  impossibile stabilire prontamente, nelle piante da frutto, se tutti i rami e le gemme della pianta madre e degli individui del clone (che a loro volta possono divenire altrettante piante madri) siano istogeneticamente omogenei. L'omogeneit o l'eterogeneit genetica di un clone dovrebbe essere dimostrata. Ove ci fosse possibile, i cloni potrebbero essere a loro volta distinti in geneticamente  omogenei  ed  eterogenei . Il concetto di clone in frutticoltura dovrebbe quindi essere allargato e considerato un gruppo di individui geneticamente omogenei o eterogenei, ma fenotipicamente simili, discendenti per propagazione asessuata da una singola cellula o da un individuo. About seventy years after the introduction of the term clone, its meaning is not yet clear. Some scholars consider the clone as a group of individuals genetically homogeneous, others as a group of individuals not necessarily homogeneous. In fruit growing some, actually follow the first concept. On the basis of known vegetative apex structure of chimerical plants and their evolution in time, the following considerations can be formulated: 1) In case there are no spontaneous mutations in any stage of life of the mother plant (from proembryo, to adult plant) in each one of its histogenic layers and in the individuals of the clone itself, the clone will be genetically homogeneous. 2) When phenotypically irrelevant mutations occur, the clone will result phenotypically homogeneous but genetically heterogeneous. 3) When the mother plant which gives origine to a clone is an unstable chimera with a showy mutation in a deep layer and therefore not visible, in the individuals which follow several histogenetic combinations may arise. Some of these combinations will allow to suppose that the clone is genetically heterogeneous. 4) When the chimerical mother plant is stable and the mutation situated in a deep histogenic layer the latter may result phenotypically unappreciable althought showy. 5) In fruit plants it is impossible to establish promptly whether all the branches and buds of the mother plant and of the clone's individuals (which can later become other mother plants) are homogeneous histogenetically. Genetic homogeneity and heterogeneity of a clone should be demonstrated. Where this is possible the clones could in there turn be recognized as genetically homogeneous or heterogeneous. In fruit growing the concept of clone should therefore be widened and considered as a group of genetically homogeneous or heterogeneous individuals but phenotypically similar descendant by asexual propagation from a single cell or individual.
42877870|L'uso dell'acido indolacetico (IAA) quale sostanza rizogena  ormai generalizzato, mentre non sono ancora sufficientemente chiari i rapporti tra questa auxina ed altre sostanze come giberelline, kinetina, ecc. conoscenze, queste, che potrebbero migliorare la tecnica di impiego. In questa nota si riferiscono i risultati relativi all'uso dell'IAA congiuntamente a diverse sostanze quali l'acido giberellico, la kinetina, l'adenina, ecc. nel radicamento di talee di Dracaena deremensis. L'acido giberellico impiegato alle dosi di 2, 4, 8 e 16 ppm, ha avuto un'azione antagonistica con l'IAA riducendo, all'aumentare della concentrazione, l'attivit rizogena dell'auxina. I migliori risultati, nel potenziare l'azione dell'IAA si ottennero con l'aggiunta simultanea di adenina e kinetina alla concentrazione, rispettivamente, di 10 M e di 4 ppm; in tal modo la formazione di tessuto radicale sub un notevole incremento, risultando triplicato il peso fresco delle radici, nei confronti del trattamento effettuato soltanto con IAA a 10 ppm. Indoleacetic acid (IAA) is now in general use as a rhizogene substance, while the relation of this auxin to other substances such as gibberellins, kinetin, etc. are not yet sufficiently clear; obviously, such knowledge would improve the technique used. This note gives the results of using IAA together with various substances such as GA, kinetin, adenine, etc. in rooting Dracaena deremensis cuttings. GA used in doses of 2, 4, 8 and 16 ppm proved antagonistic to IAA and with the more concentrated doses, reduced the rhizogene activity of the auxin. The best results in reinforcing the action of the IAA were obtained by adding adenine and kinetin to the concentration in the doses of 10 M and 4 ppm respectively. In this way a considerable increase in the formation of the rootstock was obtained, the fresh weight of the roots being tripled as compared with those treated only with IAA at 10 ppm.
42877871|Sono state effettuate prove di radicamento di talee di rosa, aceri, magnolie ed ilex con trattamenti ormonici, impiegando la nebulizzazione intermittente e, in alcuni casi, continua, il taglio laterale alla base delle talee per gli aceri e due tipi di talee, di punta e di nodo, per le rose. Le rose hanno dato risposte molto differenti, secondo le cultivar, ai trattamenti con acido indolbutirrico (IBA), diluito in polvere di talco, applicato a talee di punta e di nodo con due diverse temperature di fondo. La variet "Generosa" si  avvantaggiata del trattamento ormonico con migliori risultati per le talee di punta. Le talee di nodo hanno radicato meglio invece nel caso della "Regina delle rose". La "Garnet" ha radicato pi facilmente delle altre due cultivar; con una temperatura di 18 C si sono ottenuti risultati migliori rispetto ai 25 C. L'Acer saccharinum Wierji ha risposto sfavorevolmente alla temperatura pi alta (21 C) e negativamente al taglio laterale praticato alla base della talea. I tre diversi tipi di Acer palmatum hanno avuto un comportamento in generale migliore alla temperatura pi bassa (18 C), alla dose di IBA pi elevata (2%) ed al taglio laterale. Le Magnolie hanno risposto positivamente alla dose pi elevata di IBA (2 %). La nebulizzazione continua ha favorito il radicamento di Magnolia soulangeana, quella intermittente di Magnolia stellata. Mentre Ilex crenata non ha permesso conclusioni chiare, Ilex aureomarginata ha radicato meglio con la dose pi bassa di IBA (1%) e con la temperatura pi alta; la prima specie si  avvantaggiata della nebulizzazione intermittente, la seconda di quella continua. L'aggiunta di acido naftalenacetico (0,25%) ha condotto a risultati meno soddisfacenti del solo IBA per Ilex aureomarginata. Trials were made to test the rooting ability of greenwood different cuttings of ornamental plants in different conditions of bottom heat and mist with particular preparations according to the species. Rose cultivars had reactions very different to treatments with indolebutyric acid in talc powder, applied to tip cuttings and node cuttings with different medium temperatures. The cv Generosa profited by hormonal applications; the tip cuttings rooted better than the node cuttings. The contrary was noted in the case of the cv Regina delle rose. The cv Garnet rooted easier than the other cultivars and reacted better to temperature of 18 C. rather than 25 C. Acer saccharinum wierji reacted favourably to higher temperature (21 C) and negatively to heavy wound. The different types of Acer palmatum had a better reaction to the lower temperature (18 C vs 25 G. and to IBA higher doses (2%) vs the lower (1%) and to heavy wound. The same IBA concentration favoured both Magnolia soulangeana and Magnolia stellata', constant mist was better for the first and intermittent mist for the last. Ilex crenata and Ilex aureomarginata rooted better with the lower concentration of (1%) and the higher temperature; intermittent mist favoured the first, constant mist the last.
42877872|Allo scopo di accertare l'efficacia di trattamenti a base di acido indolbutirrico (IBA) applicati nella porzione apicale e basale di talee legnose, sono state impostate alcune prove con il portainnesto clonale "Mirabolano B", propagato mediante la  tecnica del riscaldamento basale . Inoltre si  voluto indagare sul movimento dello stimolo rizogeno indotto dall'IBA mediante l'asportazione peridica di un segmento di talea della lunghezza di 2 cm. Dai risultati ottenuti  emerso quanto segue : 1) La maggiore efficacia del trattamento apicale che ha indotto una radicazione del 99%, contro 80% determinata dal trattamento basale ed il 53% del controllo. Anche il numero medio delle radici  risultato sensibilmente superiore nelle talee in cui l'IBA era stato applicato nella porzione apicale. 2) Lo stimolo rizogeno indotto dal trattamento apicale e basale migra attraverso i primi 2 cm della talea in tempi diversi; con l'applicazione apicale la maggior parte dello stimolo  disceso con movimento basipeto nelle prime 12 ore, con il trattamento basale  risalito con movimento acropeto entro 24 ore. 3) Il trattamento con IBA applicato nella parte apicale delle talee ha temporaneamente inibito la schiusura delle gemme, che viceversa sembra essere stimolata dal trattamento basale. Some experiments have been carried out in order to test the effectiveness of the IBA treatments applied to the proximal and distal ends on plum hardwood cuttings (Myrabolan B), propagated by bottom heat. Investigations on the rooting stimulus movement by periodical removal of 2 cm of the cutting segment were done. Risults showed that: 1) The IBA distal applications are more effective (99% rooting) than either proximal applications (80%) or check (53%). The number of roots was higher in distal treatments. - 2) The rooting stimulus induced by both IBA distal end proximal applications exceeded the first 2 cm of the cuttings at different times; with IBA distal application most of the stimulus goes down with basipetal movement within 12 hours, whereas with proximal application the stimulus goes up with acropetal movement within 24 hours. 3) The bud burst has been temporarily inhibited by IBA distal application and improved by IBA proximal application.
42877873|Nel 1971 e nel 1972  stata saggiata la capacit di emettere radici avventizie da parte di talee legnose di 84 variet di albicocco, utilizzando la tecnica del riscaldamento basale. Le talee, prelevate nell'inverno, sono state poste a radicare per un periodo di circa 4 mesi. Le tesi poste a confronto prevedevano, nel 1971, oltre ad un controllo non trattato, una tesi di trattamento con IBA a 2000 ppm riguardante la base delle talee; nel 1972 invece la concentrazione di IBA  stata portata a 4000 ppm. Prima del trattamento con IBA tutte le talee avevano subito 4 incisioni longitudinali per circa 3 cm riguardanti lo spessore della corteccia. Hanno mostrato capacit di emettere radici avventizie, ma esclusivamente se trattate con IBA 22 variet, con percentuali che vanno dal 2% al 60% circa. Su talee della variet "S. Cstrese" sono state eseguite delle osservazioni di carattere istologico e fisiologico; queste ultime riguardavano l'attivit respiratoria, il contenuto in carboidrati e l'estrazione di sostanze di cui  stato saggiato il potere rizogeno mediante il test del fagiolo. In 1971 and 1972 the rooting ability of 84 apricot varieties, throught basal heathing, was studied. The cuttings were picked in November 1971 and December 1972. The treatments were: in 1971 IBA 2000 ppm and control, in 1972 IBA 4000 ppm and control. The bark at the base of the cuttings was incised before dipping with IBA. Rooting was observed only in 22 varieties. Histological and physiological observations were done on "S. Cstrese" varieties, to see the origin of adventitious roots, respiratory activity, starch content, and the presence of rizogenous substances. The rizogenous substances were tested with bean plants.
42877874|Si sono studiati gli effetti di diversi fattori sulla radicazione con la tecnica della nebulizzazione di talee erbacee di Prunus sinensis. Sono stati presi in considerazione: a) il tipo di talea (di ramo o di punta); b) l'impiego di due fitormoni rizogeni, IAA, e IBA, a diverse concentrazioni ; c) la temperatura del substrato di radicazione; d) il tipo di substrato. Le talee di punta hanno dimostrato di radicare meglio e pi facilmente di quelle di ramo; dei due ormoni provati, l'IBA si  dimostrato pi attivo dell'IAA; con entrambi gli ormoni, i migliori risultati si sono ottenuti con le pi alte concentrazioni provate, 4000 ppm, che sono apparse quasi ottimali per le talee di punta, suscettibili di ulteriore aumento per le talee di ramo; la temperatura del substrato  risultata ottimale tra i 23 e i 26 C; a temperature pi elevate corrisponde un aumento della mortalit che raggiunge il 100% a 35 C; fra i substrati impiegati si sono dimostrati pi adatti quelli esclusivamente minerali. Softwood terminal and intermediate semihardwood cuttings of Prunus sinensis alba, were treated with hydroalcoholic solutions of IBA and IAA at 0, 1.000, 2.000 and 4.000 ppm. and put under mist on six different media (sand, peat, calcined pyrophyllite and their mixtures), at five temperatures (23C, 26C, 29C, 32C, 35C). Terminal cuttings, with young leaves still growing, rooted more and better than intermediate ones; IBA treatments produced a greater percentage of rooted cuttings with more roots than IAA; concentration of 4.000 ppm. of IBA was the best for terminal cuttings, but too low for intermediate cuttings. An interaction was found among temperature of the medium, type of cutting and concentration of the hormone. Best results were obtained at 23-26 C, while at higher temperatures mortality increased to 100% at 35 C. The media in which cuttings rooted better did not contain peat.
42877875|Allo scopo di studiare i rapporti che intercorrono tra dormienza e radicazione in talee legnose di pesco, nel periodo compreso tra la met di ottobre e la fine di febbraio, sono stati prelevati, con intervalli quindicinali, rami misti della cv. "Coronet". Una parte di tali rami  stata utilizzata per la preparazione di talee (100 per tesi) che sono state trattate con IBA a 4000 ppm e sottoposte a riscaldamento basale (20 C). Le tesi differivano tra di loro per un diverso grado di degemmazione operata sull'intero tratto della talea. L'andamento della dormienza  stato osservato su un altro gruppo di rami (20 per ciascun prelevamento) posti periodicamente in una cella termostatica regolata ad una temperatura di circa 25C e 70-90% di UR, illuminata per 12 ore giornaliere a 4000 lux.  stato possibile rilevare che la radicazione delle talee presenta valori massimi prima che il fabbisogno in freddo sia stato soddisfatto. La rizogenesi presenta flessioni molto significative in corrispondenza della met di novembre e del mese di gennaio. Mentre il primo periodo sembra coincidere col momento di massima dormienza, il secondo si verifica in concomitanza con l'inizio dell'attivit delle gemme a fiore e della parziale inibizione della germogliazione. La rizogenesi  risultata quasi sempre direttamente correlata al numero delle gemme. Solo in due casi essa ne  apparsa indipendente; cio durante la massima radicazione (fine ottobre) e nel periodo di minima radicazione (gennaio). In order to study the relationships between dormancy and rooting on peach hardwood cuttings, one year old shoots of "Coronet" variety were collected at two week intervals from October 15, 1969 until the end of February 1970. At each collection date 400 cuttings (100 per thesys) about 20 cm long, were placed over bottom heat (20 C) after treatment with 4000 ppm. of IBA. Several disbudding degrees were compared. Dormancy was studied placing periodically 20 shoots in growth chamber at 25 C, 70-90% HR and 4000 lux of artificial light per 12 hours a day. Times and percentage of bud bursting were recorded at 3-4 days intervals. Rooting showed maximum level before the chilling requirent was satisfied and a minimum one in the middle of November and in January. The first low rooting period seems to be related with higher level of peach dormancy, the other one corrispond with the beginning of breaking of flower buds dormancy and partial inibition of leaf buds opening. Rooting was almost always directly related with buds number retained on cuttings. Only in two period such relationship was not found: during the period of maximum rooting (end of October) and the minimum one (January).
42877876|Chamacyparis lawsoniana flecteri is an easy to root specie in which the rooting capacity may be increased by chemical tratment and centrifugation. The cuttings show best rooting during summer time where as centrifugation increases the rooting percentage regardeless of the harvesting period. Abies picea albertiana conica is a difficult to root specie which responds fairly to chemical treatment and centrifugation. The rooting capacity is different around the year the best periods being July, September and January, March. The chemical treatments which induce the best effect are IBA alone or in combination with p-hidrossy-benzoic acid and pirogallol in the fall, IBA and pirogallol in the spring and IBA alone and in combination with phydroxy benzoic acid in summer time. The optimal chemical concentration decreases from winter to summer. In Abies picea albertiana conica IBA at 2.500 ppm, when applied either at the base or at the top of the cutting induces one of the best effects. A possible mechanism of chemical action in the rooting process will be discussed.
42877877|Prove di radicazione del noccilo con la tecnica del riscaldamento basale hanno messo in rilievo l'azione positiva dell'ANA ad alte dosi, sia da solo che combinato con IAA e IBA. L'impiego del DMSO da solo (0,1 e 1%) non modifica sostanzialmente la percentuale di radicazione, aumenta alla dose maggiore il n. radici/talea e lascia inalterato il peso secco delle radici. Impiegandolo invece assieme all'IBA (2000 e 4000 ppm) ne aumenta l'efficacia ad entrambe le dosi, ma ad un'accresciuta percentuale di radicazione si contrappone sovente una riduzione nel peso secco delle radici, nel numero delle stesse per talea e, per conseguenza, nella massa radicale delle barbatelle. Hazel propagation trials by bottom heat have shown a positive action of the high doses of NAA alone as well as combined with IAA and IBA. The DMSO alone (dosed at 0.1 and 1%) did non change the rooting percentage and the roots dry matter, but the greatest dose improve the number of roots/cutting. An improved effect of IBA (both 2000 and 4000 ppm) is got by the two doses of DMSO; unfortunetly the higher rooting percentage is often related to a reduced root dry matter as well as to a lower roots/cutting number.
42877878|Una delle difficolt che si incontrano, nel radicamento di talee di numerose specie,  quella della regolazione dell'umidit del substrato di radicamento soprattutto nelle fasi iniziali quando, per la completa assenza dell'apparato radicale, condizioni improprie dell'umidit del substrato possono causare danni alla talea o ritardi nel processo di rizogenesi. Con l'intento di fornire un contributo alla risoluzione di questo problema, vennero effettuate due esperienze di radicamento su talee di Dracaena deremensis, utilizzando quali sostanze rizogene l'acido indolbutirrico (30 ppm) e l'acido naftalenacetico (10 ppm) con tre diversi substrati (vermiculite, perlite e torba). Lo scopo principale della ricerca era quello di verificare la validit dell'impiego di sacchetti di polietilene trasparenti, nella veste di contenitori del substrato di radicazione, al confronto con la tecnica tradizionale che si avvale dell'uso di vasetti di plastica. Nei sacchetti di plastica venne introdotta una quantit di acqua calcolata e supposta sufficiente per tutto il periodo di radicamento; la chiusura del sacchetto attorno alla talea impediva la perdita di acqua per evaporazione del substrato. Le esperienze misero in evidenza la piena validit dell'impiego dei sacchetti di polietilene che evitano ogni successivo intervento irriguo, fornendo anche una notevole protezione all'apparato radicale durante le fasi di trasporto. I risultati ottenuti confermarono anche la validit dell'uso dei fitormoni nel promuovere l'attivit rizogena di questa specie. One of the difficulties met with in rooting cuttings of many kinds lies in regulating the moisture in the rooting substratum, especially in the initial phases when, in the complete absence of root formation, unfavourable conditions of moisture in the substratum may damage the cuttings or delay the process of rhizogenesis. With this problem in mind, two experiments were made on the rooting of Dracaena deremensis cuttings, using IBA at 30 ppm and NAA at 10 ppm as rhizogene substances with three different substrata (vermiculite, peat and perlite). The chief aim of the experiment was to find whether it is an advantage to use transparent polyethylene bags as containers in the rooting substratum rather than the plastic jars previously in use. A quantity of water calculated and supposed sufficient for the whole rooting period was introduced into the plastic bags; loss of water by evaporation from the substratum was prevented by closing the bags round the cuttings. The experiments showed the full advantage of using the polyethylene bags, which make any further irrigation unnecessary and provide the rootstock with considerable protection during transport. The results obtained also confirm the advantage of using auxin growth-substances to promote rhizogene activity in this species.
42877879|Experiments were carried out using tulip bulbs cv. "Paul Richter" treated for 15 weeks at 9C in darkness. After the cold requirement was satisfied the bulbs were kept at 9 or 17C in light or darkness. The results showed a relationship between growth promoting and inhibiting substances which made it difficult to assess the true levels of GA-like substances. The activity was mostly located in the shoots, rather than in scales and roots. The  free  fraction of the shoots was the most active in changes and seems to correlate with the effect of light on floral stalk elongation. Also results of incorporation of MVA-2-C into neutral terpenes were riported. UV irradiation of bulb extracts gave an indirect evidence of the presence of ABA.
42877880|Alberi adulti di pesco cv. "Southland" sono stati trattati con acido gibberellico (GA) a diverse concentrazioni (25, 50 e 100 ppm) ed a quattro diverse epoche (inizio e met di luglio, inizio e met di agosto). A ciascuna di tali epoche alcune branche di alberi non trattate sono state sottoposte a defogliazione. I risultati ottenuti dimostrano che l'acido gibberellico controlla la differenziazione a fiore delle gemme in misura tanto maggiore quanto pi precoce  risultata l'esecuzione del trattamento e quanto maggiore  stata la dose. Di fatto, i trattamenti effettuati ai primi di luglio (durante lo stadio cosiddetto  reversibile  dell'induzione a fiore) sono stati comunque efficaci, anche alle dosi pi basse. Quelli effettuati a met luglio sono stati efficaci solo a partire dalla 2 concentrazione (50 ppm). I trattamenti a 100 ppm ripetuti alle 4 epoche hanno quasi completamente impedito la differenziazione a fiore. Tali risultati, discussi anche in base ai rilievi effettuati sulla mortalit delle gemme, sulla cascola e sulla allegagione dei frutti, nonch sulla pezzatura dei frutti raccolti, portano alla pratica conclusione che attraverso una differenziazione controllata delle gemme pu essere limitato l'onere del diradamento dei frutti nella primavera successiva. Gli Autori si soffermano anche sull'interpretazione biologica dell'effetto dell'acido gibberellico, specie per quanto riguarda la modifica dei rapporti esistenti fra gemme a fiore e gemme a legno ed il comportamento di queste ultime nell'annata successiva. Matures peach trees, cv. "Southland", have been treated by GA at 25, 50 and 100 ppm at four different times (July 3, July 18, August 2, August 20). The results have shown that the chemical control of the flower buds differentiation is directly related to the earliness of the tratment and to its rate. In fact the tratments at July 3 were effective starting from the lower concentration, while, those at July 18 were effective starting from 50 ppm. Four replicated treatments at 100 ppm prevented almost completely the flower buds differentiation. On the basis of these results (flower buds drop, fruit set, fruit drop, fruit size at harvest, a.s.o.), the Authors demonstrate the commercial possibility of a chemical control of flower buds differentiation in order to reduce or to avoid fruit hand thinning in the following spring.
42877881|Sono state effettuate prove per studiare l'effetto dell'acido gibberellico, sulla formazione e sullo sviluppo dell'ovario nel nocciuolo nonch sulla fruttificazione. Le prove sono state condotte sulla cv. "Tonda Gentile Romana" e hanno messo in evidenza che GA a 10 ppm, somministrato durante la formazione dell'ovario influisce positivamente sullo sviluppo dell'ovario stesso e sul processo di fecondazione. Da queste prove  risultato che le piante trattate con GA in quel periodo hanno dato un numero medio di nocciuole per infruttescenza significativamente maggiore di quelle del controllo. Anche il peso e il volume delle nucule e dei semi e risultato pi elevato in quelle trattate, l'Indice di Rotondit dei semi e delle nucule  risultato anch'esso migliorato. Trattando le piante con GA a fecondazione avvenuta si ha una significativa percentuale di nocciuole vuote. To study the effect of GA sprays on ovary formation and development as well as on bearing habit of hazel nut trees, trials carried out. The trials on "Tonda Gentile Romana" variety, showed the positive influence on ovary formation and following fertlization. of GA at 10 ppm sprayed during the ovary formation. GA spray on that time also increased the number of nuts per infrutescence compared with control. Also nut and seed size and weight were bigger in treated trees. The rotundity index of seed and nuts was improved. Spraying trees with GA after fertlization, a decreasing of empty nuts was observed.
42877882|Una ricerca svolta nel 1971 in localit San Rocco Seno d'Elvio di Alba (Cuneo) su viti adulte di "Dolcetto" (a  Guyot ) con l'intento di controllare gli effetti di una sola applicazione di acido gibberellico a 15 ppm  eseguita al germogliamento con impiego del prodotto commerciale  Berelex  della Solplant  su alcune caratteristiche strutturali dei grappoli, sui principali caratteri del mosto, nonch sulla recettivit alla Botrytis cinerea dei grappoli stessi, ha dato luogo ai seguenti risultati:  sensibili incrementi in lunghezza (di circa 5 cm complessivamente per il peduncolo e la parte fertile del grappolo, e di 0,6-0,8 mm per i pedicelli degli acini) sono emersi in una sola delle quattro aree di saggio considerate;  il tenore zuccherino del mosto ha rivelato, rispetto al teste, un maggior valore (del 2-3%) nei casi in cui la struttura dei grappoli  rimasta invariata, e non si  differenziato per i grappoli influenzati nella loro struttura dall'acido gibberellico;  un'efficace azione antibotritica  scaturita sia a favore dei grappoli resi presumibilmente pi spargoli dall'acido gibberellico, sia per quelli non modificati in tal senso. Detti risultati, analizzati e discussi con riferimento ad una precedente similare indagine, non consentono di ritenere attuabile, in vista della difesa del "Dolcetto" dalla  muffa grigia , un trasferimento alla tecnica colturale viticola della metodologia sperimentata. Un controllo, eseguito nel 1970, della fertilit in viti di "Nebbiolo", "Barbera" e "Dolcetto", trattate al germogliamento l'anno precedente con acido gibberellico a 10-15 ppm, ha escluso che le  gibberelline  possano aver influito, a quelle dosi, sulla differenziazione delle infiorescenze nelle gemme delle viti stesse. The effects of gibberellic acid on the clusters of the wine grape variety "Dolcetto "were tested in 1971 in a vineyard near San Rocco Seno d'Elvio (Cuneo). A single pre-bloom application of GA at 15 ppm on shoots 5-15 cm long of fruiting "Guyot "pruned vines gaves rise, at the vintage, to the following results: the gibberellic acid produced an appreciable clusters and berries pedicels lengthening in a only one of the four trials carried out by the Authors. No variations in total soluble solids of their berries juice resulted in this cases and a rather notable reduction of the same in the others. A considerable "gray mold "reduction was found not only with bunches influenced in their structure by GA, but also with bunches not so affected. On the basis of the obtained data, iven if GA seems to be able to reduce the clusters compactness, the Authors judge not sufficiently justified an indirect control, with a such pre-bloom treatment, of the "gray mold "produced by Bo try tis cinerea. A investigation carried out in 1970 on the fertility of wine grapes "Nebbiolo", "Barbera"and "Dolcetto" sprayed the year before with an alike pre-bloom application of GA at 15 ppm has exludet any effects of gibberellins on the flower clusters differentiation into the buds of the vines.
42877883|Con lo scopo di studiare la modificazione della reazione al fotoperiodo in una cultivar di crisantemo per fiore reciso ("Yellow Spider 2275") sono stati sperimentati: IAA (100 e 400 ppm), NAA (100 e 200 ppm), NAAm (100 e 200 ppm) e NAAm in combinazione con GA 3 (50 + 50 e 100 + 100 ppm) in confronto a due tesi testimoni (una senza modificazione della lunghezza del giorno e l'altra con le prime quattro settimane di coltura a giorno lungo). Le sostanze di crescita sono state somministrate, con periodicit trisettimanale, durante le prime quattro settimane di coltura. Nelle tesi con IAA e NAA ad una settimana dall'inizio dei trattamenti si sono manifestati fenomeni di fitotossicit (bollosit del lembo e torsione del picciolo fogliare e successiva clorosi) che sono scomparsi alla fine dei trattamenti. Nelle tesi con NAAm si  avuta una clorosi tardiva che  persistita fino alla raccolta. I risultati ottenuti hanno messo in evidenza che le sostanze di crescita determinano effetti simili alle condizioni di giorno lungo nei riguardi della differenziazione fiorale. In particolare NAA ad entrambe le dosi e IAA a 400 ppm hanno provocato una fioritura pi tardiva rispetto all'allungamento artificiale del giorno. Nelle tesi trattate con NAA, specie alla concentrazione di 100 ppm, si  avuta inoltre una maggiore lunghezza dello stelo e, in tutte le tesi trattate con sostanze di crescita, infiorescenze pi grandi. NAA e IAA a 100 ppm hanno dato i migliori risultati. With the idea of studying the modification of the reaction to the photoperiod in a chrysanthemum cultivar for cut flowers ("Yellow Spider 2275"), IAA (100 and 400 ppm), NAA (100 and 200 ppm), NAAm (100 and 200 ppm) and NAAm combined with GA (50 + 50 and 100 + 100 ppm) were tested in comparison to two control test (one without modifying day length and the other with the first four week of cultivation with long days). The growth substances were administered three times a week for the first four weeks of cultivation. In the tests with IAA and NAA, after one week from the beginning of tratment phytotoxic phenomena (leaf edge primpling and twisting of small leaves and successive chlorosis) appeared, but then disappeared at the end of treatment. In tests with NAAm there was a late-forming chlorosis which lasted until harvesting. The results obtained indicate that growth substances cause effects similar to those of the long day as regards to flower differentiation. In particular, NAA at both dosages and IAA at 400 ppm caused later blooming than artificial lengthening of the day. In plants treated with NAA, especially at 100 ppm, there was also greater stem length and in all plants treated with growth substances there was greater inflorescences. Best results have provided by NAA and IAA 100 ppm.
42877884|Le prove condotte nella zona di Battipaglia, sono state iniziate nel 1967 e nel 1968, su piante di 6 anni allevate a palmetta, innestate su cotogno. Nella prova iniziata nel 1967 sono state poste a confronto le seguenti tesi: a) un trattamento ogni anno circa 50 gg. dopo la piena fioritura a 5000 ppm di CCC; b) due trattamenti ogni anno a 5000 ppm di CCC come nella tesi a) seguito da un altro 40 giorni pi tardi; e) testimone. Nella prova iniziata nel 1968 le tesi poste a confronto erano: a) un trattamento circa 50 giorni dopo la piena fioritura a 2500 ppm di CCC; b) come a)  lo stesso trattamento ripetuto 40 giorni pi tardi; c) un trattamento circa 50 giorni dopo la piena fioritura a 5000 ppm di CCC; d) come c) + lo stesso trattamento ripetuto 40 giorni pi tardi; e) testimone. In ambedue le prove, i trattamenti con CCC hanno causato una notevole riduzione dell'accrescimento vegetativo. Nella primavera seguente ai trattamenti, le piante trattate manifestavano i sintomi di un effetto residuo del CCC, per cui l'accrescimento vegetativo in queste piante era sensibilmente ridotto. Le maggiori produzioni ottenute nelle piante trattate con CCC sono probabilmente da attribuire ad una limitata concorrenza nutrizionale avutasi tra germogli e fiori al momento dell'allegagione e nelle prime fasi dell'accrescimento dei frutticini. Le differenze fra le tesi 2500 ppm e 5000 ppm non sono state sostanziali. Pi evidenti le differenze tra 1 e 2 trattamenti, per quanto riguarda l'attivit vegetativa. The trials began in 1967 and 1968 and were carried out in Battipaglia area on trees 6 years old, trained as palmette and grafted on Quince. In 1967 the following treatments were compared: a) one spray every year about 50 days after full bloom at 5000 ppm of CCC; b) two spays every year at 5000 ppm of CCC as in a), followed by a second 40 days later; c) control. Treatments compared in 1968 were: a) one spray about 50 days after full bloom at 2500 ppm of CCC; b) as a)  the same spray 40 days later; c) one spray about 50 days after full bloom at 5000 ppm of CCC; d) as c) + the same spray 40 days later; e) control. In both trials, CCC sprays caused a considerable growth reduction. In the spring following the sprays, the sprayed trees showed sympyoms of residual effect of CCC and the growth was notably reduced. The bigger crop obtained in trees sprayed with CCC are probably due to a reduced nutritional competition between shoots and flowers during the set and the first stage of the fruits development. Differences between the treatments 2500 and 5000 ppm were not essential. More evident the differences between 1 and 2 sprays concerning the growth.
42877885|Le prove sono state condotte sulla cv "Coronet" immergendo rami misti (12 per tesi), prelevati quindicinalmente dalla met di novembre alla fine di febbraio, in soluzioni acquose di CCC alle concentrazioni di 0, 2000, 4000, 6000, 8000 e 10.000 ppm. I rami cos trattati venivano posti in vasetti contenenti sabbia quarzosa umida in stanza climatizzata a 25 C, 70-90% U.R. con una illuminazione di 4000 lux per dodici ore pi un'ora di illuminazione notturna. Parallelamente rami asportati da piante di "Okinawa" e "Cardinal" trattate con CCC a 6000 ppm il 16/xi/1970 venivano posti nelle stesse condizioni. Sui rami introdotti nella stanza climatizzata veniva rilevato il numero totale di gemme a legno ed a fiore ed, a intervalli regolari, il numero di gemme che raggiungevano stadi fenologici prefissati. Le osservazioni condotte con questa metodologia hanno permesso di ottenere valide informazioni sulle differenti esigenze termiche che caratterizzano le gemme a legno ed a fiore nelle tre cultivar di pesco su ricordate, che, come  noto, presentano gradi diversi di intensit di dormienza I trattamenti con CCC sia somministrati alle piante che su rami asportati non hanno mostrato di influire sensibilmente ed in misura costante sull'epoca di schiusura delle gemme. E stato possibile mettere in evidenza come il CCC favorisca in certi casi la schiusura di un limitato numero di gemme a legno anche nel periodo di massima dormienza (novembre). In seguito, quando con l'avvento dei primi freddi la dormienza delle gemme a legno  quasi completamente interrotta, il Cycocel inibisce parzialmente la schiusura di queste. Successivamente, i primi di gennaio, quando con l'inizio della schiusura delle gemme a fiore si ha una diminuzione della germogliazione, il Cycocel annulla questi fenomeni competitivi, stimolando anzi a certe concentrazioni la fioritura. A partire da questo momento quando le migliorate condizioni climatiche esterne favoriscono il rapido sviluppo delle gemme, i trattamenti con Cycocel non hanno pi alcuna influenza. In order to test the effectiveness of Gycocel on blossom delay of fruit trees, trials were carried out on "Coronet" peach variety, dipping one year snoots (12 per treatment), excised bimonthly from November 15 till the end of February, in aqueous solutions of Cycocel at 0, 2000, 4000, 6000, 8000, 10.000 ppm concentrations. Treated shoots were placed in little pots filled with wet quartzi sand into a growth chamber 25 C, 70-90% R. H. with 12 hours plus one of cool white fluorescent ligth at 4000 lux. In the same time shoots, excised from "Okinawa" and "Cardinal" peach trees, sprayed on November 16, 1970, were subjected to the same conditions. Times and percentage of buds bursting have been recorded at 3-4 days intervals. Substantial informations were obtanied on the different chilling and heat requirements of leaf and flower buds on the three peach varieties, which show different degrees of dormancy. Cycocel treatments dont showed any practical or steady influence on the opening buds date. However this growth regulator in some cases promoted the bursting of a few number of leaf buds, also in the period of maximum dormancy (November). Later on, when the first cold spells came, the leaf buds dormancy is almost completely broken, Cycocel partially inhibited their opening. Subsequently, early, in January, when a decrease in leafbud opening corresponded with the beginning of the flower- bud burst, Cycocel undid these competitive effects and promoted flowering in certain cases. After that, when the weather improved inducing bud growth, Cycocel treatments ceased have any effect.
42877886|Al fine di studiare la possibilit di controllare la dormienza invernale delle gemme e l'epoca di fioritura del susino cinogiapponese mediante l'applicazione di fitoregolatori sono stati effettuati trattamenti periodici con Idrazide Maleica e CCC su piante della cv "Morettini 355" dell'et di 5 anni. Sono state trattate sei piante per tesi alle seguenti date: 16/9, 30/10, 23/12, 1970, 26/2, 1971 con CCC a 6000 ppm ed Idrazide Maleica a 2000 ppm. Il trattamento nel mese di settembre  stato effettuato per due anni consecutivi somministrando gli stessi prodotti anche ad altre concentrazioni (CCC 4000-8000 ppm ed MH 1500-2500 ppm). Durante il periodo autunno-invernale sono stati prelevati ogni dieci giorni circa, da piante di controllo, dodici rami misti ponendoli successivamente in cella climatica a 22-24 C con 60-70% U.R. La cella era illuminata con 10.000 lux per otto ore durante la giornata. Un'ora supplementare di luce interrompeva il periodo notturno. Su tali rami veniva rilevato il numero di gemme a legno ed a fiore e, in seguito, ad intervalli stabiliti, il numero di gemme che raggiungeva determinati stadi fenologici. Nel corso di questa ricerca  stato possibile individuare le esigenze termiche di una specie a dormienza limitata quale il susino cinogiapponese. Dai rilievi effettuati nella primavera al momento dell'antesi,  risultato che n i diversi prodotti n le diverse concentrazioni sono stati capaci di influenzare in misura apprezzabile l'epoca di fioritura delle piante trattate. Analoghi risultati sono stati ottenuti da rami prelevati periodicamente nell'ultima fase del periodo invernale da piante trattate il 16/9 e posti in cella climatica nelle stesse condizioni di quelli di controllo. Researchs were carried out on the possibility to control the winter buds dormancy and the blossom date of the "Morettini 355" plum variety by treatments with M. H. and CCC. Six trees plots were traited on the September 16, October 30, December 23/1970, and February 26/1971 with CCC at 6000 ppm and M. H. at 2000 ppm. More concentrations (CCC at 4000-8000 and M. H. at 1500-2500 ppm) were applied on September. The same concentrations were used also in the following year (August 19 and September 27/1971). During the fall-winter period 12 snoots from untreated trees were collected every 10 days and placed into a growth chamber at 23 C, 60-70% R. H. with 8 hours plus one of cool white fluorescent light at 10.000 lux. Times and percentages of buds bursting were recorded at 3-4 days intervals. It was been possible to establish the different chilling and heat requirements of plum leaf and flower buds. At spring-time Cycocel and M.H. treatments did not show any practical or steady influence on the opening date of buds. Similar results were obtained with the shoots collected periodically, later in the winter, from trees treated on September 16 and placed into growth chamber in the same conditions of untreated shoots.
42877887|Su tre cultivar di crisantemo da vaso fiorito ("Gay Anne", "Festival" BGA e "Mandalay" BGA), sono state sperimentate quattro concentrazioni di Alar (0 - 2.500 - 5.000 - 7.500 ppm) in interazione con tre cicli di illuminazione (nessuna, una e due settimane a giorno lungo). In tutte le cultivar si  riscontrato un ritardo nell'epoca della fioritura, soprattutto alle concentrazioni pi elevate di brachizzante. L'illuminazione artificiale, solo nella cv "Festival" non ha contribuito a ritardare la fioritura. Per quanto riguarda l'altezza delle piante nelle cv "Gay Anne" e "Mandalay" l'effetto nanizzante  risultato crescente con l'aumentare delle diverse dosi di Alar mentre nella "Festival "si  avuta una sensibile diminuzione della taglia solo alla dose pi alta. In questa cultivar si  rilevato anche un eccessivo sviluppo in altezza soprattutto nelle tesi non sottoposte ad illuminazione. La forma della  parte aerea  della pianta  apparsa modificata dai trattamenti, soprattutto alla concentrazione pi elevata. I diversi livelli di illuminazione non hanno manifestato alcuna azione in questo senso. Anche il numero di infiorescenze per pianta  stato modificato in maniera diversa dall'illuminazione: nella "Gay Anne" il numero pi elevato si  riscontrato nella tesi con una settimana di illuminazione mentre nella "Festival" in quelle senza illuminazione, nella "Mandalay" invece non si  verificata alcuna differenza in questo senso. L'Alar non sembra aver agito sul numero di infiorescenze per pianta. On three potted flowering Chrysanthemum cultivars ("Gay Anne", "Festival" BGA and "Mandalay" BGA), four concentrations of Alar (0-2500-5000-7500 ppm) interacting with three lighting cycles (none, one and two weeks of long days) were tested. In all cultivars, a delay in flowering was noted, especially at the highest growth retardant concentrations. Only in the case of the "Festival"cultivar did artificial lighting not contribute to delaying flowering. As regards plant height, the growth retardant effect in the "Gay Anne" and "Mandalay" cultivars increased with an increase in the different Alar dosages, while in the "Festival "cultivar there was a notable decrease in height only at the highest doses. In this cultivar an excessive development in height was also noted, especially when not exposed to light. The "aerial part" of the plant appeared modified by treatments, above all at the highest concentration. The different light levels showed no action in this sense. The number of flowers per plant was also modified in a different way by lighting: in "Gay Anne "the highest number was seen with one week of lighting, in "Festival" with no lighting and in "Mandalay" no differences in this respect were noted. Alar does not seen to have acted on the number of flowers per plant.
42877888|I risultati di una ricerca biennale hanno messo in evidenza una sensibile influenza dell'Ethephon e della densit di piante sulla produzione del cetriolo per l'industria conserviera. In particolare, l'Ethephon ha favorito nella cultivar monoica adottata una maggiore formazione di fiori femminili, con conseguente aumento dei frutti allegati per pianta ed ha manifestato una lieve azione brachizzante sulle piante e sui frutti. La densit di piante ha avuto una sensibile influenza sul numero e sul peso dei frutti per pianta, che tendono a diminuire all'aumentare della fittezza colturale. Pertanto, entro certi limiti, non sono state osservate rilevanti differenze produttive, ma solo sensibili differenze di pezzatura dei cetrioli. Ci  di particolare importanza per la destinazione industriale del prodotto. Results of two years trials carried out on two cultivars of cucumber for processing, "Pioneer" (gynoecious) an "Wisconsin SMR 18" (monoecious) treated with 0 and 375 ppm of Ethephon (250 ppm at first true leaf stage and 125 ppm at 3rd-4th leaf stage) in combination of 4 plant density (8.3-16.6-33.3 and 66.6 plant/m) and harvested once time are reported. Ethephon increased yield, reduced the lenght of vine and fruits, fruits were set at lover node of the vine and lowered the male/female flower ratio in the monoecious cultivar. Plant density showed a great influence on number and weight of fruits per plant that decrease as plant population increase. Best total yield was obtained with 33.3 and 16.6 plant/m, instead highest quantity of small cucumber most valuable for processing were obtained from 66.6 plant/m. Number of secondary vine was greatly increased by the lowest plant density.
42877889|Le cv. di melone "Doublon", "Tzier 3967", "Orlinabel", coltivate in serra, sono state trattate con Ethrel (al 48% di acido 2-Cloroethilfosfonico), alla comparsa delle prime gemme fiorali. Le concentrazioni saggiate sono state: 0-600-1200 ppm e 0-150-300 ppm, in due prove distinte. Alle dosi pi elevate si  realizzata una notevole inibizione nella formazione dei fiori pistillati, comparsi 34 giorni dopo i trattamenti (17 giorni nel testimone) ed in numero diverso nelle tre cultivar. Alle stesse dosi i fiori maschili sono comparsi dopo 7 settimane dal trattamento ed in numero molto limitato. Alla dose di 1200 ppm, nelle cv. "Doublon" ed "Orlinabel" si  realizzata una fase (a 34 giorni dal trattamento) nella quale erano presenti soltanto fiori femminili. In tutte le tesi trattate si  riscontrato aborto dei fiori pistillati formatisi nelle prime 3-4 settimane dal trattamento. I fiori femminili presentavano peduncolo allungato ed ovario di forma ellitica, caratteri che hanno influenzato la morfologia dei frutti. Entrambi i trattamenti hanno causato inoltre uno sviluppo stentato delle piante, raccorciamento degli internodi e riduzione del lembo fogliare, accompagnati da fenomeni fitotossici. Alle concentrazioni pi basse si  realizzata una demasculinizzazione meno efficace: i primi fiori maschili sono comparsi dopo 19 giorni dal trattamento, i primi fiori ermafroditi dopo 4 o 5 settimane (3 settimane nel testimone) mentre non sono comparsi fiori femminili. Muskmelon cultivars, "Doublon", "Tzier 3967" and "Orlinabel" cultivated in glasshouse were treated with Ethrel (in 48% of 2-cloroethylphosphonic acid) on the appearence of the first flower buds. The concentrations tested were 0-600-1200 ppm and 0-150-300 ppm in two distinct tests. At the highest concentrations, there was a notable inhibition of the formation of pistillate flowers which appeared 34 days after treatment (17 in the controls) and in differing numbers in the three cultivars. At the same concentrations, male flowers appeared 7 weeks after treatment and in very limited numbers. At 1200 ppm in the "Doublon" and "Orlinabel" cultivars there was a phase (at 34 days from treatment) in which only female flowers were present. In all tests, pistillate flowers that formed in the first 34 weeks from treatment aborted. Female flowers presented an elongated stalk and elliptical ovary, characteristics that influence fruit morphology. Furthermore, both treatments caused stunded plant development, internode shortening and leaf reduction, all accompanied by phytotoxic phenomena. At lower concentrations, there was a less effective demasculinization; the first male flowers appeared 19 days after treatment and the first hermaphrodites after 4 or 5 weeks (3 weeks in the controls), while female flowers did not appear.
42877890|Su 5 cultivar di garofano SIM ("Crowley", "Laddie", "Scania", "Colorado", "Clear Yellow") sono stati studiati gli effetti di trattamenti a base di Cycocel (750-1500 ppm di p.a.) B-Nine (1500-3000 ppm di p.a.) e Alar (3000-6000 ppm di p.a.). Ad entrambe le dosi tutti i prodotti sperimentati, seppure in misura diversa, hanno determinato una minor produzione mentre non si sono rilevate, lispetto al testimone, differenze apprezzabili nelle caratteristiche qualitative dei fiori recisi. Indipendentemente dai trattamenti brachizzanti, pi produttiva  apparsa la cv "Crowlev"; il pi basso numero di fiori per metro quadrato  stato ottenuto da "Clear Yellow". Le cultivar meno soggette alle malformazioni del fiore (ginocchiatura dello stelo, fiori  dormienti ,  bull-head  e con calice spaccato) sono apparse "Colorado" e "Laddie". I n particolare il numero di fiori a calice spaccato  risultato correlato agli abbassamenti di temperatura al di sotto dei 5 C verificatisi tre settimane prima della raccolta dei fiori. In base alle caratteristiche produttive, in senso qualitativo e quantitativo, i risultati pi soddisfacenti sono stati offerti da "Crowley" e "Laddie". On 5 Sim carnation cultivars ("Crowley", "Laddie", "Scania", "Colorado" "Clear Yellow"), the effects of repeated treatments with Cycocel (750-1500 ppm of active ingredient) B-Nine (1500-3000 ppm of active ingredient) and Alar (3000-6000 ppm of active ingredient) were studied. At both doses, all products tested, although to a differing extent, caused a smaller production, while, in comparison to the controls, no appreciable differences in the qualitative cheracteristics of the cut flowers were noted. Indipendently from the growth retardant treatments, the "Crowley "cultivar appeared the most productive; the smallest number of cut flowers per square meter was obtained with "Clear Yellow". The cultivars least subject to flower malformations (stem kneeling, "sleeping "and bull-head flowers, split calyx) were "Colorado" and "Laddie". In particular, the number of flowers with split calyxes was found to be connected with temperature drops to under 5 C which occurred three weeks before harvesting. On the basis of their qualitative and quantitative producing characteristics, the best results were had from "Crowley "and "Laddie ".
42877891|Nell'ambito di ricerche effettuate nel 1971 per accertare la possibilit di stabilire l'epoca opportuna per i trattamenti diradanti sul melo (cv. "Golden Delicious") in base alla dimensione dei frutti, vennero eseguiti una serie di trattamenti con amide dell'acido alfa-naftilacetico (80 ppm) e con 1-naftil-N-metilcarbamato (1250 ppm) dal 10 al 28 maggio 1971, ad intervalli di 2-3 giorni (10, 12, 14, 17, 20, 22, 25 e 28 maggio). Osservazioni effettuate per accertare l'influenza esercitata dai due prodotti sulla differenziazione a fiore hanno messo in evidenza che le due sostanze avevano influito su tale processo, seppure in modo differente, e cio: a) lo NMC ha favorito la differenziazione a fiore, determinando differenze significative rispetto al controllo, solo nel trattamento pi precoce, mentre lo NAD ha esercitato tale effetto con i trattamenti effettuati il 10, il 12, il 14 ed il 25 maggio; b) i trattamenti con NMC effettuati nelle ultime quattro epoche hanno avuto effetto negativo sulla differenziazione a fiore; c) gli alberi trattati con NAD hanno differenziato a fiore in misura maggiore di quelli trattati con NMC; d) nell'anno successivo ai trattamenti la produzione , in linea generale, risultata maggiore negli alberi trattati con NAD, rispetto a quelli trattati con NMC. Tenuto conto che lo NMC ha diradato i frutticini in misura maggiore, o almeno uguale, allo NAD, gli Autori avanzano l'ipotesi che tale sostanza abbia esercitato un'azione ostacolante direttamente il processo di antogenesi. Thinning sprays of NAD (at 80 ppm) and NMC (at 1,250 ppm) have been made on bearing trees of "Golden Delicious" at intervals of 2-3 days, beginning 17 days after full bloom, i. e. on May 10th, 12th, 14th, 17th, 20th, 22nd, 25th and 28th, 1971. Observations on repeat bloom have ascertained that: a) both NAD and NMC sprays affected the mixed buds differentiation on the year of their application; b) trees sprayed with NAD on 10th, 12th, 14th and 25th May differentiated more mixed buds than the control and the NMC sprayed trees; c) trees sprayed with NMC on 10th May differentiated more, and trees sprayed at the last four dates differentiated lesser mixed buds than the control trees; d) in the year following the treatments, the crop (both number and total weight of fruits per tree) was higher on the trees sprayed with NAD. Authors suppose that the NMC may have inhibited directly the mixed buds induction, considering that the intensity of thinning of NMC was higher or at least equal to that of NAD.
42877892|An aqueous treatment of FUdR, FUdR + TdR, TdR (5-fluorodeoxy uridine and thymidine) was administered at the 10- concentration at a 10 days interval since Oct. 17, 1969 up to several termination dates falling, on December 17, and January 18 respectively into and after the inducton period. The FUdR + TdR treatment strikingly increased the number of flowers, mainly on the mixed flushes. It is believed that such effect was due to the umbalanced activity of 5 FU derived by degradation of FUdR. Its activity is strikingly similar, as it is its effect, to the cloroamphenicol's one and is believed to be instrumental in producing a sudden mitotic wave before by intefering with the ribosomal mechanism of transcription and later, after the metabolisation of the administered molecules, with the sudden and complete reestablishment of all the cellular functions thus leading to a sudden wave of divisions in the cells resuming at the same time, all their metabolic functions.
42877893|Allo scopo di valutare se l'impiego dei fitoregolatori per contenere lo sviluppo vegetativo e per anticipare la fruttificazione nel melo presenti un certo interesse nei casi in cui non si ritenga opportuno usare le cv. "spur" e i portainnesti nanizzanti, nel 1965 fu iniziata questa ricerca su meli "Richared" su franco allevati a palmetta. Durante 3 anni (dal 2 al 5 anno di et delle piante) in provincia di Ravenna, e 5 anni (dal 4 al 9 anno di et delle piante) in provincia di Milano, sono stati posti a confronto: TIBA (400-500-1000 ppm), CCC (4000 ppm), SADH (2000 ppm), in formulati commerciali, e per alcuni di essi diverse epoche di applicazione e diverse concentrazioni. Sono stati rilevati: sviluppo in lunghezza e in diametro dei rami di 1 anno; sviluppo delle branche primarie, del tronco e altezza delle piante; N di lamburde (fiorifere e vegetative) e, nei rami di 1 anno, N di gemme (miste e a legno) nell'anno successivo ai trattamenti. L'incremento in lunghezza dei rami  stato ridotto dall'SADH e dal TIBA (in rapporto alla concentrazione impiegata), mentre il CCC  risultato inefficace. Il diametro dei rami  stato ridotto solo dal TIBA. Il raccorciamento degli internodi indotto dalle tre sostanze  apparso incostante, mentre il loro numero sembra sia stato ridotto dal TIBA. Il TIBA alle concentrazioni di 500 e di 1000 ppm ha provocato danni alla chioma visibili anche nell'anno successivo. Indipendentemente dalla sostanza usata, le piante trattate per 3 o 5 anni, rispetto alle non trattate, hanno presentato a fine prova un minore sviluppo delle branche primarie, e talora un minore sviluppo annuale del tronco. Il TIBA ha incrementato le lamburde fiorifere, mentre il CCC e l'SADH hanno aumentato le gemme miste dei rami di 1 anno. Complessivamente l'induzione autogena dei fitoregolatori non  apparsa tale da abbreviare il periodo improduttivo della cv.  Richared  su franco. In order to estimate the praticai employ of growth regulators to reduce size in young apple-trees instead of spur varieties or dwarfing rootstocks, we began this research on "Richared" variety, grafted on seedling, in 1965. It was conduced for three years (from the 2nd to the 5th year of age of the plant) in Ravenna district, and for five years (from the 4th to the 9th years of age of the plant) in Milano district. Commercial products of TIBA (400-500-1000 ppm), CCC (4000 ppm), SADH (2000 ppm) were compared. Length and diameter, of one year old shoots, growth of primary branches and of trunk, plant height, spur number (flowering and vegetative), buds number (flowering and vegetative) in one year shoots were recorded. Shoots length was reduced by SADH and by TIBA (in relation to the concentration). CCC resulted inefective. Only TIBA reduced shoots diameter. The three growth regulators reduced the internode length in an inconstant way, but only TIBA seems to have reduced their number. TIBA at 500 and at 1000 ppm caused damage to the leaves and branches, evident also in the following year. The plants treated with growth regulators for 3 or 5 years, at the end of the research showed a shorter growth of the primary branches and sometimes a smaller trunk growth every year. TIBA increased the percentage of flowering spurs, CCC and SADH increased the percentage of flowering buds in one year shoots. This research has showed that growth regulators reduce vegetative development but do not offer another valid choice to the use of spur varieties and of dwarfing rootstocks. From the results of the trials the possibility of increasing the differentiation in such a way to shorten the improductive period of "Richared" variety on seedling appeared not definite.
42877894|Si riportano i risultati di una ricerca sull'influenza di alcuni prodotti ad azione fitoregolatrice sulla produzione del pisello. I prodotti in prova sono stati il Phosphon (cloruro di tributil 2,4 diclorobenzilfosfonico), l'Alar (2, 2 dimetil-idrazide dell'acido succinico), il TIBA (acido 2, 3, 5 triodobenzoico), il NIA 10637 (Etil-idrogeno 1 propil-fosfonato), il FOP 11 (P Folcisteina Oerin), il CCC (cloruro di trimetilammonio), l'acido gibberellico (AG) e l'RH 531 (prodotto siglato della Filital). Nei trattamenti con TIBA  stato aggiunto anche il DMSO (dimetilsolfossido), prodotto solvente che pu rendere pi attivo l'assorbimento di sostanze chimiche. I risultati ottenuti non hanno messo in evidenza alcun effetto di particolare rilievo dei diversi fitoregolatori sulla produzione e sulle principali caratteristiche qualitative; anzi alcuni di essi, quali l'acido gibberellico, il CCC, il NIA 10637 ed il TIBA, nella dose pi elevata d'impiego, hanno avuto una influenza negativa. Pur tuttavia, appare opportuno un ulteriore approfondimento sperimentale del problema. Results of a research on the influence of some growth regulators on pea yield are reported. Phosphon (2, 4 dichlorobenzil-tributylphosphonium chloride), Alar (2, 2 dimethylhydrazide of the succinic acid), TIBA (2, 3, 5 triodo-benzoic acid), NIA 10637 (1 propylphosphonate ethyl-hydrogen), FOP 11 (P Focistein Oeriu), CCC (trimethylammonium chloride), gibberellic acid (GA) and RH 531 (a product by obtained Filital) were used. In the TIBA treatments, DMSO (dimethylsulphoxide) was added as a solvent product which can make more active the absorption of chimical substances. Results showed no effect of particular importance of the different growth regulators on the yield and on the main qualitative characteristics; on the contrary, some of them, such as GA, CCC, NIA 10637 and TIBA, at the higher doses have had a negative influence. Neverthless, further trials appears useful in order to clarify some aspects of the problem.
42877895|Fruit setting in tomato plants is one of the most important probleme for the greenhouse production. Many compounds, e.g. auxin-like substances, gibberellins, etc. induce fruit set in tomato. Among different morphogenetic effects induced in higher plants morphactins seem to induce fruit setting in tomato. Three morphactins IT 3235, IT 3233 and IT 3456 and other growth regulators have been applied in emasculated flowers at three different concentrations. All the morphactins induced partenocarpy and no effect on fruit development has been found between the treated and the pollinated fruits at the ripening stage. The possibility of applying these chemicals on industrial scale is discussed.
42877896|Nel pesco "J. H. Hale" (androsterile) si riscontra di solito una abbondante allegagione, ma prima dell'indurimento del nocciolo, la maggior parte dei frutti  di tipo partenocarpico  va soggetta a cascola. Taluni di questi, per, continuano ad accrescersi fino a maturazione che raggiungono in ritardo  oltre che deformi e pi piccoli  rispetto a quelli gamici. Le ricerche condotte nel biennio 1970/71 su alberi di "J. H. Hale" scarsamente produttivi hanno dimostrato che la tempestiva somministrazione di acido gibberellico pu supplire alla carenza di tale regolatore da parte dei frutti che altrimenti sarebbero caduti. I trattamenti effettuati 10-20 giorni dopo la piena fioritura, ad una concentrazione di 20-40 ppm hanno non solo incrementato la allegagione ma anche raddoppiato o triplicato la produzione unitaria portandola da 30 fino a 104 kg/albero. Anche il peso medio dei frutti partenocarpici trattati  pi che raddoppiato (80 gr rispetto a 40); questi frutti, inoltre, sono maturati prima di quelli  partenocarpici di controllo , seppure qualche giorno dopo rispetto a quelli gamici-normali; il diradamento ne ha migliorato le caratteristiche che per sono rimaste inferiori rispetto a quelle dei frutti gamici. Sul piano pratico per l'azione del GA non si traduce necessariamente in un aumento della redditivit degli impianti, per cui l'impiego dell'acido gibberellico pu essere giustificato solo in particolari situazioni. Gli AA. discutono inoltre, sulla base di alcuni rilievi istologici, i rapporti esistenti fra GA e sviluppo dei semi. Gli ovuli dei frutti partenocarpici infatti, vanno soggetti ad un aborto cjie risulta accelerato dai trattamenti di GA. Questi ovuli sono talora provvisti di embrione e di endosperma che, peraltro, si accrescono irregolarmente solo per 4-6 settimane. Three-four weeks after full bloom the fruit set of "J. H. Hale" peach frequently appears promising, but later most of the fruits drop whilst others develop parthenocarply until their ripening. During 1970-71 unfruitful "J . H. Hale" mature trees were treated with GA at 20 and 40 ppm at the full bloom, 10 days and 20 days later. The latter treatment was the most effective to increase fruit set and crop (which went up from 30 kg on the untreated trees to 104 kg on the 40 ppm GA treated ones). The treated parthenocarpic fruit were also bigger and marketely better than those untreated, but smaller, poorer and later ripening than the gamie fruits. Hand-thinning of the supernumerary parthenocarpic fruits improved the size and the quality, but not enough to bear regular size of fruits. Anathomical investigations have shown that in the parthenocarpic fruits the ovules initially grow like in the gamie ones. Some ovules are provided with incomplete embryos and endosperms which early stop their development and then disappear (40-50 days after bloom). The abortion of the ovules is speeded by GA treatments which increase the cell division and the enlargement of the mesocarp.
42877897|La presente ricerca  stata effettuata allo scopo di studiare l'azione dell'Ethephon sul diradamento e sull'accrescimento dei frutti di "Cardinal", dal momento del trattamento alla raccolta. I trattamenti sono stati effettuati il 21 ed il 27 aprile alla dose di 20 ppm ed il 27 aprile, 3, 9 e 13 maggio alla dose di 40 ppm. Le somministrazioni a 40 ppm del 27 aprile, del 3 e 9 maggio hanno provocato una eccessiva cascola ed una pezzatura dei frutti raccolti, simile a quella dei frutti delle piante diradate a mano; con i trattamenti a 20 ppm, somministrati il 21 ed il 27 aprile (quando i frutticini erano lunghi da 15 mm a 17 mm) la percentuale di diradamento  risultata inferiore ma pi rispondente ai fini pratici. Infatti, i trattamenti effettuati in tale epoca, offrirebbero la possibilit di intervenire successivamente con un diradamento manuale volto ad eliminare quei frutti che risulterebbero in eccesso. Inoltre le piante trattate il 3 maggio alla dose di 40 ppm, hanno presentato un maggior numero di frutti, che ad osservazioni macroscopiche, mostravano un imbrunimento del seme. Infine, nel primo periodo, successivo a questo trattamento, l'Ethephon ha determinato un rallentamento dell'accrescimento del frutto. Ethephon was applied as an aqueous solution at 20 ppm and 40 ppm on "Cardinal" peach trees. The applications were applied ad different times: the 21st and 27th of April at 20 ppm, the 27th of April, the 3rd, 9th and 13th of May at 40 ppm. Treatments applied the 27th of April, the 3rd and 9th of May at 40 ppm produced excessive fruit drop; the fruit size was similar to that of untreated hand thinned trees. With the treatments done on the 21st and 27th of April at 20 ppm, the percentage of thinned fruits was lower, but this period has been more practical because it offers within a few days, the possibility of hand thinning the exceeding overcrop. Trees treated the 3rd of May at 40 ppm showed more fruits with brown seeds correlated with the percentage of fruit drop. The Ethephon showed also to reduce fruit growth in the first days after treatments. The percentage of fruits  split-pit , is showed to be directly related with the percentage of thinning, by hand or by chemical, and no evidence appeared to be related directly with the Ethephon.
42877898|Nel 1972  stata effettuata sulle cultivar di pesco da industria "Vivian", "Klamt" e "Andross" una serie di prove di diradamento chimico dei frutti, mediante trattamenti con soluzioni di acido  2-cloroetilfosfonico , alle concentrazioni di 25, 50 e 100 ppm, in quattro epoche successive, a partire dalla  scamiciatura  dei frutticini e fino all'indurimento dell'endocarpo (27/4, 13/5, 22/5, 29/5). Le ricerche hanno permesso di accertare quanto segue: a) le diverse cultivar hanno manifestato una sensibilit alquanto differente ai trattamenti diradanti. La cv "Vivian"  risultata praticamente insensibile, mentre la cv "Klamt" e, in misura minore, la cv "Andross" sono apparse sensibili all'azione dell'Ethrel; b) sia nella cv "Klamt" sia nella "Andross" il maggior effetto diradante si  osservato in corrispondenza del 22 maggio con le concentrazioni di 25, 50 e 100 ppm nella prima e di 50 e 100 ppm nella seconda. I trattamenti a queste concentrazioni hanno, infatti, ridotto il numero di frutticini ad un valore pressoch uguale a quello lasciato sugli alberi diradati a mano, secondo i criteri in uso nell'azienda, in cui sono state svolte le prove. Un'azione diradante meno intensa hanno esercitato i trattamenti effettuati il 29 maggio. Quelli effettuati il 27 aprile a 50 e 100 ppm non hanno avuto effetto diradante ed hanno provocato notevoli defogliazioni nelle cv "Vivian" e "Klamt". Sprays of Ethrel (2-Chloro-ethylphosphonic acid) at 25, 50 and 100 ppm were applied in 1972 on cling peaches "Vivian", "Klamt" and "Andross" at April 27th and May 13th, 22nd and 29th. The degree of thinning varied with the cultivars, the time of application, and the concentration of Ethrel. The thinning activity of Ethrel was negligible on the cv "Vivian", on "Klamt" the best results have been obtained with sprays at concentration of 25 and 50 ppm applied respectively at 14 mm and 16 mm ovule length. With "Andross" the use of Ethrel proved most effective at concentrations of 50 ppm and 100 ppm applied respectively at 14 mm and 17 mm ovule length. The treatments at 50 ppm and 100 ppm carried out on April 27th caused a noticeable defoliation on "Vivian" and "Klamt".
42877899|A trial of fruit thinning was carried out with three Peach cultivars characterized by a different ripening time: an early ripening one, cv "Cardinal"; a middle ripening one, cv "July Elberta" and a late ripening one, cv "Jolly 1 A". Three branches of each plant were treated with 2-cloroethylphosphonic acid at the following concentrations: 30, 45 and 60 ppm, at the stage of endosperm called  cytokinesis . A fourth branch received, at the same time, a hand-thinning of 70% of the fruits, and a fifth one was not thinned at all. The results show that the early ripening cultivar responses better than late ripening ones to thinning. Treatments with Ethephon, especially at the highest concentration, produced the same response as in hand-thinned branches. However, the fruit size was better in hand thinned lots.
42877900|Le prove sono state effettuate nel 1970 sulle seguenti variet e nelle seguenti localit: "Stark EarliGlo" e "Blazing Gold" (Battipaglia), "Redhaven" (Caserta), "Vivian" (Benevento), "Blazing Gold", "Dixigem", "Favorita 1", "Favorita 2", "Fertilia 1", "Halehaven", "Ranger", "Springtime" (Roma). I prodotti sperimentati sono stati il 3 CPA alle dosi di 100, 150, 200 e 250 ppm, l'Ethrel alle dosi di 150, 300 e 450 ppm ed il prodotto sperimentale UNI-D-513-EC alle concentrazioni di 4000 e 8000 ppm. Ethrel e UNI-D sono stati applicati alla sola cv. "Blazing Gold". Le epoche di intervento sono state due per le variet "Blazing Gold", "Redhaven " e "Vivian" ed una sola per le altre variet. Il prodotto UNI-D-513-EC  stato applicato in tre tempi, 5, 14 e 19 giorni dopo la piena fioritura. La lunghezza del seme al momento del trattamento, misurata su un campione di 50 frutti, variava, nelle diverse cultivar, da 6 a 13 mm. Si sono eseguiti i seguenti rilievi: a) conteggio dei frutti su branche campione prima del trattamento, 20-30 giorni dopo il trattamento ed alla raccolta; b) distribuzione dei frutti su un campione di 30 rami misti per parcella; c) produzione e peso medio dei frutti alla raccolta. Il 3 CPA ha dato buoni risultati su "Vivian" e "Redhaven" sia a 100 che a 200 ppm, su "Ranger" (150 ppm), "Favorita 1" (150 ppm), "Springtime" (250 ppm). Risultati non del tutto soddisfacenti si sono avuti con le altre cultivar. L'Ethrel applicato su "Blazing Gold" ha provocato un diradamento uguale al test, ma ha causato caduta di foglie e leggera riduzione di pezzatura dei frutti. La scarsa produzione della cv. "Blazing Gold" a Roma non ha consentito di valutare esattamente l'efficacia del prodotto UNI-D-513-EC, che ha, comunque, causato sensibili danni alla vegetazione. The trial was carried out in 1970 on the following varieties and localities: Blazing Gold, and Stark EarliGlo (Battipaglia), Vivian (Benevento), Redhaven (Caserta), Blazing Gold, Dixigem, Favorita, 1, Favorita 2, Fertilia 1, Halehaven, Ranger and Springtime (Roma). The tested chemicals were 3 CPA at 100, 150, 200 and 250 ppm, Ethrel at 150, 300 and 450 ppm and UNI-D-513-EC, a new esperimental chemical, at 4000 and 8000 ppm. Ethrel and UNI-D-513-EC were applied only to Blazing Gold variety. The spray times were two for "Blazing Gold", "Redhaven", and "Vivian", only one for the other varieties. UNI-D-513-EC was applied in three different times, 5, 14, 19 days after full bloom. The seed length at the spray time, measured on a sample of 50 fruits, varied, in the different varieties, from 6 to 13 mm. The following records were taken: a) number of fruits on sample branches at spray time, 20-30 days later and at picking; b) fruits distribution on a sample of 30 shoots per plot; c) crop and average fruit weight. 3 CPA gave good results on "Vivian" and "Redhaven", both at 100 and 200 ppm, on "Ranger" (150 ppm), "Favorita 1" (150 ppm), "Springtime" (250 ppm). On the other varieties the results were not completely satisfactory. Ethrel on "Blazing Gold" caused the same thinning as control, but also caused a severe leaves drop and a light fruit size reduction. The very poor crop of Blazing Gold variety in Rome did not allow to estimate in the right way the effectiveness of UNI-D-513-EC, that, however, caused severe damages to the leaves.
42877901|Nel 1971 si  voluto valutare il risultato pratico ottenibile con i diradanti chimici sui frutticini di pesche percoche ("Fortuna" e "Halford 1") e di susino ("Stanley"). Nelle percoche  stato confrontato il test (diradamento manuale) con trattamenti di Ethephon (30 e 60 ppm) e di 3-CPA (200 ppm) irrorati quando il seme era lungo mm 14-15. Il 3-CPA ha determinato risultati (percentuale di frutti cascolati, produzione, peso medio dei frutti) simili a quelli riscontrati nel test. L'Ethephon, soprattutto a 60 ppm, ha provocato una forte cascola, riducendo notevolmente la produzione malgrado l'aumento di pezzatura dei frutti. Si rende necessaria una messa a punto del metodo con l'impiego di Ethephon. Nel susino, il test (non diradato)  stato confrontato con trattamenti di Ethephon (25-50 ppm) e di 3-CP (50 ppm) irrorati quando il seme era lungo mm 12. Ambedue le sostanze, l'Ethephon (specialmente alla concentrazione alta) ed il 3-CP, hanno provocato una cascolamaggiore di quella riscontrata nel test; hanno ridotto notevolmente la produzione; hanno migliorato la pezzatura ed il grado rifrattometrico dei frutti. Sono necessari ulteriori studi sull'uso dell'Ethephon anche in altre cultivar valutando la utilit tecnica e il vantaggio economico del diradamento in relazione alla destinazione del prodotto. In 1971 praticai results on the use of chemical thinnings of Clingstone peach ("Fortuna" and "Halford 1") and of plum ("Stanley") were studied. In clingstone peach, control (hand thinning) was compared with treatments of Ethephon (30 and 60 ppm) and 3-CPA (200 ppm) sprayed when the seed was 14-15 mm long. 3-CPA showed (percentage of dropped fruits, total yield, average fruits weight) to be as effective as hand thinning (control). Ethephon, especially at 60 ppm, caused a heavy drop reducing considerably the yield in spite of increasing in fruit size. Further trials are therefore necessary on the employ of Ethephon. In plum-trees, control (non-sprayed) was compared with sprays of Ethephon (25 and 50 ppm) and of 3-CP (50 ppm), sprayed when seed was 12 mm long. Both substances, Ethephon chiefly at high concentration and 3-CP, caused a heavier drop than the control; yield was greatly reduced; fruit size and soluble solids contents were improved. Further studies on the use of Ethephon are needed also in other varieties. It is necessary to evaluate the technical utility and economic result of thinning in correlation to the final destination of the fruits.
42877902|Allo scopo di studiare l'azione dell'Ethephon e del 3 CPA sul diradamento di frutti di pesco "Cardinal" sono stati fatti trattamenti (a 20 e 300 ppm rispettivamente) in 5 epoche diverse (21 e 27 aprile, 5, 9 e 16 maggio) cio quando i frutti erano lunghi 16,91, 18,15, 23,90, 25,63 e 28,60 mm. Si  osservato che ambedue i prodotti hanno esplicato la massima efficacia quando i frutticini avevano la lunghezza di circa 24 e 26 mm. Le percentuali di diradamento ottenute con il 3 CPA alle suddette dimensioni sono state simili a quelle del diradamento manuale; con l'Ethephon invece sono risultate eccessive (100%). Quest'ultimo prodotto ha dato risultati interessanti quando somministrato a frutti di 18 mm di lunghezza. Inoltre, mentre il 3 CPA ha quasi sempre indotto un anticipo dell'epoca media di raccolta di circa 3 giorni, l'Ethephon, invece, non ha, al riguardo, avuto alcun effetto. Infine, i frutti presentavano all'epoca della raccolta una pezzatura inferiore rispetto a quelli diradati a mano, mentre non si sono osservate rilevanti variazioni per le altre caratteristiche organolettiche. Treatments on "Cardinal" were done with Ethephon at 20 ppm and with 3 CPA at 300 ppm, in different times (when the fruit length was 16,91 mm, 18,15 mm, 23,90 mm, 25,63 mm, 28,60 mm). Both chemicals snowed to overthin when the fruit length was about 23,90 mm and 25,63 mm; the thinning percentages with 3 CPA at these fruit lenghts, were similar to the hand thinning while the Ethephon showed to give the best results when applied at 18,15 mm fruit length. The 3 CPA allowed to harvest the fruits 3-4 days before the check. This paper showed that the treatments induced a riduction of the fruits size, as compared with those hand thinned.
42877903|During 1970-71 research on fruit thinning was carried to evaluate the effectiveness of two chemicals applied at different stages of fruits development. The treatments were made with 1-naphtyl-N-methylcarbamate (NMC) and naphtalenacetamide (NAD) at 1.250 ppm and 80 ppm respectively, at two days intervals from May 10th (i. e. 17 days after the full bloom) to May 28th, 1971 (i.e. 33 days after the full bloom). The fruits were very sensitive to these chemicals until they were approximately 13 mm in diameter (i.e. 23 days after the full bloom). Subsequentely the sensitivity of fruits decreased, both compounds becoming relatively ineffective in inducing the fruit abscission. During the sensitive phase, the endosperm changes from the nucleate to the cellular stage, while the embryo changed from a filamentous to a spherical stage. In the subsequent stage, when the fruits sensitivity to the chemical sprays decreased, the embryo changed to the cotyledonary primordial stage.
42877904|This trial tries to know: 1) If it is possible to apply usefully 3 CPA as fruit-thinner on the following peach vigour varieties: "Southland", "Cotogna di Castellare 1" and "Elberta". 2) When this chemical product may be applied more usefully. Good results we have obtained only with the highest concentration that it may use (350 ppm). The trial shows that the proper time is with ovules lenghts between mm 8 and 11, 30-41 days after the full bloom.
42877905|Nel biennio 1971-72 sono state effettuate prove di diradamento chimico dei frutti con 3 CPA sulla cultivar di pesco a maturazione precoce "Collins". Nel 1971 sono stati eseguiti trattamenti a concentrazione di 150 ppm in tre successive epoche, quando il diametro medio dei frutticini era pari a 12, 19 e 25 mm. Il 3 CPA ha esercitato una soddisfacente azione diradante, sia dal punto di vista dell'intensit sia da quello dell'uniformit. Sugli alberi diradati chimicamente  stato ritenuto opportuno solo un leggerissimo diradamento supplementare a mano, per conseguire una carica di frutti analoga a quella degli alberi diradati a mano, secondo i criteri normalmente in uso e considerata ottimale per l'ambiente, la cultivar e lo sviluppo degli alberi. Nel 1972  stato eseguito un solo trattamento con 3 CPA a 200 ppm, quando i frutti avevano un diametro di 24 mm ed i risultati hanno confermato la possibilit di un impiego pratico del 3 CPA sulla cv "Collins". Data of researches carried out in 1971 and 1972 on chemical fruit thinning of peach cv "Collins" are summarized. Satisfactory results have been obtained with sprays at 150 ppm in 1971 and at 200 ppm in 1972, applied when the fruitlets reached a mean diameter from 12 to 25 mm. In both years it was necessary to apply a light hand thinning for completing the chemical one.
42877906|Sono stati effettuati trattamenti a base di acido 2-cloroetilfosfonico a 1500 ppm per facilitare la abscissione delle drupe in olivi delle cv. "Frantoio" e "Moraiolo" destinati ad essere raccolti a macchina per scuotimento. Su piante trattate e non, oltre alla efficienza di una macchina scuotiraccoglitrice (S.R. 12), si  studiato l'andamento della cascola, la variazione della resistenza dinamometrica al distacco in funzione del colore delle drupe, nonch l'influenza del peso delle medesime come risposta alle vibrazioni. Ad un gruppo di piante della cv. "Moraiolo", circa 14 giorni prima del trattamento a base di Ethephon,  stato somministrato, in soluzione acquosa, il sale potassico dell'acido naftilacetico alla concentrazione di 60 ppm, allo scopo di diminuire la cascola pre-raccolta. Lo studio mette in evidenza che: 1) il trattamento a base di Ethrel, accelerando i fenomeni di abscissione potrebbe essere utilizzato per migliorare l'efficienza di una macchina scuotitrice per le operazioni di raccolta. Rimane sempre il pericolo di un rilevante aumento della cascola, ma  emersa la possibilit, da verificare ulteriormente, di poter controllare il fenomeno con l'impiego di opportuni anticascolanti; 2) l'Ethrel sembra agire anche su olive in stadio di maturazione arretrato. Questo lascia intravedere la possibilit di impiegare tale sostanza precocemente, quando i processi di maturazione sono terminati ma la resistenza al distacco  tale che ancora le macchine scuotitrici non potrebbero operare convenientemente; 3) i valori della resistenza dinamometrica al distacco non sono sufficienti a dare un parametro di riferimento per predire l'efficienza di una macchina scuotitrice. Oltre alla forma della pianta anche il peso delle drupe gioca un ruolo determinante. Treatments have been made on base of 2-cloroetil-phosphonic acid at 1500 ppm to make easier the abscission of the fruits in olive trees of the cv "Frantoio" and "Moraiolo" intended to have machine shake-harvesting. On plants treated and not, besides the efficiency of a shaker harvesting-machine (SR 12), we studied the proceeding of the dropping, the variation of the dinamometric resistance to the detachment in function of the color of the fruits and the influence of the weight of the fruits as answer to the vibrations. A group of plants from the cv "Moraiolo", about 14 days before the treatment on base of Ethephon, have been provided with potassic salt of the naphtilacetic acid (NAA) at the concentration of 60 ppm in watery solution in order to reduce the dropping before the harvesting. From the study results that: 1 ) the treatment on base of Ethrel, speeding up the process of abscission could be used to improve the efficiency of a shaker for the harvesting. Unfortunately, in this case the dropping might increase a lot but here is the possibility to control it using the right antidropping; 2) the Ethrel seems to act also on olives which are behind with ripening. This make us think of the possibility of using this substance precociously, when the processes of ripening are over but there still is such a resistance to the detachment that the shaker couldn't act conveniently; 3) the values of the dinamometric resistance to the cutting are not enough to give a parameter of reference to tell the efficiency of a shaker. Besides the shape of the plant also the weight of the fruits has a decisive task in the matter.
42877907|Nel 1969-70-71 sono state eseguite, da Istituti Universitari e dalla Rumianca molte prove con Ethrel ( Ethephon, acido 2 cloro-etilfosfonico) sull'olivo per valutarne gli effetti cascolanti e per verifcame l'utilit di impiego nel caso di raccolta con scuotitrici meccaniche, con scuotitura a mano o con metodi tradizionali. Sono riportati nelle diverse tabelle i risultati ottenuti, che mostrano le possibilit applicative dell'Ethrel. Mediante scuotitrici meccaniche e a 1000, 2000, 3000 ppm di Ethrel  possibile raccogliere fino al 95-98% delle olive presenti sulla pianta. Percentuali inferiori di olive, ma sempre significative, sono raccoglibili con scuotiture a mano. Con raccolta effettuata con metodi tradizionali si pu incrementare dal 20 al 40% la capacit lavorativa dei raccoglitori. La defogliazione  sempre stata contenuta e nessuna influenza  stata notata sulle caratteristiche organolettiche dell'olio. Research Institutes and Rumianca's Laboratories tried during 1969-70-71 Ethrel (Ethephon, 2 chloroethylphosphonic acid) on olives to increase percentage of drop olives and the profit of manual mechanical harvesting. The results are reported on figures. By mechanical shaker it is possible to harvest 95-98% of total olives on the tree at the rate of 1000, 2000 and 3000 ppm. By hand it is also possible to harvest an interesting percentage of olives. By traditional methods it is possible to increase since 20 to 40% the working hours capability. It results a low drop of leaves and no alteration in oil content.
42877908|Trials were carried out in the 1971 fall to compare the effects on olive abscission of two products used at different concentrations. These researches followed the ones made in 1969 and 1970 on Moraiolo, Maurino and Frantoio olive varieties. The products used were: Ethrel (2-cloroethilfosfonic acid) at 1000 and 2000 ppm and Actidione (Cycloheximide) at 30 and 50 ppm. The experiments were made on 8 year-old Leccino and Coratina cultivars. Three trees were used for each concentration and three others as a check. It must be pointed out that every time, right after the spraying, a few millimeters of rain fell down. It also rained in the following days. Ethrel used at 2000 ppm was the product which gave the best results as far as fruit abscission is concerned. The integrated reistance measured after one month on "Leccino" was: Ghedk 394,05 gr; Ethrel at 2000 ppm 84,77 gr; Ethrel at 1000 ppm 192,45 gr; Cycloheximide at 50 ppm 257, 10 gr; Gycloheximide at 30 ppm 292,35 gr. The "Ponderata" resistance measured after 20 days on "Goratina" was: Check 480, 47 gr; Ethrel at 2000 ppm 171,62 gr; Ethrel at 1000 ppm 265,23 gr; Gycloheximide at 50 ppm 307,24 gr. The leaf drop on "Leccino" for the 60 day-period after the spraying was: Check n. 2057, Cycloheximide at 30 ppm n. 5291, Cycloheximide at 50 ppm n. 7052, Ethrel at 1000 ppm n. 34602, Ethrel at 2000 ppm n. 92966, and on "Coratina": Check n. 1361, Cycloheximide at 50 ppm n. 3877, Ethrel at 1000 ppm n. 10345, Ethrel at 2000 ppm n. 32641. We think that the rain mainly affected the Cycloheximide treatment since this product is easily water soluble. The leaf drop caused by the 2000 ppm Ethrel treatment must be considered too heavy.
42877909|Ethephon has been used at 1000 (A), 1500 (B) and 2000 (C) ppm rates on five red-Raspberry cultivars, to test the possibility of hastening fruit drop and facilitate mechanic harvesting by shaking. Fruit separation showed to be uneven also at higher concentrations, with high percentage of berries with stem attached or non-mature berries. Only two cultivars ("Mailing promise" and "Canby") showed a certain degree of soluble solids increment, but in uneven way.
42877910|Il trattamento prima della stratificazione di semi di ciliegio dolce con precursori degli acidi nucleici (uracile, uridina e uridin-5-monofosfato) provoca un aumento della percentuale di germinazione; analogo effetto si ottiene anche con gli antimetaboliti (2-tiouracile, 5-fluorouracile, 8-azadenina ed alcool feniletilico) e, in assai pi marcata misura, con il GA. Il trattamento combinato dei semi con precursori e antimetaboliti, eccezion fatta per le combinazioni contenenti 5-FU o GA, tende invece ad abbassare la germinabilit sia rispetto a quella ottenuta con i trattamenti singoli che rispetto al test. Vengono discussi i possibili meccanismi che spieghino tale comportamento. The trials carried out on sweet cherry seeds showed that the treatments with the nucleic acids precursors (uracil, uridine, uridine-5-monophosphate), done before after-ripening, caused an increased percentage of germination. A similar effect is got with antimetabolites (2-thiouracil, 5-fluorouracil, 8-azaadenine and phenylethyl alcohol), and, in a greatest extent, with the GA. A depressed germination, on respect of the treatments with the single chemicals and the test, is produced by the treatments with precursors and antimetabolites together, unless for 5-FU and GA combinations. The possible biological mechanisms involved in this behaviour are discussed. (2 ) Dati parziali ottenuti con l'impiego di altri precursori: guanina, citidina, timina e timidina, mostrano un comportamento del tutto analogo.
42877911|La costituzione di ibridi Fi rappresenta oggi uno dei principali obbiettivi nei programmi di miglioramento delle piante agrarie. Mentre per specie come mais e cipolla il ricorso a determinate situazioni genetiche  stato risolutivo per la produzione di seme F su larga scala, per le cucurbitacee un reale progresso  stato fatto solo a seguito della scoperta dell'azione gametocida dell'Ethrel. Gli Autori, dopo aver presentato i risultati ottenuti in quattro anni di adeguata sperimentazione, definiscono le seguenti condizioni per una conveniente produzione di seme ibrido di zucchino tramite l'impiego dell'Ethrel: 1) rapporto numerico delle file prtaseme rispetto alle impollinatoci: 10 a 1; 2) dosi e modalit di somministrazione del fitoregolatore : 400 ppm. di principio attivo, due trattamenti, il primo allo stadio di 4-5 foglia vera, il secondo 7-10 giorni pi tardi; 3) produttivit in seme delle linee; ai fini della pianificazione delle superfici da destinare alla produzione di seme ibrido si consiglia di tenere presente l'attitudine produttiva delle linee e l'aumento del 10-20% in seme ottenuto con questa tecnica. Il costo del seme ibrido cos ottenuto  lievemente superiore a quello di una variet: circa 50 L/Kg per i trattamenti gametocidi; la perdita di produzione dovuta alla superficie occupata dall'impollinatore  compensata dalla maggiore produzione di seme. One of the main items in crop breeding programs is the production of F hybrid seeds. Whereas in maize and onion some genetic situations have solved the problem, on the con trary, in some species of Cucurbits the task has been accomplished only after the discovery of the Ethrel gametocidal effect. In this paper the authors, on the basis of results obtained during four years of trials on marrow hybrid seed production by means of Ethrel sprays, point out the following conditions to be taken into consideration: 1 ) ratio between seed parent and pollinator rows : 10 to 1 ; 2) concentrations and treatment schedules: 400 ppm on active material basis, twice sprays at 4-5 true leaf stage and 7-10 days later.
42877912|Dall'esame della letteratura emergono due ipotesi contrapposte sulle relazioni fra ormoni e disseccamento del rachide e precisamente l'esistenza o meno di un gradiente auxinico fra germoglio e grappoli. Alcune indagini degli Autori sulle polifenolossidasi del grappolo, sul numero di vinaccioli per acino di vitigni recettivi e resistenti, sui trattamenti artificiali ormonici, nonch altre osservazioni ed esperienze non consentono, tuttavia di dissociare completamente la fisiopatia del disseccamento del rachide del grappolo dal metabolismo ormonico della vite. As far as the relationship between hormone activity and stalk withering in grapes are concerned, there emerge two contrasting hypotheses from the literature so far known. One of these theories affirms the existence of an auxinic gradient between grapes and buds while the other denies categorically such a gradient. From a series of trials on the poliphenoleoxidase of grape stalk, on the number of seeds barry of blight-resistent vines, from artificial hormone tratments and quite a good number of other trials and observations the authors conclude that it is not possible to deny a positive relationship between stalk blight and hormone metabolism in grape vine.
42877913|Vengono descritte una serie di trattamenti con due isomeri dell'acido gibberellico, (isomero 3 ed una miscela degli isomeri 4 e 7) effettuati su alcune fra le pi diffuse cultivar di fragola coltivate in Italia ("Pocahontas", "Aliso", "Salinas" e "Solana"). Scopo delle prove  stato di saggiare l'influenza di dosi ed epoche differenti sull'anticipo di maturazione dei frutti ed eventuali effetti collaterali. Per la cv. "Pocahontas" le epoche dei trattamenti sono state variate dall'ottobre 1970 al febbraio 1971 completando cos i periodi di somministrazione non ancora effettuati negli anni precedenti. Sulle restanti cv. "Aliso", "Solana" e "Salinas" sono state eseguite solo prove orientative per stabilire la rispondenza o meno all'azione dell'acido gibberellico. I migliori risultati, riguardo all'anticipo di maturazione, sono stati ottenuti con la somministrazione di GA a 20 ppm. in pre e post fioritura. La fruttificazione si  svolta normalmente e non sono state riscontrate anomalie nella forma e nel colore dei frutti. Results of different sprays with two isomers of GA (isomer 3 and a mixtum of the two isomers 4 and 7) on four strawberries varieties: Pocahontas, Aliso, Salinas, Solana are referred. The aim was to study the effect of different spraying times and rates on earliness of of ripening and plant growth. The variety "Pocahontas" spraying times varied from October 1970 to February 1971 in dates that were not tested in previous years of trial. On the other varieties only preliminary trials were conducted to study the effect of sprays with Gibberellic acid. The best results, on ripening earliness were obtained with GA sprays at 20 ppm just before and after blooming. It wasn't observed any change in berry shape and color.
42877914|Si  osservata l'azione dell'acido 2, 4, 5 triclorofenossipropionico (2, 4, 5 TP) e dell'Ethephon applicati al momento in cui il frutto era nello stadio II di accrescimento e successivamente, sino alla maturazione commerciale. Il 2, 4, 5 TP impiegato a 40 ppm. ha sempre stimolato lo sviluppo dei frutti, soprattutto quando erano nello stadio II di accrescimento, ed ha provocato l'anticipo dell'inizio dello stadio III. L'Ethephon a 20 ppm. ha invece inibito l'accrescimento dei frutti; mentre a 100 e 500 ppm. ne ha provocato l'abscissione. Inoltre i frutti di albicocco durante il loro accrescimento hanno prodotto irrilevanti quantit di etilene anche se trattati con 2, 4, 5 TP; al contrario l'Ethephon ha sempre incrementato lo sviluppo di quantit marcate di etilene che sono risultate proporzionali alle dosi di Ethephon impiegate. Il 2, 4, 5 TP sembrerebbe di aver quindi agito direttamente sul meccanismo di accrescimento del frutto di albicocco e non attraverso produzione di etilene. The effect of 2, 4, 5 TP and Ethephon on fruit growth of the apricot cultivar "De jouy" was studied. The growth regulators were applied to fruits at different times beginning at the initiation of stage II of their growth curve. The 2, 4, 5 TP at 40 ppm. always stimulated fruit growth, especially when applied during stage II. Ethephon at 20 ppm. slightly inhibited fruit growth and at dosis of 100 and 500 ppm. induced fruit abscission. Apricot fruits produced barely measurable quantities of Ethylene during their development as did those treated with 2, 4, 5 TP. Ethephon treated fruits always produced higher amounts of Ethylene which were proportional to the dosis. It is proposed that the role of 2, 4, 5 TP in stimulating apricot fruit growth is direct rather than via Ethylene production.
42877915|Sono state condotte prove di campo con acido gibberellico su piante di Limone "Femminello" al fine di ritardare la maturazione dei frutti. Le dosi in acido equivalente del prodotto sono variate da un minimo di 10 ppm ad un massimo di 80 ppm. Risultati negativi sono stati ottenuti durante i primi tre anni, quando i trattamenti sono stati effettuati nei mesi di novembre-dicembre; anticipando il trattamento ai primi giorni del mese di ottobre  stato ottenuto, nel quarto anno di prove, un ritardo della maturazione dei frutti evidenziatosi sia attraverso il colore della buccia che all'analisi dei componenti del succo. Field trials with gibberellic acid to delay fruit maturity were carried out on "Femminello" lemon trees. Spray applications of 10 ppm to 80 ppm of gibberellic acid were used. Negative results were obtained during the first three years, when treatments were carried out in November-December. When gibberellic acid was applied in the early October, in the forth year of the trials, a delay of maturity occured, judged from colour of rind and the analysis of components of the juice.
42877916|Le prove condotte durante gli anni 1968, 69, 70, 71 indagano sugli effetti della 2, 2 dimetil-idrazide dell'acido succinico (Alar) sull'attivit vegetativa e produttiva dei meli adulti cv. "Stark Delicious". I trattamenti eseguiti furono: a) una singola irrorazione di Alar a 1500 ppm, b) doppia irrorazione a 1500 + 3000 ppm. Le epoche dei trattamenti furono spostate negli anni e pi precisamente: il trattamento a 1500 ppm venne eseguito 10, 20, 30 giorni dopo la piena fioritura rispettivamente per gli anni 1968, 1969 e 1970-71; il trattamento a 3000 ppm seguente quello a 1500 ppm  stato eseguito sempre a 15 giorni di distanza dal primo. La doppia irrorazione a 1500 + 3000 ppm ha sempre evidenziato effetti pi vistosi di quella singola a 1500 ppm che peraltro in qualche caso non ha avuto alcuna influenza. Riassumiamo pertanto solo gli effetti della doppia irrorazione. Per quanto riguarda l'influenza sui fattori dello sviluppo vegetativo essa ha abbreviato il periodo vegetativo e ridotto la lunghezza dei rami di un anno, ha aumentato il numero dei nodi e ridotto la lunghezza degli internodi, ha diminuito l'entit delle riprese di vegetazione. Per quanto riguarda l'influenza sui fattori della produzione essa ha ridotto la fioritura e aumentato l'allegagione, ha diminuito la produzione e il peso dei frutti, ha ridotto la cascola pre-raccolta, aumentato la compattezza della polpa dei frutti alla raccolta, ha lasciato invariato gli zuccheri totali e l'acidit. The trials went from 1968 to 1971: the annual treatments were a single application at 1500 ppm and two successive applications at 1500 + 3000 ppm. Date of the treatments deferred in the years as follow: the 1500 ppm spray was carried out 10, 20, 30 days after full bloom in the years 1968, 1969, 1970-71 respectively; the 3000 ppm spray following the 1500 ppm was carried on a fortnight after the first one. The double 1500 + 3000 ppm application always showed more evident effects than single 1500 ppm: this one did not show any influence in some cases. We refer therefore only about double irroration effects. As for the influence on vegetative growth factors we found the followings: a) shortening of vegetative period, b) lenght reduction of one year shoots, c) increasing nodes number, d) internodes leght reduction, e) decreasing of summer new growths. As for the influence on production factors we found the following: a) blooming reduction, b) fruit-set increasing, c) decreasing of yield and fruits size, d) decreasing of pre-harvest drop, e) increasing of firmness of fruits flesh, f) no influence on total sugars and titrable acidity.
42877917|Bacche immature dell'ibrido INRA 63/5 sono state trattate con diverse dosi di Ethrel (al 48% di acido 2-Cloroetilfosfonico) : 0 - 1.000 - 2.000 - 3.000 - 4.000 - 5.000 - 7.500 - 10.000 ppm. Dopo l'immersione nella soluzione, sono state conservate in assenza di luce, alla temperatura di 17-18 C ed al 65-70% di umidit. L'andamento della maturazione  stato valutato in base alle variazioni di colorazione. Fra le dosi provate maggiore velocit nella maturazione  stata ottenuta con quella di 3.000 ppm. Sulle bacche mature  stato determinato: residuo secco, grado rifrattometrico, pH, acidit di titolazione. Non si sono rilevate differenze apprezzabili fra i diversi trattamenti con Ethrel, n fra questi e le bacche maturate sulla pianta. Nel testimone non trattato si sono riscontrati valori pi bassi dell'acidit, residuo secco e sali solubili. Unripe fruits of the hybrid INRA 63/5 were treated with different doses of Ethrel (at 48% of 2-Cloroethylphosphonic acid): 0-1000-2000-3000-4000-5000-7500-10.000 ppm. After immersion in the solution, they were kept without light at a temperature of 17-18 C and 65-70% humidity. The ripening process was evaluated on the basis of colour variation. Of the doses tried, greatest ripening speed was obtained at 3000 ppm. Ripe fruits were analyzed for dry residue, refractometric degree, pH and titration acidity. No appreciable differences were noted with the different Ethrel treatments, nor were there any between treated berries and berries that ripened on the plant. In the untreated controls, lower values were found for acidity, dry residue and soluble salts.
42877918|Vengono riferiti i risultati delle prove condotte con il composto Ethrel sopra coltivazioni di pomodoro da industria svolte in pieno campo a Pisa negli anni 1969-1970-1971. La sperimentazione che aveva per obiettivo il miglioramento dei livelli di maturazione contemporanea del pomodoro da industria, s da permettere la raccolta meccanica con operazione unica,  stata rivolta all'accertamento delle condizioni ottimali di applicazione dell'Ethrel.  stato infatti studiato l'effetto della concentrazione del prodotto e dell'epoca di distribuzione e si  indagato sull'influenza esercitata in differnti cultivars di pomodoro da industria. Il prodotto spruzzato sull'intera pianta fino a gocciolamento,  stato impiegato alle dosi di 750-1500-3000 ppm e distribuito in tre fasi dello sviluppo delle piante di pomodoro: 1) inizio maturazione del 1 palco; 2) inizio maturazione del 2 palco; 3) maturazione pressoch completa dei frutti del secondo palco. Le variet saggiate sono state: "Ventura", "H. 1706", "S. Marzano T. B.", "Roma F. R." e "Gringo". L'azione pi favorevole dei trattamenti con Ethrel  stata ottenuta impiegando le dosi di 750 ppm con distribuzione all'inizio della maturazione al 2 palco. In tutte le prove  stato notato un aumento della percentuale di prodotto maturo rispetto al testimone non trattato. Tale aumento  variato con gli anni; per la cv "Roma"  stato rispettivamente dell' 11% nel 1969, del 10% nel 1970 e dell'1,3% nel 1971. Nel 1969 e 1971 nelle piante trattate con la dose ottimale (750 ppm)  stato rilevato un incremento della produzione di frutti maturi di circa il 20% rispetto al testimone. Il trattamento non ha invece influenzato la produzione totale dei frutti (maturo + invaiato + alterato + verde) per pianta. Dal punto di vista qualitativo  stata osservata nei frutti una riduzione di sostanza secca e residuo ottico alle alte concentrazioni di impiego (1500-3000 ppm) mentre non  stata rilevata alcuna differenza alla dose ottimale di 750 ppm. La reazione varietale si  manifestata unicamente alle dosi pi alte di Ethrel con una maggiore incidenza delle scottature solari in alcune variet pi suscettibili a queste alterazioni (Gringo e S. Marzano T. B.). Results of the trials conducted for three years 1969-1970-1971 on the effect of 2-chloroethylphosphonic acid (Ethrel) to hasten the ripening of processing tomatoes are referred. The treatment times and the concentrations are studied. The commercial products has been applied at the concentration of 750-1500-3000 ppm and at the three stages of plant growing : a) beginning of fruit ripening in the first truss; b) beginning of fruit ripening in the second truss; c) end of fruit ripening in the second truss. The cultivars emploied are: Roma, Ventura, S. Marzano T. B., H. 1706 and Gringo. The best result has been obtained with 750 ppm of Ethrel applied at beginning of fruit ripening in the second truss. For the cultivar Roma this treatment has determined the increasing of the percentage of ripe fruits on single one harvesting (+ 12% at 1969, + 11% at 1970, + 1,3% at 1971). The ripe fruit (production weight) is increased (20%) with Ethrel at 1969 and 1971 years in cultivar Roma, while the fruit quality (dry matter, soluble solids) is decreased using 1500 and 3000 ppm Ethrel treatments. No difference has been observed in fruit quality with 750 ppm of Ethrel. The highest concentration of Ethrel (1500-3000 ppm) have determined fruit burning especially in Gringo and S. Marzano T. B. cultivars.
42877919|Dopo una breve premessa sui problemi di carattere generale, l'A. espone i risultati di un biennio di ricerche rivolte a studiare l'influenza dei trattamenti con auxine e con gibberelline sulla produzione del pomodoro coltivato in serra fredda. Al primo anno i trattamenti con acido gibberellico e con un prodotto commerciale (Hormo 7) hanno indotto un apprezzabile anticipo della maturazione non soltanto nel testimone in pien'aria, ma anche nella coltura in serra fredda. Sul primo l'efficacia dei trattamenti  apparsa pi marcata e prolungata, ovviamente per effetto dell'interazione della temperatura con i fitoregolatori. Al secondo anno i risultati dei trattamenti con prodotti commerciali (Apiren ed Hormo 7), con acido naftossiacetico e con acido gibberellico hanno confermato l'elevata efficacia dei primi sulla precocit di maturazione, ma anche la loro azione negativa sulle rese e sulle caratteristiche qualitative della produzione. L'NOA, alla concentrazione pi elevata (40 ppm), ha dimostrato anch'esso una favorevole influenza sulla precocit di maturazione, meno spiccata rispetto ai prodotti commerciali, ma anche senza le negative manifestazioni tipiche di questi ultimi. L'acido gibberellico, infine, inefficace sulla precocit di maturazione dei frutti se somministrato da solo ha rivelato invece una interessante e positiva interazione se associato con l'acido naftossiacetico. I risultati hanno indicato comunque la necessit di approfondire le ricerche sui trattamenti con fitoregolatori al fine di porre le basi per una razionalizzazione degli stessi che consenta di esaltarne gli effetti positivi e di attenuarne quelli negativi, promuovendo, possibilmente, l'impiego di principi attivi a concentrazioni controllate, definite anche in rapporto alle variazioni della temperatura ambiente. After a brief introduction on problems of a general nature, the Author states the results of two years' research dedicated to studying the influence of auxin and gibberellin treatment on the produce of tomatoes grown in unheated greenhouses. In the first year, treatments with gibberellic acid and with a commercial product (Hormo 7) brought about an appreciable speeding up in ripening, not only in the openair samples but also in those grown in unheated greenhouses. At first, the efficacy of the treatments appeared to be more noteable and prolonged, clearly due to the effect of the interaction of the temperature and the growth regulators. In the second year, the results of treatments with commercial products (Apiren and Hormo 7), with naphthoxyacetic acid and with gibberellic acid confirmed the high efficacy of the former treatments on the precocious ripening, but also their negative action on the yield and on the quality of the produce. NOA, at its highest concentration (40 ppm), also had a favourable influence on the precocious ripening, less noticeable than that of the commercial products, but also without the negative signs typical of the latter. Lastly, gibberellic acid, ineffective for precocious ripening if used alone, showed an interesting and positive interaction, however, if used with naphthoxyacetic acid. However, the results proved the need for more thorough research on growth regulator treatments in order to lay down a basis for rationalizing them which permits the increasing of their positive effects and the diminishing of their negative ones, perhaps encouraging the use of active principles in controlled concentrations, defined also in relation to the variations in the environment temperature.
42877920|Si riportano i risultati di prove condotte in serre fredde e riscaldate sulla coltura del pomodoro da mensa, con impiego di acido gibberellico (Berelex 20 ppm) e acido N-dimetil aminosuccinamico (Alar 2000 ppm), distribuiti alle piante e con acido -naftossiacetico + p-clorofenossiacetico (Apiren 50.000 ppm) ed acido 2-cloro-etilfosfonico (Ethephon 0-500-1000 ppm) distribuiti ai fiori e alle bacche invaiate. L'Alar ed il Berelex hanno permesso di ottenere produzioni pi elevate se distribuiti alla 5 o all' 8 foglia, facendo aumentare il numero di bacche per pianta e talvolta il peso, tuttavia l'Alar fa tardare di 5-6 giorni le raccolte. L'Apiren, nelle serre fredde ha permesso di ottenere un anticipo di maturazione di 24-25 giorni rispetto all'Alar e di 18-20 giorni rispetto agli altri trattamenti; nelle serre riscaldate l'anticipo  risultato di 5-6 giorni solamente rispetto all'Alar. L'impiego delPEthephon non ha avuto alcuna influenza sull'anticipo di maturazione delle bacche. Results of trials carried out on tomato grown in cold and heated greenhouse, with application of gibberellic-acid (Berelex 20 ppm) and succinic acid 2, 2-dimethyl hydrazide (Alar 2000 ppm) sprayed on the plants, and -naphthoxyacetic + para chlorophenoxyacetic acid (Apiren 50.000 ppm) and 2 chloro ethylphosphonic acid (Ethephon 0-500-1000 ppm) given only on the flowers and fruits, are reported. Best yields were obtained with Alar and Berelex applied to the fifth-eight leaf; both increased the number of fruits per plant and in some case the fruits weight, but Alar delayed the harvesting time of 5-6 days. Fruits treated with Apiren in the cold greenhouse were harvested 25 days before Alar and 18-20 days before Berelex and control. Ethephon did not had any effect on fruits earliness.
42877921|In una prova biennale di campo sono stati studiati gli effetti del CCC sulla produzione di frutti di pomodoro ottenuta con un'unica raccolta Quattro cultivar nel primo anno (2 da pelati e 2 da conserva) e dieci cultivar nel secondo anno (5 da pelati e 5 da conserva) sono state trattate con 4 applicazioni fogliari di CCC alla concentrazione di 1.500 ppm, eseguite a distanza di 15 giorni l'una dall'altra a partire dall'inizio della fioritura.  stata rilevata una diversa risposta varietale al trattamento con CCC. Le cv. da pelati ("Red Top VR 9", "S. Marzano", "Roma VFR", "Chico" e "S. Marzano R. P." hanno sempre reagito positivamente al CCC dando incrementi produttivi di frutti maturi da 13 a 70 q/ha circa (3-17% circa). Tra le cv. da conserva, alcune ("Sioux" nel primo anno e "VF 13L" nel secondo) hanno fornito incrementi di circa 15 a 30 q/ha, altre ("Heinz 1370" nel primo anno e "1402 VFR" nel secondo) hanno dato decrementi da 7 a 30 q/ha, altre infine ("New Yorker", "Mechanical harvester VF 145" e "Urbana") non hanno fornito differenze di produzione con il testimone. Gli incrementi forniti da "Red Top VR 9"e "S. Marzano" sono stati di entit diversa nei due anni di prova. Gli incrementi produttivi ottenuti sono risultati dovuti non ad un maggior peso dei frutti ma ad un maggior numero di frutti raccolti, che  stato in media di 2,8-3,0 frutti per pianta. Nelle piante trattate il numero di frutti colpiti da marciume apicale  risultato la met di quello delle piante non trattate. The effects of CCC on the yield of tomato fruits obtained with one harvest were studied during a two-year field trial. Four cultivars in the first year (2 peeling types and 2 for paste) and ten cultivars the second year (5 peeling types and 5 for paste) were trated with 4 CGC foliar spray applications of 1,500 ppm 15 days apart starting at the beginning of the flowering stage. A different reaction to the CGC treatment was noted among the varieties. The peeling cultivars ("Red Top VR 9", "S. Marzano", "Roma VFR", "Chico" and "S. Marzano R. P.") always responded well to CCC giving yield increases in the ripe fruits from about 13 to 70 q/ha (about 3-17%). Among the paste cultivars, some ("Sioux" the first year and "VF 13L" during the second) increased their yield by about 15 to 30 q/ha, others ("Heinz 1370" in the first year and "1402 VFR" during the second year) decreased their yield by 7 to 30 q/ha, while others ("New Yorker", "Mechanical harvester VF 145" and "Urbana") didn't give different yield in comparison with the control. The "Red Top VR 9"and "S. Marzano" yield increases were of different intensity in the two-year trial. The yield increases did not prove to be caused by a greater fruit weight but rather by a greater number of harvested fruits, which on the average was 2,8-3,0 fruits per plant. The number of fruits affected by apical rot in the treated plants proved to be half of that in the untreated plants.
42877922|Si  voluta esaminare l'efficienza dell'acido 2-cloroetilfosfonico nell'anticipare la maturazione commerciale delle bacche di due diversi genotipi di Capsicum annum I,. A tale scopo si sono confrontate le cv. "Corno di Bue" e "Giallo di Cuneo" che sono state trattate con 250, 500 e 1000 ppm di p.a. diluito in acqua. Il trattamento  stato effettuato quando la maggior parte delle piante presentava la prima bacca che cominciava a colorarsi. Sulle bacche, raccolte dicci giorni dopo il trattamento e, successivamente, ad intervalli di una settimana,  stata eseguita una serie di osservazioni riguardanti le principali caratteristiche organolettiche per verificare che il prodotto usato non influenzi negativamente la qualit e la quantit del raccolto. Solo i dati relativi alle piante trattate con 1000 ppm di principio attivo hanno dato risultati debolmente positivi, mentre le dosi di 250 e 500 ppm sono apparentemente insufficienti per provocare un anticipo di maturazione in entrambe le cultivar. In base ai risultati ottenuti, inoltre, sembra di poter escludere che le dosi usate per il trattamento abbiano in qualche modo influenzato sia le caratteristiche organolettiche delle bacche, sia la produzione totale. The trial was carried out to test how far 2-chloroethanephosphonic acid hastens ripening of the berries for marketing in the case of two different genotypes of Capsicum annuum L. To this end "Corno di Bue" and "Giallo di Cuneo" cultivars were compared; they were treated with 250, 500, and 1000 ppm of a.p. diluted in water. The solution was applied when the first berry on the majority of the plants was beginning to colour. A series of observations regarding the principle organolectic characteristics were carried out on the berries, at time of picking, ten days after the application had been made, and subsequently at weekly intervals, to make sure that the product used does not have negative effects on the quality and quantity of the crop. Only the data concerning the plants treated with 1000 ppm of active principle gave slightly positive results, while the doses of 250 and 500 ppm are apparently not sufficient to hasten the ripening in either of the cultivars. Futhermore, on the basis of the results obtained, it seems we can confirm that, in the doses used in this treatment, the acid did not in any way effect either the organolectic characteristics of the berries or the total quantity of the crop produced.
42877923|Ve ngono riferiti i risultati di una sperimentazione triennale tendente a valutare le possibilit pratiche di impiego dell'acido 2-cloroetilfosfonico (Ethrel) per anticipare ed aumentare la produzione dei meloni allevati in coltura protetta. Si  rilevato che trattamenti allo stadio di plntula a 300 ppm di principio attivo esplicano un'evidente azione femminilizfcante che, in alcune cultivar, ed in certe condizioni ambientali, determina significativi anticipi ed aumenti nella produzione. Trattamenti fogliari eseguiti all'inizio del periodo di raccolta, a concentrazioni comprese tra le 300 e 600 ppm, determinano un'anticipata raccolta dei frutti con notevoli vantaggi dovuti ad un aumento della produzione lorda, ad una riduzione nel numero delle raccolte, ad una anticipata disponibilit dei terreni. Poich accurate prove organolettiche e analisi degli zuccheri non hanno messo in luce alcun effetto negativo dei trattamenti si consiglia l'adozione di tale pratica agronomica per le cultivar appartenenti alla variet botanica Cantalupo Ser. Possibilities for the commercial use of Ethrel in accelerating ripening and increasing yield of "Cantaloupe" grown under plastic are considered. Application of 300 ppm of Ethrel during the stage of 2th to 4th true leaf have evident effects wich make some cultivars, under certain environmental conditions to ripe earlier and increase total yield. Pre harvest sprays of Ethrel at 300 to 600 ppm strongly shorten the picking period with evident profits due to an early higher production, with a consequent reduction early of pickings number and with the possibility of an earlier crop succession. No effects on quality and total sugars were found so that this practice is raccomanded at least for the botanical veriety "Cantalupo Ser ".
42877924|Vengono riferiti i risultati di una prova condotta sull'Arancio (cv. "Tarocco" e "Washington navel") e sul Clementine (cv. "Comune"), con lo scopo di saggiare gli effetti di alcuni trattamenti a base di acido gibberellico sulle caratteristiche qualitative dei frutti. La prova si  articolata sulle seguenti sei tesi differenziate in base al numero e all'epoca dei trattamenti, effettuati in un periodo compreso dall'ottobre 1971 al gennaio 1972: Tesi 1 : un solo trattamento all'inizio dell'invaiatura dei frutti. Tesi 2 : un solo trattamento 40 giorni dopo l'inizio dell'invaiatura dei frutti. Tesi 3 : un solo trattamento 80 giorni dopo l'inizio dell'invaiatura dei frutti. Tesi 4: due trattamenti, uno all'inizio dell'invaiatura e uno 40 giorni dopo. Tesi 5: due trattamenti, uno all'inizio dell'invaiatura e uno 80 giorni dopo. Tesi 6: nessun trattamento (Controllo). In tutti i trattamenti  stata usata un'unica dose, a 10 ppm di principio attivo. Le caratteristiche dei frutti sono state esaminate, per ciascuna cultivar, su campioni prelevati in due epoche diverse, cio a maturazione commerciale dei frutti del Controllo, e due mesi dopo. I risultati ottenuti hanno messo in evidenza diversi effetti dell'acido gibberellico sulle caratteristiche dei frutti.  stato osservato, anzitutto, un allungamento dei frutti trattati nella cv. "Tarocco"; inoltre nei frutti della seconda raccolta il peso medio  risultato superiore, specialmente nel Clementine "Comune" e nell'Arancio "Tarocco". I maggiori effetti si sono riscontrati, per, sulla colorazione della buccia, soprattutto per i frutti raccolti precocemente. Nelle tre cultivar, infatti, l'acido gibberellico ha ritardato il processo di invaiatura, in particolare col primo trattamento e con i trattamenti ripetuti. D'altra parte nei frutti trattati la tessitura e lo spessore della buccia sono stati sensibilmente migliorati. Nessun effetto  stato rilevato sulla colorazione della polpa, ad eccezione del "Tarocco" dove l'acido gibberellico ha attenuato le caratteristiche striature rosse dell'endocarpo. La tessitura della polpa, sempre nei frutti trattati, si  mantenuta normale anche in quelli raccolti in epoca tardiva, mentre nei frutti del Controllo sono stati osservati frequenti fenomeni di  spigatura . Un altro sintomo di senescenza dei frutti, e cio l'allargamento del canale stilare,  stato in parte contenuto dai trattamenti con acido gibberellico. In generale, sempre per i frutti raccolti tardivamente, la percentuale di succo  risultata maggiore in quelli trattati. Nessun effetto  stato rilevato sul contenuto in solidi totali solubili del succo, mentre l'acidit totale, ad eccezione del cv. "Washington navel", si  mantenuta su valori superiori nei frutti trattati. L'indice di maturazione, a sua volta,  risultato inferiore nei frutti trattati, sempre con l'eccezione della cv. "Washington navel". Fra gli effetti secondari imputabili all'acido gibberellico va segnalata la drastica riduzione della fioritura nella primavera successiva ai trattamenti. Some experiences on "Tarocco" and "Washington navel" sweet oranges and "Comune" Clementine concerning the effects of certain gibberellic acid treatments on fruit quality were carried out in Sardinia during 1971-72 harvest season. The following six different treatments were compared: 1. -One treatment at start of fruit colouring. 2. -One treatment about 40 days later. 3. -One treatment about 80 days later. 4. -Two treatments: at start of fruit colouring and 40 days later. 5. -Two treatments: at start of fruit colouring and 80 days later. 6. -Control. All the treatments were made with 10 ppm of gibberellic acid. Fruit samples were collected at two different periods of harvest season : as untreated fruits were ripen and two months later. It has been observed that gibberellic acid modifies fruit shape in the "Tarocco "orange, and increases average weight of fruits late harvested in "Tarocco "and Clementine. Gibberellic acid delays loss of rind pigments, improves rind texture and thickness, while no effects were observed on flesh colour only in "Tarocco "orange flesh colour intensity was decreased. Flesh texture was also improved by gibbelerellic acid sprays. Average stylar canal wideness was decreased, while juice percentage was increased by treatments. No effects were found on total soluble solids percentage, but acidity was increased by gibberellic acid, so that total soluble solids/acidity ratio resulted greater in treated fruits. Secondary effects by gibberellic acid were found in the next spring, like a drastical reduction on flowering with some treatments.
42877925|Su una serie di semenzali di pesco, castagno e mandorlo, interamente pretrattati con Alar a 2000 ppm, con CCC a 1000 ppm e con semplice acqua, venne successivamente effettuato un trattamento localizzato ad una foglia con una dose pari a 0,5 C di un fungicida translaminare (Flantwax) marcato con C. I risultati delle autoradiografie effettuate sui semenzali interi e quelli dei conteggi relativi alla radioattivit estratta dalle diverse parti di essi, hanno dimostrato che mentre nelle piante pretrattate con acqua (controlli) il Plantwax-C era rimasto localizzato nella foglia in cui era stata effettuata l'applicazione, in quelle pretrattate con Alar o con CCC il Plantwax-C si era diffuso anche alle altre parti dei semenzali comportandosi come un prodotto di tipo sistemico. L'azione dei  ritardanti di crescita  sulla permeabilit cellulare e sulla traslocazione viene pertanto discussa anche in rapporto alle nuove possibilit tecniche che tale fatto comporta. Three plots of almond, peach and chestnut young seedlings were sprayed with Alar 2000 ppm, CCC 1000 ppm and water. Subsequently 0.5 c of 5,6-dihydro-2-methyl-1,4-oxan thin--carboxanilide--dioxide (C-Plantwax, a fungicide labeled in its aniline ring) were applied to a leaf near the shoot tip of each seedling. The radioautograph of the seedlings and its extimated radioactivity revealed that the pretreatments with Alar or GCG enhance the C-Plantwax translocation. Chromatography of the extracts obtained from the different parts of these seedlings revealed that a portion of the fungicide was hydrolized to C-aniline during its translocation. The mechanism and the effects of growth retardants causing a systemic translocation of normally non systemic compound are discussed.
42877926|Astoni di pero allevati per mezzo di una soluzione nutritiva, sono stati trattati con  CCC -1-2-C con attivit specifica di 0,1 mC. Il trattamento  stato fatto su quattro piante, 3 germogli per pianta, spennellando, per ogni germoglio, le due pagine di una foglia mediana. Su altre quattro piante, con la stessa soluzione,  stato trattato l'apparato radicale, immergendo, per ogni pianta una intera branchetta radicale. A fine vegetazione sono stati fatti prelievi di foglie e radici, da tutte le tesi di trattamento. Un altro prelievo  stato fatto l'anno successivo al trattamento, comprendente, oltre che foglie e radici, anche il legno dei rami e del tronco. Nel 1972  stato ripetuto il trattamento con  CCC  -1-2-C su due piante, spennellando tutte le foglie di un unico germoglio per pianta. Poco prima del riposo invernale  stata eseguita un'analisi completa di foglie, rami, germogli, tronco e radici. Il materiale cos prelevato  stato seccato e quindi esaminato per il rilievo della presenza del C mediante spettrometria a scintillazione liquida. In 1971 pear trees were treated with "CCC"-1-2-C; the application was done on one median leaf of three shoots per tree and on one root branch. The tried trees were 4. The analysis, by liquid scintillation spectrometer, were done on leaves and roots in the same year, and on leaves, branches, shoots, trunk and roots, in the following year. In 1972 the leaves application was repeated and in the same year the whole tree was examined.
42877927|Per due anni  stata condotta una prova con ac. 2,4,5-triclorofenossipropionico sul pesco cv. Blaizing Gold e sull'uva da tavola cv. Cardinal. Da prove precedenti, svolte presso questo Istituto, era stata messa in evidenza l'azione opposta di questo prodotto che si manifesta sul pesco accelerando e sull'uva ritardando la maturazione dei frutti. Con questa prova si  inteso indagare sul meccanismo di azione dell'ac. 2,4,5-TP, esaminando l'attivit respiratoria, gli enzimi ossidanti (PFO, Catalasi, Perossidasi) ed il contenuto in ac. ascorbico. Parallelamente sono stati condotti rilievi agronomici riguardanti l'accrescimento dei frutti, l'epoca di maturazione, la produttivit, la pezzatura dei frutti, il loro contenuto in acidi liberi totali e zuccheri. Nel 1968 i trattamenti sono stati eseguiti 56 e 30 giorni dopo la piena fioritura, rispettivamente sul pesco e sull'uva alla concentrazione di 15 ppm. Nel 1969 i trattamenti sono stati ripetuti alla stessa concentrazione 61 giorni sul pesco e 43 giorni sull'uva dopo la piena fioritura. I rilievi sulle attivit respiratoria ed enzimatica, sulle foglie e sui frutti, sono iniziati nel periodo successivo alla fioritura (21/4/1968 e 2/5/1969 sul pesco, 28/5/1968 e 10/5/1969 sull'uva) solamente su piante di controllo. Dal trattamento alla raccolta i rilievi sono stati fatti in parallelo su piante trattate e testimoni. Le attivit fisiologiche prese in esame si sono dimostrate sensibili al trattamento. Le due specie studiate differiscono tra di loro soprattutto nell'attivit perossidasica e catalasica. La differente azione dell'ac. 2,4,5-TP sul processo di maturazione dei frutti  stata confermata nei due anni di sperimentazione; si  infatti riscontrato un anticipo di maturazione dei frutti di pesco ed un ritardo di maturazione dell'uva. A two years (1968, 1969) trial with 2,4,5-TP acid sprays on "Blazing Gold" peach and "Cardinal" table-grape has been done. Previous trials of this Istitute showed the opposite influence of 2, 4, 5 TP acid on peach and table-grape time of ripening. This trial is to study the effect of 2,4,5-TP acid on respiratory activity, oxidative enzymes (PPO, peroxydase, catalase) and ascorbic acid content in leaves and fruits. Fruit growth and size, time of ripening, crop, sugar fruit content and total acidity were also recorded. Peach trees were sprayed 56 and 61 days after full bloom in 1968 and 1969, "Cardinal" grapes were sprayed rispectively 30 and 43 days after full bloom. The 2,4,5-TP acid concentration was always 15 ppm. Measurements of respiratory and enzymatic activities of leaves and fruits began after blooming period on control (21/4/68 and 2/5/69 on peaches, 28/5/68 and 10/5/69 on grapes). After spray the observations were done both on treated and control trees and vines. The examined physiological activities were influenced by 2,4,5-TP acid. Peroxydasic and catalasic activities are particularly different in peaches and table-grapes. Different effect of 2,4,5-TP acid on the time of ripening of the two studied species has been confirmed.
42877928|Allo scopo di ridurre la taglia e di anticipare l'entrata in produzione del ciliegio, giovani piante della cv. "Giardino" sono state sottoposte per quattro anni consecutivi a trattamenti con due composti con  brachizzanti  (Alar e Gycocel) effettuati a diverse concentrazioni (4000, 6000, 8000 ppm). Dai risultati conseguiti  emerso che l'Alar ha sempre determinato una maggiore riduzione dell'accrescimento vegetativo rispetto a quella prodotta dal Cycocel. Tale riduzione, per, non sempre  risultata correlata alle concentrazioni usate. Anche la diminuzione della lunghezza degli internodi determinata sia dall'Alar che dal Cycocel non ha mostrato di essere direttamente proporzionale alle dosi impiegate. Le osservazioni condotte sulle caratteristiche morfologiche delle foglie prelevate da piante trattate con entrambi i composti alla concentrazione intermedia (6000 ppm), hanno messo in evidenza che soltanto l'Alar ha causato una riduzione della lunghezza del picciolo e delle foglie, nonch la larghezza e l'area delle medesime. I rilievi effettuati sulla fruttificazione hanno messo in evidenza che dopo quattro anni consecutivi in cui le piante erano state sottoposte a trattamenti con  brachizzanti  non si  avuto alcun anticipo nell'entrata in produzione rispetto al controllo. In order to reduce shoot growth and to induce an early production, young trees of "Giardino" sweet cherry variety were treated with Alar and Cycocel at 4000, 6000 and 8000 ppm for four years consecutively. The results showed Alar always reduces shoot growth much more than Gycocel, but the degree of growth reduction only in few cases was related to the concentrations. Also the length of internods shortened by the chemicals, didn't show any relation with the concentrations. Alar at 6000 ppm reduced the petiole and leaf length as well as the width and leaf area. After four years of treatments there is no evidence at all of an increase of an early production as compared with the check.
42877929|Durante il 1970 ed il 1971  stata saggiata l'efficacia brachizzante dell'SADH (Alar) e, parallelamente, del TIBA (Floraltone) in due cultivar di ciliegio dolce: "Bigarreau Moreau" al 3 anno di vegetazione dall'innesto su "P. Mahaleb" e "Durona di Cesena" al 2 anno di vegetazione dall'innesto su "Amarena" del modenese. Sono stati posti a confronto trattamenti singoli e ripetuti entro giugno impiegando: l'SADH a 2000 ppm (nel 1970) e a 1000 ppm (nel 1971); il TIBA a 100 ppm Sono state confrontate diverse concentrazioni (nel 1971): 100 e 200 ppm di TIBA; 2000-3000-4000 ppm di SADH.  stato rilevato lo sviluppo vegetativo dei rami di prolungamento delle branche primarie, secondarie, delle  frecce  ed il numero degli internodi. L'SADH ha ridotto: l'incremento di sviluppo in relazione al numero dei trattamenti e alla concentrazione d'impiego; la lunghezza degli internodi e, come sembra, il loro numero. L'azione brachizzante  risultata breve (20-30 gg. dopo ogni trattamento) e limitata al solo anno di applicazione. Il TIBA ha dimostrato una incostante azione brachizzante che sembra essersi manifestata con la riduzione del numero di internodi. Comunque tale azione  stata di breve durata nell'anno di applicazione. Dopo trattamenti ripetuti l'effetto brachizzante si  manifestato anche nell'anno successivo. During 1970 and 1971 researches were carried out on the effect of SADH (Alar) and of TIBA (Floraltone) in two sweet cherry varieties as growth retardants: plants of "Bigarreau Moreau" three years old grafted on "P. Mahaleb" and of "Durona di Cesena" two years old grafted on "P. Cerasus" (Amarena type in Modena district) were under trial. One and more sprays were compared employing: SADH at 2000 ppm (in 1970) and at 1000 ppm (in 1971); TIBA at 100 ppm. Different concentrations were compared (in 1971); 100 and 200 ppm of TIBA; 2000-3000-4000 ppm of SADH. The growth of head shoots of primary and secondary branches, of central leader and the number of internodes were recorded. SADH reduced: growth in relation to the number of sprays and to the concentration; the length of the internodes and, as it seems, their number. It was a short influence (20-30 days after every spary) on growth reduction, and only in the year of application. TIBA showed an incostant and short effect as growth regulator reducing, it seems, the number of internodes. The growth reduction effect was noticed also in the following year after repeated sprays. Of the growth regulators under trial in this research SADH employed every year at 2000 ppm, a first time when shoots were 15-20 cm. long, a the second time in the first decade of June, had a higher effect than TIBA in growth reduction of young cherry-trees.
42877930|Durante cinque anni, dal 1968 al 1972, sono stati studiati gli effetti di applicazioni ripetute di CCC sul comportamento vegetativo e produttivo di piante di "Golden Delicious" allevate senza potatura manuale. Sono stati presi in considerazione gli effetti dei trattamenti sulla vigoria e sullo sviluppo degli alberi, sulla induzione a fiore, sull'allegagione, sulla precocit di messa a frutto, sulla distribuzione della produzione nell'ambito della chioma e quelli infine relativi ai caratteri organolettici e commerciali dei frutti stessi, quali il contenuto zuccherino e l'acidit, la compattezza della polpa, la rugginosit, la pezzatura, ecc. Sulla base di tali risultati vengono messi in rilievo i limiti e le possibilit applicative del CCC per il controllo chimico delle piante durante il periodo di allevamento, soprattutto nei riguardi dlla possibilit di controllare, nelle piante trattate, il fenomeno della alternanza di produzione. A five years research was carried on young "Golden Delicious" apple trees treated with CCC. At the end of the fifth growing season, the results have shown that: 1) the yearly treatments decrease the trees growth especially during the first and the second growing season; 2) starting from the third growing season, when the "Golden Delicious" apple trees began to produce, the treated trees have shown a very regular increasing production, while the check trees started to show a tendency for a biennial bearing; 3) in the treated trees the fruit size was better than in the check ones, without differences, in the soluble solids content, in the acidity, in the flesh firmness and in the skin russeting; 4) the leaves of treated trees have shown a higher chlorofil content.
42877931|La letteratura non riporta notizie di ricerche effettuate con regolatori di crescita ad effetto brachizzante su Callistephus chinensis (Aster, China secondo Chittenden, 1951). Al fine di controllare alcuni effetti esercitati da Cycocel ed Alar a diverse concentrazioni sulle predette annuali sono state intraprese le presenti ricerche sulle cultivar ibride: "Aster alte doppio", "Aster Contessa", "Aster Re dei Nani", "Aster Super Princesse Resistente", "Aster Daisy Mae". I trattamenti sono stati effettuati nel maggio 1971 su piante delle diverse cultivar con soluzioni di Alar (gr 2,5 ed 1,25 per litro) e di Cycocel (gr 10 e 5 per litro). I trattamenti hanno provocato nelle diverse cultivar, nei confronti dei testimoni trattati con acqua, differenti effetti sull'altezza delle piante e sul numero di fiori, mentre l'epoca di fioritura non  stata in alcun modo influenzata. Callistephus chinensis hybrid cv "Aster alte doppio", "Aster Contessa", "Aster Re dei Nani", "Aster Daisy Mae" were sprayed in spring 1971 with aqueous solution of Cycocel (10 and 5 gr per liter) and Alar (2,5 and 1,25 gr per liter). The size of the plants has been reduced only with the higher cultivars but the flowers number has been reduced with the exception of two cultivars were it has been increased. No effects on the flowering period have been recorded.
42877932|Nel 1970 sono stati iniziati i trattamenti annuali di Alar su giovani meli "Stark Delicious" su franco, di 2 anni d'impianto, allo scopo di valutare la possibilit di ridurre gli accrescimenti, anticipare la fruttificazione, ridurre la potatura. Dopo un biennio, in cui le piante non sono state potate,  possibile riferire gli effetti dei trattamenti di Alar, singoli e ripetuti entro giugno, sullo sviluppo vegetativo dei rami di prolungamento delle branche primarie e secondarie. Nel 1970 l'Alar  stato irrorato a 2000 ppm iniziando i trattamenti quando i germogli erano lunghi cm 22. Nel 1971  stata impiegata la concentrazione di 1000 ppm iniziando i trattamenti quando i germogli erano lunghi cm 10-12. In ambedue gli anni l'Alar ha contenuto lo sviluppo vegetativo dei rami in misura considerevole in rapporto al numero di trattamenti effettuati; ha ridotto la lunghezza degli internodi e, a seguito di tre trattamenti, anche il loro numero. L'azione dell'Alar si  manifestata solo nell'anno di applicazione, ed  stata molto breve: 30-40 gg. dopo il 1 trattamento; 40-50 gg. dopo il 2 trattamento. Il 3 trattamento ha protratto la riduzione degli incrementi di sviluppo fino a fine stagione. Tre trattamenti hanno complessivamente ridotto l'incremento di sviluppo dei rami come due trattamenti. This trial started in 1970 in two years old "Stark Delicious" apple-trees on seedling. They were sprayed during two growing seasons in order to study the possibility to reduce growth, pruning and to anticipate fruiting. After two years during which the plants were unpruned it is possible to check on the effects of one and more sprays of Alar on the head growth of primary and secondary branches. In 1970 Alar was sprayed at 2000 ppm and beginning when shoots were 22 cm long. In 1971 the concentration was of 1000 ppm and sprays began when shoots were 10-12 cm long. In both years Alar greatly reduced vegetative growth in relation to the number of sprays; it reduced the length of the internodes and, as a conseguence of three sprays, also their number. Alar effect was evident only in the year of application and for a brief period: 30-40 days after the first spray; 40-50 days after the second spray. The third spray prolonged the growing reduction till the end of the season. Three sprays reduced the total increasing of shoots growth as two treatments did.
42877933|Sono state condotte ricerche su alcuni aspetti pratico-applicativi della tecnica di defogliazione chimica degli astoni in vivaio. I trattamenti sono stati effettuati con soluzioni di Joduro di potassio a 3000 e a 4000 ppm, di Ethephon a 1000, 2000 e 3000 ppm e di PRB-8 (2-beta-cloro-beta-cianoetil-6-clorotoluene) a 2000, 4000 e 6000 ppm, su astoni di melo (cv. "Golden Delicious", "Granny Smith" e "Starking Delicious") e di pero (cv. "Bella di Giugno", "Coscia", e "William"), in due epoche distinte e, cio, il 18 ed il 25 ottobre 1971. L'efficacia defogliante dei trattamenti  stata valutata al momento dell'estirpazione suddividendo gli astoni in 5 diverse classi a seconda dell'entit della defogliazione, ed attribuendo a ciascuna classe i seguenti coefficienti: 2, 3 e 4, defogliazione, rispettivamente del terzo basale, del terzo basale e mediano e quasi totale; coefficiente 5, defogliazione totale; coefficiente 1, nessuna defogliazione. Risultati interessanti, dal punto di vista delle possibilit applicative della tecnica di defogliazione chimica degli astoni in vivaio, sono stati ottenuti sia nel melo, sia nel pero, con i trattamenti a base di Joduro di potassio e di Ethephon, mentre il "PRB-8" non ha manifestato alcuna efficacia defogliante alle concentrazioni usate. Le diverse cultivar hanno manifestato una differente sensibilit ai trattamenti e, in particolare, molto meno sensibile  apparsa la "Granny Smith" nel melo, e la "Bella di Giugno", nel pero. Ethephon (at 1,000; 2,000 and 3,000 ppm), Potassium jodide (at 3,000 and 4,000 ppm) and PRB-8 (2-beta-chloro-beta-cyanoethyl-6-chloro-toluene) (at 2,000; 4,000 and 6,000 ppm) were applied to apple (cv. "Golden Delicious", "Granny Smith" and "Starking Delicious" on M 26) and pear (cv. "Bella di Giugno" "Coscia" and "William Bartlet"on seedling) at commercial nurseries in Northern Italy (Ferrara). Sprays were applied on October 18th and 25th, 1971, i.e. 3 and 2 weeks before the digging time, to run off, using a hand operated bucket pump sprayers. The degree of defoliation has been determined visually at digging time. The results have shown that: a) neither on apple, nor on pear did PRB-8 affect the defoliation; b) both Potassium jodide and Ethephon treatments were active in promoting leaf abscission; c) "Granny Smith" was the most and the "Golden Delicious" the least difficult to defoliate; d) especially on pear, Potassium jodide was more effective than Ethephon in promoting leaf abscission; e) later applications of Ethephon gave better results than earlier ones.
42877934|Trattamenti con acido gibberellico (1-10 ppm) effettuati pre-semina su due cultivar di patata, (Pentland e Sieglinde), hanno favorito un aumento del numero di steli per tubero e conseguentemente un maggior numero di tuberi per pianta con peso medio sensibilmente pi basso. L'AG ha permesso di ottenere una migliore uniformit nelle dimensioni dei tuberi. L'AG non ha manifestato nessuna significativa influenza sulla produzione commerciabile, la sostanza secca ed il peso specifico dei tuberi. Results of three years trials on the influence of gibberellic acid (GA) on distribution of potato tuber size are reported. Certified tubers of sprouted of cv. Pentland and Sieglinde were soaked 10 minutes in 0,1 or 10 ppm of GA. Results show that GA increased the number of stem per tuber and conseguently a greater number of tuber per plant was produced but the average tuber weight decreased. Furthermore GA increased the percentage of tubers of 51-150 g more valuable for the fresh market and for canning. GA did not show any influence on total yield, dry matter and specific gravity of tubers.
42877836|Astoni di melo e di pero allevati in serra ed in vivaio sono stati oggetto di indagini relative ad alcuni aspetti fisiologici della morfogenesi e della induzione dei rami anticipati. I saggi biologici eseguiti partendo dagli estratti delle porzioni apicali dei germogli delle due cv. "Jonathan" e "Rhode Island Greening" hanno dimostrato, per quanto riguarda la prima cultivar (caratterizzata da una elevata attitudine alla emissione dei rami anticipati), che mentre il livello delle sostanze inibitrici rimane piuttosto basso e costante, quello delle sostanze stimolatrici diminuisce in corrispondenza del periodo di schiusura delle gemme pronte; nella cv. "R. I. Greening", incapace di emettere spontaneamente rami anticipati, il livello delle sostanze stimolatrici e di quelle inibitrici  risultato, oltre che pi elevato rispetto alla "Jonathan", anche praticamente costante durante l'intero ciclo dei saggi biologici, e cio da tre settimane prima a due settimane dopo l'epoca in cui si sviluppano le gemme pronte. Questi risultati dimostrano che la  dominanza apicale  assai marcata nella cv. "R. I. Greening", non pu essere solo il risultato della traslocazione basipeta delle sostanze auxinosimili dagli apici dei germogli alle sottostanti zone, ma, pi obbiettivamente, quello di un bilancio che si stabilisce tra i vari  regolatori  endogeni, compresi gli inibituri, fra i quali l'acido abscissico. La somministrazione di un composto antiauxinico esogeno quale il TIBA, ha stimolato la formazione dei rami anticipati su due cultivar ("Starking Delicious" e "Passa Crassana") caratterizzate da una accentuata dominanza apicale e quindi da una scarsa presenza di gemme pronte. L'azione di tale sostanza ha per avuto anche effetti negativi sull'anatomia e sulla morfologia dei germogli degli alberi trattati. L'induzione dei rami anticipati  stata invece favorita, senza la insorgenza di fatti fitotossici, da altre due sostanze e cio dalla DPU (ancora poco conosciuta), a 500 od a 1000 ppm e dalla MH a 1300 ppm. Questi ultimi risultati prospettano una concreta possibilit di applicazione pratica dei due predetti composti al fine di migliorare le tecniche di allevamento del melo e del pero secondo i due moderni sistemi della "palmetta anticipata" e dello "slender spindle". The relathionship between some physiological and hormonal aspects of the morphogenesis of the lateral shoots (feathers) has been investigated on apple and pear maiden trees. The bioassays of extracts from the upper part of "Jonathan" and "R. I. Greening" seedlings, showed that the promoters level decreased on "Jonathan" (which tends to feather naturally) during the period of the summer buds break, while the inhibitors level appears to be small, but constant. On "R. I. Greening" (which do not feather easily), the levels of both promoters and inhibitors were higher and constant during the five weeks of the hormonal investigation. These data support that "apical dominance" is mainly related to the movement of auxins from the shoots apex to the regions below. Consequently the strong polarity of the shoots can be ascribed to the greater quantity of auxin-like substances and to the balance between these substances and inhibitors. Furthemore, the application of the antiauxin TIBA induced feathers formation in "Starking Delicious" and "Passe Crassane" (which normally do not branch freely), but its action involved also some negative effects on the anatomical and morphological pattern of the trees. In "Golden Delicious ", "Starking Delicious", "Doyenn du Comice" and "Passe Crassane", a large number of feathers without any phytotoxic symptoms were instead obtained by the use, in the nursery, of two chemicals: Diphenilurea f(DPU); at 500 or 1000 ppm and Maleic hydrazide (MH) at 1300 ppm. These latter results afford a possible approach for getting nursery trees suitable to improve the two modern training systems "sprint palmette "and "slender spindle".
42877837|A new early and yellow fleshed peach variety is described. It is a very vigorous one, good producer and has fruits of good size.
42877838|Su una coltura di patata primaticcia cv. "Alpha E" sono stati applicati, in dosi ed epoche diverse, alcuni fitoregolatori ed altre sostanze. I risultati ottenuti hanno posto in rilievo una modesta efficacia delle sostanze utilizzate nell'incrementare la produzione dei tuberi. Dalle indicazioni emerse, tuttavia, si prospetta la possibilit di favorire una pi elevata e precoce produzione con applicazioni pi anticipate di FOP 11, Phosphon, Zn + DMSO, CCC ed Alar. II NIA 10637 somministrato in dosi elevate e quando i tuberi sono ancora troppo piccoli provoca in questi notevoli danni, tanto da comprometterne la commerciabilit, mentre il 2, 4-D rallenta l'accrescimento della vegetazione con conseguenze negative sulla produzione. Un pi rapido accrescimento dei tuberi sembra conseguibile con tutte le sostanze, ad eccezione del 2, 4-D, variando opportunamente le dosi e l'epoca di applicazione e di raccolta. Results of two trials carried out at Polignano a Mare (Southern Italy) on the influence of growth regulators and other substances on the early potato (cv. "Alpha E") are reported. In a trial, CCC (1000-2000 ppm), Phosphon (10-100 ppm), Alar (2000-4000 ppm), Folcysteine Oeriu (FOP 11, 50-500 ppm), 2, 4-D + Foliar fertilizer (300 + 3000 ppm), Zn + DMSO (1000 + 1000; 10.000 + 1000 ppm) and NIA 10637 (Ethyl hydrogen 1-propylphosphonate at 2000-4000-6000-8000-10.000 ppm) were applied 30 days before harvest. In a second trial NIA 10637 was sprayed at 4000 and 8000 ppm 40, 30, 20 and 10 days before harvest. Three harvests were made at 10 days interval starting the May 5th in order to observe the influence of growth regulators on earliness. Results show that FOP 11, Phosphon, Zn + DMSO, CCC, Alar and some time NIA 10637, increase the rate of growth of tuber, instead 2, 4-D decrease the rate of growth of plants and tuber and conseguently a lower yield was obtained. Application of Phosphon and Zn + DMSO produced more heavy tubers. A percentage of severely damaged tubers, averaging 36 to 60%, was obtained by NIA 10637 applied 30-40 days before harvest at doses higher than 2000 ppm.
42877839|Ai primi di luglio del 1969,  stata effettuata una prova di propagazione su germogli della cultivar di Nocciuolo "Tonda Romana", con il metodo della  margotta aerea . La radicazione totale  stata ottenuta con l'ausilio di margotte ricavate da manicotti di polietilene nero, applicati alla base del germoglio, contenenti agriperlite e terriccio nel rapporto 3 : 1 e trattando il germoglio, in corrispondenza della zona margotta, con IBA in lanolina alla concentrazione di 3000 ppm. Percentuali elevate di radicazione si sono avute, inoltre, sia con margotte contenenti agriperlite, che prive di substrato in combinazione con il trattamento IBA. L'apparato radicale formatosi nelle margotte contenenti agrperlite e terriccio  risultato il pi valido; radici piuttosto grosse, in numero limitato e scarsamente ramificate si sono formate nelle margotte prive di substrato. At the beginning of July 1969 a propagation experiment was made of the Filbert cv. "Tonda Romana" shoots, with the air layering method. A total radication has been obtained by the help of a wrapping of a black polyethylene film placed around the base of the shoot. The wrapping contains a mixture of 3 parts of perlite to 1 part of soil, treating the base of the shoot also with I.B.A. mixed with lanoline at 3000 ppm. High percentages of radication have also been obtained not only with air layering containing perlite but also with an air layering without a media, but with the I.B.A. treatment. The roots formed in the wrapping which contains perlite and soil have proved to be the best ; rather large roots, but with few single roots, formed in the wrappings without a media.
42877840|Vengono riferiti i risultati di una ricerca sul Pothos (Scindapsus aureus Lindi.) allevato su diversi tipi di substrati aventi come base comune il 30% di terreno di medio impasto + 10% di sabbia. Le piante migliori sono state quelle coltivate con 40% di foglie di faggio + 20% (letame o Floratorf o TKS-2), 60% (foglie di faggio o Floratorf o TKS-2). Gli stocchi di mais macinati hanno provocato vistose riduzioni dello sviluppo vegetativo tranne nel miscuglio costituito dal 20% stocchi + 20% foglie faggio + 20% TKS-2. Results observed with Pothos (Scindapsus aureus Lindl.) grown on various substrates having in common 30% of loam soil and 10% of sand are given. The best plants have been obtained with 40% of beech-leaf + 20% (organic manure or Floratorf or TKS-2), 60% (beech-leaf or Floratorf or TKS-2). Marked reductions in growth have been observed with milled corn stalks except in the mixture of 20% corn stalks + 20% beech-leaf + 20% TKS-2.
42877841|Allo scopo di facilitare la raccolta meccanica del fagiolino sono state effettuate 4 prove impiegando varie sostanze ad azione defogliante in dosi diverse. I rilievi, effettuati dopo 5 e 10 giorni dal trattamento, hanno posto in evidenza una buona efficacia di alcune sostanze nel favorire una elevata defogliazione, maggiormente evidente quando alle soluzioni  stato aggiunto, quale veicolante, il DMSO. In particolare, la cicloeximide, il 2, 4-D, l'endothal, la -alanina, lo ioduro, il clorato ed il cianato potassico e l'ethephon nella dose quest'ultimo di 2000 ppm, hanno permesso di ottenere quasi sempre defogliazioni superiori al 40% giungendo con la cicloeximide fino al 92%. L'azione della cicloeximide, -alanina, dello ioduro e clorato potassico  apparsa pi persistente rispetto agli altri trattamenti. La produzione e le caratteristiche commerciali dei baccelli sono state influenzate negativamente dall'endothal che ha provocato un arresto della vegetazione e macchie rossastre sui baccelli. Baccelli pi teneri sono stati ottenuti con l'ethephon, la -alanina e la calciocianamide; quest'ultima ha determinato anche una colorazione pi intensa dei baccelli. L'impiego di alcune sostanze provate, ed in particolare della cicloeximide, del 2, 4-D e dell'endothal, tuttavia, desta attualmente delle perplessit soprattutto per quanto riguarda la loro tossicit residua. Four trials were carried out in order to evaluate the defoliation effect of ethephon, -alanine, ascorbic acid, abscisic acid, 2, 4-D, endothal, cicloeximide, gibberellic acid, calcium cyanamide (CaCN), potassium chlorate (KGlO), cyanate (KCNO) and ioide (KI). Two destructive harvest were made 5 and 10 days after treatments. Cicloeximide, 2, 4-D, endothal, -alanine, ethephon, KCIO, KCNO and KI gave satisfactory results especially when DMSO was used as a carrier. The action of cicloeximide, -alanine, KI and KCIO appear to be more persistent than other defoliants. Endothal treated plants gave low yield and 3 to 8% of pods with red spots. More tender beans were obtained applying ethephon, -alanine and CaCN; from the last very deep green pods were also obtained.
42877847| una vigorosa cultivar tardiva, di pesco isolata dalla progenie della "J. H. Hale"  "Redhaven", producente frutti a polpa gialla, analoghi a qualli della "J. H. Hale" e maturanti all'incirca alla stessa epoca. La "J. H. Hale", resa nota nel 1912, nelle successive propagazioni agamiche ha attenuato in varia misura i pregi del clone originario. Pertanto la "Dorata Tardiva", pi vigorosa e produttiva, si ritiene possa sostituire vantaggiosamente la "J. H. Hale" nelle nuove piantagioni. It is a vigorous late peach variety, isolated from the progeny of "J. H. Hale"  "Redhaven". Its yellow fleshed fruits are very like those of "J. H. Hale" peach and ripe about the same period. "J. Ha Hale", known from 1912, through subsequent agamic propagations, reduced sensibly the original clone qualities. "Dorata Tardiva" could then substitute profitably the "J. H. Hale" in new plantings.
42877848|La ricerca ha avuto lo scopo di esaminare la possibilit di consentire la raccolta delle nocciole per scuotimento delle branche diminuendo la resistenza dei frutti al distacco e la scalarit della loro maturazione mediante trattamenti a base di acido 2-cloroetilfosfonico (CEPA). I risultati ottenuti sono stati incoraggianti, avendo dimostrato che questo prodotto pu essere vantaggiosamente impiegato per i fini indicati, a condizione che non si superino certi livelli di concentrazione oltre i quali si verifica una eccessiva cascola precoce delle nocciole ed una diminuzione della loro resa in  sgusciato . I migliori risultati pratici sono stati conseguiti con il trattamento a 200 ppm eseguiti 20 giorni prima della raccolta: con tale trattamento si  raggiunto infatti un effettivo rendimento della raccolta dell'85%, contro il 60% degli alberi di controllo. Trees of "Tonda gentile delle Langhe" have been sprayed on August 1st and 11th with (2-chloroethyl) phosphonic acid at concentrations ranging from 0 to 1,000 ppm, with the aim to: a) hasten the ripening, thus encouraging more uniform maturation and allowing more of the fruit to be harvested at a single time; b) facilitate the fruit removal by mechanical shaking of the limbs. The results have shown that CEPA application can be very useful in mechanical harvesting of hazelnuts. To obtain the maximum benefits, CEPA has to be applied below a certain critical threshold, above which it causes a high early nut drop, increases percent of shriveled seeds and reduces the kernel: inshells ratio. Treatments at 200 ppm, applied 20 days before harvesting, gave the best results, allowing an actual output (85%) much higher than that reached in the check trees.
42877849|Viene descritta, per la prima volta, la capacit di apici meristematici di una cultivar mediterranea di garofano a svilupparsi su substrato, liquido od agarizzato, privo di sostanze di crescita. L'aggiunta di sostanze di crescita nel substrato (acido gibberellico, acido naftalenacetico, tiamina) incrementa tuttavia, sia la resa in piante radicate che la velocit di sviluppo. Le piantine si sono sviluppate normalmente anche se completamente immerse nel substrato liquido ed hanno attecchito al trapianto in vaso. Al termine delle esperienze il pH del substrato  sempre risultato spostato verso valori acidi. L'incapacit a svilupparsi mostrata da una parte di apici stessi  verosimilmente legata ad una condizione di eterogeneit nella popolazione degli apici meristematici. Viene ipotizzata l'esistenza di una condizione di squilibrio nei rapporti endogeni tra le sostanze di crescita per spiegare l'inibizione del processo di rizogenesi in una parte di espianti. Axillary meristem tips of a Mediterranean cultivar of carnation, consisting of the apical dome plus the two primordial leaflets (0.2-0.3 mm long) were cultured, for the first time, in a liquid substrate lacking in growth substances. 50 plantlets were obtained from 90 meristem tips: 22 of these were completely differentiated while 28 did not develop their root system. However, the mineral substrate supplemented with gibberellic acid (0.1 mg/1), naphtalenic acid (0.1 mg/1) and thiamine (1 mg/1) gave better results: out of 90 meristem tips, 86 plantlets were obtained, 76 of these rooted. Also the rate of development was considerably increased by the presence of the growth substances in the substrate. Gibberellic acid appeared to be essential for either improving the yield of plantlets or increasing the development rate. Identical results were obtained when the substrates were supplemented with agar (0.5%). The inability of a number of meristem tips to develop in a substrate lacking in growth substances is interpreted as a heterogeneity of the meristem tip population In order to explain the occurrence of plantlets lacking root system an endogenous inbalance between growth substance ratios is hypothesized. Plantlets developed normally even when completely submerged in the substrate. They were successfully transferred to soil. The pH of the liquid substrate in which plantlets had developed always shifted towards acid values (4-4.5). This fact was not dependent on either the occurrence of root system or the presence of growth substances in the substrate.
42877850|Su piante di pesco "Vivian" sono stati posti a confronto il diradamento chimico e quello meccanico dei frutti con quello manuale. Il diradamento meccanico  stato effettuato con scuotitore Homelite, quando il seme aveva raggiunto la lunghezza di 8-11 mm, cio all'epoca in cui  stato eseguito il diradamento a mano. Il diradamento chimico  stato realizzato trattando le piante in prova con sostanze cascolanti come il CEPA a 30, 60, 120, 180 ppm e il 3 CPA a 150 e 300 ppm, all'indurimento del nocciolo. Il diradamento meccanico ha provocato una cascola disforme nelle diverse parti della pianta ma pressocch uguale al diradamento manuale ed ha comportato un notevole risparmio di manodopera. Per quanto riguarda il diradamento chimico, entrambe le sostanze hanno esplicato una buona, se pure diversa azione diradante. I migliori risultati si sono ottenuti nelle piante trattate con CEPA a 30 e particolarmente a 60 ppm e con il 3 CPA a 150 ppm. Tali dosi hanno consentito un carico di frutti equilibrato alla potenzialit delle piante e quindi produzioni pi elevate rispetto alle atre tesi. The effects of chemical, mechanical and hand fruit thinning have been tested on " Vivian " cling peaches. CEPA (30, 60, 120, 180 ppm) and 3-CPA (150, 300 ppm) have been applied at the stage of 8  11 mm seed lenght, while mechanical thinning has been applied with the aid of a limb shaker at the stage of the pit hardening that is at the same time of hand thinning. Mechanical thinning had similar effects of hand thinning and greatly reduced labour requirement; nevertheless the fruit drop appeared irregular in the different parts of the canopy. Among the chemical treatments the best results have been obtained with CEPA 60 30 ppm and with 3 CPA 150 ppm, owing to the proper ratio reached between the fruits number and the fruiting ability of the trees.
42877851|Si descrive una malattia virale del pomodoro, presente in Campania, che, in base ai sintomi manifestati dalla solanacea in parola e delle piante test adoperate nell'isolamento del virus, pu identificarsi con lo  streak  degli AA. di lingua inglese. I sintomi manifestati dai frutti delle piante malate sembrano identificarsi con quelli descritti da Ainsworth e da Chamberlain. Il virus responsabile della malattia  apparso essere un ceppo del virus del mosaico del tabacco. La sua identificazione  stata effettuata oltre che in base ai sintomi manifestati da numerosi ospiti erbacei, anche in relazione alle caratteristiche fisiche e sierologiche. Symptoms of "streak", on tomato plants, are described. The fruits show chloroticnecrotic, ring-like, symptoms; these look like those described by Ainsworth (1934) and Chamberlain (1940). The responsable virus was identified through the investigation of its biological, physical and serological characters, as a strain of the tobacco mosaic virus. It causes local symptoms on Nicotiana tabacum v. "White Burley", N. sylvestris, N. rustica, N. megalosiphon, N. glutinosa, Petunia hybrida, Chenopodium quinoa, C. amarantico lor, Cichorium endivia, Datura stramonium', Sistemyc symptoms were detected on N. debney, Physalis peruviana, Gomphrena globosa, Capsicum annuum. Symptoms of "streak" were reproduced on tomato plants by the aid of mechanical inoculation in greenhouse.
42877852|Viene dapprima descritta la macchina  Warner-Bratzler tissue shearing machine , usata negli Stati Uniti per misurare la fibrosit delle carni macellate. Questa macchina  stata adottata da Van Oostrum e Holtzausen (1969) in Sud Africa per determinare la consistenza della polpa di frutti di agrumi. Nella ricerca di cui si da conto nella presente nota l'apparecchio  stato usato su pesche, pere, susine, arance, limoni e mandarini. I risultati hanno dimostrato che lo strumento dovrebbe essere meglio regolato per misurare pi attendibilmente i tessuti dei frutti appartenenti a cultivar che posseggono una polpa pi tenera (come alcune variet di pesco, pero e susino). Ottenuto questo,  possibile avere una macchina che pu essere usata con facilit e profitto al posto di altri apparecchi non tanto precisi o pi complicati. Rimane da valutare, tuttavia, il significato scientifico e pratico dei dati relativi alla consistenza della polpa dei frutti. Questo perch  stato dimostrato che frutti della stessa variet, ottenuti da alberi allevati in identiche condizioni, hanno fatto verificare valori molto diversi tra loro. Non solo, ma questa differenza  stata anche riscontrata su campioni di polpa estratti da settori diversi dello stesso frutto. The " Warner-Bratzler " tissue shearing machine, used in the U.S.A. for measuring meat tenderness, is described here. This machine was adopted for the first time in South Africa by Van Oostrum and Holtzhausen (1969) for determining the fibre toughness of citrus fruit. In the research which is referred to this note, the instrument was used on peaches, pears, plums, oranges, lemons and mandarins. The results have shown that the equipment must be better regulated to measure more precisely the fibre strength of varieties which have tender pulp (like many peach, pear and plum cultivars). Once this has been achieved the instrument can be easily and profitably used, instead of similar machines not so precise or more elaborate. However, the scientific and practical meaning of the fibre strength measurings is unsatisfactory. This is due to the fact that ripe marketable fruit from trees of a same cultivar, grown under identical conditions, were excessively different. Moreover, pulp samples of a same fruit taken from different sectors have shown a different fibre toughness.
42877853|Si descrive un mosaico della melanzana causato da un ceppo del virus del mosaico del cetriolo. Il virus induce anche sintomi, pi o meno evidenti sui frutti. L'identificazione del virus  stata effettuata in base ai suoi caratteri biologici, fisici e sierologici. La malattia  stata riprodotta, in serra, su melanzana, effettuando inoculazioni meccaniche. A mosaic of Eggplant, caused by a strain of Cucumber mosaic virus, is described. The virus causes also symptoms on fruits. The virus was identified through the investigation of its biological, physical and serological characters. The disease was reproduced on Eggplant, in greenhouse, with the aid of mechanical inoculations.
42877854|Si segnala una nuova malattia dell'olivo dovuta probabilmente ad un fungo del genere Micropera, che produce tacche necrotiche sui rami, seguite da disseccamento e caduta delle foglie. A new disease of the olive-tree, probably caused by a fungus of the genus Micropera, is reported. The symptoms are spots on the branches, followed by withering of leaves and defoliation.
42877855|Vengono riportati i risultati preliminari, riferiti al primo quinquennio dall'impianto di una prova condotta sull'impiego di due portainnesti clonali di melo (MM 104 ed MM 106) in combinazione con 5 cultivar ("StarkEarliest", "Wilson Red June", "Rubra Precoce", "Jonathan" e "Stayman Red"). In questa prima fase  stato messo in luce che esiste una notevole interazione tra cultivar e soggetto, anche se il portainnesto ha mostrato di poter esercitare un sensibile controllo sia dello sviluppo che della produttivit dell'individuo bimembre. In particolare il "MM 106 "sembra indurre una pi abbondante e precoce fruttificazione, unitamente ad uno sviluppo pi ridotto della pianta. Per quel che riguarda il "MM 104", invece, si deve segnalare un pi rigoglioso sviluppo vegetativo, accompagnato ad una non trascurabile produttivit. Si tratterebbe quindi, di due soggetti destinati ad essere utilizzati convenientemente in impianti strutturalmente diversi: il "MM 106" per colture intensive mentre il "MM 104" per impianti industriali. L'epoca di maturazione e la colorazione dei frutti non sembrano viceversa essere influenzate da nessuno dei due portainnesti impiegati. Per quel che riguarda le cultivar, infine nelle condizioni delle prove, si deve segnalare la particolare fertilit della "Jonathan" e della "Styman Red" mentre risultati deludenti almeno per quel che riguarda la produttivit sono da segnalarsi a carico della "Stark Earliest". Results on the first five years planting of 5 apple varieties ("Stark Earliest", "Wilson Red June", "Rubra Precoce", "Jonathan", "Stayman Red") budded on two clonal rootstocks ("MM 104" and "MM 106") are reported. In these years the results showed an interaction between rootstock and variety. The rootstock showed to control the growth and the production of the variety. Particularly the "MM 106" seems to induce an early and plentiful crop, with a reduced growth of the tree. On the contrary, the "MM 104", gave a rich vegetative growth with a good crop. These two rootstocks, therefore, could be employed in different plantation: "MM 106" in high density plantings while "MM 104" in industrial plantings. The ripening time and the fruit color showed to be not influenced by the two rootstocks tasted.
42877861|Le ricerche sono state condotte in un vigneto del territorio di S. Cipirello in Provincia di Palermo su viti asciutte ed irrigue delle cultivar di uve da vino "Nerello Mascalese"e "Catarratto Comune". Sono state effettuate le seguenti osservazioni: livello degli elementi minerali (N, P, K, Ca e Mg) presenti nelle foglie con prelevamenti quindicinali dal 14-5 al 13-10 del 1971; la composizione dei raspi relativa agli stessi elementi analizzati nelle foglie; l'analisi del mosto; la lunghezza complessiva dei tralci e la quantit di produzione. Per quanto riguarda l'andamento del livello degli elementi nutritivi considerati, nelle foglie  stato possibile accertare che esso diminuisce dal primo all'ultimo prelievo per azoto, fosforo e potassio, mentre aumenta per calcio e magnesio. Non sono state riscontrate differenze degne di rilievo nell'ambito di una stessa cultivar tra piante irrigue e piante asciutte. L'elemento pi rappresentato nei raspi  stato il potassio seguito da azoto, calcio, fosforo e magnesio con l'eccezione per il "Catarratto Comune" asciutto in cui il calcio precede l'azoto. Complessivamente la quantit dei cinque elementi  stata pi alta nei raspi delle piante asciutte per il "Nerello Mascalese" ed in quelli delle piante irrigate per la cv. "Catarratto Comune". La composizione minerale del mosto  risultata pi vicina a quella dei raspi che a quella delle foglie.  stata rilevata una correlazione positiva tra livello di potassio nel mosto e quantit di zuccheri e di acidit totale sia per il "Nerello Mascalese"che per il "Catarratto Comune". Le piante irrigate hanno prodotto di pi rispetto a quelle asciutte in entrambe le cultivar (+ 63,2% nel "Nerello Mascalese" e + 46% nel "Catarratto Comune"); lo sviluppo dei tralci ha raggiunto una lunghezza complessiva maggiore nella coltura irrigua (+ 57,3% nella cv. "Nerello Mascalese" e + 7,7% nella cv. "Catarratto Comune"). Gli autori concludono rilevando che non sempre dal livello degli elementi nutritivi delle foglie si possono trarre indicazioni del tutto valide sulla capacit produttiva di un vigneto perch questa dipende da molti altri fattori. Essi ritengono che si debba attribuire pi importanza all'andamento delle variazioni dei diversi elementi nelle foglie anzich ai valori assoluti riscontrati nelle analisi. Researches were carried out on irrigated and non-irrigated "Nerello Mascalese" and "Gatarratto Comune" grape varieties in a vineyard in the Palermo area (Sicily). N, P, K, Ca and Mg leaf contents were analysed from May 14th to October 13th 1971. At harvesting time analysis were made on must and grapestalks. Samples of leaves were taken at fortnightly intervals, collecting the leaf situated in front of the first basal cluster of a fertile shoot. The grape yield and the shoot length were also examined. For the leaves the analysis results were expressed in per cent of fresh and dry matter, for the grape-stalks in per cent of dry matter, for the must in grams/litre. The leaf analysis showed that the levels of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium decreased whereas the calcium and magnesium levels increased, from May 14th to October 13th 1971 in the following way: On non-irrigated "Gatarratto Comune" plants, N from 4,12 to 1,05%, P from 0,52 to 0,14%, K from 1,00 to 0,32%, Mg from 0,24 to 0,51%, Ga from 1,64 to 4,85%; On irrigated "Gatarratto Comune" plants, N from 4,47 to 1,13%, P from 0,53 to 0,10%, K from 1,15 to 0,32%, Mg from 0,30 to 0,49%, Ca from 1,90 to 4,10%; On non-irrigated "Nerello Mascalese" plants, P from 4,42 to 1,36%, P from 0,42 to 0,10%, K from 1,04 to 0,27%, Mg from 0,45 to 0,57%, Ca from 2,36 to 4,14%; On irrigated "Nerello Mascalese" plants, N from 4,30 to 1,38%, P from 0,42 to 0,12%, K from 0,96 to 0,48%, Mg from 0,36 to 0,56%, Ca from 2,00 to 4,21%. Phosphorus and nitrogen particularly decreased during blooming set and potassium at colour turning time. No difference was found either in the seasonal changes or in the N, P, K, Mg and Ca leaf contents between irrigated and non-irrigated plants under the environmental conditions in which the studies were made. The total amount of N + PO + KO evaluated at fruit set and at colour turning time was inferior to 4,75%, which is considered to be the best level by Levy. Potassiurn was the grape-stalks main element followed by nitrogen calcium, phosphorus and magnesium. Calcium level was superior to the nitrogen one in grape-stalks of nonirrigated "Catarratto Comune" plants. In "Nerello Mascalese" the level of the five elements was higher in the grape-stalks of the non-irrigated plants than in the irrigated plant stalks, whereas analysis results evidenced the opposite in "Catarratto Comune" variety. Mineral composition in must appeared to be more similar to the grape-stalks one rather than to the leaf composition. A definitive correlation was found between potassium content, sugar percentage and total acidity in the must of both "Nerello Mascalese" and "Catarratto Comune" varieties. The yields were higher on irrigated plants (+ 63,2% on "Nerello Mascalese" and + 46,0% on "Catarratto Comune") and the same occurred for the shoot length (+ 57,3% on "Nerello Mascalese" and + 7,7% on "Catarratto Comune"). The Authors conclude since the yield can be affected by various factors, it is not always possible, through analysis of the mineral leaf composition, to know whether a vineyard will produce a heavy crop or not. They believe that more importance must be given to the seasonal element variations in the leaves rather than to the amounts observed at a certain time.
42877862|Nella presente indagine  stata esaminata, nel periodo giugno-ottobre, la traspirazione specifica su piante di 6 anni, tutte innestate su  M. 26 , delle seguenti cv. di melo: "Cox's Orange Pippin", "Double Red Rome Beauty", "Golden Delicious", "Granny Smith", "Gravenstein", "James Grieve", "Jonathan", "Mutsu", "Rubra Precoce", "Scarlet Staymanred" e "Starking". Si sono evidenziati i seguenti punti: le cultivar considerate hanno presentato una differente intensit di traspirazione specifica e pi precisamente le cultivar a maturazione autunnale ("Cox's Orange Pippin", "Golden Delicious", "Jonathan" e "Starking") hanno presentato i valori traspiratori pi elevati, quelle a maturazione estiva ("Gravenstein", "James Grieve" e "Rubra Precoce") i pi bassi; la traspirazione specifica non  risultata significativamente correlata con le caratteristiche isto-anatomiche e morfologiche prese in esame (n. di stomi/mmq, spessore e porosit del tessuto lacunoso, superficie fogliare); le cultivar inoltre hanno presentato valori assai diversi anche di traspirazione totale, infatti tale parametro  variato da 996,1 cc/h (cv. "Granny Smith") a 3725,0 cc/h (cv. "Mutsu"). Investigations have been carried out on the transpiration rates of the following apple cultivars: "Cox's Orange Pippin", "Double Red Rome Beauty", "Golden Delicious", "Granny Smith", "Gravenstein", "James Grieve", "Jonathan", "Mutsu", "Rubra Precoce", "Scarlet Staymanred" and "Starking". The transpiration rates per unit leaf area of autumnal cultivars ("Cox's Orange Pippin", "Golden Delicious", "Jonathan" e "Starking") were higher than that of the winter ("Double Red Rome Beauty", "Granny Smith", "Mutsu" e "Scarlet Staymanred") and of the summer ones (" Gravenstein", "James Grieve" e "Rubra Precoce"). No correlation has appeared among the transpiration rates per unit leaf area and the hystology and the morphology of the leaves (number of the stomates/mmq, thickness and porosity of the spongy mesophill and leaf surface). The transpiration of the whole plants has been very different among the tested cultivars ranging from 996,1 cc/h (cv. "Granny Smith") to 3725,0 cc/h (cv. "Mutsu").
42877863|Si  osservata l'azione dell'IBA e delPEthephon sulla radicazione in talee di olivo "Maurino" poste a radicare in nebulizzazione. Per otto settimane sono state effettuate analisi gascromatografiche dell'etilene presente nei tessuti di varie zone della talea. Solo PIBA ha avuto un'azione 'favorevole sulla percentuale di radicazione, mentre, gi dopo le prime 24 ore di trattamento ambedue le sostanze impiegate hanno determinato uno sviluppo repentino di etilene in corrispondenza del nodo basale; la presenza di questo gas nei corrispondenti tessuti delle talee di controllo si  manifestata invece solamente due settimane pi tardi. La presenza di etilene riscontrata nelle porzioni basali sia delle talee trattate con IBA (buona percentuale di radicazione) sia in quelle trattate con Ethephon (percentuale di radicazione simile al controllo) dimostrerebbe che questo gas, almeno nelle concentrazioni riscontrate, non abbia azione diretta sui processi di rizogenesi dell'olivo. Observations on rooting and ethylene levels of "Maurino" cuttings were done after 24 hours of dipping in IBA (200 ppm.), Ethephon 100(ppm) and water propagated by "fog mist" for several months. Only the IBA showed best results on the rooting percentage while, after the first 24 hours of dipping, the two chemicals induced the high ethylene development in the bottom node tissues. In the control, only 2 weeks later, ethylene appeared. The levels of this gas, detected in the bottom node tissues treated with IBA and Ethephon, compared with the rooting percentage obtained by these substances, didn't show any correlation with the rooting capacity of the olive cuttings. No gas was detected in the other parts of the cutting.
42877939| stato realizzato un programma di incroci in campo sulla cv. "Ruth Gerstetter", impiegando come impollinatrici sia cultivar del gruppo europeo che di quello cino-giapponese. Si  notata una differenza notevole fra le percentuali di allegagione dei frutti in relazione al tipo di incrocio. Per rendere possibile la germinazione dei semi immaturi, ottenuti si  seguita la tecnica dell'embriocoltura, simile a quella messa a punto da Hough e collaboratori presso l'Universit del New Jersey (U.S.A.). I risultati conseguiti hanno mostrato la validit della tecnica applicata ed hanno evidenziato l'influenza della cultivar impollinatrice sulla facolt germinativa dei semi della "Ruth Gerstetter". Infatti, si sono avute percentuali di germinazione oscillanti fra il 90 ed il 30%, a seconda del polline impiegato. Anche l'attecchimento delle plantule rispetto ai semi germinati  variato, in relazione al tipo di incrocio, dal 92 al 32%. Non  escluso che, migliorando la tecnica di trapianto, si possano elevare tali valori, in particolare quelli pi bassi. Infine, i semi ottenuti dalla libera impollinazione, cui sia stato lasciato il tegumento, hanno germinato scarsamente (10%), mentre quelli che ne sono stati privati hanno dato risultati migliori (33%), confermando cos quanto esposto in merito da altri AA. After bringing into working order a technic for cultivating immature seeds, it was been possible to undertake a program for a genetical improvement of the Plum tree from the variety "Ruth Gerstetter". This variety was breeded with others among the most known. The seeds abtained by these crosses were submitted to the embryoculture technic. The percent germination rates were largely variable according to the cross involved, making conspicuous the influence of the pollinating variety, on the germinating power of the seeds. The plants issued after acclimation in a greenhouse were transplanted in field for folliwing selection.
42877940|Sono indicati gli scopi della propagazione per coltura di apici vegetativi intesa sia come metodo di lotta alle virosi, sia come efficace metodo di propagazione. La tecnica  descritta sommariamente mettendo in risalto solo alcuni aspetti di particolare rilievo quali la dissezione dell'espianto, la sterilizzazione e la composizione del substrato di coltura. I problemi relativi all'applicazione di questo metodo di propagazione alle specie arboree sono elencati riportando numerosi tentativi ed i modesti successi realizzati da vari Autori su specie di interesse frutticolo, forestale o industriale. Infine vengono esaminate le possibilit di attuazione della propagazione per coltura di apici vegetativi nella vite riportando anche i risultati di alcuni recenti tentativi. The purposes of meristem culture as method for clonal propagation and for obtaining virus-free plants, are explained. The technique is described and special attentions are given to some aspects of particular interest, e.g. the removal of the shoot tip, the sterilization and the composition of the nutrient medium. The results of experiments carried out by many Authors in several woody plant species are reported. Also the possibility and the present limits of the meristem culture in Vine are discussed.
42877941| stata effettuata una prova di pacciamatura su pomodoro da industria delle cv. "Roma", "San Marzano T.B.", ed "Heinz 1706". I materiali pacciamanti erano costituiti da comune film plastico in Polietilene nero dello spessore di mm 0,10 e da una particolare carta plastificata biodegradabile dello spessore di mm 0,15. La prova si proponeva di valutare la convenienza della pacciamatura per il pomodoro nonch di sperimentare l'impiego della carta plastificata. La ricerca  iniziata il 10-5-1972 mediante il trapianto in campo alla distanza di m 1,5 tra le file e m 0,30 sulla fila. I rilievi sono stati effettuati alla raccolta unica avvenuta il 28-8 per la cv. "Heinz 1706" ed il 4-9 per le altre due cultivar. I frutti sono stati suddivisi in maturi, invaiati, verdi, alterati e marci. Sul prodotto maturo  stata rilevata l'acidit ed il residuo ottico. I risultati che sono stati oggetto di elaborazione statistica hanno fatto riscontrare un incremento del prodotto maturo del 30-50% nelle tesi pacciamate rispetto al testimone allevato in nuda terra. La % di prodotto maturo  aumentata del 10-11% ma  anche salita in maniera significativa la quantit di frutti alterati da scottature solari. Nessuna differenza significativa  stata rilevata a livello delle caratteristiche qualitative della produzione con o senza pacciamatura. Lievi differenze di produzione sono state rilevate tra le tesi pacciamate con i due diversi materiali. The authors carried out experiments on mulching of processing tomatoes (cvs. "Roma", "S. Marzano T.B.", "H. 1706") using black P.E. plastic film (0,10 mm thick) and paper with plastic film (0,15 mm thick). The experiments began in Pisa on 10-5-1972 transplanting in rows. The distance between the rows was 1,5 m and the spacing in the row was 0,30 m. The collection of the production data was made at the time of the one-over harvest on 28-8-1972 for the cv. "1706" and on 4-9-1972 for the other cvs. The fruits are divided into ripe, orange, green and rotten. The quality of red fruits was determined and titratable acidity, total oluble solids and dry matter was reported. The results showed that the percentage of ripe fruits at the time of the one-over harvest was increased by 10-11% by mulching, but there was also an increase in the percentage of rotten fruits. The weight of ripe fruits was increased by using both types of mulching material. No significative difference was observed in the quality of fruits.
42877942|Sono state condotte alcune ricerche con lo scopo di studiare la possibilit di ottenere embrioni nucellari da semi normalmente monoembrionici di clementine. Utilizzando semi immaturi, estratti da frutti raccolti 100-120 giorni dopo l'impollinazione, sono stati ottenuti embrioni avventizi di origine nucellare in coltura artificiale. Il substrato impiegato  quello di Murashige e Skoog modificato con l'aggiunta di: a) solfato di adenina (25 mg/l) + NAA (0,5 mg/l) + succo d'arancia (5%); b) solfato di adenina (25 mg/l) + estratto di malto (500 m g/l); c) solfato di adenina (25 mg/l) + NAA (0,5 mg/l) + estratto di malto (500 mg/l) + succo d'arancia (5%). I migliori risultati (circa il 50% di colture che hanno avuto successo) sono stati ottenuti col substrato b. Le condizioni di coltura erano le seguenti: temperatura costante di 26 C in cella climatica, e fotoperiodo con 16 ore di luce a bassa intensit (1000 lux). Studies were made to determine the possibility to obtain nucellar embryos from normally monoembryonic clementine seeds. Adventive embryos were successfully achieved with tissue cultures of the nucellus of immature seeds. Fruits approximately 100-120 days old were utilized to obtain the nucellus expiants. A modified Murashige and Skoog medium was used and nucellar embryogenesis in vitro occurred where medium was supplemented with: a) adenine sulfate (25 mg/l) + NAA (0,5 mg/l) + orange juice (5%); b) adenine sulfate (25 mg/l) + malt extract (500 mg/l); c) adenine sulfate (25 mg/l) + NAA (0,5 mg/l) + malt extract (500 mg/l) + orange juice (5%). The best result was obtained in the medium b (about 50% of successfull cultures). Nucellar embryogenesis in vitro was achieved under a costant temperature of 26 C and daily 16-hour illumination with low light intensity (1000 lux).
42877948|A two unit self-propelled catching-frame has been designed by the Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree of the Bologna University and was manufactured in 1973, by the cooperation of a private company (Cosmag - Gessi, Savignano P., Modena) ; this is the first experimental equipment to introduce the mechanical harvesting of prunes and apricots in Italy. This machinery could be used for either the typical Italian hedgerow trees (palmetta) or open center trees (vase). Both units have two over-lapping parts covered by canvas sheets 20 feet long and 13 feet across, which can be reduced to 6 feet. The four wheels are steering and driving while only the two rear wheels provide hydraulic traction. All the movements of the frames have hydraulically-operated control and may be combined with the Plummer hydraulic limb-shaker, as the authors did satisfactory in their prune harvesting trials. Other small portable limb-shakers such as the two cycle " Homelite XL " and the air powered " Stormas " could be used on both sides of the row. At least three men are required to operate the harvester and limb -shaker. The catching frame operating on the right side of the tree has a conveyor which delivers the collected fruits into the containers (fielf boxes or bins), and the left unit could have, in the near future, it's own trunk or limb -shaker. Because the unit is used for prune sand apricots, there are no deceleration strips over the frames.
42877949|Trattamenti con TIBA (150 e 300 ppm), Alar (1000 e 2000 ppm), DPU (500 e 1000 ppm), CI OH (500 e 100 ppm), e BA (40 e 80 ppm) sono stati effettuati il 21 gennaio 1973 su ortensie della cv. "Europa Blue" coltivate in serra e destinate alla vendita per la prima decade di marzo. I trattamenti a base di Alar ad entrambe le dosi e di DPU a 1000 ppm hanno determinato un habitus delle piante pi compatto con conseguente loro migliore presentazione ed inoltre gli steli fiorali non hanno richiesto tutori per mantenersi eretti. I trattamenti con Cl OH ad entrambe le dosi e con DPU a 500 ppm non hanno portato a risultati validi dal punto di vista pratico. Gravi effetti fitotossici hanno fatto seguito a trattamenti con BA ad entrambe le dosi. Anche il TIBA, ad entrambe le concentrazioni sperimentate, ha portato a risultati nel complesso sfavorevoli a causa delle infiorescenze pi piccole e del ritardo di fioritura. Hydrangea macrophylla cv. "Europa Blue" pot plants were sprayed, on january 21 st, 1973 with solution of TIBA (150 and 300 ppm), ALAR (1000 and 2000 ppm), DPU (500 and 1000 ppm), Cl OH (500 and 1000 ppm), BA (40 and 80 ppm). Only BA (40 and 80 ppm) gave phytoxic effects. TIBA (150 and 300 ppm) reduced size of plants as well that of inflorescences. No/or not significant effects were induced by Cl OH (500 and 1000 ppm). Alar (1000 and 2000 ppm) and DPU (1000 ppm) gave good effects on growth reduction of the plants.
42877950|Viene riferita la presenza di radici avventizie preformate ( burr knots  ) in un semenzale ibrido " Marasca di Piemonte " x " Arlicot " (P. cerasus x P. avium) e nella cultivar " Amarena di Ripa " (Prunus cerasus). Tale caratteristica, che presumibilmente  di ordine genetico, potrebbe essere presa in considerazione per l'impostazione di programmi di miglioramento. The presence of preformed adventitious roots (burr knots) in a hybrid seedling " Marasca di Piemonte " x " Arlicot " and in the cultivar " Amarena di Ripa " is pointed out. Such character which presumibly has a genetic component could be taken into account for carrying out programs on cherry breeding.
42877951|Si  studiata la possibilit di produrre seme ibrido in Cucurbita pepo L. e Cucurbita maxima Duch. su scala commerciale utilizzando trattamenti a base di acido 2-cloroetil-fosfonico, (Ethrel), capaci di indurre l'assenza temporanea della fioritura maschile. L'impollinazione incrociata sarebbe favorita dal protrarsi della fioritura femminile in assenza di fiori maschili per un periodo di 3-4 settimane. Il trattamento pi conveniente per ottenere tali risultati appare quello di 350 ppm di acido 2-cloroetilfosfonico ripetuto due volte, allo stadio di prima foglia vera e durante lo sviluppo della terza. The authors evaluated the possibility of commercial hybrid seed production in Cucurbita pepo L. and Cucurbita maxima Duch. by temporary suppression of male flowering with 2-chloroethylphosphonic acid, Ethrel, treatments, thus avoiding the hand removal of male flowers. The long flowering period of the female flowers (3-4 weeks) without male flowers facilitate the crosspollination. The most efficient treatment is 350 ppm of active constituent of ethrel repeated twice, at the first leaf and during the third leafgrowth stages.
42877952|Si  valutato in piante autoradicate di olivo (Olea europea) appartenenti alle cultivar: "Frantoio", "Leccino" e "Moraiolo", dotate di vigoria rispettivamente decrescente, il numero di cellule del tessuto a palizzata per unit di superficie di lamina fogliare. Questo carattere risulta essere, per le piante delle cultivar esaminate, positivamente correlato alla vigoria; potrebbe, pertanto, essere utile basare su questa correlazione la ricerca, nell'ambito della stessa Olea europea, di portainnesti di diversa vigoria. The number of palisade mesophyll cells per unit area of leaf lamina was related to the vigour of three olive tree varieties. This character seems to be typical for each of the tested varieties, since no statistically significative difference was found in the number of palisade mesophyll cells of "weak" and "vigourous" branches on the same tree. This relation can be used profitably in the preselection of different vigorous rootstocks in Olea europaea.
42877953|La ricerca di cui l'autore riferisce i risultati aveva lo scopo di attuare l'embriocoltura impiegando i semi di alcune variet di Rosa canina per applicare poi questa tecnica al miglioramento genetico di detto portainnesto, in modo da abbreviare il tempo di sviluppo delle piante. Inoltre, date le difficolt incontrate nella rimozione del pericarpo,  stata esaminata la possibilit di ottenere delle plantule  in vitro  tagliando il seme a met e trasferendo in provetta la parte del seme contenente gemma, ipocotile, radichetta e parte dei cotiledoni. Sono stati posti in coltura i semi interi, gli embrioni nudi e le parti di seme delle seguenti variet di Rosa canina: R. c. tradizionale, R. c. Schmidt Ideal, R. c. Brogs, R. c. Success. Come substrato di coltura  stato utilizzato quello di Knudson C agarizzato. La percentuale di plantule ottenute atte al trapianto  risultata nulla nei semi interi,  variata dal 30 al 32% a seconda della variet negli embrioni nudi e dal 20 al 25% nelle parti di seme. Il tempo necessario per ottenere una plantula atta al trapianto si  aggirato sui 3-4 mesi. Sebbene la coltura  in vitro  di parti di seme fornisca una percentuale di plantule inferiore a quella conseguibile mediante embriocoltura, purtuttavia essa, a ragione delle operazioni di prelievo molto semplici, consente di trasferire in provette nell'unit di tempo un numero di parti di seme notevolmente superiori rispetto al numero di embrioni. Results of embryo culture and culture  in vitro  of parts of achene of Rosa canina are referred. The parts of achene transferred to tubes contain part of cotyledons, the shoot bud, the ipocotyl and the radicle. 25 entire achenes, 25 naked embryos, 25 parts of achenes of some varieties of Rosa canina (R. c. tradizionale, R. c. Schmidt Ideal, R. c. Brgs, R. c Success) were placed in Knudson C medium. No plantlet was obtained from entire achenes while the percentage of plantlets ready for transplanting was 30-32% with respect to variety in naked embryos and 20-25% in parts of achenes. 3-4 months were necessary to obtain plantlets ready for transplanting.
42877954|Two years of observation (1972 and 1973) have been carried out with numerous cultivars and some new strawberry selections suitable for fresh market and for processing. The first plot (30 cultivars) had been set in  open field , the second (14 cultivars) under PVC tunnels, both in Ferrara growing area. The third plot (6 selections) was in the Agricoltural Experimental Farm of Bologna University (Cadriano). The highest yield and the best size and quality of the fruits had been obtained by the following cultivars: "Aliso" and "Precoce di Romagna", among the earlyest cultivars; "Pocahontas", "Red Gauntlet", "Senga Sengana"; then among the latest cultivars, "Vesper" and "Tardiva di Romagna". The most interesting behaviour, under PVC tunnels, was shown by some other cultivars such as "Gorella", "Cambridge Favourite 422", "Surprise des Halles", "Sequoia", "Rossella" and the former "Aliso" and "Red Gauntlet". Some new american selections, as "Stoplight"and "Md US 3293", showed some good characteristics like a short ripening time and a good firmness of the flesh, encouraging to continue the research in order to obtain new cultivars for once-over harvesting and for processing.
42877959|The Author describes a new strawberry cultivar named  Alessandra , and raised from the  Direktor P. Wallbaum  x " Pocahontas " breeding programme. The characters of this new cultivar are: plant very vigorous and heavy cropping; flowers famale; berries large, bright red, very attractive, sweet, easy capping, good flavoured; ripening time nearly seven days after " Pocahontas ". " Alessandra " appears to be particularly suitable for strawberry cultures in the mountainous areas, as well for those under plastic for autumnal production.
42877960|Allo scopo di studiare l'assorbimento, la traslocazione ed il metabolismo del ritardante di crescita Cycocel in piante arboree, giovani semenzali di mandorlo sono stati trattati in una o pi foglie con dosi diverse del composto marcato con C in posizione 1-2. Le autoradiografie dei semenzali e le misure di radioattivit hanno indicato che il "Cycocel  C" e/o i suoi metaboliti si distribuiscono in tutte le parti delle piante, particolarmente nelle giovani foglie e negli apici e che frazioni radioattive, analogamente corrispondenti al "Cycocel  C" e/o ai suoi metaboliti, vengono eliminate dalle radici nell'acqua in cui erano immerse le piante stesse. Altri esperimenti hanno anche indicato che il "Cycocel  C" viene in parte metabolizzato come CO subito dopo l'assorbimento e che nelle cromatografie degli estratti di porzioni diverse dei semenzali sono presenti numerosi amminoacidi radioattivi, particolarmente l'asparagina, l'-alanina e la fenilalanina ; nei cromatogrammi sono state anche evidenziate zone di radioattivit corrispondenti alla colina  C e ad acidi organici  C. I risultati ottenuti sembrano pertanto indicare: 1) una declorazione e una progressiva demetilazione del "Cycocel  C"; 2) una decarbossilazione ossidati va con la formazione di C O che viene liberata nell'atmosfera o fissata negli acidi organici  C; 3) un'idrolisi del "Cycocel  C" da cui si formerebbe il radicale C N- che verrebbe incorporato per la formazione di amminoacidi  C. Su tali basi gli Autori discutono il comportamento del Cycocel nei riguardi dell'assorbimento, della traslocazione e della degradabilit sia dal punto di vista biologico sia per le implicazioni tecniche che ne derivano. In order to investigate the uptake, translocation and metabolism of Cycocel, different dosages of a growth retardant labeled in its 1 and 2 carbon were applied to one or more leaves of young almond seedlings. The autoradiographs of the seedlings and its extimated radioactivity indicate that C-Cycocel and its by-products of metabolism are distributed throughout the plants but noticeably to young expanding leaves and shoot tips. Water in which the almond seedlings were growing became increasingly radioactive, indicating that C-Cycocel and/or its metabolites are gradually released from roots. Other investigations indicate that C-Cycocel is partly metabolised to CO upon absorption into almond leaves. Paper chromatography of leaves and stem extractives revealed 17 known and 1 unknown amino acids which were radioactive, notably asparagine, -alani ne and phenilalanine. Zones of radioactivity corresponding to choline as well as organic acids were also present on the chromatograms. These findings indicate that: 1) the chlorine atom is removed so well as the methyl groups; 2) the 1 carbon is oxidatively decarboxilated evolving as CO which is then liberated in the atmosphere or fixed into organic acids; 3) the CN- radical is eventually formed which reacts with other substances giving rise to radio-labeled amino acids. The contibution of these findings to the knowledge about the fate and persistence of Cycocel in plants are also discussed by the Authors.
42877961|Vengono descritte le caratteristiche pomologiche, agronomiche e commerciali di 11 cultivar di susino introdotte dalla Unione Sovietica. Dai rilievi ed osservazioni condotte per 5 anni consecutivi sulle piante in piena produzione presso il campo-collezione dell'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree di Pisa,  emerso che soltanto quattro sono apparse degne di considerazione. Di queste la "Pionierka" e la "Fialietovaja Desertnaja" sono precocissime, maturando rispettivamente 4 e 9 giorni dopo la "Ruth Gerstetter", mentre la "Pabieda" e la "Partizanka" sono risultate a media maturazione. Morphological, biological and commercial characteristics of 11 Russian plum varieties, tested in Italy, are described. Five years observations in Pisa area showed that only four of them are promising varieties for fresh market: "Pionierka" and "Fialietovaja Desertnaja" are very early varieties wich ripen respectively 4 and 9 days after "Ruth Gerstetter", while "Pabieda" and "Partizanka" are mid-season varieties, which ripen with "Shiro" the first and just before "Burbank" the second one.
42877962|Ricerche effettuate sui vitigni "Tocai" / Kober nel 1970 in provincia di Udine, e "Raboso Veronese" / Kober nel 1971 in provincia di Vicenza, hanno permesso di accertare che le reti antigrandine di colore nero non hanno determinato modificazioni apprezzabili sul comportamento vegetativo e produttivo delle viti. Alcune modificazioni sono state riscontrate sul microclima. La temperatura sotto rete  risultata leggermente inferiore, con differenze dell'ordine di 0,6-1,4 C, mentre la radiazione globale  stata ridotta anche del 23%. Nessun effetto  stato osservato, invece, sull'umidit relativa dell'aria e sulla temperatura del terreno. Gli A. A. ritengono, tuttavia, pi razionale l'impiego delle reti di colore bianco particolarmente in quegli ambienti di coltura della vite caratterizzati da condizioni di illuminazione non ottimali. During 1970-71 researches have been carried out in two environments in order to ascertain the effects of covering with plastic netting on the vineyard microclimate and on the quantity and the quality of the crop. The covering did not modify the relative humidity, but decreased the air temperature (0,6  1,4 C) and especially the solar radiation (13%  23%). The covering, moreover, did not modify the quantity and the quality of the crop. However the Authors suggest the employment of white plastic nets where light condition are not very good.
42877967|Researches carried out on apple, sweet cherry and filbert trees confirmed the occurence of both the population effect and calcium role on pollen germination. The calcium seems to play a more important role with poor population, making up for the smaller population effect. However, as the number of pollen grains increases, the calcium role seems less noticeable. It can be suspected that a big pollen population carries by itself enough pollen growth factor (PGF) in order to obtain the highest germination level by adding even small amount of calcium. Besides, the population effect may, also, depend on the carbon dioxide higher accumulation that occurs with a large pollen population. The results showed, also, that the apple and sweet cherry pollen behaved differently from the filbert's one, as considering both the population effect and calcium role. It can be suspected that the filbert pollen owns a less level of PGF or a lower respiratory activity, producing, then a smaller amount of carbon dioxide. The results would be a smaller ability by the pollen grains in stimulating one another during the germination process. It is noteworthy to point out that to the noted differences correspond, also, a different type of pollination, by insects in apple and sweet cherry, and by wind in filbert. It would be interesting to extend the observations to other several species of fruit trees with different type of pollination in order to find out their pollen behaviour. Previous researches showed that in enthomophylous species the pollen germination (in vivo) occurs in presence of pollen populations considerably bigger than those observed in anemophylous ones. Further reserach is needed to clarify if the observed differences in the germination physiology are related to the different biological behaviours.
42877968|Negli anni 1971-1972-1973 sono state condotte prove sperimentali nella Piana del Sele (Salerno) per indagare sull'azione esplicata dall'Ethrel (acido 2-cloroetilfosfonico) nel favorire la contemporaneit di maturazione nel pomodoro da industria, cv. "Roma VF", in vista della raccolta meccanica. I trattamenti sono stati effettuati in campo, 15 giorni prima della presumibile data di raccolta, con le dosi 0-1000-2000 ppm, irrorando uniformemente le piante disposte a file binate, con le distanze di cm 135 tra gli assi delle bine, cm 30 tra le file delle bine e cm 22 su ogni fila della bina. Il prodotto commerciabile, ottenuto con la raccolta unica eseguita a mano,  aumentato gradualmente con i trattamenti, passando da q/ha 274,20 del testimone a q/ha 357,21 del trattamento 2000 ppm nel 1971, da q/ha 303,65 a q/ha 381,29 nel 1972 e da q/ha 329,10 a q/ha 436,32 nell'ultimo anno. Il prodotto immaturo  diminuito passando dal testimone al trattamento 1000 ppm e da questo al trattamento 2000 ppm. Il prodotto alterato o marcito non ha subito variazioni apprezzabili passando dal testimone al trattamento 2000 ppm. In un solo caso, con il trattamento 1000 ppm del 1971, si  notato un aumento di tale frazione di prodotto, considerata in percento del prodotto totale, sia rispetto al testimone che rispetto al trattamento 2000 ppm. Il prodotto totale  risultato praticamente uguale o leggermente aumentato con i trattamenti. Il peso medio delle bacche  stato pi elevato nel testimone ed  diminuito con i trattamenti. Le caratteristiche qualitative dei prodotti non sono apparse influenzate decisamente dai trattamenti. La cv. "VF 145 (78/79)", provata nel 1973 insieme con la cv. "Roma", ha manifestato lo stesso comportamento rispetto ai trattamenti con Ethrel. The effects of Ethrel on tomato ripe fruit accumulation for mechanical harvest were tested in field experiments carried for three years (1971-1972-1973) in the Piana del Sele (Salerno) area. Ethrel was applied 15 days before the planned harvest, at 0-1000-2000 ppm, by spraying uniformly tomato plants. Tomato varieties, cv. "Roma", used in the three years, and cv. "VF 145 (78/79)" used only in 1973, were direct-seeded at holes placed in twin rows 105 and 30 cm apart and distant 22 cm on each row. The yield of ripe fruit, obtained with once-over harvest carried out by hand, was increasing as the concentrations of applied Ethrel increased: it rose from q/ha 274,20 of the control to q/ha 357, 21 of 2000 ppm treatment in 1971, from q/ha 303, 65 to q/ha 381,29 in 1972, and from q/ha 329,10 to q/ha 436, 32 in the last year. Inversely the yield of unripe fruit was decreasing as the concentrations increased. No difference appeared in the amount of cull fruit, except in the case of treatment 1000 ppm in 1971, wich increased the percentage of this product in comparison both with the control and 2000 ppm treatment. Total productions (ripe, unripe and cull fruits) resulted in practice equal or slightly increased by treatments. A significant reduction in the average weight of ripe fruit was observed. The treatments did not exert any influence on the measurable quality factors. In 1973, the cv. "VF 145 (78/79)" and the cv. "Roma" displayed the same performance as regards Ethrel application.
42877969|Nei pescheti specializzati non irrigui, per aumentare il contenuto idrico del suolo necessita praticare annualmente una lavorazione relativamente profonda non oltre i 15-20 cm. Con questa lavorazione, naturalmente, si recidono le radici che si sviluppano nel detto strato di terreno lavorato. Nella serie di ricerche compiute in due pescheti, durante un decennio, si  dedotto: 1) che subito dopo ciascuna lavorazione nello strato lavorato si sviluppano nuove radici le quali, sebbene in misura ridotta, contribuiscono all'utilizzazione dei principi utili alla vegetazione del pesco; 2) che la sospensione delle dette lavorazioni per due o tre anni e pi consecutivi, mentre consente l'ulteriore sviluppo del sistema radicale nello strato superficiale non lavorato, ostacola gradualmente l'ulteriore sviluppo del sistema radicale profondo; 3) praticando la lavorazione profonda ogni 2-3 e pi anni, il pesco subisce una notevole menomazione della sua attivit vegetativa in seguito alla soppressione del sistema radicale superficiale e alla ridotta attivit di quello profondo. In considerazione di quanto sopra, si ritiene consigliabile praticare il lavoro profondo annualmente. In non irrigated specialised peach orchards, in order to increase the water content of the soil, it occurs to do very year a rather deep ploughing (no more than 15-20 cm.). Of course, in this way, roots developing in the ploughed layer of soil are cutted. In experimental trials conducted during ten years in two peach orchards, we have noticed that: 1.  Immediately after each ploughing new roots develop in the ploughed layer which, though in a reduced way, contribute to assimilate the useful principles of peach vegetation. 2.  An interruption of these ploughing for 2-3 or more years permits a further development of the root system in the upper and unploughed layer, producing also a better development of the deep root system. 3.  A deep ploughing after 2-3 or more years reduces consistently the peach vegetative activity, since it eliminates the upper root system and reduces the activity of the deep one. For all these reasons we think it is a good practice to do every year a deep ploughing in peach orchards.
42877971|Gli AA. hanno sperimentato l'effetto conservante sui fiori recisi di crisantemo, rosa e gerbera di soluzioni a diversa concentrazione di nitrato di argento, acetato di argento, acido ctrico, acido tartarico, 8-idrossichinolina solfato, 8-ossichinolina, solfato di idrazina, solfato di alluminio, sodio azide, idrazide maleica e 6-benzilaminopurina. Di queste sostanze soltanto 8-idrossichinolina solfato, sodio azide, idrazide maleica, solfato di idrazina e 6-benzilaminopurina hanno prolungato la vita dei fiori. Si  determinato inoltre l'effetto sulla respirazione di rose Mansuiniane dei composti 8-idrossichinolina solfato, solfato di idrazina, sodio azide ed idrazide maleica. Parallelamente  stato effettuato il controllo batteriologico dell'acqua di conservazione dei fiori sia priva di sostanze conservanti, sia addizionata di alcune tra le sostanze summenzionate, di captano e di vari antibiotici. I composti 8-idrossichinolina solfato e 8-ossichinolina oltre agli antibiotici doxiciclina e tetraciclina hanno avuto un notevole potere batteriostatico, anche se usate a dosi molto basse. L'aggiunta di captano agli antibiotici doxiciclina e tetraciclina permette inoltre un controllo della micoflora presente nell'acqua di conservazione. The Authors have tested on cut chrysanthemum, rose and gerbera flowers the conserving effect of solutions at different concentrations of silver nitrate, silver acetate, citric acid, tartaric acid. 8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate, 8-hydroxyquinoline, hydrazine sulphate, aluminium sulphate, sodium azide, maleic hydrazide and 6-benzylaminopurina. Among these substances only 8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate, sodium azide, maleic hydrazide, hydrazine sulphate and 6-benzylaminopurina have prolonged the life of flowers. The Authors have also determined the effect of the compounds: 8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate, hydrazine sulphate, sodium azide and maleic hydrazide on the respiration of the "Mansuiniane" roses. In the same way they have effected the bacteriological check of the preservation water of flowers either without preserving substances or with some of the substances mentioned above, captan or different antibiotics. The compounds 8-hydroxyquinoline sulphate, 8-hydroxyquinoline as well as the antibiotics doxycycline and tetracycline had an enormous bacteriostatic power, even if used in small quantities. The addition of captan to the antibiotics doxycycline and tetracycline allows a control of the mycoflora in the preservation water, too.
42877978|Durante il quadriennio 1968-71 sono state effettuate ricerche su due cultivar di melo " spur " (" Starkrimson " e " Starkspur Golden Delicious "), allevate in quattro campi sperimentali, situati in altrettante zone caratterizzate da differenti condizioni ambientali (Bolzano, Trento, Ravenna e Pisa), al fine di individuare il sistema di potatura pi adatto al loro allevamento (" vaso ritardato ", " palmetta irregolare ", " palmetta anticipata ", " ventaglio ", " Bouch Thomas "). Le ricerche hanno messo in evidenza che: a) l'ambiente, la cultivar e le forme di allevamento hanno influito sull'attivit vegetativa e produttiva degli alberi; minore sviluppo si  riscontrato, infatti, negli alberi allevati nei campi sperimentali del Trentino-Alto Adige, maggiore in quelli di Ravenna;  risultata confermata anche la maggiore attivit vegetativa della " Starkrimson ", rispetto alla " Starkspur Golden Delicious "; il minore sviluppo vegetativo  stato riscontrato negli alberi allevati a " Bouch Thomas "; b) relativamente all'attivit produttiva, il " Bouch Thomas " ha raggiunto la maggiore  efficienza produttiva  (= rapporto tra produzione cumulata e area del tronco, al termine del periodo considerato) in tutte le localit fuorch a Fisa, e la maggiore produzione ad ettaro in ambedue le cultivar e in tutti i campi sperimentali; l'ambiente ha influito sulla produttivit, risultata, in linea generale, pi bassa nel Trentino-Alto Adige e pi elevata a Pisa ; c) la quantit di lavoro ad ettaro per la potatura  risultata massima per il " Bouch Thomas " e minima per il " vaso ritardato ". I risultati, valutati nel loro complesso, hanno messo in evidenza che, nella fase iniziale di allevamento, il " vaso ritardato " e la " palmetta irregolare " sono le forme pi adatte per le due cultivar considerate. Four years of observations were made on growth and productivity of young trees of 2 apple spur cvs. (" Starkspur Golden Delicious " and " Starkrimson ", budded on seedling rootstocks), grown in four sites (Bolzano and Trento in Northern Italy, Ravenna and Pisa, in eastern and, respectively, western Middle Italy), and trained to the following systems: " Bouch Thomas ", " oblique palmette ", " sprint palmette ", " fan " and " central leader ". The results have shown that: a) climatic conditions, variety and system of training effected both growth (expressed as the increase of trunk cross-sectional area), and productivity of the trees; the growth resulted higher for trees grown in Middle Italy (expecially in Ravenna), and lower for those of "Starkrimson ", b) both total crop per unit of crosssectional area, and yield/ha were higher in Middle Italy, expecially in Pisa; c) the "Bouch Thomas "training system required the highest and the "central leader "the lowest quantity of labour (man hours/ha). Under the conditions of the trials sites, the " central-leader " and the " oblique palmette ", resulted the most appropriate systems of training for the tested " spur " cultivars.
42877979|Sono state provate formulazioni diverse di etossichina in trattamenti antiriscaldo, determinandone l'efficacia e il livello dei residui sui frutti della cv. " Stark Delicious " dopo diversi tempi di conservazione a 1  2 C. I formulati in numero di quattro, differiscono per i solventi e gli emulsionanti. Un  bianco , senza etossichina, era costituito dal solvente e dagli emulsionanti del formulato EQ 50. Ogni formulato  stato provato a 3 dosi (2000, 4000 e 6000 ppm) e 2 temperature della soluzione di trattamento (8 e 16C). Il dosaggio dei residui, a tempi successivi, durante la conservazione frigorifera,  stato fatto mediante un metodo fluorimetrico. Per quanto riguarda il controllo del riscaldo si rileva che il tipo di solvente e/o di emulsionante ha un ruolo importante. L'entit di riscaldo non  risultata correlata con le dosi e la temperatura della soluzione di trattamento. Per quanto riguarda i residui di etossichina si nota un rialzo sensibile dopo 2 mesi dal trattamento e una successiva leggera diminuzione, peraltro non significativa dopo 4 e 6 mesi. I residui sono direttamente correlati con le dosi e con il tipo di formulato, e non correlati con la temperatura della soluzione di trattamento. The effectiveness of different ethoxyquin formulations is tried and the residues level is measured. The " blank " was formulated with the solvent and emulsifying agents of the EQ 50 formulation. Three strength (2000, 4000 and 6000 ppm) and two temperatures of the treatment solution (8 C and 16 C) were tried for every formulation. The ethoxyquin residue analysis was done by a fluorimetrie method, at different times during cold storage. The kind of ethoxyquin solvent and/or emulsifying agent, plays a rather important role in scald control. The amount of scald was not correlated with dosage and temperature. Ethoxyquin residue level changes during storage: it was found a significant increase two months after treatment and a slight, but not significant decrease after four and six months. The residue level was linearly correlated with dosages and depended from the type of formulation but not from the solution temperature.
42877980|Per alcune cultivar di pesco da industria e da consumo fresco  stata accertata, nel primo periodo di accrescimento dei frutti, una stretta correlazione tra la lunghezza del seme e la lunghezza e larghezza del pericarpo. Mediante le regressioni calcolate, stime sufficientemente precise della lunghezza del seme possono essere fatte sulla base sia della lunghezza sia della larghezza del pericarpio. Quest'ultimo parametro  da preferire alla lunghezza per la maggiore facilit e precisione della sua misura. Sulla base dei risultati  stata elaborata una tabella che permette di stimare la lunghezza del seme dalla lunghezza del frutto. Per le cultivar considerate e negli ambienti, in cui sono state svolte le ricerche, si ritiene che tale tabella possa costituire un valido aiuto per individuare la citochinesi e quindi l'epoca adatta per il diradamento dei frutti con fitoregolatori esogeni. Endosperm development from free nuclear to cellular stage may be used to predict the optimum time for chemical thinning with 3-CPA and CEPA, and can be related to seed length. As the seed length is not a practical parameter, researches were carried out on some cling and freestone varieties in order to relate seed length (LS) to pericarp length (LF), and diameter (DF). In the first growth period LS, LF and DF were highly correlated within each variety. The standard errors of regression of LS on DF were smaller than those of LS on LF. As pericarp length measurement is less precise, because of variations in configuration of stylar end tips, the fruit diameter is suggested as more practical parameter to estimate seed length during the thinning period with sprays.
42877981|La Phytophthora cryptogea Pethybr. et Laff.  stata individuata come agente di un grave marciume basale della Gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii hybrida Hort.) osservato negli ultimi anni nelle coltivazioni floreali liguri. Prove condotte in serra e in cella climatica hanno permesso di accertare che: 1) le infezioni possono verificarsi nel corso dell'intero ciclo colturale in quanto il patogeno pu infettare entro un ampio spettro di temperature (da 10 a 28 C) dando per luogo alla comparsa dei primi sintomi entro periodi tanto pi brevi quanto pi alta  la temperatura del suolo fino alla soglia di 25-26 C; 2) le infezioni possono verificarsi indifferentemente sia su piante appena messe a dimora sia su quelle trapiantate da oltre 9 mesi: l'andamento della malattia  leggermente pi rapido nelle piante pi adulte; 3) nel corso dell'intero ciclo colturale la malattia pu diffondersi per un raggio di almeno 1 m in tutte le direzioni intorno ad ogni piantina gi infetta, anche se apparentemente sana, all'epoca del trapianto; 4) la lotta contro questa malattia  possibile irrorando il terreno settimanalmente con una sospensione di Dexon o, in subordine, di Difolatan, in ragione di 1 g/m. Phytophthora cryptogea was identified as the causal agent of severe foot-rot of Gerbera (Gerbera jamesonii hybrida Hort.) observed in the last few years on Riviera Ligure. The researches carried out on the influence of some factors on disease development showed that: 1) the infections can occur during all the crop season, as the pathogen can infect in a very large range of temperatures (from 10 to 28 C), but disease development is quicker at higher temperatures; 2) the susceptibility of the plants does not change with the age: disease development is only a little quicker in older plants; 3) during a single crop season the disease can spread to all the surrounding plants in a radius of 1 m from each transplanted symptomless, but already infected plant; 4) disease control can be achieved applying weekly as soil drench Dexon or Difolatan at the dosage of 1 g/m.
42877982|Si riferisce su un anormale comportamento di un clone di Vite della cv.  Sangiovese  che, sottoposto a termoterapia, ha evidenziato una netta sintomatologia da  Fanleaf  dopo 20 giorni di trattamento a 38 C. L'esito positivo della prova di trasmissione ha dimostrato la presenza di entit virali negli apici termoterapeutizzati di tali piante. E stata, quindi, avanzata l'ipotesi di un possibile rapporto fra severit delle manifestazioni virali osservate e temperature e ci in relazione alla possibile comparsa di mutanti virali del tipo  caldo . Viene, pertanto, confermata la necessit di procedere ad accurati saggi biologici del materiale sottoposto a termoterapia. Symptoms resembling  Fanleaf  on one clone of  Sangiovese  grapevine, heat treated for 20 days at 38 C, have been observed. Positive mechanical transmission on Ch. amaranticolor and Ch. quinoa using tips of grapevines above mentioned as source demonstrated the presence of a virus infection. A relantionship between temperature and severity of symptoms has been supposed with regard to the appearance of presumable thermophil mutants of  Fanleaf  virus. Therefore, accurate biological tests are requested when plants are heat-treated.
42877983|Crisantemi della cv. " Fred Shoesmith ", allevata a fiore unico e " Bright Golden Anne ", cimata, sono stati concimati con i seguenti tipi di complessi: Ortil (7.7.7), Nitrophoska (15.9.15), Plantosan (15.7.14) e 10.10.10. Considerando che l'adozione di un normale terriccio prevede la fertirrigazione con soluzioni di sali azotati e potassici si  ritenuto di notevole interesse elevare il quantitativo di PO, integrando i formulati utilizzati fino ad ottenere un rapporto N/PO/KO prossimo a 1:2:1. Nel caso della cv. " Fred Shoesmith " l'integrazione di PO ha provocato un maggior allungamento degli steli e l'emissione di fiori pi grandi. Anche per la cv. " Bright Golden Anne " gli steli sono risultati pi sviluppati, in questo caso per,  stato, spesso, influenzato positivamente il numero dei fiori. L'aggiunta di concimi fosfatici ha determinato un maggior assorbimento di azotati da parte della pianta, secondo quanto  risultato dall'analisi chimica. Two cultivars of Chrysanthemum morifolium L. grown in pots were treated with the following different fertilizers: Ortil (7.7.7), Nitrophoska (15.9.15), Plantosan (15.7.14) and 10.10.10. Phosphates were supplemented to obtain the ratio N/PO/KO of 1:2:1, considering that solution containing N and KO are normally used during the cultivation. Supplementing with PO, in the case of the cultivar Fred Shoesmith (non pinched) the stems became taller and the flowers larger; in the case of the cultivar Bright Golden Anne (pinched) the stem was taller and, in some cases, more flowers have been produced than without supplementing PO. The amount of PO metabolized was higher in the stems, in the leaves and in the flowers of the cultivar Fred Shoesmith. The absorbtion of Nitrogen compounds was also higher in the same organs as a consequence of supplementing with PO.
42877984|Sono state prese in considerazione tre cv. di albicocco con  butteratura  diffusa sulla superficie dei frutti. Le cv. esaminate sono: " Voccuccia liscia ", " Sommesse " e " Quattova ". I sintomi dell'alterazione consistono nella comparsa di tipiche tacche di colore marrone sulla superficie dei frutti. Esse si estendono a tutto lo lo spessore della polpa nonch all'endocarpo, sul quale l'anomalia si manifesta con zone di non perfetta lignificazione. Il loro manifestarsi dipende dall'andamento termico primaverile, nel senso che i sintomi sono tanto pi manifesti quanto pi la stagione decorre fredda. Con gli inoculi effettuati su piante erbacee e legnose,  stata messa in evidenza la presenza del virus del " Chlorotic leaf spot " negli individui malati. The symptoms of a disease of apricot fruits, already recorded in Italy by Biraghi (1949) and Verneau (1957), and the probable relation to a virus isolated from the infected trees are described. The fruit symptoms are sunken blotches tipically brown-necrotic, but sometimes yellowish-green; underneath the flesh is brown and the stone shows symptoms of anomalous lignification: holes and craks sometimes so large that the seed is visible. The leaf symptoms, represented by chlorotic spots and fine lines, are not always visible or manifest only early in the springtime. The severity of fruit and leaf symptoms is related to the temperature; the symptoms are expressed strongly only in years when temperatures are low in spring and during the early part of the summer. For this reason the earliest varieties show clear symptoms. So far the inoculum sources, prepared macerating buds and petals of a large number of infected trees in a 2% Nicotine solution brought to the isolation on herbaceous hosts of GLSV. This virus was not isolated from healthy trees which were not in any case of the same variety of the diseased ones, because of the extreme diffusion of the disease in some varieties. The disease is graft-transmissible and the first fruit symptoms begin to appear at the second year. So far was not possible to retransmit the virus back to apricot-trees in order to demonstrate the real effect of the virus on the symptoms expression.
42877988|Per ridurre la defogliazione che a volte si ha con l'uso dell' Ethrel, sono stati saggiati i bagnanti, gli antitraspiranti e l'Alar. L'Alar da solo non ha determinato effetti diversi dal controllo; quando  stato impiegato insieme all'Ethrel ne ha ridotto l'efficacia sia nei riguardi della abscissione dei frutti e delle foglie che nella produzione di etilene da parte di questi organi. I bagnanti, da soli, hanno promosso  abscissione dei frutti e delle foglie, uniti all'Ethrel ne hanno incrementato la caduta delle foglie e la produzione di etilene. Nei frutti hanno determinato soltanto lievi aumenti di etilene. La glicerina, da sola, ha prodotto una certa defogliazione, con PEthrel ne ha potenziato l'effetto soprattutto nelle foglie. Gli antitraspiranti hanno avuto un'azione simile a quella dei bagnanti. L'Ethrel da solo ha manifestato una notevole efficacia sulla abscissione dei frutti, anche se non maturi. In order to reduce the defoliation that, some time, we have using Ethrel, surfactants, antitraspirants and Alar have been tried. Alar, alone, determined not diffrent effects from the control ; when it has been employed with Ethrel reduced its effect as fruit and leaf abscission and as ethylene production. The surfactants, alone, promoted the fruit and leaf abscission, mixed to Ethrel increased on the leaves the abscission and the ethylene production, while, in the fruits, they determined only a light increase of ethylene production. The glycerine, alone, produced defoliation, with ethrel increased the effect specially on the leaves. The antitraspirants had similar effect to the surfactants. Ethrel, alone, promoted a big fruit abscission also on immature fruits.
42877989|Viene descritta una nuova pregevole cultivar autunnale di pero che presenta una buona affinit con il cotogno comune, di buona produttivit, normale resistenza alle malattie e con frutti di pezzatura medio-grossa e di ottimo sapore. A new appreciable autumn pear variety is described, which has a good compatibility with the quince, is productive, with a normal hardiness to adversities. Its fruits are rather big with an excellent flavour.
42877990|Previous researches had shown that appearence and number of feather shoots were related to the vigour of branch carrying them. In order to get some more informations about the relationship between growth rate and feather shoots formation, a special research program was arranged by introducing pruning treatments differentely affecting the growth rate. Lateral shoots of peach scions (cv. " Favorita 2 Morettini ") were pinched (A), bent (B), bent and pinched (G). One group was left intact as control (D). Through the growth season shoots lenght, appearence time and number of feather shoots were periodically observed. At the end of the growth season branch lenght was measured and nodes number counted. Linear regression analysis was, finally, performed as considering the feather shoots number and the corresponding growth rates obtained by introducing the various pruning treatments. Results showed feather shoots formation is basically related to growth rate. Regression coefficients of feather shoots number on different growth rates were statistically significant. Comparisons among intercepts (a) and slopes (b) of regression lines calculated for each treatment, showed differences only between pinched and and no-piched shoots. Therefore, from these experimental findings it seems clear that by pinching shoot physiological situation changes at all. The bending effect seems to be less complicate than the pinching's one. Infact, the bending affects the feather shoots formation just by reducing the growth rate.
42877991|Da uno studio preliminare sulle caratteristiche del frutto di alcune cultivar di pesco e nettarine, coltivate in uno stesso ambiente, risulta che sono presenti diversi gradi di tomentosit del frutto. Le cultivar scarsamente tomentose presentano una prevalenza di peli corti rispetto alle mediamente e fortemente tomentose in cui si rilevano in proporzione variabile peli corti e lunghi. La epidermide  ricoperta in misura maggiore o minore da cera che tende a fessurarsi specialmente nelle cultivar nettarine. Sulla superficie dei frutti di alcune cultivar di pesche e nettarine si rileva la presenza di stomi. From a preliminary study of the characteristics of some peach and nectarine cultivars, growing in the same environement, the results obtained show that different degrees of hairyness are present in the fruit. Scarsely hairy cultivars have a majority of short trichomes whilst medium and strongly hairy cultivars have short and long trichomes in variyng degrees. The cuticle also is waxy in various degrees. On fruit surface of same peaches and nectarines, stomatas are visible.
42877992|L'obbiettivo della prova era quello di indagare sugli effetti di livelli differenti di radiazione globale su due cultivar nettamente diverse tra loro: la " Corno di bue giallo " (Capsicum annuum L. var. longum Sendt.) e la " di Caienna " [Capsicum annuum L. var. acuminatum Irish). I caratteri osservati furono numerosi: peso fresco del peduncolo; peso fresco della bacca intera; peso fresco, peso secco e contenuto percentuale in sostanza secca del pericarpo, della placenta e dei semi; contenuto in capsaicina della placenta (CBG) e delle bacche (PC); contenuto in acido ascorbico delle bacche. In linea generale, fu osservato che la diminuzione della radiazione globale ag nel senso di incrementare l'estrinsecazione di alcuni caratteri, quali il peso fresco del peduncolo, della bacca, del pericarpo, della placenta e dei semi. Pi sensibile, alla diminuzione della radiazione globale, risult la cv. " Corno di bue giallo ". The aim of the trial was to enquire into the effects of different levels of solar radiation on two cultivars: the "Corno di bue giallo "( Capsicum annuum L., Sendt var. longum) and the "Piccante di Caienna "( Capsicum annuum L., Irish var. acuminatum). Numerous characters were observed : the fresh weight of the peduncle ; the fresh weight of the whole berry; the fresh weight, the dry weight and percentage of dry matter contained in the pericarp, the placenta and the seeds; the capsaicin content of the placenta (C. B. G.) and of the berries (P. C.) ; the ascorbic acid content of the berries. It was observed that the reduction of solar radiation, generally speaking, had the effect of increasing the expression of certain characters, such as the fresch weight of the peduncle, of the berry, of the pericarp, of the placenta or of the seeds. The "Corno di bue giallo "cultivar proved the more sensitive to the different solar radiations.
42877993|L'utilizzazione di brachizzanti a base di acido N-dimetilamminosuccinamico (Alar) e di cloruro di 2-4 diclorobenziltributilfosfonio (Phosfon) ha determinato una considerevole riduzione di taglia delle piante di crisantemo delle 9 cultivar utilizzate. L'effetto del Phosfon  risultato pi drastico rispetto all'Alar. Non si sono notate differenze notevoli di reazione con una o due irrorazioni di Alar. L'Alar in unione col Phosfon non ha modificato in modo apprezzabile l'influenza di quest'ultimo. Il diametro dei fiori e il loro numero hanno subito una riduzione in seguito ai trattamenti con Phosfon. La valutazione globale del vaso fiorito, in cui si  tenuto conto dei giudizi espressi per l'uniformit di altezza, di diametro e di fioritura, ha permesso di constatare l'efficacia dei trattamenti nel raggiungimento di un risultato tecnico soddisfacente. The treatment of Chrysanthemum morifolium varieties with Alar (3000 ppm of active ingredient sprayed once or twice) and Phosfon (500 gms/m 3 of substrate) reduced the plant height by 30% and 45%. Between one and two sprays of Alar and the treatment with Phosfon alone and with both Phosfon and Alar, only small differences have been found. The effect of Phosfon in comparison with Alar was more drastic. The treatments with Phosfon reduced both diameter and number of the flowers. From evaluation of the pot (depending on the uniformity of height, diameters and flowering), the treatement seems to exert a noticeable and satisfactory influence.
42877994|Con l'applicazione di regolatori di crescita diversi, mediante trattamenti fogliari, si possono ottenere vari effetti su piante di melo. L'azione di queste sostanze sulla formazione dei fiori  di particolare interesse, e poich in pratica viene assai sfruttata pu essere considerata di notevole beneficio pratico in frutticoltura. Maggiori informazioni di base sono per necessarie per comprendere completamente il meccanismo di azione di questi regolatori di crescita sulla induzione alla fioritura. Non sembra che la riduzione dell'accrescimento vegetativo sia causata solo dalla azione dell'auxina esogena applicata, in quanto l'Alar, che  un ottimo ritardante di crescita del melo, spesso non riesce a incrementare significativamente la fioritura. I ritardanti di crescita, come l'Alar, che vengono impiegati attualmente sul melo, controllano l'accrescimento vegetativo degli alberi giovani appena iniziano a fruttificare, ma non si possono ancora ottenere gli stessi risultati che si hanno con l'impiego dei portainnesti clonali. L'Alar in dosi di 3000 ppm. o maggiori si  dimostrato un ritardante efficace nel controllo dell'accrescimento vegetativo delle zone apicali di piante adulte innestate su franco, purch applicato solo su queste zone. A variety of responses can be obtained by applying different plant growth regulators as foliar sprays on apple trees. The influence on flower formation is of particular interest and, as the practice is developed further, this can be of considerable practical benefit in fruit production. More basic information is needed to fully understand the mechanism of action of these growth regulators in promoting flowering. It does not appear to be entirely through the ability of the applied auxin to reduce vegetative growth, since Alar, which is an excellent growth retardant for most apple cultivars, often fails to induce significant increases in bloom. Growth retardants such as Alar which are in use at the present time on apples will control the shoot growth on young trees just coming into production but, based on our present knowledge, they cannot be expected to replace the size controlling clonal rootstocks in the efficient management of apple trees. Alar has proved to be an effective retardant in controlling the vigorous shoot growth in the tops of mature trees on standard rootstock provided a selective spray can be applied to these areas at 3000 ppm or higher.
42878007|Sono state condotte ulteriori indagini sull'efficacia diradante dell'Ethephon e sulla possibilit di migliorare la pezzatura dei frutti della cv. " Cardinal " mediante trattamenti con 2, 4, 5 TP. La somministrazione di Ethephon a 30 ppm, quando i frutti avevano un diametro trasversale di 13 mm circa, ha determinato una cascola insufficiente che  risultata invece simile al valore del diradamento manuale con l'abbinamento contemporaneo di 2, 4, 5 TP. Quando l'auxina  stata aggiunta all'indurimento del nocciolo ha avuto un effetto anticascolante. La pezzatura dei frutti trattati con Ethephon e 2, 4, 5 TP  stata sempre inferiore a quella rilevata sulle piante diradate manualmente. Inoltre sono stati individuati nell'ambito della popolazione di frutti quelli abscissi in seguito alla somministrazione dei due prodotti.  stata osservata anche una relazione tra dimensioni dei frutti e tendenza ad abscindere. Ambedue le sostanze, infine, hanno influenzato l'emissione di etilene dai frutti ed accentuato la loro pigmentazione. Il contenuto glucidico non ha subito alcuna sostanziale variazione. Further researches on " Cardinal " peach variety have been carried out to study the ability of Ethephon as thinner and to increase fruit size with successive treatments of 2, 4, 5 TP. 30 ppm of Ethephon applied on trees when fruits cross diameter was about 13 mm gived an unsatisfied thinning while the treatments with Ethephon and 2, 4, 5 TP produced a fruit drop similar to the hand thinning. Treatments with auxine applied at 30 mm of fruit diameter (pit hardening) showed to prevent fruit drop. The size of treated fruits was always lower than the hand thinned one. Moreover the dropped fruits by treatments have been located. Correlation between fruit size and fruit drop has also been pointed out. Both chemicals increased Ethylene production from fresh fruits and enhanced the anthocyanin level; the sugar content was always quite similar to the untreated fruit.
42878008|Le prove valutano l'influenza dell'Ethephon, irrorato in plntula e pre-raccolta, sulle caratteristiche produttive ed organolettiche delle cv. " Viadanese ", " Sweet Heart " e " Supermarket ", tutte ad abito sessuale andromonoico. I trattamenti in plntula, effettuati allo stadio di terza foglia vera ed alle dosi di 0 e 200 ppm, non hanno fornito risultati particolarmente interessanti. I trattamenti pre-raccolta effettuati in corrispondenza della maturazione dei primi frutti e alle dosi di 0 - 300 - 600 ppm, hanno fornito risultati positivi nelle cv. " Viadanese " e " Sweet Heart ", appartenenti alla variet botanica Cantalupo Ser (meloni lisci) e negativi nella cv. " Supermarket " appartenente alla variet botanica Reticultata Ser (meloni retati). Nel caso delle due prime cultivar, il fitoregolatore non produce effetti negativi sulla produzione totale e commerciabile e produce effetti positivi sull'anticipo e contemporaneit di maturazione. Gli effetti negativi sulla cv. " Supermarket " sono riferibili alla scalarit e continuit di fioritura che normalmente caratterizza il tipo " retato " e pertanto alla costante presenza sulla pianta di frutti nei pi svariati stadi di sviluppo. Le ripetute analisi refrattometriche e i ripetuti test qualitativi non hanno evidenziato alcuno scadimento delle qualit organolettiche ad opera del trattamento. Three andromonoecius muskmelon cultivars have been investigated. Plantula sprays (third true - leaf stage) at 200 ppm had poor effects. Pre-harvest sprays at 300 and 600 ppm done just before the picking of the first fruits gave positive results on " Viadanese " and " Sweet Heart " (cantaloupe melons) but negative results on " Supermarket " (netted melons). Cantaloupe melons total and marketable yield were not affected, ripening was hastened and picking period was shortened. Supermarket netted melon total and marketable yield were reduced, ripening and picking period was not affected. The negative effects on Supermarket yield may be due to continuous flowering which is characteristic of the netted type, and consequently to the presence on the plant of fruits in several development stages. Organoleptic tests performed repeatedly during the harvest period showed the quality of the fruits is not negatively affected by Ethephon treatments.
42878009|Ulteriori prove di diradamento chimico con Ethephon sulle cultivar di pesco da industria " Vivian", " Andross" e "Klamt", hanno fornito risultati nel complesso positivi. Risultati paragonabili a quelli del diradamento a mano sono stati ottenuti nella cv. " Klamt " con trattamenti a 25 e 50 ppm, effettuati quando i frutti avevano un diametro pari a 18 e 30 mm. Nella cv. " Andross " tutti gli alberi trattati hanno richiesto un diradamento supplementare a mano soprattutto per uniformare la distribuzione dei frutti nell'ambito della chioma. I trattamenti a 50 ppm effettuati a diametri dei frutti di 19 e 31 mm hanno comunque fornito risultati accettabili, considerando anche il risparmio di manodopera conseguito. Nella cv. " Vivian " risultati soddisfacenti sono stati ottenuti con trattamenti a 150 e 100 ppm, effettuati a diametri dei frutti di 19 e 28 mm rispettivamente. Further thinning sprays with 2-Chloro-ethylphosphonic acid on Vivian, Andross and Klamt confirmed the previous results. Satisfactory thinning effects were obtained on Klamt with both 25 and 50 ppm at 18 and 30 mm fruit diameter. On Andross all the spraye required additional hand thinning in order to obtain a better distribution of fruits in the crown. However, satisfactory results were obtained with sprays at 50 ppm at 19 and 31 mm fruit diameter. Sprays at 150 ppm and 100 ppm at 19 and 28 mm fruit diameter respectively had the best results on Vivian.
42878010|Allo scopo di limitare la cascola preraccolta, olivi delle cv. " Frantoio ", " Leccino " e " Moraiolo ", sono stati irrorati con Alar a 2000 ppm il 4 settembre 1971. Nella cv. " Frantoio " il peso in sostanza secca di ogni frutto ed il contenuto in olio hanno raggiunto il valore massimo il 15 novembre. La forza di distacco  stata uniformemente alta fino ai primi di dicembre, alla fine di questo mese si  ridotta del 50%. La cascola  stata trascurabile fino ai primi di gennaio. L'Alar ha determinato la riduzione del peso dei frutti e l'aumento della cascola. Nella cv. " Leccino " si sono verifcate le stesse condizioni biologiche riscontrate per il Frantoio, l'Alar non ha fatto riscontrare alcun effetto. Nella cv. " Moraiolo " il peso massimo dei frutti si  avuto alla fine di ottobre, periodo in cui il contenuto in olio ha subito un vistoso aumento, nei mesi successivi si sono registrati ulteriori incrementi. La cascola  stata consistente fin da met dicembre. L'Alar non ha influito su nessuna delle caratteristiche prese in esame. Pertanto l'epoca utile per la raccolta va da met novembre per le cv. " Frantoio " e " Leccino " e dai primi di novembre per il " Moraiolo " fino a met gennaio per le prime e al termine di dicembre per il " Moraiolo". L'Alar, nelle tre cultivar, non ha ridotto la cascola naturale. In order to reduce the preharvest drop, olive trees of Frantoio, Leccino and Moraiolo had been sprayed with Alar at 2000 ppm on the 4th of September 1971. In the Frantoio the dry matter of each fruit reached the highest weight on the 15th of November. The detachment force has been uniformly high until the first days of December, at the end of this month it is reduced of the 50%. The drop has been insignificant until the first days of January. Alar reduced the fruit weight and it increased the fruit drop. On Leccino we noted the same biological conditions of Frantoio: Alar had no effect. In the Moraiolo the highest fruit weight have been encountered at the end of October, when the oil content increased; on the following months the oil content increased yet. Alar produced no effect on the considered characteristics. Therefore, the right harvest time goes from half November for Frantoio and Leccino and from the first days of November for Moraiolo, until half January for the first ones, and until the end of December for Moraiolo. On the three cultivars, Alar has not reduced the natural drop.
42878011|Un nuovo principio attivo ad azione fitoregolatrice (2-cloroetiltris (2-metossietossi)-silano), che agisce liberando etilene e stimolando in tale modo l'abscissione dei frutti,  stato provato sulle olive con promettenti risultati. Vengono infatti riferiti i risultati di una sperimentazione condotta in 16 prove nel 1973, dove, nella maggior parte dei casi, la raccolta delle olive risult facilitata, con significativi incrementi della percentuale di caduta dei frutti rispetto ai testimoni. Le dosi per un'ulteriore sperimentazione, che dovr tenere in particolare considerazione l'influenza dei fattori come la variet, la migliore epoca di applicazione, il clima e la tecnica di raccolta, appaiono comprese tra 1000 e 2000 ppm, per l'ambiente italiano. Il prodotto  poco tossico ed anche dal punto di vista dei residui nell'olio la situazione appare come molto favorevole. The new experimental compound CGA 13586 (2-chloro ethyl-tris-(-2 methoxyethoxy)--silane) showed promising as an abscission agent, loosening olive fruits through the release of ethylene. Data are reported and discussed from a field experimentation in 1973 in Italy, where it actually facilitated olive harvest in combination with both mechanical and hand-shaking and fruitsgathering on the soil, in most cases increasing fruit drop percentage compared to control plants, at rates selective with regard to defoliation. Dosages between 1000 and 2000 ppm are recommended for further testing under Italian conditions; the importance of thoroughly investigating the influence of such factors as crop variety, application timing, climate and harvesting technique is emphasized. Toxicological and residue pictures are favourable.
42878012|Gli Autori riportano i risultati di una indagine comparativa sull'impiego di alcuni portinnesti di albicocco, condotta a partire dal 1966 in una tipica area di coltura dell'Emilia-Romagna. Tale indagine ha interessato un complesso di dodici portinnesti alcuni dei quali clonali: Mirabolani: " bianco ", " Bautlende ", " belga ", " de Lesdain", " MRS 1/14 ", " GF 31 " e " Marianna GF 8/1 "; ed altri da seme: albicocchi " Canino " e " Mech-Mech "; peschi: " Missour " e " A/VI "; " Rigotti l /I I " (pesco  P. Davidiana) innestati con le due cultivar pi diffuse nella regione emiliana (" Reale d'Imola" e " Precoce d'Imola "). Ciascuna combinazione d'innesto  stata generalmente ripetuta su 28 alberi, distribuiti secondo il sistema dei blocchi randomizzati. Dalle osservazioni effettuate tra il 1967 e il 1972  emerso anzitutto una notevole diversit di comportamento fra i vari portinnesti, anche nell'ambito della stessa specie. Tale variabilit  in parte dovuta all'influenza dei due nesti ed all'interazione fra questi e il soggetto. In particolare, gi al 1 anno, fu riscontrata una disaffinit pressocch totale del " Rigotti l/II " con entrambe le cultivar e, in grado assai accentuato, anche del " Mech-Mech " con la sola " Reale d'Imola ". Sintomi vari di disaffinit, con gravi forme di deperimento che hanno causato la morte di numerosi alberi (dal 10 al 40% del totale), si sono successivamente manifestati nella maggior parte delle combinazioni d'innesto ed in particolare in quelle fra " Precoce d'Imola " e di portinnesti: albicocco " Canino " e " Mech-Mech "; pesco " Missour " e " A /VI "; mirabolano " bianco " e " MRS 1/14 ". Le combinazioni con il " mirabolano belga " e con il " GF 31 " si sono invece rivelate apparentemente affini e resistenti per entrambe le cultivar. I rilievi effettuati annualmente sull'attivit vegetativa e produttiva degli alberi hanno posto in evidenza la maggior vigoria della " Reale di Imola " rispetto alla " Precoce d'Imola " che per si  dimostrata pi precoce nella messa a frutto. Fra i portinnesti, la maggiore vigoria  stata indotta, nella " Reale d'Imola ", dal mir. " de Lesdain " e dal " Bautlende " e, nella " Precoce d'Imola " dallo stesso " de Lesdain " dal mir. " belga " e dal pesco " Missour ". La minor vigoria si  avuta invece sempre col mirabolano " bianco ". La produzione  risultata complessivamente piuttosto omogenea nella " Reale d'Imola ", salvo le combinazioni col pesco " A/VI " (pi fruttifere) e quelle col mirabolano " bianco " (meno produttive). Nella " Precoce d'Imola ", invece, la massima produzione si  avuta coll'albicocco " Canino " e con il " Mech-Mech ", seguiti dal mirabolano " belga " e dal " GF 31 ". Inferiore quella degli altri portinnesti ed in particolare quella del mirabolano " bianco ". Per quanto riguarda le caratteristiche dei frutti,  emersa in generale una certa tendenza ad ottenere frutti pi grossi nelle combinazioni su pesco " A/VI ", su albicocco e su mirabolano " GF 31 ". Alcune selezioni di mirabolano cd in particolare lo " MRS 1/14 " hanno indotto anche un anticipo di maturazione di qualche giorno. Nel complesso, quindi, i portinnesti che hanno fornito i migliori risultati, fino al 6 anno di impianto, sono il mirabolano " belga " e il " GF 31 ", ed in secondo luogo, con le riserve gi espresse, il pesco " A/VI " (selezionato dal Prof. Scaramuzzi all'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree di Pisa) e l'albicocco " Canino ". Questi risultati dimostrano, nel loro complesso che nell'albicocco la scelta del portinnesto non pu essere generalizzata ma deve scaturire da una specifica verifica sperimentale delle possibili combinazioni d'innesto per ciascun ambiente di coltura cultivar. A field comparison of twelve apricot rootstocks was started in 1966 in a typical foothill growing area of Emilia-Romagna (near Imola). The two most important varieties of the region (" Reale di Imola " and " Precoce di Imola ") were grafted on the following rootstocks: a) clonis: 1) Myrobalans: " White ", " Bautlende ", " Belgian ", " de Lesdain ", " MRS 1/14 ", " GF/31 "; 2) Marianna " GF 8/1 "; b) seedlings: " Canino " and " Mech-Mech " apricots, " Missour " and " A/VI " peaches, " Rigotti 1 /II " hybrid (P. persica  P. davidiana?). Every rootstock was generally replicated with 28 trees for both varieties. Annual growth and cropping data up to 1972, have shown that the behaviour of the trees was affected not only by the rootstocks but also by the scions, and by their interaction. Since the first year, " Rigotti 1 /II " showed a complete incompatibility with both varieties; " Mech-Mech ", with " Reale di Imola " suffered very high grafting failure and consequently it was descarded. In the following years, decline and apoplexy together with other incompatibility symptoms, caused the death of many trees (from 5 to 40%) in most scions/stocks combinations, particularly those between " Precoce di Imola " and the following rootstocks: " Canino " and " Mech-Mech " apricots, " Missour " and " A/VI " peaches, " white " and " MRS 1/14 " myrobalans. On the contrary some rootstocks, such as Belgian and " GF/31 " myrobalans showed apparantly good compatibility and resistance, at least up to the end of the sixth year. Generally the data of the growth (cross section area) and of the crop showed that " Reale di Imola " is more vigorous than " Precoce di Imola " but the latter case into an early bearing. The maximum growth was reached by the trees of " Reale di Imola " grafted on " Myrobalan de Lesdain ", gradually followed by the ones grafted on " Bautlende ", on " Belgian " myrobalan and by the trees of " Precoce d'Imola " on " Missour " peach. The " white " myrobalan caused a poor and low growth of the scions. At the end of the sixth year the amount of the crop was quite uniform in the " Reale d'Imola " trees except those budded on " A/VI " peach (which reached the highest crop: 98 kg/per tree) and the others on " White myrobalan (which reached the lowest: 37 kg/per tree). In the " Precoce di Imola ", instead, the maximum crop was reached by trees budded on " Canino " and " Mech-Mech " seedlings (118 and 125 kg/per tree, respectively), followed by the ones on " Belgian " and " GF/31 " myrobalan (96 and, respectively, 98 kg/per tree). The size of the fruit was affected especially during the first years of the bearing; in fact it was ascertained a trend to produce bigger fruits by some rootstocks, such as " A/VI " peach, apricot seedlings, and " GF/31 " myrobalan, although not confirmed by statistical analysis. Some myrobalans, like " MRS 1/14 " clone, induced an earlier ripening of the fruits. On the whole, the best rootstocks appear to be the two clones " Belgian " and " GF/31 " myrobalans, and, then the two seedlings " A/VI " peach (selected by Prof. F. Scaramuzzi at the University of Pisa) and " Canino " apricot, although both A/VI and Canino lost a percentage of trees. In general the results show that the choice of the apricot rootstocks cannot be generalized owing to the great difference in their behaviour as far as concerns the environmental conditions of the growing area and to either kind of stocks and of scions.
42878838|Gli Autori illustrano i risultati delle osservazioni compiute su alcuni aspetti della biologia fiorale delle sei cultivar di Mandorlo "Grappolina", "Marcona", "Arrubia", "Rachele", "Provvista" e "Romana", ponendo in evidenza le differenze riscontrate. Con considerazioni a carattere pi generale vengono definite per il Mardorlo le epoche in cui si verificano gli stadi evolutivi del ciclo produttivo, dalla gemma neutra alla maturazione del frutto: a) induzione antogena: durante il mese di giugno; b) differenziazione morfologica (fase di orceolo): prime due decadi di settembre; c) apice gemmario con tutti gli abbozzi del futuro fiore: ultima quindicina di settembre; d) fioritura: febbraio-marzo dell'anno successivo alla differenziazione; e) maturazione: agosto-settembre dell'anno successivo alla differenziazione. Some observations on floral biology of six Almond varieties were carried out in order to point out different stages of annual productive cycle, from flower bud differentiation to fruit ripening. Results evidenced some differences among the varieties tested, but the general productive behaviour of the species can be summarized as follows: a) floral induction: june; b) morphological flower-bud differentiation: during first two decades of September; c) complete flower-bud: at the end of September; d) flowering: during february-march of following year; e) fruit ripening: during august-september.
42878839|Si tratta di tre selezioni derivanti dall'incrocio "Fiorentina"  "Bubikopf") "Saturnia", "Lattea", "Cornuta") e di una selezione derivante dalle popolazioni locali di "Fiorentina" denominata "Superfiorentina". Le selezioni ottenute sono adatte alla coltivazione autunno-vernina e presentano elevate caratteristiche autoimbiancanti, in modo da consentirne la utilizzazione senza ricorrere alla legatura ed inoltre hanno una discreta resistenza al freddo. Le variet "Lattea" e "Cornuta" producono il n. di foglie pi elevato ma, essendo le foglie pi strette e pi corte, il peso medio del cespo risulta mediamente inferiore a quello delle variet "Superfiorentina" e "Saturnia". Il maggior sviluppo  presentato dalla "Superfiorentina" seguita nell'ordine da "Saturnia", "Lattea" e "Cornuta". Trattandosi di variet a ciclo produttivo autunno-vernino, l'epoca di semina nell'Italia centrale non deve essere anteriore al 15 di luglio per non incorrere in fenomeni di prefioritura e non deve essere posteriore al 10 di Agosto per non compromettere lo sviluppo complessivo delle piante. Characteristics and cultural results of new varieties are referred. The first named "Superfiorentina" was derived by selection of cultivated population of scarole. The others (Saturnia, Lattea, Cornuta) were obtained crossing "Fiorentina"  "Bubikopf". All the selections are suitable for late autumn and winter cultivation; the self-blanching characteristic is well developped in all the varieties, and also the frost resistance. "Lattea" and "Cornuta" varieties present an high number of leaves which are narrow and short, therefore the weight results lower than "Superfiorentina" and "Saturnia". The sowing in Centre of Italy must be confined between 15th of July and 10th of August to prevent bolting or poor growth.
42878840|Researches were carried out to ascertain the effect of Benomyl, Enovit and NF 44 on pollen germination (in vitro), pollen tube growth (in vivo) and fruit set. The germination tests showed that the systemic fungicides added to the culture media produced changeable effects with respect to pollen populations of different sizes and different germination periods. Enovit always inhibited pollen germination with respect to both different pollen populations and increasing germination periods (4, 8 and 16 hr after inoculation). Benomyl and NF 44 stimulated the germination of the smallest pollen population at 4 and 8 hr after inoculation. No effects was observed on populations of increasing sizes and at 16 hr after inoculation. While it is clear that the Enovit had an inibitory effect, it is difficult to explain the stimulating role played by Benomyl and NF 44 only on the smallest pollen population at 4 hr after inoculation. In fact, it is logical to expect an increasing stimulation on populations of bigger size. Once again these experimental findings point out the complexity of the factors involved in the germination process. Considering the pollen tube elongation (in vivo, while Benomyl and NF 44 did not produce any effect, Enovit greatly reduced the number of tubes reaching the ovules 144 hr after pollination. No effect was observed on fruit set and crop. However, since the Enovit always reduced the pollen germination and tubes elongation both in vivo and in vitro, it can not be excluded that this negative effect can become dangerous with environmental conditions more adverse to the germination and fertilization process.
42878841|Sono state condotte alcune ricerche su semenzali di pesco della linea P.S. Al allo scopo di saggiare la possibilit di ritardare l'epoca di germogliamento con applicazioni di alcuni fitoregolatori nel periodo compreso tra il 23/1 ed il 23/3. I prodotti saggiati (in applicazioni singole o ripetute) sono stati: SADH (10.000 ppm), MH (2.000 ppm), CCC (2.000 ppm) e GA (250 ppm). I fitoregolatori capaci di influenzare in misura sensibile la velocit di schiusura delle gemme a legno, anche se in direzione opposta, sono risultati le gibberelline e la SADH. Entrambi hanno mostrato che la loro efficacia, abbastanza costante nelle prime epoche di trattamento, tende a diminuire, sia pure in modo diverso, nei trattamenti pi vicini all'epoca di germogliamento. La percentuale di germogliazione, nei trattamenti con gibberelline,  risultata inversamente correlata all'anticipo di schiusura da queste provocato, mentre  sempre stata costantemente superiore al controllo nei trattamenti con SADH. Il CCC in questa prova ha talvolta anticipato l'epoca di germogliazione, senza esplicare azione brachizzante sui germogli. Dal punto di vista pratico  possibile ottenere con la SADH un ritardo nell'epoca di germogliazione di circa 6-7 giorni, mentre con l'MH l'efficacia  risultata piuttosto trascurabile (2-3 gg). Ritardi talvolta superiori, di interesse applicativo, sono stati ottenuti con trattamenti ripetuti di MH (15 gg), i quali hanno tuttavia mostrato una transitoria azione fitotossica sulla vegetazione. L'applicazione ripetuta con SADH non ha aumentato di molto il ritardo di schiusura (8 gg). Trials were carried out in order to delay leaf bud opening on 1 year old peach seedlings. Growth regulators were sprayed at different times after the main rest, but during the imposed dormancy period, between January 23 and March 23. The substances tested by single or repeated tratments were: SADH (10.000 ppm), MH (2.000 ppm), CCC (2.000 ppm), GA (250 ppm). GA promoted the opening of terminal buds, but inhibited the opening of many of the lateral ones. SADH delayed bud opening, single treatments delaying opening by 6-7 days, and repeated treatments by 8 days, when bud burst did occur, the terminal buds and a high percentage of the lateral ones grew. The earlier applications of GA and SADH were more effective in exerting their influence on bud development than later applications. Repeated treatment with MH delayed growth of buds by 15 days, but temporarily damaged young leaves. CCC treatments slightly advanced bud opening without causing any dwarfing effect on new shoots.
42878842|Si sono condotte alcune prove per migliorare la tecnica di moltiplicazione a mezzo sacchetti di polietilene. Talee della cv "Fertilia "sono state trattate all'apice o alla base con IBA a 4000 ppm e poste a radicare in sacchetti di polietilene contenenti tre substrati: agriperlite, agriperlite pi Hougland, terricciato. Per ci che riguarda l'influenza del substrato, indipendentemente dai trattamenti, si  avuto un effetto positivo a favore del terricciato, rispetto alla sola agriperlite, mentre l'agriperlite pi la soluzione Hougland ha presentato un effetto intermedio statisticamente uguale agli altri due. Se invece guardiamo all'interazione substrato-trattamento, i migliori risultati, per quanto riguarda la radicazione ed anche il numero medio di radici per talea, si sono ottenuti con la tesi trattamento basale pi agriperlite con Hougland. La somministrazione di elementi nutritivi con la soluzione Hougland non ha influito sui fenomeni esaminati (radicazione, numero e lunghezza delle radici) n tanto meno sulla sopravvivenza delle barbatelle al trapianto, mentre il trattamento ormonico ha fortemente diminuito la cascola delle gemme, la maggior parte delle quali per, non era vitale. Tra i due trattamenti quello basale ha fornito sempre i migliori risultati anche se quello apicale ha dato una risposta statisticamente diversa e superiore al controllo. Some trials have been realised in order to improve the propagation technique through plastic bags. Cuttings of the "Fertilia" cv have been treatet both in the basal and in the apical region with IBA 4000 ppm, and put in plastic bags filled with three different substratus: agriperlite, agriperlite + Hougland, and moulded soil. As for the influence of the substratus, the most effective one has been the moulded soil, while Hougland solution had an intermediate effect, statistically equal to those of the two other thesis. But if we consider the substratus-treatment interaction, the best results, both for the root number and the average number of roots per cutting, were those obtained in the thesis  basal treatment + agriperlite + Hougland . Nutritional elements had no influence at all nor on the considerered phenomenons (rooting, number and leght of roots), nor on the transplanting survival of rooted cuttings, while hormonical treatment strongly reduced bud drop (but these generally were unviable). Between the two treatments, the basal one has always given the better results, though the apical one had a statistical reaction different and higher than the control.
42878843|Vengono descritte le principali caratteristiche tassonomiche, agronomiche e commerciali di 11 cultivar di mandorlo di particolare interesse, introdotte dagli Stati Uniti e dall'Unione Sovietica. Dalle osservazioni condotte per 4 anni sulle piante in piena produzione, presso la collezione del Centro Sperimentale di Venturina (Livorno)  emerso che in tale ambiente, caratterizzato da frequenti gelate primaverili, sono risultate maggiormente produttive le cultivar a fioritura tardiva.  il caso delle cv. "Yaltano", "Peerless", "Morskoj" e "Picantili" che fioriscono tra la prima e la seconda settimana di marzo. Le cultivar russe, pur essendo a guscio premice, presentano semi grossi, talvolta solcati e quindi non completamente attraenti. Ad un livello produttivo pi basso si colloca un secondo gruppo di cultivar ("Drake", "Texas", "Miagkoskorlupii", "Non Pareil") che fioriscono tra la fine di febbraio e la prima settimana di marzo, e con caratteristiche del seme quasi sempre pregevoli. Le ultime due meritano particolare attenzione per la elevata resa in sgusciato e la bassissima percentuale di semi doppi. Le variet a fioritura pi precoce, quali la "Ne plus ultra", la "Davey" e la "Kapareil" non hanno fornito produzioni di una certa importanza. Some of the principal taxonomic, agronomical and commercial characteristics of 11 American and Russian almond varieties grown in Tuscan coastal area are described. Four years observations on productive trees, at the University Experimental Center of Venturina, showed that in such envirommental conditions, with very high frequency of spring frost, four late blooming varieties (10-20 March) ("Peerless", "Picantili", "Morskoj", "Yaltano") are more productive. The last three russian varieties, though softshell, are peculiar for large kernels, sometimes furrowed and with very brown and pubescente pellicole. In the second place is a group of varieties ("Drake", "Texas", "Miagkoskorlupii", "Non Pareil"), blooming between the end of February and the first week of March. The last two varieties have a high shelling percentage and a very low number of double kernels. The earlier blooming varieties such as "Ne plus ultra", "Davey" and "Kapareil" showed very low yields.
42878017|Fusarium lateritium Nees.  riportato per la prima volta in Italia quale agente di disseccamento dei rami di Sophora japonica L. Sono descritti i sintomi della malattia e i fattori che ne influenzano la comparsa e il decorso in natura. Si riportano inoltre i caratteri morfologici e biometrici del patogeno sia  in vivo  che  in vitro . I risultati di prove condotte a diverse temperature hanno fatto riscontrare sviluppo del micete a valori compresi tra 5 e 35 C, con  optimum  intorno ai 20-23 C. The canker of Sophora japonica L., caused by Fusarium lateritium Nees., is for the first time reported in Italy. The symptoms of the disease are described, and the environment conditions that affect the arising and the development of the disease are discussed. Morphological and biometrical characters of the fungus  in vivo  and  in vitro  (on some agar media) are described. The results of the temperature-test show that the fungus grows in a range of temperatures from 5 to 35 C, and the optimum stands between 20 and 23 C.
42878018| stata condotta un'indagine sulle cv. di Pesco "July Elberta", "Coronado" e "Jolly 1 B" allo scopo di verificare la rispondenza del diradamento meccanico dei frutti effettuato con uno scuotitore di limitata potenza (Stormas) su piante con rami misti  spuntati  o  diradati . Il diradamento manuale dei frutti, operato su piante allevate a  tutta cima , fungeva da controllo. Sia l'intervento meccanico che quello manuale sono stati effettuati quando nei frutti la lunghezza dei semi raggiungeva i 10 mm. La  spuntatura  dei rami misti, lunghi, rigidi e vigorosi ha sortito i migliori risultati in quanto durante la scuotitura non si sono verifcate variazioni notevoli dell'ampiezza di oscillazione. Cos operando si  ottenuta una pi uniforme distribuzione dei frutti sulla chioma delle piante ed i parametri della produzione (quantit, peso unitario e distribuzione dei frutti per classi di calibro) hanno evidenziato valori paragonabili a quelli del controllo). A study of peach trees cv. "July Elberta", "Coronado" and "Jolly I B" was carryed out in order to verify the efficiency of mechanical fruit thinning by a shaker of limited power (Stormas) used on trees with trimmed or "thinned "(untrimmed top) shoots. The hand-thinning done on trees with "untrimmed top" was the control. Both the mechanical and manual system were used when the peach seeds were 10 mm long. The trimming of long, solid, vigorous shoots gave the best results because during the shaking there was no significant variation in the oscillation value. With this system we obtained a more uniform distribution of fruits on the top of plants and the production factors (quantity, unit-weight and distribution of marketable fruits in relation to their size) showed comparable results to the control.
42878019|Allo scopo di portare un contributo al problema della radicazione dell'olivo,  stata condotta una ricerca sul comportamento in vitro di espianti di rami di Olea europaea L. cv. "Ogliarola di Monopoli" variando l'et dei rami, il periodo di prelievo e l'orientamento dei segmenti. Sono stati inoltre saggiati mezzi di coltura diversi, addizionati di auxine e di saccarosio a diverse concentrazioni. I risultati hanno provato che le concentrazioni efficaci di NAA sono le stesse per la callogenesi e per la rizogenesi, ma che le esigenze in saccarosio sono pi basse per la callogenesi. La capacit di produrre radici  limitata ai rami di 1-3 anni e solo se coltivati su un mezzo adatto con auxine e saccarosio a determinate concentrazioni; l'epoca del prelievo influisce poco sull'andamento della rizogenesi e della callogenesi. I rami di oltre 5-6 anni di et hanno mostrato fenomeni di intensa callogenesi, ma nessuna attivit rizogena, dimostrando che in vitro la rizogenesi nei tessuti adulti  probabilmente ostacolata da sostanze inibitrici o da scarsa quantit di auxina endogena rispetto ai rami giovani.  stata anche esaminata la modalit di insorgenza delle radici. Queste sono sempre accompagnate dalla produzione di callo nel mezzo, qualunque sia l'orientamento degli espianti, ma sono strutturalmente indipendenti dal callo, nel senso che sorgono dal floema preesistente. Il callo peraltro scompaginando i tessuti corticali e spesso la guaina sclerenchimatica ad anello continuo, caratteristica della struttura dei rametti di Olea, crea, insieme alle condizioni idonee della coltura, un ambiente favorevole allo sviluppo delle radici. Ciononostante la percentuale di segmenti radicati  piuttosto scarsa ed , con tutta probabilit, da ascriversi a cause genetiche in rapporto alla variet. In order to contribute to the problem of Olea rooting, a research was made by means of cultures in vitro on segments of Olea europaea cv. "Ogliarola di Monopoli" by varying the age of branches, the drawing time and the segments orientation. Different mediums with addition of auxins and saccharose at different concentrations were essayed. The results proved that optimum concentration of NAA is the same both for the callus and root formation; on the contrary lower saccharose requirements were needed for callogenesis explication. The rooting ability is present only in 1-3 year-old Olea branches and a proper medium, auxin, and saccharose at given combinations are necessary. Root formation initiates at 3% of saccharose and the maximum is obtained at 8-10% of saccharose concentrations with NAA = 10 mg/1. Very high doses of saccharose (up to 13%) are favorable to both phenomena and increase the percentage of rooted segments, though osmotic pressure is strong. The drawing time in examined cultivar does not sensibly affect the course of callus and root formation. The branches over 5-6 years old showed strong callogenesis, but no rhizogenesis, thus proving that in old tissues in vitro root formation is probably inhibited by unfavorable substances or scarce amount of endogenous auxins. A structural examination of root arising was also made. This is always accompanied by callus formation inside the medium, in both segment orientations. However the roots are structurally independent of the callus, i.e. these derive from the pre-existing phloem. But the callus, by upsetting the cortical tissues and often the mechanical ring, a typical feature of Olea young branches, produces, under suitable conditions of culture, a favorable environnement for the root growth. In spite of that the percentage of rooted segments produced is low and, in all probability, it is due to genetic causes in variety relation.
42878020|Viene descritto per la prima volta lo sviluppo di radici avventizie preformate in susino. Tali radici, bene evidenti sui rami di 3-4 e pi anni di alcune cultivar, si sviluppano, similmente ad altre specie, a partire da raggi parenchimatici ingrossati. Non si riscontrano invece primordi radicali sui rami di 1 e 2 anni. Talee legnose di un anno delle cvv  Precoce di Ebersucier  e  S. Piero , poste in letto freddo con sabbia, senza trattamento ormonico, presentano la capacit, anche se lenta nel tempo, di sviluppare radici di neoformazione, a partire dalla zona del cambio. The development of preformed adventitious roots in plum is described. These roots, well in evidence in three-four year old branches of some cultivars, develop similarly to other species from enlarged parenchymatous rays. Such formations can not be found on branches younger than two years. One year old woody cuttings of  Precoce di Ebersucier  and  S. Piero  cultivars, placed in a cold sandy bed without hormone treatment show, even if slow, a capacity of developing roots. The roots which develop on such cuttings from the cambium zone must be considered of neo-formation.
42878021|Sulla base di una precedente prova orientativa, si  proseguito lo studio delle condizioni ottimali per la radicazione di talee erbacee di Prunus sinensis mediante nebulizzazione. Sono state prese in considerazione: a) la dimensione delle talee; b) l'applicazione di IBA in soluzione idroalcoolica, a diverse concentrazioni (0, 1000 e 4000 ppm); c) il tempo di immersione delle talee nelle soluzioni di IBA (immersione istantanea e di 3, 6, 12 minuti primi); d) la temperatura del substrato di radicazione (22, 26, 28, 30, 32C); e) tre diversi tipi di substrato. Le maggiori percentuali di radicazione (fino al 100%) si sono ottenute utilizzando talee piccole, giovani e non lignificate, trattate con dosi relativamente basse di IBA (1000 ppm), applicate per immersione istantanea e con temperature del substrato fra i 28C e i 30C. Dosi pi elevate di IBA o immersioni pi prolungate, determinano con questo materiale un aumento della mortalit. Fra i substrati sperimentati, la torba ha significativamente aumentato la mortalit. Continuing previous studies, best conditions for rooting of Prunus sinensis under mist were investigated on softwood cuttings using a factorial design in which rooting factors considered were: a) size of cuttings; b) application of IBA in hydroalcohoolic solution, at various concentrations (0, 1000, 4000 ppm); c) duration of dipping of cuttings base in IBA solution (instantaneous dipping or for 3, 6, 12 minutes); d) temperature of rooting medium (22, 26, 28, 30, 32C); e) three different rooting media. Greatest percentages of rooted cuttings (up to 100%) were obtained using small, young, herbaceous cuttings, treated with instantaneous dipping in IBA solution at low concentration (1000 ppm), with substractum temperature between 28 C and 30 C. Higher concentrations of IBA or prolonged immersions, increased mortality. Among rooting media tested, peat significantly increased mortality.
42878022|Si sono presi in considerazione alcuni aspetti tecnico-pratici della coltura di apici meristematici di patata allo scopo di aumentare la resa percentuale in piantine perfettamente conformate. Incrementi in resa sono stati ottenuti: a) utilizzando apici dissezionati allo stadio di quattro foglioline primordiali (0,7 mm di lunghezza media) invece di apici includenti soltanto le prime due (0,3 mm); b) adottando un sistema di coltura a due fasi che implica il trasferimento di plantule prive di apparato radicale su un secondo substrato addizionato di auxina. L'utilizzo di apici meristematici ascellari invece di apici terminali prelevati da germogli del tubero non ha avuto alcuna influenza sulla resa e sullo sviluppo delle piantine. Di qui il vantaggio di impiegare apici ascellari, essendo essi portati in gran numero anche da una sola pianta. The size of the expiants affected the yield of potato rooted plantlets. Two series of potato tips, dissected at the stage of four (0.7 mm long) and two primordial leaflets (0.3 mm) respectively, were cultured on the same medium. 73.5% plantlets (101 out of 137 potato tips) was obtained from 0.7 mm potato tips whereas 52.5% plantlets (70 out of 133 tips) developed from 0.3 mm tips. This difference is highly significant in the  test. Since some tips developed into rootless plantlets, transferring unrooted plantlets to another medium supplemented with an auxin, was found useful. 303 meristem tips (0.3 mm long) yielded 152 rooted plantlets and 51 unrooted ones when cultured on Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with gibberellic acid (0.1 mg/1) and thiamine (0.1 mg/1). By transferring the unrooted plantlets to a substrate containing 0.1 mg/l naphtalenacetic acid but lacking gibberellic acid, 48 rooted plantlets were again obtained, thus increasing the yield from 50% to 66%. Using this procedure with 0.7 mm long potato tips, the yield of rooted plantlets was improved to 87.6%. Our experiments were performed with axillary meristem tips. No significant difference in yield resulted when terminal tips, dissected from tuber sprouts, were cultured in a comparative experiment.
42878029|Piante adulte di pero della cv. "Conference", sono state irrorate, sulla chioma, in piena fioritura, con Orthonil (1500 ppm), GA (20 ppm) e Orthonil + GA (1500 ppm + 20 ppm). Tali fitoregolatori, singolarmente o combinati, hanno incrementato la produzione della cultivar in esame anche se una parte dei frutti  risultata di forma allungata e con il peduncolo sprovvisto del setto di separazione. I trattamenti, pur riducendo il numero dei semi validi per frutto e la durezza della polpa, hanno mantenuto invariato il contenuto zuccherino. L'Orthonil ha fornito, nel complesso, risultati superiori all'acido gibberellico (GA) ed al trattamento Orthonil + GA, avendo consentito la produzione di frutti di migliore pezzatura. Single branches of mature trees of "Conference" on Quince C were as experimental units. At full bloom branches were sprayed with GA (20 p.p.m.), Orthonil (1500 p.p.m.) or GA + Orthonil (20 p.p.m. + 1500 p.p.m.) or were left unsprayed. All treatments were replicated even times. The following data were collected during the fruiting and harvest time:  number of flower clusters before full bloom;  fruit set;  percentage of fruit drop from fruit set to the harvest time;  total number of fruits at harvest time and percentage of normal shape fruit;  percentage of king fruit;  average weight, width and length of fruit at harvest time;  number of full seeds;  ripeness and sugar content. The fruit set and the fruit drop were refered to 100 flowers clusters while the fruit characteristics (size, ripeness and sugar content) were determined, considering 25 fruits for each replication. The ripeness and sugar content were determined at harvest time using respectively an Effe-gi penetrometer (cylinder 8 mm diameter) and a Zeiss refractometer. All three chemical spray treatments increased fruit set as measured shortly after full bloom, the effect of GA being much greater than that of Orthonil. Gibberellic acid also had a much greater effect on the total numbers of fruits at harvest but the numbers of normal shape fruits harvested from the GA and Orthonil treatments were very similar and almost twice the number harvested from unsprayed branches. Even when only the fruits of normal shape were considered the mean fruit weight, length and width were considerably less for GA treated fruits than for those on control branches or those sprayed with Orthonil alone.
42878030|Il contenuto delle sostanze gibberellino-simili presenti in frutti di pesco "J. H. Hale", sia gamici che partenocarpici, precedentemente trattati con GA (a 40 ppm, 20 gg. dopo la piena fioritura)  stato periodicamente valutato durante le tre fasi di sviluppo dei frutti fino alla maturazione, attraverso il biotest dell'endosperma di orzo (rilevazione colorimetrica degli zuccheri liberati dall'-amilasi). All'inizio del 1 stadio d'accrescimento la frazione acida degli estratti dei frutti di  controllo  ha rivelato la presenza di gibberelline in corrispondenza delle strisce 4, 5 e 6 del cromatogramma. Nei frutti trattati, sia gamici che partenocarpici, una maggiore attivit gibberellica  stata complessivamente notata oltre che nella stessa regione, in corrispondenza delle strisce 7-8 e 9 e 10. Sembra pertanto possibile dedurne che parte della GA applicata col trattamento sia stata convertita in altre gibberelline. Il contenuto di gibberelline  risultato ancora elevato verso la fine del primo stadio nei frutti gamici e fortemente ridotto in quelli partenocarpici anche se trattati. Durante il 2 stadio, gli estratti dei frutti gamici di controllo hanno dimostrato scarsissima attivit -amilasica, mentre quelli dei frutti gamici e partenocarpici trattati hanno promosso una certa attivit in corrispondenza rispettivamente delle strisce 4 e 8 dei cromatogrammi. I campioni di polpa presi durante l'inizio del 3 stadio e alla raccolta hanno rivelato una qualche attivit a-amilasica solo in corrispondenza delle strisce 5 e 6. Le analisi dei frutti di controllo e di quelli dei trattati hanno rivelato, nei secondi, un pi elevato contenuto di GA tanto da ritenere che una piccola parte della GA applicata sia poi traslocata nell'embrione. Una certa attivit -amilasica  stata infine riscontrata negli estratti della  fase acquosa  e del  residuo alcoolico insolubile  dei semi dopo idrolisi, rispettivamente, con beta-glucosidasi e con peptidasi, indicando in tali estratti la presenza di non trascurabili quantit di gibberelline legate a glucosidi od a complessi proteici la cui utilizzazione, da parte del frutto, potrebbe avvenire in tempi successivi a quelli delle gibberelline  libere  e comunque in circostanze ancora da determinare. Seeded and parthenocarpic peaches, Prunus persica, cv. "J. H. Hale" were collected periodically from trees sprayed with gibberellic acid (GA) at 40 ppm, 20 days after full bloom and untreated ones. Extracts of the flesh and seeds were bioassayed for GA-like substances using the barley endosperm (half-seed) method. During the early part of Stage I of fruit development, the ethyl acetate fraction of the control fruits revealed a single peak of activity in strips 4, 5 and 6. In GA-treated fruits, whether seeded or seedless, higher peaks of activity were noted in the same region as above and also in strips 7, 8, 9 and 10. This suggests that the applied GA or its precursors were converted to other GA-like substances. Seeded fruits sampled May 25 still contained high levels of GA but the treated parthenocarpic ones disclosed a sharp decrease. During Stage II, extract from control fruits showed little or no GA activity while that of seeded fruits from sprayed trees showed slight activity in strip 4; that from parthenocarpic fruits showed low GA-like activity in strip 8. Pulp samples taken during early Stage III and at harvest, uniformly contained low GA-like activity, mainly in strips 5 and 6. Analyses of seeds from control and sprayed trees revealed that the latter had higher levels of GA than the former, indicating that some of the applied GA had translocated into the embryo. Little activity was noted in the aqueous phase of seed extracts after treatment with betaglucosidase and in the peptidase hydrolizate of the alcohol insoluble residue, indicating that small amounts of bound forms of GA were present (as glucose-bound GA and protein complex). The possible roles of these free and bound forms of GA are discussed.
42878031|Internode fragments from tangent longitudinal stem sections of highly rhyzogenic Ficus carica L. cv. Mola (Fi) were mixed, and either tied or not tied, to internode fragments from tangent longitudinal stem sections of Prunus communis Arc. (Pr), non rhyzogenic, and of Olea europaea L. (Ol), scarcely rhyzogenic. In the Fi/Pr and Fi/Ol associations, the tied and woodless bionts produced smaller calli along the contact surfaces than were obtained in isolated cultures. Roots originated from the Ficus portion alone are fewer in number and smaller in size than those originated in the isolated cultures. These roots originate either from marginal proliferation, or from the entire outer area of association. Again, in the Fi/Pr and Fi/Ol associations, adjacent bionts, whether with or without wood, produced a greater amount of calli and number of roots than the tied bionts  though always smaller in size than can be obtained in isolated cultures. Occasionally, junctions were observed, particularly in tied associations. Observation of joining calli under the light microscope showed that tissue continuity is possible in all of the unions considered, though such continuity is by no means complete and intimate, and that there was no mutual interpenetration, i.e. no complex junctional structures were observed. In conclusion, the experiments indicated that there is no biochemical and anatomical basis for incompatibility between the various different associated bionts. Frammenti internodali prelevati da sezioni longitudinali tangenziali di fusto di Ficus carica L. altamente rizogeno sono stati associati, legati o semplicemente accostati, con frammenti simili di Prunus communis Are. (non rizogeno) ed Olea europaea L. (scarsamente rizogeno).  risultato che l'intensa rizogenesi di Ficus viene ridimensionata dall'influenza decisamente negativa di Prunus ed Olea, tanto che quando i due bionti sono legati il fenomeno rizogeno di Ficus pu venire addirittura annullato. Manca invece qualsiasi influenza positiva su Prunus ed Olea da parte di Ficus. Il comportamento della callogenesi  parallelo: in colture associate di bionti accostati o legati, la callogenesi raggiunge valori inferiori che nei controlli e ci dimostra l'influenza negativa della associazione, anche se non si sono verificad casi di inerzia o di necrosi. Le percentuali di suture sono correlate al rapporto pi o meno stretto con cui  stata stabilita l'associazione; in altri termini la possibilit della insorgenza del callo di giunzione  condizionata favorevolmente dal contatto pi intimo. La struttura del callo di giunzione  invece correlata alla natura dei bionti, dato che si possono avere diversi gradi di evoluzione di queste strutture che possono raggiungere una maggiore o minore complessit. Nelle associazioni controllo F/F (intraspecifiche) il callo di giunzione presenta caratteristiche pi complesse, simili a quelle che si ritrovano in natura od in vitro in associazioni di bionti affini: notevole spessore del callo, compenetrazione delle cellule costituenti ed insorgenza di tracheidi di raccordo da ambedue i frammenti. Fra Ficus e Prunus si stabilisce un callo di giunzione stabile per spessore e vitalit delle cellule, anche se non  possibile definirne chiaramente la appartenenza per assenza di linee di demarcazione. Il dato notevole  la presenza in Ficus di archi ed isole meristematiche oltre che di elementi vasali isolati. Fra Ficus ed Olea si stabilisce un callo di giunzione a carico della proliferazione di Ficus; tale callo  effimero sia per spessore che per consistenza, poich le cellule subiscono un processo di involuzione degenerativa. Rimane come dato notevole la presenza di cambiformi nel primo parenchima neoformato di Ficus e quella di un cambiforme limite nella proliferazione di Olea a contatto della giunzione. I risultati ottenuti dimostrano in definitiva che  in vitro  fra le specie esaminate, anche se non correlate sistematicamente, non esiste una base biochimica ed anatomica di disaffinit. In altri termini fra di esse  possibile lo stabilirsi di rapporti attraverso calli di giunzione in cui non solo le cellule non subiscono segni evidenti di necrosi, ma sono suscettibili di una certa evoluzione.
42878032|Viene studiata l'azione esercitata dalle sostanze di crescita sul portamento di piante di Lycopersicon esculentum al fine di studiare la causa della comparsa di mutanti striscianti ("lazy"). Piantine normali assumono il portamento strisciante due ore dopo il trattamento con soluzioni di acido indolacetico a concentrazioni varianti, a seconda dell'et della piantina, da 5  10M a 5  10M. Dopo sei giorni le piantine riprendono la loro crescita eretta. Acido naftalenacetico, acido gibberellico e chinetina non mostrano alcun effetto. I trattamenti con antiauxina sulle piantine striscianti non ne hanno mai modificato il portamento. Nelle prove nelle quali al trattamento con acido indolacetico, capace di far assumere alle piantine la posizione strisciante, veniva fatto seguire un trattamento con idrazide maleica alla concentrazione di 2  10M, le piantine mantengono la posizione normale eretta. Sono stati eseguiti innesti sia a gemma che per approssimazione ottenendo piante bimembri nelle quali fungevano da portainnesto ora la pianta normale ora la pianta "lazy". A 60 giorni dall'innesto non si sono osservate grandi variazioni di crescita fra portainnesto e innesto. Infine sono state osservate le differenze anatomiche esistenti tra fusto normale e fusto strisciante. The action of growth substances on the habitus of Lycopersicon esculentum was studied to find the cause of appearence of a lazy mutant. Normal seedlings take the lazy habitus two hours after treatment with solution of IAA at a concentration from 5  10M to 5  10M according to the age of the subjects. After six days the seedlings assume their erect growth again. NAA, gibberellic acid and chinetine show no effect. In order to obtain a further demonstration of the action of growth substances on the "lazy" habitus, tests with antiauxins were performed on lazy seedlings. They were unable to reassume their erect habitus after all the treatments were performed. Tests were also performed in which to a IAA treatment, able to make seedlings lazy, a treatment with I M a t a concentration of 2  10M followed; in these tests seedlings kept their normal position. Both bud and approximation grafting were performed, thus obtaining two-membered plants, where normal and lazy plants behaved as graft-holder from time to time. Sixty days after graft-holder no great variations in growth were observed between grafting and graftholder. Anatomical differences between normal and lazy stems were observed.
42878033|Nell'ambito di una ricerca sulla tecnica di potatura di formazione delle rose per fiore reciso,  emersa la necessit di individuare un indice significativo ed attendibile dello sviluppo vegetativo delle piante di rosa. A talescopo su un campione di 320 piante,  stato rilevato il numero delle foglie delle singole piante, il numero dei rami primari, la relativa lunghezza ed il relativo diametro misurato a 2 cm dal punto di inserzione. L'analisi statistica dei dati rilevati indica che la superficie totale di sezione dei rami, essendo strettamente correlata col numero di foglie e con la lunghezza totale dei rami, pu essere considerata il migliore indice dello sviluppo vegetativo delle piante di rosa. Tale indice presenta anche una notevole praticit e rapidit di rilievo. The need of a significant and reliable index of vegetative growth of roses arose during a research on pruning methods of young plants for flower production. Therefore the number of leaves and branches, length and diameter of each branch were marked on a sample of 320 plants with different prunings equally distributed in different plots. By means of an analysis of multiple regression the dependence of independent variables (cultivar and pruning methods) on marked parameters was studied (see tab. 2 reg. 1-4): the number of leaves of each plant significantly depends on cultivar and pruning method. The number of branches and their total length also depends on cultivar and pruning with linear and quadratic function while the total cross section only depends on pruning. Correlation among different indexes of vegetative growth were also studied (see tab. 2 reg. 6-9): the number of leaves is more closly related to the total cross section than to the number and total length of branches. Likewise the total cross section of branches, related significantly to all other parameters, is closely related to the square of leaves number. The analysis of multiple regression calculated on the data, showed that the cross section, being closely related to the number of leaves and the total lenght of branches, may be considered the best index of vegetative growth of roses.
42878034|Le ricerche sono state condotte su piante di olivo autoradicate e innestate, di sei anni di et, delle cv. "Ascolana", "Frantoio" e "Coratina". Il livello degli elementi minerali (N, P, K, Ca e Mg) presenti nelle foglie, prelevate da rametti con frutti,  stato rilevato ogni quindici giorni, a partire dal 12 maggio 1971 e fino al 22 maggio del 1972. I risultati delle analisi, espressi in percento di sostanza secca, hanno permesso di constatare una migrazione dell'azoto e del fosforo dalle foglie nel periodo che va dalla piena fioritura all'inizio delle piogge autunnali. Il punto critico per l'azoto e il fosforo sembra legato pi che al verificarsi di un determinato fatto biologico nella pianta, al contenuto idrico del terreno. Il fosforo e il potassio subiscono notevoli asportazioni alla fine dell'inverno-inizio primavera. Il livello del calcio presenta oscillazioni molto intense durante tutto il ciclo considerato mentre il magnesio  l'elemento meno variabile. L'andamento in generale piuttosto oscillante di quasi tutti gli elementi rilevati  probabilmente da attribuire alla giovane et delle piante da cui sono state prelevate le foglie. Non sono state riscontrate differenze nell'andamento delle variazioni nei due tipi di pianta considerata, autoradicata ed innestata nell'ambito della stessa cultivar. Il livello nutrizionale, valutato sulle percentuali dei prelevamenti di gennaio,  risultato pi alto nelle piante innestate per azoto, fosforo e potassio e nelle piante autoradicate per calcio e magnesio. Nella "Coratina" il potassio  stato pi elevato nelle piante autoradicate. L'alimentazione globale ha fatto registrare un valore pi alto nelle piante innestate per le cv. "Frantoio" e "Ascolana" e nelle piante autoradicate per la cv. "Coratina". Il diverso stato nutrizionale sembra non avere avuto ripercussioni dirette sulla produzione che  risultata alta in entrambi i tipi di pianta. In generale, i valori ottenuti sia per quanto riguarda il livello dell'azoto, del fosforo e del potassio che per l'alimentazione globale, sono inferiori a quelli di riferimento calcolati da altri Ricercatori. Gli Autori ritengono che in generale i valori di riferimento non sono confrontabili con quelli ottenuti da cultivar e ambienti diversi e che maggiore attendibilit va attribuita a quelle ricerche che tendono a determinare le percentuali di elementi nutritivi ottime per singole cultivar in 'ambienti ben circoscritti. Researches were carried out on six years old grafted and ownrooted "Frantoio", "Ascolana" and "Coratina" olive varieties, in an olive-orchard in the Palermo area (Sicily). Samples of leaves from fruited shoots were collected at fortnightly intervals. N, P, K, Ca and Mg leaf contents were analysed from May 12th 1971 to May 22th 1972. The results of the analysis were expressed in per cent of dry matter. The leaf analysis showed that the nitrogen and phosphorus levels decreased at time between the full blooming and the fall rain. The critical levels of nitrogen and phosphorus appeared to be related to the water in the soil rather than to the particular biological events in the tree. Phosphorus and potassium particularily decreased between the end of the winter and the beginning of the spring. During the whole considered cycle calcium level showed great variations whereas the magnesium level evidenced small changes. The great variations of the larger part of the considered elements can be affected by young age of the trees. No difference was found in the seasonal changes between grafted and ownrooted plants of the same variety under the environmental conditions in which the studies were made. The levels of N, P, K, Ca and Mg evaluated from January sampling were higher in grafted trees for nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium and in ownrooted trees for calcium and magnesium. The total amounts of N + PO + KO evaluated at same time was higher in grafted "Frantoio" and "Ascolana" varieties and in ownrooted "Coratina" variety. The different level of N + PO + KO did not affect the production of fruits which was great both in grafted and ownrooted trees. Analysis results either for the N, P, K, levels or for the total amount of N + PO + KO were inferior to those valued by others Research workers. The Authors believe that data obtained in different environments and for different cultivars are not comparable and more reliability must be given to researches carried out to value the percentages of the elements for one cultivar in particular environments.
42878039|Ricerche condotte su Bouganville allo scopo di chiarire l'azione esercitata dalle citochinine sulla velocit di traslocazione e sulla distribuzione degli assimilati hanno consentito di accertare che tali sostanze applicate all'apice non modificano la velocit di trasporto degli assimilati, ma favoriscono solo un loro maggiore afflusso verso la stessa regione. Le indagini hanno consentito di accertare, inoltre, che le citochinine inducono a livello fogliare una maggiore efficienza fotosintetica. Tale effetto pu essere spiegato tenendo conto che esse accentuano l'azione di  sink  esercitata da determinati centri metabolici (apici), la cui maggiore richiesta di fotosintetizzati si tradurrebbe, a livello fogliare, in una diminuzione dell'effetto di  feedback inhibition . Previous researches, have shown that under SD conditions removal of young leaves and cytokinin treatments enhanced inflorescence development in Bouganvillea "San Diego Red". Since the possible role of cytokinin in promoting flower development may be that or redirecting the flow of assimilates, some experiments were performed to elucidate the influence of PBA [N-benzyl (tetrahydro-2H-pyran-2yl) adenine], a syntetic cytokinin, on the velocity of translocation and distribution of labeled photosynthates. The experimental findings pointed out that apically applied PBA apparently increased the amount of transport of C labeled assimilates from a basal photosynthesizing leaf (source) to the shoot apex (sink). An apparent increase in velocity estimated by the increased rate of advance of the C-front, in PBA-treated plants was a reflection of the increased quantity of labeled assimilates transported. There was little difference in the rate of advance of the peak of maximum radioactivity between PBA-treated and control plants. Leaves of PBA-treated plants fixed up to 10% more C from CO suggesting that the rate of photosynthesis in Bouganvillea may be limited by transport of assimilates away from photosynthesizing tissues. Considering the effect on assimilates distribution the PBA always determined a greater accumulation in the shoot tips. No difference was found in other plant regions.
42878040|Alcuni metodi teorici per determinare il momento del superamento della dormienza delle gemme e la velocit di accrescimento di queste nel corso della cosiddetta quiescenza o post dormienza sono stati messi a punto da un gruppo di ricercatori dell'Utah University (USA). Questi metodi permettono di stabilire rapidamente per una certa cultivar ogni anno la data della fine della dormienza e di prevedere con un lieve margine di errore la data di piena fioritura. Su queste basi  possibile impostare un valido programma di irrigazione a pioggia sia per ritardare l'epoca di fioritura che per proteggere le piante dalle gelate tardive. Vengono riferite alcune prove condotte su piante di melo, pesco e ciliegio irrorate ad intermittenza con un sistema di irrigazione a pioggia soprachioma dopo che era stato determinato sperimentalmente il superamento della dormienza. Un ciclo di irrorazione di 2 minuti entrava in azione automaticamente ogni qualvolta la temperatura dell'aria superava i 4,5 G fino a che gli alberi di controllo raggiunsero la piena fioritura. Il raffreddamento per evaporazione fu in certi casi capace di ridurre la temperatura delle gemme delle piante trattate di anche 34 C. La fioritura del melo fu ritardata di 17 giorni, quella del ciliegio dolce di 15 giorni e quella del pesco di 14 giorni. Non furono osservati effetti negativi sia sui frutti che sulle piante a seguito del trattamento. Una parte della relazione  infine dedicata agli effetti dell'irrigazione sopra chioma sulla qualit dei frutti; in particolare vengono presi in considerazione gli effetti di tale pratica sulla pigmentazione e sui rapporti esistenti tra sintesi delle antocianine, temperatura ed intensit luminosa.
42878041|Sono state effettuate alcune indagini sulla morfologia fiorale delle pi importanti e pi diffuse cultivar di castagno allevate in provincia di Treviso. Le osservazioni compiute hanno messo in evidenza che: a) nell'ambito delle cultivar esaminate il numero di glomeruli per amento oscilla tra 57 e 114; quello dei fiori per glomerulo da 3 a 7; quello delle antere per fiore da 1 a 12. Il numero dei granuli pollinici per antera  risultato minimo nella "Bonese" e massimo in una forma spontanea di castagno (" selvatico") ; b) la dimensione dei granuli pollinici  compresa tra 10,5  8,2  e 15,2  11,5 ; c) il polline delle cultivar "Bonese", "Castagna della morte piccola", "Marrone di Cavaso" e "Marrone di Combai" non  praticamente germinabile e presenta elevate percentuali di granuli abortiti; d) la mancata schiusura del perigonio delle cultivar "Bonese", "Castagna della morte piccola", "Marrone di Cavaso", "Marrone di Combai" e "Rossino" pu essere attribuita alla presenza di lignine in alcuni strati di cellule dei tepali; e) sono buone produttrici di polline, oltre al "selvatico ", le cultivar "Castagna della morte grossa ", "Incalmo ", "Morettina "e "Castagna della costa ". Some observations have been carried out on male flower morphology some chestnut varieties (" Bonese", "Castagna della costa", "Castagna della morte grossa", "Castagna della morte piccola", "Incalmo", "Marrone di Cavaso", "Marrone di Combai", "Mattarella", "Morettina", "Rossino", and seedling of chestnut) grown in the Treviso area, by ascertaining the medium number of glomerulus per anther, the number of flowers per glomerulus, the number of anther per flower, the number cf pollen grains per anther and catkin. The pollen grain size was determined and its germinability tested. Some histological observations were also performed in order to evaluate in a comparative way some differences among the varieties in the anther and tepal anatomical structure. The last observations were performed to find out why the perigone in some varieties is indeiscent. From the above observation the following results were obtained: a) the number of flowers per catkin is changeable from 57 to 114, the flowers per glomerulus from 3 to 7, the anther per flower from 1 to 12; the pollen grains production is very changeable varying from 128 in "Bonese" to 21, 268 in "Castagna della morte grossa"; b) pollen size is changeable from 10,5  8  to 15,2  11,5 . c) the pollen germination is low in "Bonese", "Castagna della morte piccola", "Marrone di Cavaso", "Marrone di Combai" and "Mattarella"; d) the tepal structure is the casual factor of flower indeiscence in "Bonese", "Castagna della morte piccola", "Marrone di Cavaso", "Marrone di Combai" and "Rossino"; e) seedling and "Castagna della morte grossa", "Incalmo", "Morettina" and "Castagna della costa" varieties always acted as good pollinators.
42878042|Sono state condotte ulteriori ricerche per chiarire il ruolo svolto da P. vulnus nel determinare manifestazioni di stanchezza nel terreno coltivato a pesco. Dalle prove in vasche  risultato che lo sviluppo delle piante in terreno stanco  tanto pi ridotto quanto  maggiore il grado iniziale di infestazione con P. vulnus; tuttavia anche il terreno stanco non infestato ha provocato una riduzione di sviluppo rispetto al terreno vergine. Nelle prove in vaso inoculando P. vulnus in terreno vergine si  rilevato che questa specie, pur riproducendosi attivamente su pesco, riduce lo sviluppo delle piante solo quando raggiunge elevate densit di popolazione. Il trattamento del terreno con DBCP effettuato un anno dopo l'impianto non ha migliorato lo sviluppo delle piante. Le prove in campo hanno mostrato che, in assenza di P. vulnus, non si  avuta riduzione di sviluppo nel reimpianto e la fumigazione con D-D non ha recato, in questi casi, beneficio apprezzabile sullo sviluppo vegetativo. Questi risultati indicano che P. vulnus pu rappresentare una delle cause di insuccesso nel reimpianto del pesco, ma che anche altri fattori possono essere implicati. Results obtained from pot experiments are as follow: a) the reduction of peach seedlings growth in peach soil is related to the initial population density of P. vulnus in the soil : the higher the inoculum level of nematodes, the less the growth of the plants; b) peach soil naturally infested with P. vulnus strongly reduced the growth (in comparison to fresh soil), more than peach soil initially free of nematodes did: c) P. vulnus inoculated in fresh soil reproduced itself well on peach seedlings. The inoculation significantly decreased the growth of peach seedlings only when the initial inoculum was very high, but even in this case the naturally infested peach soil reduced the growth to a greater extent; d) applications of DBCP one year after planting did not improve the growth of plants, although it controlled the P. vulnus population. The above results indicate that P. vulnus is a factor of the peach replant disease, but other factors might be involved in the peach replant problem. In field experiments, peach soil free of P. vulnus did not affect the replanted tree growth; in this case, differently from the results of our previous experiments in peach soil with P. vulnus, soil fumigation did not improve the tree growth. To confirm this data a wide survey of replanted peach orchards is required.
42878043|Sulle due cultivar di rose "Carla" e "Baccar" sono stati confrontati 4 diversi schemi di potatura per la fase di formazione delle rose, differenti tra di loro per l'intensit d'intervento. Lo sviluppo delle piante  stato inversamente proporzionale alla severit della potatura: la non potatura, accompagnata dalla tempestiva eliminazione dei boccioli fiorali, ha determinato uno sviluppo delle piante pi che doppio di quello ottenuto con la potatura tradizionale. Young "Baccar" and "Carla" plants were subjected to the 4 following pruning treatments: 1) The primary shoot, developed from graft, was cut above 3 or 4 buds, when it was about 30 cm long. This is the usual pruning method of young roses in our Country. 3) The shoot was pinched above the 3th five-leaflet leaf as soon as it opened. 3) As (2) but pinching above 6th leaf. 4) The stems weie omy stripped of flower buds. Treatment (1) gave the worst results: the plants had a poor development with a little number of leaves and primary branches; unpruned plants (treatment 4) only stripped of flower buds had a growth twice as much as usually pruned plants (treatment 1). If lightly pruned roses are not stripped of flower buds, their development is poor becaouse there is competition between flowering and plants growth, probably due to flowers' utilization of nutrients.
42878044|L'autore descrive una nuova cultivar di ciliegio dolce a polpa chiara  "Bianca di Verona" da lui selezionata fra la progenie dell'incrocio "Durone di Vignola "" Moretta di Cazzano" effettuato nel 1958. La nuova cultivar  a frutto grosso, dolce, di colore giallo coperto da rosso brillante, molto produttiva  matura i suoi frutti pressoch con "Vittoria" e a questa si affianca per essere suscettibile di raccolta meccanica mediante scrollamento; infatti, in prossimit della maturazione, tra peduncolo e frutto si forma un perfetto strato di abscissione che rende facile, come per "Vittoria", il distacco della drupa in seguito a vibrazione dei rami. A new sweet cherry cultivar suitable for mechanical harvesting and named "Bianca di Verona", has been selected by G. Bargioni at the Experimental Institute for fruit growing in Verona, Italy, among seedlings raised from a cross between "Durone di Vignola" and "Moretta di Cazzano" made in 1958. The main characteristics of "Bianca di Verona" are: large sized fruit, with long stem; yellow to bright red, crack-resistant skin; firm, sweet, juicy, light yellow flesh; medium pit; heavy bearing, moderately vigorous, spreading tree. The new cultivar ripens approximately with "Vittoria"; it is compatible with "Mora di Cazzano", "Mora di Vignola", "Durone della Marca", "Meraviglia dell'Alpone". and "Vittoria". At ripening time, abscission layer formation occurs between fruit and stem, as well as for the cv. "Vittoria", allowing a very easy mechanical harvesting.
42878048|Si riferiscono i risultati di una ricerca condotta nel Veneto sull'impiego di film plastici per la forzatura e l'imbianchimento del radicchio "Variegato di Castelfranco" (Cichorium intybus L.). La prova, che conclude un ciclo di esperienze su questo argomento iniziato nel 1967, ha permesso di riconfermare l'influenza molto marcata della pacciamatura del terreno nell'innalzare la temperatura dello stesso in superficie ed a 15 cm di profondit. La pratica si  dimostrata molto efficace anche nel migliorare le caratteristiche vegetative e produttive delle piante. Si  accertata la possibilit di ottenere prodotto imbianchito direttamente in campo sotto tunnel di plastica scura. Results of research on uses of plastic films for mulching soil and setting up tunnels carried out in the Veneto area are illustrated. Plastic films were employed to cover chicory (Cichorium intybus, L.) cv. "Variegato di Castelfranco" in order to force and bleach it in the field. From these researches begun in 1967, significant considerations can be drawn. Results have emphasized mulching influence on raising temperature both at the soil surface and at 15 cms depth. This practice also proved very effective in improving the vegetative and productive characteristics of chicory. In allowed to defer transplanting time, in comparison with the prevalent one in the zone, to the advantage of previous crops. Among the types of plastic films employed to this end (black P.V.C., transparent P.V.C. and violet P.V.C.), transparentor violet rather than black plastic films can be suggested as the latter cause excessive heating provoking burns and often the full drying of leaves after transplanting Tunnels also effected soil surfage temperature and their influence was increased by mulching. Moreover it has been shown that bleaching operations can be effected in the field by covering chicory with dark plastic films. Among the different dark plastic films (black P.V.C.; black P.E.: photoselective P.V.C. A.C.0.183.60.1 and photoselective P.V.C. A.C.0.183.60.2) no differences have been found so significant as to allow a sound choice, consequently the least expensive ones are suggested.
42878049|Si riferiscono i risultati di alcune esperienze relative alla messa a punto della tecnica del prelievo dell'apice della Cattleya e della definizione di un mezzo colturale idoneo alla crescita dell'apice. I risultati positivi sono stati conseguiti con l'utilizzazione del substrato di Raghavan e Torrey (1964) modificato, costituito da elementi minerali in rapporto ben definiti. Quest'ultimo punto  di fondamentale importanza, il substrato potr essere migliorato sia a livello delle sostanze di accrescimento che dei macroelementi in modo da permettere un accrescimento pi rapido dell'apice. The AA. refer to some experiments carried out on meristem culture of Cattleya. The technique and the composition of the medium were examined. Young strong shoots of Cattleya between six-eight cm long were used. The roots, leaves scales as well as all the dead tissues were taken out with a sharp knife. They were then dipped in alcohol for a few seconds and sterilized in a solution of chlorox (20%) for 20 minutes. After which they were rinsed with sterile water and dried with sterile filter paper. The buds were excised in an open room under a dissecting microscope; the scales and leaves were removed with needles and razor blades fixed on a holder. The excision was made in accordance with the method described by Scully (1967) (fig. 2). The explants (volume of all explant ranged from 1.0-2.0 cubic mm) were cultured on Morel medium (Morel, 1965) or on Raghavan and Torrey modified medium (Raghavan and Torrey, 1964) (tab. 1). The protocorm-like body was obtained when the explant was planted on the latter medium (tab. 2). The protocorms form plantlets when transferred on the medium supplemented with agar (9 gr/1) (fig. 7).
42878050|Dal trattamento di piantine di pesco, in serra, con 6 antitraspiranti  emerso che una sola applicazione dei prodotti al 4% permette di ricoprire le lamine fogliari, per oltre 8 settimane, con un film plastico. L'occlusione delle aperture stomatiche e quindi il controllo della traspirazione resta per limitata alla 1 settimana. Le osservazioni al SEM permettono un assai rapido ed agevole conteggio degli stomi occlusi dai films plastici, nonch di evidenziare particolarit di questi ultimi non osservabili al M.O. After a bibliographical review of possible applications of antitranspirants plastic films in fruit and vine cultivation, a preliminary test on the utilization of these products on peach seedlings is reported. The experiment had the scope of controlling:  the duration of the plastic films on the leaves;  the extension of "covering" of stomata caused by different products;  the application of SEM at the place of OM in order to count the stomata and to study the structure of the plastic films. This experiment was carried out on seedlings in a green-house using 6 different antitraspinrants (Amchem 74-A 335, Antrasp 35, CS 6432, Folicote, Mobileaf, Trapiant). The results show that one treatment with 4% solution permits to cover the leaves by a plastic film for 8 weeks or more. But the stomata occlusion by plastic films, and then the transpiration control, is effective not more than 1 week. None of the antitraspirants tested had shown any effect on the growth of the seedlings. The SEM observations make the counts of the stomata closed by plastic films easy and speedy, moreover permit to observe some peculiar aspects of these plastic films wich are not visible by OM.
42878052|Per un triennio sono state studiate le caratteristiche vegetative e produttive di alcune cultivar di fava da mensa e da granella e le possibilit di conservazione dei semi verdi mediante surgelazione. Le prove agronomiche sono state condotte su terre rosse della Conca d'Oro di Palermo e su suoli argillosi dell'interno collinare della Sicilia in territorio di Cammarata (AG); per le ricerche tecnologiche si  fatto uso di un congelatore a circuito d'aria forzata e di contenitori frigoriferi stabilizzati a  20 C. Le cultivar da mensa hanno fornito nel triennio e nelle due localit di coltivazione produzioni costantemente pi abbondanti, qualitativamente pi pregiate e, soprattutto, pi anticipate di quelle tipiche per granella, i cui baccelli verdi sono risultati poco accetti dai consumatori per le esigue loro dimensioni e la pronunciata nodosit. Tra le cultivar adatte al consumo immediato sono apparse pi rispondenti agli ambienti pedoclimatici in cui sono state condotte le prove le cv. " Aguadulce ", " Corniola ", " Siviglia " e " Precocissima " che, oltre a possedere elevate attitudini produttive, trovano riscontro, per le loro caratteristiche qualitative, nel gusto dei consumatori. Le prove di surgelazione hanno fatto accertare la possibilit di conservare per lunghi periodi di tempo i semi verdi di fava, senza che questi subiscano alterazioni organolettiche e sensibili cambiamenti nella loro composizione chimica.  risultato indispensabile, tuttavia, effettuare la inattivazione enzimatica dei semi mediante scottatura degli stessi per evitare maculature brunastre sull'epicarpo. Sono risultati sufficienti tempi di scottatura di 3 minuti primi, per garantire un buono stato di conservazione dei semi, che vanno sgusciati e confezionati quando raggiungono indici tenderometrici compresi tra 115 e 140. La cv. " Gemini 1 " e, subordinatamente, la cv. " Precoce d'Aquitania ", sono risultate quelle pi rispondenti alla surgelazione. The vegetative characteristics of some eatable and provision broad-bean cultivars, as well as the possibility of their preservation by means of deep-freezing have been studied for a period of 3 years. The agronomical tests have been carried out on the red soil of the " Conca d'oro " (Palermo) area and on the clay soil of the hilly Cammarata (Agrigento) area, in the island interior. For the technological research a flost air freezer and cooleag containers at  20 C have been used. During this period the eatable cultivars in both localities have produced a constantly greater yield, of superior quality and earlier in respect of the provision crop; whose green pods because of their small dimension and excessive knottiness have not met the consumers' acceptance. The cultivars " Aguadulce ", " Corniola ", " Siviglia " and " Precocissima " have proved to be suitable for fresh market for their adaptability, high productivity and pleasant taste. Deep-freezing tests have shown the possibility of preserving green broad bean seeds for a long period of time without undergoing organolectic deteriorations and noticeable change in their chemical composition. It has been necessary to effect the enzymatic inactivation of the seeds by scalding in order to avoid the formation of brownish spots on the epicarp. Three minute scalding bas been found sufficient to guarantee safe preservation. Shelling and packing must take place when the tenderometric indexes between 115  140 have been reached. " Gemini 1 ", followed by " Precoce d'Aquitania " cultivars have proved to be the most suitable for deep freezing.
42878053|Researches, have been made on " Butirra Precoce Morettini " pear trees sprayed with SADH at 2,000 ppm in three different phenological stages (early yellow-reddish leaves, completely yellow-reddish leaves and falling leaves), and on " William " pear trees, sprayed with same growth regulator at three different rates (1,000-2,000-3,000 ppm) when leaves were at the beginning of the yellow-reddish stage. For both cultivars the results evidence that the application timing is more important than concentration. Only at the stage of completely yellow-reddish leaves SADH significantly increased fruit set (+ 12%), yield (+ 40%) and fruit size in the subsequent year. Le indagini sono state condotte su palmette di 10 anni della cv. " Butirra Precoce Morettini "/cotogno eseguendo trattamenti con SADH a 2.000 ppm in corrispondenza di tre diversi stadi fenologici delle foglie (inizio ingiallimento-arrossamento; completo ingiallimento-arrossamento, caduta) e su palmette di 8 anni della cv. " William ", " Passa Crassana "/cotogno ad una sola epoca (inizio ingiallimento-arrossamento foglie), ma a tre diverse concentrazioni (1.000-2.000-3.000 ppm). I trattamenti eseguiti in corrispondenza della prima fase fisiologica, sia sulla " Butirra Precoce Morettini " sia sulla " William " (in questo secondo caso anche variando la concentrazione) non hanno avuto effetti significativi sul comportamento produttivo delle piante nell'anno successivo. Nello stadio del completo ingiallimento-arrossamento delle foglie, i trattamenti (peraltro limitati alla sola cv. " Butirra Precoce Morettini "), sono invece risultati efficaci sia sulla allegagione (+ 12%) sia sul peso medio dei frutti sia sulla produzione (+ 40%), dimostrando che, in tale fase, il SADH  stato assorbito, traslocato ed accumulato negli organi di riserva della pianta. I trattamenti eseguiti pi tardi (caduta foglie) non sono risultati efficaci. In conclusione, tra i fattori che possono influire sull'efficacia dei trattamenti autunnali con SADH, un ruolo preminente sembra competer allo stadio fisiologico in cui i trattamenti vengono eseguiti. Dal punto di vista pratico, questi risultati mettono in evidenza la possibilit di influire positivamente con applicazioni autunnali sulla allegagione e quindi sulla produzione del pero nell'anno successivo.
42878054|Cling peaches (" Fortuna ", " Halford " and " Vivian "), harvested both mechanically and by hand, have been classified, at the cannery gate, as follows: undamaged, damaged, insufficiently coloured and not suitable for canning. Subsequently the peeled halves of the first three groups were classified as follows: undamaged, bruised, injured and insufficiently coloured (palegreen). The halves included in these different classes were then processed and stored for five months. At the end of this period the canned halves have been submitted to a " panel test " which revealed that also the fruits previously classified as bruised or insufficiently coloured are able to give rise to a satisfactory canned product.
42878055|Trials conducted in 72-73 on the flower biology and fruiting of " Burmosa " and of other asiatic plum cultivars which blossom in the same period gave the following results: 1) The most suitable pollinators for " Burmosa " in decreasing ordez are: " Mirabolano 330/B ", " Laroda " and " Ozark Premier " followed at some distance by " Mirabolano comune " and " Santa Rosa ". 2) " Burmosa " is a good pollinator for " Burbank " and less so for " Beauty "; while forall the other cultivars a poor one. 3) None of the tested cultivars is mutually intercompatible with " Burmosa ". Therefore whilst the productivity of " Burmosa " is assured, this cannot be said of its pollinators. 4) Of all the cultivars tested only " Premier " is self-compatible. Such cases of marked self-compatibility are rare especially in the asiatic group, but this does not exclude the usefullness of pollinators.
42878060|Nell'estate 1973  stata condotta una indagine sulla propagazione con  mist  per talea semilegnosa della cultivar di pesco " Antonio di Francia ", utilizzando vasetti di plastica del diametro di cm 9 contenenti terriccio di foglia di faggio, da solo e con altri substrati, sia per la radicazione che per la fase d'indurimento. Percentuali elevate di radicazione e di sopravvivenza sono state conseguite con talee incise nel tratto basale e con IBA a 2000 p.p.m. Particolarmente vantaggioso  apparso l'impiego del vasetto in fase di radicazione, poich ha consentito di eliminare il trapianto delle barbatelle, evitando cos la forte crisi che subiscono nella prima fase d'indurimento. In the Summer of 1975 a study was carried out on the propagation of soft-wood peach cuttings of the cv. " Antonio di Francia " by mist system. The cuttings were allowed to take root in plastic pots 9 centimeters in diameter containing beech-leaf mould, on its own or combined with other media perlite and peat, in egual parts in order to avoid transplantation after rooting. A high rooting percentage was obtained by making a vertical incision on the cuttings and by dipping the same in IBA idro-alcohol solution at 2000 ppm and using the above media. Particularly helpful to the establishment seemed to be the use of the containers during the rooting phase, in avoiding the dangerous crisis of transplantation that they go through during the first phase of hardening. The use of paper-pots instead of plastic containers and the mechanization of planting render the propagation of peach by cutting using " mist " profitable for the nurseryman.
42878061|Su Euphorbia pulcherrima sono stati sperimentati 4 concimi complessi: Triabon (20.10.15), Magamp (7.40.6), Nitrophoska Gold (15.9.15) ed Ortil (7.7.7), ognuno in ragione di 2, 3 e 4 kg/mc di substrato (torba 75% + sabbia 25%). Sono state impiegate senza alcuna integrazione anche vinacce e torba tedesca concimata TKS2, che contiene il 3% o di N, di PO e di KO e 1'1 /oo di Ca CO.  risultata evidente l'influenza del Triabon e della torba TKS2 sullo sviluppo della pianta in altezza e sulle dimensioni delle foglie. Il Nitrophoska ha determinato una notevole precocit di emissione delle brattee ed un soddisfacente diametro della corona, intensificando la pigmentazione delle foglie, mentre o sviluppo della pianta  risultato pi contenuto. Col Magamp, com' risultato per i due concimi precedenti, si sono ottenuti risultati migliori con l'aumento delle dosi, mentre con l'Ortil non ci sono state differenze sensibili tra la dose 2 e 3. Le vinacce, da sole, non hanno permesso di raggiungere risultati soddisfacenti. The following fertilizers have been used on Euphorbia pulcherrima: Triabon (20.10.15), Magamp (7.40.6), Nitrophoska (15.9.15) and Ortil (7.7.7), each of them in the proportion of 2,3 and 4 kg/mc of substrate (peat + sand). Additionally dregs of pressed grapes and german peat TKS2, without any integration, have been used. The latter substrate contains on the average 3 of N, 3 of PO, 3 of KO and 1  of CaCO. The effect of Triabon and the german peat TKS2 was evident on the development of the plant as far as height and leaf size are concerned. Nitrophoska determined a remarkable precocity in the bract size and a satisfactory diameter of the crown : on the other hand, a moderate development of the plant was obtained. Magamp, similarly to the other two fertilizers, gave the best results by increasing the dose, while Ortil failed to show any difference between dose 2 and dose 3. Dregs of pressed grapes, alone, did not lead to any satisfactory result.
42878062|Sulla base di precedenti ricerche che facevano supporre che la causa prima della comparsa di rugginosit sulle mele Golden Delicious fosse da ricercarsi nella particolare struttura dell'epidermide, si  tentato di modificare tale struttura trattando i frutticini in via di sviluppo con soluzioni diverse di fitormoni. Furono sperimentate alcune gibberelline (la GA e una miscela di GA e GA) la kinetina, l'acido abscissico e l'acido indolacetico (auxina), in diverse dosi. Le gibberelline, in particolare la miscela di GA e GA in alcuni dosaggi, ridussero sensibilmente e significativamente l'incidenza dell'alterazione, la kinetina determin invece un sensibile aumento della rugginosit. Gli esami istologici eseguiti sull'epidermide dei frutti trattati sembrano confermare l'ipotesi iniziale: la kinetina favorisce un'attiva proliferazione delle cellule epidermiche, determinando l'alterazione della normale struttura, la rottura della cuticola, la conseguente suberificazione delle cellule sottostanti e la comparsa della rugginosit; le gibberelline, viceversa, favorendo la distensione cellulare, determinano lo sviluppo di un'epidermide pi regolare, formata da cellule disposte in modo relativamente ordinato e compatto, ricoperta da una uniforme cuticola.  stata pure rilevata una significativa interazione tra gibberellina e kinetina. I risultati della sperimentazione permettono, sulla base degli equilibri ormonali, una suggestiva interpretazione dell'ampia casistica esistente sulla comparsa della rugginosit e sui molteplici fattori che la influenzano. On the ground of previous studies suggesting that russeting of " Golden Delicious " apple is due primarily to the weak structure of epidermis, it was tried to modify that structure by treating developing fruitlets with solutions of growth regulators. Growth regulators used were GA, a mixture of GA and GA, kinetine, abscisic acid and indolacetic acid, at different concentrations. Among growth substances tried, mostly gibberellins and kinetine influenced russeting of fruits: GA/GA at 100 ppm reduced to less than 20% the amount of russet of treated fruits compared to untreated ones; on the contrary fruits treated with increasing concentrations of kinetine showed increasing amounts of russet, reaching, at the highest concentration, three times the amount of russet of untreated fruits. From the histological point of view, gibberellins modified skin structure favouring regular enlargement of epidermic cells, which have mantained an orderly disposition, while in untreated fruits, even during cell enlargement, epidermic cells keep on multiplying actively, causing the irregular and disorderly structure that allows the alterations of cuticle and consequently suberification and russeting of skin. Kinetine, on the contrary, remarkably increased epidermic cell proliferation, leading to a final structure of skin much more altered than that of untreated fruits, even in not russeted areas. These results could suggest an interpretation, on the basis of hormonal balance, of the many instances of russeting of " Golden Delicious " apples reported in the literature: e.g. different russeting due to different clones, particularly spurs, or to dwarfing rootstocks; correlation between russeting and number of seeds of fruit ; different russeting of hill-grown fruits as compared to those produced in the lowlands etc.
42878063|Giovani piante di cipolle sono state allevate in coltura idroponica in condizioni fotoperiodiche non induttive per la formazione del bulbo. Alle soluzioni nutritive erano aggiunti IAA, CCC, EMD-7301 (Morfattina) ed Ethrel. L'Ethrel ha causato ingrossamento delle guaine basali, induzione a bulbo ed un forte aumento sia nel diametro massimo alla base della pianta che nell'indice di formazione del bulbo. IAA, CCC ed EMD-7301 (Morfattine) non hanno mostrato alcuna azione positiva sull'induzione a bulbo. Si discute il possibile ruolo dell'etilene nella formazione del bulbo. Onions plants (4th true leaf stage) were grown in bottles (Hydroponics). IAA, CGC, Morfactin, Ethrel was added to the growth medium. The growth mediums were two: Hoagland solution, and 1% sucrose solution. 2-Chloroethylphosphonic (20 p.p.m.) acid induced bulbing of  Zittau yellow  onion plants under daylength non inductive for bulbing. Dissection of plants showed that in treated plants the bladeless sheaths and the foliage leaf bases had thickened, a characteristic feature of bulbing induced by photoperiodism. Ethephon treated plants hastened the bulbing as measured by bulb diameter and bulbing index. IAA 20 p.p.m., CGC 50 p.p.m. and EMD 7301 (Morfactin) 20 p.p.m. were not effective. Ethrel, IAA and Morfactin reduced plant height and number of leaves. CCC in the Hoagland solution increased the number of leaves and plant height. Solutions X treatments interaction was significant for p = 0,01.
42878064|During the period valuable for chemical thinning, fruits and shoots develop in a very active way. Since we know that a developing organ acts as a strong  sink  for assimilates, it seems likely to presume that fruits and shoots are competing  sinks  . In order to evaluate in a comparative way their effect on translocation and distribution of assimilates, some experiments with 14C-sucrose were performed by setting up some physiological models in which fruits and shoots were differently related to the treated leaf. The results showed that the shoot always acted as the strongest  sink . This contrasts with the reports from some other Authors, in which the fruit was always considered the most active center of assimilates mobilization and accumulation. Our findings and some others coming from researches by Petrov and Manolov (1973) point out that the relationships between two organs of different nature in the control of their  sink  activity can change in a dynamic way during the growth season. During a first period the fruit  sink  activity would be lower than that of the shoot. Then, after the shoot reached an adequate leaf area, the fruit would act as the strongest  sink . All these dynamic changes clearly depend on the single organs metabolic index, which has to be considered an even more important factor than the closeness to the assimilates source. Previous researches have shown that organs developing in an active way are able to attract photosynthates from leaves at distances of up to several meters. Factors other than the above can match them in a degree of dominating influence. Almost certainly one of these is the path of the vascular connections between the  sinks  and the treated leaf.
42878065|Con la fine della dormienza, le gibberelline (GA) e le citochinine (CK) vengono trasportate dalle radici alle gemme. Qui le GA presiedono alla trasformazione dell'amido mettendo a disposizione, in tale maniera, precursori per la sintesi proteica. Contemporaneamente le CK partecipano alla sintesi degli acidi ribonucleici (RNA) e, congiuntamente alle GA, coordinano la sintesi proteica necessaria allo sviluppo. Gli elevati livelli di GA e CK che si vengono a trovare nella gemma in questa fase causano inoltre la comparsa di auxine (IAA), in concomitanza con l'inizio dello sviluppo. L'attivit degli agenti stimolanti lo sviluppo  infine controbilanciata dalla presenza dell'acido abscissico (ABA). Successivamente, le GA portate dal polline, unitamente alle IAA esistenti nel pistillo e nell'ovocellula, contribuiscono a stimolare lo sviluppo del fiore e la sintesi in loco degli ormoni stessi. Il ruolo degli ormoni in questa fase dello sviluppo appare chiaro. Le GA causano la idrolisi dell'amido e la mobilitazione degli zuccheri nel fiore. Contemporaneamente causano un aumento della disponibilit in IAA. Il trasporto di queste ultime avrebbe poi la funzione di prevenire la abscissione stimolata dall'etilene (ETH) anch'esso prodotto dal fiore. Il lavoro congiunto delle CK e delle IAA stimola la divisione cellulare mentre PABA frena lo sviluppo dei tessuti in accrescimento ed interviene nella abscissione del fiore. Affinch il frutto, che frattanto cresce, seguiti a persistere  necessario che sufficienti quantit di IAA bilancino la presenza dell'etilene.  del tutto probabile che da questo momento in poi ciascun tessuto che successivamente sviluppa nel frutto contribuisca a mantenere continuo questo flusso di IAA. Particolarmente importante  il ruolo dell'endosperma giacch il suo sviluppo si accompagna alla produzione di GA, IAA e CK. Questi ormoni sono trasportati fuori dal frutto e la loro presenza, e trasporto, giustifica appunto la diversa evoluzione dei frutti. Cos, elevati livelli di ABA e bassi livelli di GA si associano ai frutti che cadono durante la cascola di giugno mentre una situazione del tutto opposta esiste nei frutti che persistono. Ancora, i frutti che cadono e quelli che persistono presentano un diverso gradiente del contenuto in ABA attraverso la zona di abscissione.  ovvio da questa discussione che gli ormoni svolgono due ruoli distinti e cio prevengono l'abscissione da un lato e mobilitano il trasporto verso il frutto, dall'altro. Le IAA hanno un ruolo essenziale in tale trasporto. Il contributo delle GA (stimolo della sintesi auxinica) e delle CK (stimolo del trasporto auxinico)  tuttavia da non sottovalutare.  infine probabile che, durante lo stadio pi avanzato dello sviluppo del frutto, anche l'ETH possa contribuire a regolare il trasporto verso il frutto. Si suggerisce che uno dei meccanismi che regolano la evoluzione del frutto sia rappresentato dalla transizione del ruolo di centri di produzione ormonale tra tessuti diversi. Non a caso la caduta di giugno coincide con la transizione dello sviluppo dell'endosperma a quello dell'embrione. Nei frutti partenocarpici il meccanismo della regolazione dello sviluppo  probabilmente simile, soprattutto quando il pericarpo assume il ruolo di sintetizzatore degli ormoni. Il potenziale naturale ad abscindere aumenta con l'approssimarsi della maturazione. ETH ed ABA sono frequentemente presenti in questo stadio e potrebbero appunto giustificare la innalzata tendenza ad abscindere.
42878070|Dopo avere effettuato un'analisi critica dei dati esistenti nella letteratura particolarmente straniera relativamente all'epoca di trapianto delle barbatelle di garofano, alla densit colturale e al tipo di cimatura da adottare vengono riferiti i risultati di un'esperienza condotta su di una cultivar di garofano mediterraneo. Si  impiegata la cv. "Alice" coltivata in una serra di vetro a Sanremo (IM) confrontando, con uno schema fattoriale tre densit colturali (33-50 e 60 piante/m), tre epoche di trapianto (15/5-2/7 e 22/8/1973) e tre tipi di cimatura (nessuna, una e due cimature). Dal punto di vista produttivo i migliori risultati si sono avuti trapiantando il 15/5 alla densit maggiore senza cimatura (760 fiori pari a 11,5 fiori/pianta) o con una sola cimatura (753 fiori pari a 11,4 fiori/pianta). Tra i tre fattori considerati l'epoca di trapianto  quella che naturalmente influenza maggiormente la produzione. Per quanto riguarda la densit quella maggiore determina i risultati nettamente migliori alla prima epoca di trapianto, mentre nel caso di posa a dimora pi tardiva l'effetto positivo della densit tende a diminuire. La cimatura non provoca alcun effetto significativo nell'ambito di ciascuna epoca di trapianto, ma si nota una tendenza alla diminuzione della produzione con l'aumento delle cimature nel caso del trapianto al 15/5 e una tendenza opposta nel caso di messa a dimora il 22/8. Considerato il diverso prezzo di vendita del garofano nelle diverse stagioni viene anche esaminato il comportamento produttivo delle piante nei diversi periodi di raccolta. La maggiore produzione di fiori nel periodo invernale per le piante trapiantate in maggio si  ottenuta con due cimature e con una elevata densit colturale; per quelle messe a dimora all'inizio di luglio con una sola cimatura e una densit colturale media ; per quelle trapiantate a fine agosto senza cimatura e con densit maggiore. After a critical review of published data, expecially in foreign literature, on effect of planting date, plant density and pinching methods on carnation production the results of an experimental trial using cv. " Alice ", grown in glasshouse in Sanremo (IM). are referred. A factorial design was used: three plant densities (33-50 and 60 plants/m), three dates of planting (May 15th, July 2nd and August 22nd 1973) and three pinching methods (without pinching, one and two pinchings) were tested. The best results were obtained transplanting on May 15th, using a plant density of 60 plants/m without pinching (760 flowers i.e. 11.5 flowers/plant) or with only one pinching (753 flowers i.e. 11.4 flowers/plant). Among the three factors tested, date of planting highly affected production. Concerning plant density, the highest (60 plants/m) gave the best results at the first date of planting, while in the case of later plantings the positive effect of plant density decreased. Pinching methods did not cause any significant effect at each planting date. There is a tendency to a reduction of production with the increase of pinchings at the planting date of May 15th and an opposite tendency when the plants are transplanted on August 22nd. As the price of carnations varies according to season, flower production has been examined at the various time of harvesting. During winter the highest production of the plants transplanted in May has been obtained from plants transplanted at high plant density and pinched twice. The plants transplanted at the beginning of July gave the highest production when pinched once and planted at the intermediate plant density (50 plants/m); for the later planting date the plants transplanted at the end of August at intermediate plant density and not pinched gave the best results.
42878071|In una zona del litorale toscano (Follonica) caratterizzata da una scarsa piovosit sia annuale che estiva, sono state condotte per due anni alcune esperienze utilizzando un impianto di irrigazione a goccia sulla cultivar di pesco " Southland ". Il primo anno sono stati confrontati due livelli di umidit nel terreno pari alla capacit di campo e coefficiente di appassimento + E.P.T. Il secondo anno ancora la capacit di campo ed il 50% dell'umidit utile. Nei due anni, inoltre,  stato determinato il consumo idrico a pianta limitatamente ai mesi di giugno e luglio. Il primo anno  risultato che con il contenuto idrico pi basso (coeff. appass. + E.P.T.) conseguito somministrando m 7.4 a pianta (m 2049 ad-ha) si sono realizzate produzioni tali da non qualificare la maggiore erogazione di acqua occorrente per raggiungere il tenore di umidit pari alla capacit di campo (m 21,3 a pianta ovvero m 5800 ad ha). Anche il secondo anno in due livelli di umidit provati sulle stesse piante dell'anno precedente (capacit di campo e il 50% delPU. U.) non hanno determinato differenze significative sulla produzione quando  stato praticato un diradamento dei frutti normale. Tali differenze divengono apprezzabili quando il diradamento  stato di minore intensit.  stato notato cos che i pi alti volumi di acqua erogati trovano una loro valorizzazione solo con una maggiore presenza di frutti. Infine la quantit di acqua assorbita da ogni pianta per i mesi di giugno e luglio  risultata per i due anni di m 11,36 e 10,5 pari (per una produzione a pianta di 96,8 e 108,9 kg.) rispettivamente a 117 e 96 litri per kg. di prodotto. Results are reported on a test carried out in a semi-arid area in Central Italy during a period of two years. The first year two different soil moisture levels were compared: field capacity; wilting point + E. T. The second year the field capacity and 50% available water were compared. Furthermore, in both years the water consumption during the months of June and July was determined. The results were:  the first year with soil moisture level equal to field capacity the seasonal watering volume was the m 5800/ha; with wilting point + E. T. level was the m 2049/ha. The yields were similar.  also the second year between the two moisture levels tested the yields were similar when the fruits were normally thinned. Instead, with a lighter thinning and the soil moisture level equal to field capacity, the yield was higher. The water consumptions for tree production of kg 96,8 (the first year) and kg. 108,9 (the second year) were respectively m 11,36 and m 10,5.
42878072|Dai rilievi effettuati sulla capacit rizogena e di attecchimento di sei cultivar di susino europeo (P. domestica L.), fornite di radici avventizie preformate su branche di 3-4 e pi anni, risulta che la presenza di tali radici non costituisce un indice di alta capacit rizogena spontanea (senza trattamento) delle talee di un anno. Viceversa, tali cultivar e specialmente quelle con un pi elevato numero di radici preformate sulle branche (cv. " Precoce di Ebersucier "), si sono dimostrate buone utilizzatrici dell'auxina sintetica, nei riguardi della radicazione delle talee di un anno. From data on the number of preformed roots on 3-4 year old and over branches of 6 cultivars of european plum, and from the rooting and establishment trials, on 1 year old hardwood cuttings, using basal heating, the following results were obtained: 1) The greatest number of preformed adventitious roots on main and secondary branches of adult plants were found on " Precoce di Ebersucier " and " S. Piero " cultivars. On one year old branches preformed roots are never present. 2) Spontaneous rooting ability (without treatment) and relative establishment of one year old hardwood cuttings are low in all cultivars. The presence of preformed roots is not an index for high spontaneous rooting ability and establishment of the cuttings. 3) Auxin treatment increases the rooting ability and establishment of the cuttings. Not all cultivars, even with equal number of preformed roots, use the synthetic auxin in the same way. The best results were obtained with " Precoce di Ebersucier " cv.
42878073|Nel biennio 1971-72 sono state condotte osservazioni sull'attivit cam biale e sull'accrescimento dei germogli delle cultivar  spur  di melo " Starkrimson " e " Starkspur Golden Delicious ", allevate in due differenti ambienti e cio, in provincia di Bolzano e in provincia di Pisa. Dalle osservazioni sono emerse differenze negli alberi allevati nei due diversi ambienti per quanto riguarda l'inizio e l'arresto dell'attivit cambiale, nonch nella sua intensit durante il periodo estivo. Anche Paccresci-mento dei germogli si  svolto con un differente andamento nelle due localit, mentre per lo stesso ambiente nessuna sostanziale differenza  emersa tra le due cultivar in rapporto, sia all'attivit cambiale, sia all'accrescimento dei germogli. Alcune di queste differenze sono apparse, almeno in parte, attribuibili alla diversit dell'andamento delle temperature nei due ambienti considerati. Differences in the dates of initiation and cessation of cambial activity as well as in the rates of radial growth and shoot elongation were noted between trees of " Starkspur Golden Delicious " and " Starkrimson " grown in Bolzano and Pisa. Differences between the two varieties were not observed. Temperature regimes at the two locations are sufficiently different to account in part for differences in dates of bud break and rest and the onset and termination of cambial activity. There were more cambial layers in the trees at Bolzano than those at Pisa. One hypothesis accounting for this difference in structure is that the critical temperature for multiplication of cambial cells may be lower than that required for their differentiation into xylem and phloem elements.
42878074|Research were carried out in order to investigate, during the prime period for chemical thinning, the CEPA effect on peach fruit growth rate and abscission as well as on basipetal and acropetal translocation of C-indoleacetic acid (IAA) and C-sucrose through fruit pedicels. Results pointed out firstly that CEPA slackened down fruit growth rate. The chemical was also effective in determining or speeding up the - abscission in fruits wich showed, at the spray time, a transverse diameter lower than 22 mm. Furthermore a lower amount of C-IAA and C-sucrose translocation through the fruit pedicels, both in acropetal and basipetal way, was observed. Possible relationships between CEPA effect on fruit growth and abscission, and data coming from translocation studies are discussed.  noto che l'acido 2-cloroetilfosfonico (CEPA) promuove Pabscissione dei frutticini di pesco. Tale effetto si pu fondatamente attribuire all'etilene che si libera nei tessuti vegetali in seguito alla disintegrazione delle molecole di CEPA. Anche se  indiscusso il ruol primario che l'etilene svolge nella fisiologia della abscissione, non  tuttavia chiara la vi a metabolica attraverso la quale esso agisce; fra i possibili meccanismi di azione  probabil e che l'etilene interferisca con il metabolismo delle auxine, alterandone il trasporto basipeto attraverso i tessuti peduncolari e modificando, quindi, l'entit della traslocazione degli assimilati verso il frutto. Partendo da tale ipotesi e tenendo conto che il CEPA pu influire in modo diverso sulla abscissione del frutto a seconda dello stadio di sviluppo di questo, si  ritenuto opportuno studiare, nel periodo utile per il diradamento chimico, gli effetti dell'etilene sull'accrescimento e sul distacco di frutti appartenenti a diverse categorie dimensionali, nonch sulla traslocazione dell'ecido indolacetico (IAA) e del saccarosio attraverso i tessuti peduncolari. Il complesso dei risultati ha messo in primo luogo in evidenza che il CEPA ha rallentato l'accrescimento dei frutti; ha inoltre indotto o stimolato Pabscissione di quelli appartenenti alle categorie dimensionali inferiori. Parallelamente  stata osservata anche una minore traslocazione attraverso i tessuti peduncolari dello IAA e del saccarosio marcati, sia in senso acropeto, sia in senso basipeto. Non  facile correlare gli effetti del CEPA sull'accrescimento e sulPabscissione dei frutti con i risultati degli studi sulla traslocazione, poich quest'ultimi sono stati condotti su espianti;  tuttavia possibile avanzare alcune ipotesi per spiegare l'effetto del CEPA sia sull'accrescimento dei frutti, sia sull'abscissione. Dalle osservazioni  anzitutto emerso che il rallentato accrescimento ed Pabscissione sono due fenomeni collegati, dipendenti molto probabilmente dalle medesime cause. Fra queste, particolare rilevanza fisiologica assumerebbe la osservata diminuzione in senso basipeto dello IAA traslocato, alla quale fa riscontro anche una minore traslocazione in senso acropeto dei carboidrati. I disturbi osservati a livello della traslocazione determinerebbero uno stress nutrizionale nel frutto con conseguente rallentamento del suo accrescimento. Tali condizioni di stress porterebbero all'abscissione allorquando si verificano in corrispondenza di particolari stadi di sviluppo del frutto.
42878075|Shoot growth in woody plants of the temperate zone follows an annual cycle which is complex and only partly understood. In spring buds swell, then rapidly develop into shoots, but shoot elongation typically continues for only a relatively short period. In early summer elongation ceases in many species, terminal buds form, and the plant enters into a period of rest or dormancy, the intensity of which continually increases until fall. The chilling temperatures of autumn and winter break the rest period, so that growth is able to resume once more with the advent of spring and its mild temperatures. This series of events is believed to be controlled by hormones. The roles which these hormones play are discussed. Lo sviluppo vegetativo delle piante arboree presenta un ciclo annuo che appare regolato da un sistema di tipo ormonale. All'inizio della attivit vegetativa, le citochinine compaiono nei vasi legnosi e probabilmente stimolano l'accrescimento delle gemme, come anche suggerito dall'effetto di applicazioni esogene. Anche auxine e gibberelline si ritrovano nella linfa e nelle gemme al risveglio primaverile. Questi ormoni probabilmente interagiscono nel promuovere lo sviluppo, pur mantenendo le citochinine il ruolo di iniziatoci di quella catena di eventi che conduce all'accrescimento. Il meccanismo d'azione di questi ormoni non si limiterebbe ad uno studio della divisione e allungamento cellulare, ma potrebbe coinvolgere una mobilitazione delle sostanze nutrizionali. Centri di crescita sono capaci di una forte competizione e ci viene messo in relazione al loro elevato contenuto ormonale. Il successivo allungamento dei germogli sembra dominato dalle gibberelline. Sebbene altri ormoni espletino un ruolo importante, le gibberelline sono sintetizzate in quelle foglie in via di espansione che hanno un ruolo determinante nel controllo dell'allungamento degli internodi. L'accrescimento, in un germoglio tipico, perdura alcune settimane e cessa con la formazione della gemma apicale. Il progressivo accorcimento dei giorni  una possibile causa di tale arresto. Questa ipotesi, tuttavia, non pu essere chiamata in causa per certe specie che entrano in dormienza all'inizio dell'estate, quando cio i giorni sono ancora molto lunghi. Si  suggerito che un aumento del contenuto in acido abscissico (ABA) pu essere alla base dell'arresto dello sviluppo, ma buone correlazioni non sono state trovate. Inoltre applicazioni esogene su germogli in accrescimento non sono capaci di arrestare lo sviluppo. Un ruolo decisivo dell'ABA sembra anche negato dalla sua presenza ad alte concentrazioni in apici vegetativi in rapido sviluppo.  possibile, tuttavia, che l'ABA possa frenare l'accrescimento quando anche qualche altro fattore o regolatore di crescita diventi limitante. All'inizio della dormienza, i germogli possono essere indotti a riprendere la crescita con applicazioni di azoto o acqua. Tuttavia, col tempo diventa sempre pi difficile indurre l'accrescimento. La massima intensit di dormienza viene raggiunta in autunno. Al sopravvenire del freddo inizia il processo di uscita dalla dormienza. Si  ipotizzato che una diminuzione di inibitori, quali l'ABA, sia responsabile della uscita dalla dormienza. La difficolt di provare tale correlazione suggerisce che fattori diversi dall'ABA possano avere un ruolo determinante.  stato dimostrato che il freddo causa la comparsa nelle gemme di sostanze che promuovono lo sviluppo. Dal momento che le gibberelline e le citochinine possono sostituire il trattamento a basse temperature di molte specie,  stato ipotizzato che il freddo agisca mettendo in moto questo sistema ormonale.
42878076|Resulting seed from floral biology trials conducted with some Italian, french and Spanish table olive varieties have been stored, hibernated and, after a water treatment, have been put for germination in open air benches, each cross separed from others. From the elaboration of resulting data, we can resume that:  the germination of seeds is influenced mainly by the mother variety and, at a lower extent, by the pollinator.  the germination percentage of seeds is generally higher in the first year, while only a few varieties present higher percentages in the second year. Therefore what has been found by several Authors regarding other fruit species is also valid for olive. The " Picholine " variety has proved to be outstanding both as mother and pollinator, closely followed by " Leccino " and, at a greater distance, " Bouteillan ", " Manzanilla " and " Tanche " varieties. Among varieties that were used only as pollinators (" Puntino ", " Razzo ", " Frantoio ", " Sorba ", " Giarraffa " and " Nocellara E. ") " Razzo " and " Frantoio " had the greatest influence on seed germination.
42878080|Viene evidenziata la necessit di provvedere alla tutela ed alla conservazione del patrimonio genetico vegetale, chiarendo alcune particolari esigenze che si presentano per le specie legnose da frutto e prospettando le linee essenziali di un lavoro organico concretamente realizzabile. Si ritiene che tale lavoro dovrebbe essere organizzato sistematicamente per ogni singola specie, sia nei riguardi delle variet da frutto che dei portinnesti e delle specie affini, cominciando col realizzare un inventario delle piante madri gi esistenti e quindi attuando un organico lavoro di reperimento delle variet, che nelle attuali collezioni mancano, ma della cui presenza nel passato si ha notizia. Dovrebbero essere cos realizzate delle collezioni di piante madri, distribuendone l'onere fra le varie Istituzioni che intendono collaborare, in modo che i campi di collezione siano diversi, dislocati in diverse zone e gestiti anche da diverse Istituzioni. Si potr cos cercare di evitare ripetizioni inutili e dispendiose, assicurando che in ciascun campo di collezione siano presenti almeno uno o due variet di riferimento per ogni specie. Un lavoro collegiale, cos organizzato, consentirebbe di utilizzare tutte le energie disponibili, oggi por troppo disperse e scollegate fra loro; consentirebbe inoltre di ripartire l'elevato onere relativo al mantenimento delle piante madri, al controllo di queste ed al sistematico rilevamento dei dati occorrenti. Si sottolinea che, almeno per ora, nel nostro Paese la realizzazione di un lavoro impostato diversamente sarebbe molto difficile e si reputa quindi necessario fare affidamento sullo spirito di collaborazione di quanti hanno la possibilit di cooperare per una tempestiva difesa del patrimonio genetico della nostra frutticoltura. The urgent need to provide for the safeguard and conservation of plant genetic resources in placed in evidence, emphasising the particular requirements of fruit-tree species, and prospecting the essential outline of an organic plan of work which could be concretely carried out. The plant of work should be systematically organized for each single species, both for varieties, rootstocks and akin species starting with a survey of the mother plants already in existence and also to find those varieties which are missing in present collections but cultivated in the past. Several collections of mother plants in different zones could be realized assuring one or two varieties for each species as reference in each collection, and by distributing the work and sharing the expense among the various institutions wishing to collaborate, useless and expensive repetitions could be avoided. A collective work organized in this way would exploit all available energies, which are unfortunately dispersed and disconnected at present; would share the cost of maintenance and control of the mother plants and documentation. It is pointed out that for the moment the realization of a differently layed-out work would be difficult to bring about in Italy therefore an active cooperation for an urgent defence of genetic resources is required.
42878081|Observations and data on olive harvest with the aid of nets under the foliage during natural drop are reported. This method is largely adopted in zones where other methods have resulted either too expensive or unfeasible. In the last few years a number of loosening agents have been used to reduce harvesting time. Trials using Ethrel and Alsol, both ethylene-producers and each in the concentration of 1000 and 1500 ppm, as loosening agents, were carried out, last year, on two olive groves in the Tuscan region of Maremma (Grosseto area) on " Moraiolo " and "Gorreggiolo " cultivars. In one of the groves the olives of both treated and control plants were allowed to fall liberally on the nets, while in the other grove, approximatively two weeks after treatment, harvesting was carried out with the aid of a "Stormas " shaker. In the first grove, where harvesting went on till Feb. 20th, a considerable "drop "was noticed in the treated plants roughly 10 days after application of loosening agents. Inferior results were obtained with 1000 ppm Alsol. In the second grove, " Gorreggiolo " responded better to treatment than " Moraiolo " however 1000 ppm Ethrel gave scarse results on both cultivars. Although with the aid of shakers a quicker harvest was obtained, it has worked out to be uneconomical especially for " Moraiolo ". The action of strong doses of "ethylene-promotors " has been more or less similar in both groves whilst the effect of lower concentrations differed. From these trials it can be concluded that in particular zones the use of nets combined with loosening agents, in suitable concentrations according to zone, can shorten natural harvest time.
42878082|L'acido abscissico (ABA) si ritrova, nel melo, quasi esclusivamente nella parte epigea, mentre solo tracce o niente di esso  riscontrabile nelle radici. Analisi di foglie e di internodi in accrescimento, hanno evidenziato come la pi elevata concentrazione di ABA si ritrovi nelle giovani foglioline della parte apicale dei germogli, non appena le foglie basali hanno raggiunto le dimensioni finali. L'ABA nel melo  stato trovato sia sotto forma libera che come sostanza idrosolubile; per idrolisi alcalina di quest'ultima si ottengono due composti: ABA e glucosio. Un estere ABA-glucosio  stato inoltre identificato non solo nel melo, ma anche in altre specie. Quando l'ABA viene somministrato al melo per via esogena, parte di esso  rapidamente convcrtito in forma idrolizzabile ; questa trasformazione  ritenuta essere un meccanismo di inattivazione. Allo stesso modo, quando l'isomero trans viene iniettato in semenzali di melo si forma rapidamente ABA trans idrolizzabile. Tracce di ABA trans si ritrovano nel melo soltanto occasionalmente, ma ci pu essere dovuto a un artefatto del metodo di frazionamento e purificazione dell'estratto vegetale. Il ruolo che PABA pu avere nel regolare l'accrescimento dei germogli di melo non  ancora chiaro. Applicazioni di ABA su germogli in fase di accrescimento non sono state in alcun modo efficaci nell'arrestare il loro sviluppo, eccezion fatta quando questo ormone  stato somministrato a piante che si trovano in condizioni ambientali sfavorevoli. Al contrario  stato possibile arrestare l'accrescimento di espianti di gemme di melo allevati asetticamente in provetta mediante l'applicazione di ABA a concentrazioni molto basse: ci suggerirebbe che l'assorbimento di questo ormone non avverrebbe altrettanto rapidamente sulla pianta intera. Numerose sono state le prove effettuate per correlare la diminuizione del contenuto in ABA con i trattamenti a basse temperature effettuati allo scopo di interrompere la dormienza. Ricerche condotte su semenzali di melo allo scopo di studiare le variazioni nel contenuto in ABA in gemme apicali durante il trattamento con freddo, non hanno dato i risultati sperati. Tuttavia, una diminuizione del contenuto in ABA  stata rilevata quando le piante sono state rimosse dal trattamento a freddo e poste in normali condizioni di sviluppo. Recentemente  stato anche rilevato come uno stato di carenza idrica pu indurre un abbondante e rapido incremento del contenuto in ABA in molte specie.
42878083|Gli AA. segnalano la presenza di due Coleotteri Curculionidi polifagi ed autoctoni, Otiorrhynchus salicicola ed 0. sulcatus, come pericolosi nemici di una Araliacea di grande importanza commerciale, la Fana japnica, nelle colture protette (vivaistiche) sulla collina di Torino. O. salicicola  specie anfigonica. O. sulcatus  specie partenogenetica. Di entrambe le specie vengono fornite notizie sulla geonemia attualmente nota e sul ciclo biologico, che permette di ipotizzare due sistemi di lotta: l'uno atto a colpire le larve rizofaghe in autunno ed inverno, l'altro diretto contro gli adulti nella primavera ed estate. Two specie of Coleptera Curculionidae, Otiorrhynchus salicicola Heyden and O. sulcatus F., in protected cultivation on the hills near Torino (Piedmont, Italy) seriously damage Fatsia japnica Dec. et Planch. (Araliaceae), a very important species in the ornamental plant trade. Distribution and biology of 0. salicicola which has sexual reproduction and 0. sulcatus which is a parthenogenetic species, are studied. Two relatively simple methods to fight these pests are drawn up from a knowledge of their cycle. The first method is to strike at the adult from May and throughout the summer period by means of pesticides. The second method has given highly satisfactory results on potted plants and consists of the employment of insecticidal substances (such as paradichloro-benzine or other cheaper substances) introduced in the soil along the roots, which act on the hypogeal larvae. Obsiously the second method must be applied in autumn or in winter with slightly stronger doses according to the degree of infestation.
42878090|In a research on "Richared "apple grafted on " M9 " and " seedling " rootstock, leaf fresh weight for surface unity was greater on the dwarfing rootstock for two years. This might be correlated with a more efficient assimilation on such rooststock under equal extent of leaf surface. Stornata counts did not reveal any important difference between rootstocks. Stornata showed an activity up to October 15th in the experimental conditions. Diurnal opering was largely dependent on light; on reduction could be detected during noon hours. Stomatal opening was always greater on the " seedling " rootstocks at morning and sunset, but barely greater at noon, so that movements of the guard cells more pronounced on the " dwarfing " rootstock. This suggests that the apple leaves on such rootstock might have a better control of transpiration.
42878091|A strain of CMV, systemic in C.quinoa and C.foetidum, has been isolated from plants of watermelon cv. " Blacklee " and " Charleston Gray ", and Melon cv. " Giallo di Napoli ". In the field, infected watermelon plants show faint, rugose mosaic and, on the fruits, lines, rings and slightly raised dark-green rimmed, areas; chlorotic spots and lines are visible also on the seeds of severely infected fruits. Melon shows mosaic and leaf-distortion; on the fruits a typical mosaic, with yellow and green spots, is present. The CMV-strain has been isolated also from some weeds as Verbascum phoeniceum L., Veronica longifolia L., and from Pepper (C.annuum L.). Some species of aphids were present, in the field, on watermelon and melon: Aphis gossypii Glov. and Macrosiphum euphorbiae Thos., which, probably, are the vectors of CMV-strain. Inoculation trials have been carried out on 43 herbaceous-plant species belonging to 13 families. The disease is not seed-transmitted in watermelon and has been reproduced on mechanically inoculated watermelon and melon in greenhouse. The virus has been identified also with the aid of serological tests and investigation on the physical characters and morphology.
42878092|Gli autori espongono alcune tecniche basate su tests biochimici ed in particolare sulla reazione della polifenolossidasi in omogeneizzati di giovani germogli di agrumi, per il riconoscimento fra semenzali nucellari e gametici. The Authors, in order to eliminate eventual zigotyc seedlings in a Sour Orange nursery block, tested 400 seedlings and their mother trees using a biochemical method, which consisted in homogenating young shoots of Citrus by means of phospahte buffer solution pH. 7,2. Under the effect of this solution the homogenates turn brown within a few minutes, this is due to the phenols oxidation by poly-phenol-oxidase. The Authors found that 19 seedlings out of the 400 tested, showed a completely different behaviour from the one 381, and, because of it, they think that other the 19 seedlings could have originated from zigotyc embryos.
42878093|Previous research showed that feather formation was related directly to shoot growth rate during the first period of the growing season. Based on this knowledge a research program was designed to determine whether bud and shoot growth rate were correlated with levels of endogenous growth promotors and inhibitors. Results obtained with Avena biossays pointed out that there did not appear to be a difference between shoots of different growht rates in regard to the total amount of auxin-like compounds. There was a reduced level of inhibitors in shoots with high growth rates in comparison to shoots with low growth rates. The observations suggest, that a relatively high level of auxin-like compounds permits significant axillary bud break, thus the hypothesis that auxins produced by apical bud directly inhibit axillary bud growth should be reconsidered. Major responsability for apical dominance, could be attributed to growth inhibitors rather than auxin-like compounds. Precedenti ricerche avevano messo in evidenza che la comparsa di formazioni anticipate  legata alla velocit di accrescimento del germoglio durante le prime fasi del suo ciclo di sviluppo;  stato, inoltre, accertato che esistono dei valori soglia minimi di velocit al di sotto dei quali non si ha comparsa di anticipati. Tali acquisizioni consentono di valutare molto precocemente, sulla base delle rispettive velocit di accrescimento, la diversa attitudine dei germogli ad emettere anticipati. Sfruttando tale possibilit  stato predisposto uno specifico programma di indagini per mettere in evidenza eventuali differenze sul contenuto in fitoregolatori endogeni, in germogli caratterizzati da differenti velocit di accrescimento nel periodo precedente l'epoca di comparsa delle formazioni anticipate. Analoghe osservazioni sono state condotte anche su germogli cimati tenuto conto che la cimatura favorisce la comparsa di formazioni anticipate anche se ne modifica profondamente il quadro fisiologico. Il complesso delle osservazioni, ha consentito, anzitutto, di accertare la presenza di un elevato contenuto di stimolatori anche nei germogli che, sulla base dei parametri scelti presentavano una buona attitudine ad emettere anticipati. In linea generale si  osservata una diminuzione nel contenuto di sostanze auxino-simili passando dall'apice alla base del germoglio. Tale tendenza sembra peraltro essere correlata con il numero di anticipati nei germogli cimati ed in quelli con velocit di accrescimento elevate. In questi ultimi  stato inoltre osservato un pi basso contenuto di inibitori rispetto ai germogli con ridotte velocit di accrescimento. Tenuto conto che il test avena presenta notevole specificit per le sostanze auxiniche ed auxino-simili, se ne deduce che un elevato contenuto auxinico e la comparsa di anticipati non sono fatti tra loro antitetici. Sulla base di tali risultati dovrebbe essere riconsiderato anche il ruolo svolto dalle auxine prodotte dall'apice nel determinismo della dominanza apicale. Tale ruolo deriva principalmente dalla capacit, accertata peraltro solo in alcune specie, che le auxine sintetiche hanno di ristabilire la dominanza apicale dopo la rimozione dell'apice stesso.  tuttavia opportuno ricordare che la ricostituzione della dominanza non si ottiene applicando l'auxina sintetica in una concentrazione pari a quella estraibile dall'apice rimosso, ma sono necessarie concentrazioni molto superiori.  probabile, quindi, che in tale modello l'auxina non agisca a livello fisiologico e che l'effetto di inibizione da essa esercitato sui meristemi ascellari sia piuttosto imputabile alla tossicit dell'ormone presente in una concentrazione eccessiva. Maggiore responsabilit sarebbe invece da attribuirsi agli inibitori, poich sono state riscontrate effettive differenze tra germogli che presentavano diversa potenzialit ad emettere anticipati. Non  possibile tuttavia avanzare alcuna ipotesi, poich  necessario un approfondimento ulteriore delle ricerche;  probabile comunque che esista una relazione tra contenuto in inibitori nelle porzioni di germoglio da noi saggiate e ritmo di attivit morfogenetica dell'apice.
42878094|Vengono riferiti i risultati ottenuti, in due anni di osservazione, sulla suscettibilit all'odio di 749 cultivar di pesco.  stato applicato un sistema di punteggio da 0 a 6. Nessuna cultivar presenta immunit di campo. A seconda della differente risposta al parassita, alcune cultivar presentano la caratteristica di isolare l'infezione sulle foglie, mentre altre sono soggette ad una abbondante defogliazione dei rami. I tipi percoca e nettarina risultano pi suscettibili delle pesche comuni; anche le cultivar a foglia seghettata e prive di ghiandole fogliari sono pi suscettibili delle cultivar a foglia crenata. Suscettibili risultano pure le cultivar a " foglia rossa " e quelle di tipo " nano ". Le cultivar saggiate vengono classificate secondo il loro grado di suscettibilit. Il lavoro  stato eseguito con la collaborazione tecnica di Benelli G., Pardi M., Pardini E.. In most peach-growing countries the mildew problem is becoming more and more serious. Mildew infection, favoured by certain microclimatic conditions, is difficult to eliminate, mainly because of the short lapse of time (even 24 hours) between the first symptoms and the diffusion of the disease. This investigation the aim of which was to obtain useful data for both breeder and grower was carried out over a period of two years on a peach collection growing at Follonica. The 749 cultivars taken into consideration (having the same age) were grown on the same lot and consisted of 563 peach, 101 nectarines and 85 cling-stone; 3-4 vase-shaped plants, grafted on peach seedlings for each cultivars. Data were recorded between June, and September when damages are definitive. A grading system has been elaborated which assessed the response of the plant to the disease in a simple way. The risult was the following grading system which is very similar to the one obtained at the East Mailing Research Station on apple (Knight Alston, 1968). 0: non visible infection 1: occasional minute infected areas up to 2 mm in diameter 2: infected areas with evident conidial production confined to leaves, but more numerous and considerably larger than in grade 1. 3: infected areas with evident conidial production diffused on leaves: limited attack on shoots 4: severe on leaves; up to 50% of shoots damaged; 5: severe on leaves; most shoots badly damaged 6: severe on leaves; all shoots badly damaged. Grades 0 and 1 are regarded as expressions of field immunity whilst 2 and 3 represent reasonable levels of resistance (cultivars little susceptible) grade 4 medium susceptible, and grades 5-6 highly susceptible cultivars. The highest score which corresponds to the highes degree of infection obtained in the years of observation has been given to each cultivar. The taxonomic determination of the fungus has been carried out at the Institute of Plant Pathology, University of Pisa. The results obtained over the 2 years investigations have not been cumulated as in the first year some fungicidal treatments were carried out. In both years no cultivar showed field immunity. In the first year the infection was contained and mostly grade 3 cultivars were registered followed by grades 2, 4 and 6 (tab. 1). In the second year, without treatment, the attack was severe and mostly grade 4 were registered, followed by 3,5, 2 and 6 (tab. 2). Comparing the different types of fruit, nectarines and cling-stone peaches were more damaged than normal fruit, and no significant differences were obtained between these two (tab. 1-2). Also dwarf type and red-leaved cultivars are susceptible. Of all the cultivars tested, only 8, including three types of fruit (peach, nectarine and cling-stone) have leaves with serrated margins instead of crenated ones and have no leaf glands. All these cultivars are included in grades 5 and 6. This confirms, what had been previouly observed, the correlation between leaves characters and strong susceptibility to mildew. In tables 4, 5, 6, 7, all the cultivars with relative grade are reported. It is interesting to note, as it could be the first step in obtaining mildew resistant cultivars, the capacity of isolating the infection showed by the leaves of some cultivars. This type of resistance is probably due to a hypersensitive reaction still unknown in peach regarding mildew.
42878095|Da studi operati in campo ed in laboratorio  stato accertato che le gemme in sviluppo, durante la primavera, sono normalmente danneggiate da freddi o gelate solo quando la temperatura scende a pi di 2 C.  opportuno far notare che le gemme potrebbero resistere anche a temperature dall'aria inferiore a 2 C ma poich la irradiazione durante le notti serene pu causare abbassamenti della temperatura delle gemme al disotto della temperatura dell'aria il valore di 2 C va considerato come limite di sicurezza varcato il quale si deve intervenire onde evitare danni alle gemme. Tentativi di ritardare il risveglio delle gemme, e pertanto evitare i danni da freddi primaverili, mediante l'uso di regolatori di crescita, hanno dato risultati di scarso interesse. Tra l'altro la gibberellina data in autunno ha aumentato i danni da freddo e i ritardanti di crescita, dati in primavera, sono risultati inefficaci. Anche l'Ethephon non ha dato risultati degni di nota (2-4 dd di ritardo) ed ha ridotto il numero di fiori vitali impedendo uno sviluppo normale dei tessuti dell'ovulo. Danni da gommosi sono anche apparsi alle concentrazioni pi elevate (500 ppm). Degni di nota sono anche i risultati delle analisi sul contenuto in acido abscisico (ABA), un presunto fattore della dormienza, nelle gemme durante tutto l'inverno. In particolare i livelli di ABA nei primordi fiorali hanno presentato un aumento notevole in autunno ed un successivo declino in coincidenza della fine della dormienza delle gemme. La esistenza di una associazione tra ABA e dormienza  stata tuttavia negata da successive esperienze in cui una defogliazione manuale operata in autunno ha soppresso le oscillazioni di ABA nelle gemme sanza alterarne la dormienza. Inoltre il declino di ABA  stato uguale in gemme mantenute a 5 C (temperatura ottimale per soddisfare il fabbisogno in freddo) o tenute a 20 C (temperatura in cui le gemme restano dormienti). A conferma di queste conclusioni, anche analisi fatte su semi stratificati hanno dimostrato che il livello di ABA declina indipendentemente dalla temperatura e perci non coincide con la dormienza che, al contrario, varia in dipendenza della temperatura. La conclusione che se ne pu trarre  che incrementi e decrementi di ABA avvengono indipendentemente dalla dormienza. Pertanto, si pu suggerire che un basso livello di ABA pu essere concepito come prerequisito al risveglio mentre qualche altro fattore (una gibberellina?) potrebbe essere correlata alla cessazione della dormienza ed allo sviluppo delle gemme.
42878117|Nel processo di neoformazione radicale sono implicati due tipi di polarit uno relativo alla differenziazione degli organi (gemme e radici) l'altro riguardante il trasporto basipeto di sostanze auxiniche e/o rizogene. L'impiego della centrifugazione  stato da tempo sperimentato nella radicazione, molte specie hanno dato una risposta positiva mentre altre si sono dimostrate indifferenti od addirittura hanno registrato una riduzione del fenomeno. In Salix alba la centrifugazione basipeta ha provocato una risposta proporzionale alla forza centrifuga impiegata, sia come numero di radici che come loro distribuzione lungo l'asse della talea. Tale effetto pu essere rimosso asportando la porzione basale di questa. Ci insieme al fatto che nelle acque di centrifugazione possono essere ritrovate sostanze rizogene, indica come probabile effetto della centrifugazione quelle di stimolare l'accumulo di tali sostanze alla base della talea. Tuttavia una semplice azione di trasporto di sostanze rizogene verso la base non pu essere una spiegazione soddisfacente in quanto la suddivisione della talea in tre parti non ha fornito risultati sostanzialmente diversi. Quindi, sebbene la centrifugazione abbia un certo effetto nel trasporto, questa non pu essere la sola causa stimolante. L'acqua durante la centrifugazione svolge un'azione fondamentale tanto che si  dimostrata indispensabile. Questo ci pu indicare come nel fenomeno possa prendere parte anche l'etilene che verrebbe ad accumularsi nei tessuti sommersi e che stimolerebbe la neoformazione radicale.
42878118|Allo scopo di verificare la variabilit ed il reale valore tassonomico delle essenziali caratteristiche agronomiche e biologiche delle cultivar di pesco, sono state condotte, nel biennio 1974-1975, delle indagini comparative su circa 200 cultivar di pesco, provenienti da diversi Paesi peschicoli ed in modo particolare dagli Stati Uniti d'America, presenti in una raccolta di  piante madri  esistente a Follonica (Grosseto). I caratteri presi in considerazione sono i seguenti: a) andamento della cascola delle gemme a fiore, controllata dalla caduta delle foglie all'inizio della fioritura; b) entit dell'allegagione, sia nell'autoimpollinazione (grado di autocompatibilit) che nella libera fecondazione (grado di fertilit); c) andamento della cascola dei frutti, controllata dalla allegagione alla raccolta; d) grado di produttivit medio (dato dal rapporto: numero di frutti raccolti / lunghezza del ramo), nonch quello del terzo basale, del terzo mediano e del terzo apicale del ramo medesimo. Dai risultati delle indagini condotte  emerso che tutti i caratteri esaminati hanno dimostrato di possedere campi di variabilit assai ampi. Pertanto, dato il loro valore tassonomico, si propone di adottare anche questi caratteri per la identificazione, classificazione e descrizione delle cultivar di pesco. In the previous note on the taxonomic value of some character of a branch of peach (Bellini et Giannelli 1975) it has been dealt with results obtained by trials carried out on roughly 200 peach cultivars over a number of years analysing the behaviour of the chief morphological characters of mixed branches. With this present note we refer to results obtained by carrying the research further to the consideration of the agronomic and biological characters of a mixed branch, thus completing a vaster and more systematic picture. In order to verify the real taxonomic value and variability of essential bio-agronomic characters, in 1974 - 75, comparative trials on 200 peach cultivars, growing in the large collection at Follonica, were carried out. The characters taken in consideration were the following: a) flower-bud drop, from leaf-fall to the beginning of blossom b) fruit-set, both in self-pollination (grade of self-compatibility) and in free-pollination (grade of fertility) c) fruit-drop from set to harvest d) medium grade of productivity (number of fruit/length of branch) productivity of portion of branch: basal third, medium and apical third). From obtained data the following points arise: 1) all examined characters present vast variability therefore a high taxonomic value 2) these characters can be adopted for the indentification, classification and description of the cultivars and together with the characters already known can contribute to complete the "pomological card". For this reason the following " type card " is suggested.
42878119|Le ricerche che vengono condotte sui portainnesti del pesco nella stazione sperimentale di Harrow (Ontario, Canada) scaturiscono dalla necessit di affrontare i problemi pi pressanti della peschicoltura canadese. Di primaria importanza  la resistenza al freddo dei portainnesti, carattere per il quale il "Siberian C" (importato da Pieniazek dalla Cina) st fornendo risultati sorprendenti. Si st tentando di unire questo carattere e quello di foglia rossa, derivabile dalla Rotgers Red Leaf, a quello di nanizzante del nesto, derivabile dalla P. tomentosa e P. bessey. Inoltre  desiderabile che i portainnesti del pesco abbiano una maggiore resistenza ai nematodi e all'agrobacterium ed un adattamento a terreni pi umidi di quelli su cui attualmente si coltiva il pesco in Canada. Si spera di ottenere questo carattere da incroci col mandorlo. Questo programma potr poi risultare pi efficace se accompagnato sia dallo studio di nuovi sistemi di saggio per la resistenza al freddo, umidit, malattie e capacit rizogena, che dalla analisi delle molteplici interazioni che potranno instaurarsi tra soggetti e nesti.
42878120|La ricerca  stata effettuata con talee del portinnesto clonale di pesco P.S. A VI, trattate a varie concentrazioni di IBA e propagate con la tecnica del sacchetto di polietilene; la migliore radicazione  stata ottenuta a 1000 e 2000 ppm.  stata rilevata la presenza di etilene nell'ambiente-sacchetto e nella porzione basale delle talee delle due tesi: controllo e IBA 2000 ppm. L'andamento dei livelli di questo gas  simile nelle due tesi ma ritardato per quelle trattate. Un andamento analogo, anche se inizialmente con concentrazioni superiori rispetto all'ambiente,  stato riscontrato pure nelle analisi delle porzioni basali delle talee. Si pu affermare quindi che l'etilene prodotto non ha alcuna influenza sia sulla radicazione che sulla cascola delle gemme; quest'ultima non dipende nemmeno dal trattamento ormonico alle varie concentrazioni. Si  riscontrata inoltre una notevole permeabilit all'etilene da parte del materiale costituente i sacchetti. The research was carried out with cuttings of the clonal peach rootstock P.S. A VI, treated with various concentrations of IBA and propagated with the technique of polyethylene bags. The presence of ethylene in the bags' atmosphere and in the basal portions of the cuttings, for two theses (IBA 2000 ppm and control), was detected, at various intervals of time, by gas-chromatography. It was also compared the dry weight of buds, for the two theses, on the first and 32nd days of the trial; the bud drop was measured at different times. The time course of ethylene levels in bags' atmosphere is similar in the two theses, but in the case of treated cuttings the maximum production occurs later on and afterwards remains higher than for untreated cuttings. A similar behaviour was found in the analyses of basal portions of cuttings, though concentrations of ethylene were quite higher than in the atmosphere, especially during the first days of the trial. The bud drop does not vary with the treatment; the best concentrations of IBA, for rooting activity, were of 1000 and 2000 ppm. It was also verified that the material composing the bags allows a marked passage of ethylene towards the outside. We can therefore say that the ethylene produced by the cuttings does not have any influence, both on rooting and on bud drop; bud drop, on the other hand, is not influenced by hormonal treatments.
42878121|Con osservazioni su preparati a schiaccio di embrioni raccolti allo stadio iniziale di formazione dei cotiledoni, gli Autori procedono all'individuazione di embrioni triploidi prodotti da piante diploidi di Limone, Mandarino e Mandarino simili. In order to study the possibility of obtaining triploids from diploid Citrus, in the summer 1975, young embryos at the early cotyledonary stage, of 19 Lemon "Femminello" clones and 8 mandarin varieties were collected. Chromosomes were counted in these ambryos by the squash method. It was found that 7 of the diploid lemon clones and 6 of the diploid mandarin varieties studied can produce triploid embryos in different percentage.
42878126|Si  cercato di perfezionare la tecnica di moltiplicazione del pesco con il "sacchetto di polietilene" in modo da ridurre, all'interno di questo, l'influenza di alcuni fattori (acqua, ecc.) che sembrano opporsi alla sopravvivenza delle barbatelle (morte delle gemme, ecc). Per evidenziare l'influenza dell'ambiente, i sacchetti sono stati chiusi totalmente solo parzialmente (10-15 cm dalla base) intorno alle talee. Inoltre, il tempo di permanenza delle talee nei sacchetti, contenenti o meno un substrato,  stato limitato a 15 o a 30 giorni. Per questa ricerca sono state prese in esame due cultivar a diverso fabbisogno in freddo: la "Sunred" e la "Fertilia"; la prima con fioritura precoce (gennaio), la seconda con fioritura intermedia (marzo). Si  constatato che la presenza di substrato e la chiusura totale del sacchetto esercitano un'azione favorevole sulla percentuale di radicazione, numero e lunghezza radici, mentre la cascola risulta simile a quella riscontrabile naturalmente sul Pesco. Ai fini del trapianto  risultato essenziale far permanere le talee nei sacchetti per un periodo di tempo relativamente breve (15 giorni). Con la "Fertilia" l'esperienza  stata ripetuta in due epoche, novembre e gennaio, i migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti in gennaio, mentre confrontando le due cultivar a novembre i migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti dalla "Sunred". Il lavoro  stato eseguito con la collaborazione tecnica di C. Messeri e S. Antongiovanni. The aim of the trials was to improve the technique for peach propagation using polyethylene bags, by reducing inside them the influence of certain factors (ethylene, water, etc.) which seem to have a negative influence on the cuttings survival. To focus influence of ethylene, the bags have been totally or only partially closed (10-15 cm from the base) around the cuttings, and the lenght of time spent inside the bags, either with or without a substrate, has been reduced to 15 or 30 days. In this research "Sunred" and "Fertilia" cultivars have been used, the first with an early blossom in January, the second in March. The cuttings used were 30 cm in length, roughly 1 cm in diameter, taken from mixed branches and treated with 2000 ppm IBA solution. The substrate and total enclosure of the bags around the cuttings had a favourable effect on rooting percentage, number and length of roots, etc. A relatively-short period of time (15 days) of the cuttings in the bags has proved essential for transplating. The trials have been carried out in November and January, the best results for "Sunred" were obtained in November and for "Fertilia" in January.
42878127| stata esaminata la struttura della foglia dei mutanti "spur" di due cv. di melo, "Golden Delicious" e "Red Starking". In particolare  stato considerato lo spessore dei tessuti del mesofillo ed i risultati ottenuti rivelano, costantemente e significativamente, un maggior spessore della foglia di tipo "spur" rispetto a quello della cv. di origine. Nel caso del cv. "Starkspur Golden Delicious" appare estremamente sviluppato il tessuto a palizzata, mentre per il mutante spur "Starkrimson" della cv. "Red Starking"  anche e soprattutto il tessuto lacunoso a determinare una differenza di spessore.  inoltre importante segnalare la precocit con cui i tessuti del mesofillo si differenziano e si sviluppano negli individui spur della cv. "Golden Delicious", carattere questo che probabilmente consente alle foglie del mutante una maggiore efficienza assimilatoria fino dai suoi primi stadi di sviluppo. Estendendo poi le indagini ad una valutazione dell'effetto del CCC e dell'AG sulla struttura fogliare rispettivamente di meli "Golden Delicious" e "Starkspur Golden Delicious",  stato possibile rilevare una azione di dette sostanze manifestamente competitiva, tendente a determinare nelle piante trattate i caratteri dei rispettivi controlli. The leaf structure of the spur mutants of "Golden Delicious" and "Red Starking" apples has been examined in comparison with that of standard types. The leaves of the mutants are always thicker, because of the greater development of the palisade (Golden Delicious) or of the spongy tissue (Red Starking) and their mesophyll tissues differentiated earlier. The leaf structure of "Golden Delicious" apples treated with CCC and "Starkspur Golden Delicious" treated with AG has also been examined.
42878128|The effect of various ethylene-releasing products on the reduction of olive fruit removal force (FRF), was studied under field conditions. The effect on both irrigated and non-irrigated varieties was tested. No clear cut influence of temperature and humidity on the activity was found. High temperature accompanied by low humidity had a tendency to reduce ethephon activity. Low-volume application resulted in a satisfactory reduction of the FRF in most cases, even without an increase in concentration, but increased consistently the amount of leaf drop. L'effetto dei vari prodotti etilen-promotori come Ethephon, Alsol e BASF-78-525X fu esaminato in diverse condizioni ambientali e colturali al fine di ridurre la resistenza al distacco delle olive. Gli studi furono condotti in oliveti commerciali intensivi, irrigati e non. Le variet maggiormente studiate furono "Manzanilla", "Suri" e "Nabali". In generale l'azione dell'Alsol e dell'Ethephon fu piuttosto simile su oliveti di "Manzanilla" sia nella pianura della costa che nella valle interna di Bet She'an. Nella maggior parte dei casi l'Alsol ebbe la pi alta efficacia nel ridurre la forza di distacco (F R F) delle drupe, inducendo soltanto una debole defogliazione. Le concentrazioni ottimali dei due prodotti calcolate su base molare furono all'incirca uguali. Non fu trovata una chiara influenza della temperatura e dell'umidit sull'attivit dei due prodotti. Alte temperature, accompagnate da bassa umidit, ridussero per qualche volta l'attivit dell'Ethephon. Sembra che le applicazioni serali fossero le pi efficienti, particolarmente con Ethephon. Applicazioni a basso volume risultarono soddisfacenti nel ridurre la FRF, sebbene qualche volta inferiori ai trattamenti a pieno volume. L'incremento della concentrazione del prodotto attivo nei trattamenti a basso volume ebbe soltano un minimo effetto sulla sua efficacia. Questo risult sia per l'Ethephon che per l'Alsol quando furono applicati alla cv "Manzanilla" irrigata e alla cv "Nabali" non irrigata. Fu stabilito anche che l'Ethephon tamponato ebbe un pi rapido e forte effetto nel ridurre la FRF. La debole risposta della cv "K-1" con applicazioni a basso volume di Ethephon a 1200 ppm non fu superata nemmeno con Ethephon tamponato a PH 7.
42878129|Onion plants (cv "Massese") were subjected to two light regimes of 8 and 16 hours of light. Long day conditions induce bulb formation in the onion plants. Long day and short day plants show the same concentration of ethylene. Growth promoting substances, investigated by mean wheat coleoptile bioassay, increase in long day plants during the first 14 days of treatment, thereafter reaching the level found in short day plants. Neutral growth inhibiting substance(s) found at the Rf 0.7-0.9 increases under long day conditions. La formazione del bulbo, nella cipolla, avviene in condizioni di giorno lungo, mentre in giorno breve la pianta continua a crescere vegetativamente ed a produrre nuove foglie. Giovani piante di cipolle (cv "Massese") sono state sottoposte a due regimi fotoperiodici: 8 e 16 ore di luce. Le piante sottoposte a fotoperiodo induttivo e non induttivo mostrano le medesime concentrazioni di etilene, per cui non  possibile stabilire alcuna correlazione tra concentrazione di etilene e formazione del bulbo. L'attivit delle sostanze promotrici la crescita in "grano coleoptile assay", aumenta nelle piante sotto giorno lungo, nei primi 14 giorni di trattamento, ma cade, subito dopo, al di sotto del livello trovato nelle piante sotto condizioni di giorno breve. Nella fase basica dell'estratto etereo di piante sottoposte a giorno lungo si  rilevato agli Rf7-9 attivit inibente il coleoptile di grano. Questa attivit inibenteaumenta fino a raggiungere un massimo al momento della raccolta sia nel germo di grano che nelle guaine. Nelle piante in condizioni fotoperiodiche non induttive, non  stata riscontrata alcuna inibizione.
42878130|In un confronto fra meli "Richared" su portainnesto "franco" e "M 9" vennero eseguite prove di impollinazione artificiale alla schiusura dei petali, a piena fioritura e all'inizio della caduta dei petali. La allegagione fu inferiore sul "franco" a tutte tre le date. Su entrambi i portainnesti essa fu massima alla prima e minima all'ultima data di impollinazione. Venne eseguita l'analisi al microscopio dei sacchi embrionali dei fiori prelevati alle tre date. Essa indica che gi alla piena fioritura si osserva la degenerazione del sacco embrionale in una certa percentuale di fiori. Questa percentuale  molto forte all'inizio della caduta dei petali. In ogni caso il numero di fiori con sacco embrionale degenerato fu superiore in entrambe le date sul portainnesto vigoroso. Questi risultati collimano con la riduzione di allegagione osservata nelle prove. Si suggerisce che la degenerazione del sacco embrionale sia uno dei motivi della insufficiente allegagione della Richared. In a comparison of  Richared  apple trees on  seedling  and  M 9  rootstocks, hand pollination trials were executed at petal opening, full bloom and petal fall. Fruit set was inferior on the  seedling  rootstock on any pollination date. On both rootstocks a maximum fruit set was reached on the first date and a minimum on the last one. An analysis of the embryo sac was executed in flowers picked on the three dates. Embryo sac degeneration was observed in a certain percentage of flowers already at full bloom, but was emphasized at petal fall. On both dates embryo sac degeneration was more noteworthy on the vigorous rootstock. These results tally with the observed fruit set. It is suggested that embryo sac degeneration might partly account for insufficient fruit set in  Richared .
42878131|A single experimental design was performed to study the amount of cross pollination between untreated (male) and Ethrel treated (female) plants, when the distance of male parents varied from 1 to 7 rows (the distance between the rows spaced 1 meter). A dominant color fruit character (dark green stripes on a lighter green background) of the male untreated parents, was used as marker. No relationship was found between both seed production and cross pollination versus the male parents distance. The amount of cross pollination was: 91%. Poich non esistono dati quantitativi sull'ammontare dell'auto-impollinazione in piante trattate con Ethrel, si  impostato un esperimento basato sull'uso di un carattere marcatore (frutto striato). Si sono impiegate due linee: "Alberello Sarzanese" che produce frutti che all'antesi sono verde chiaro e "Striata d'Italia" che presenta frutti di colore verde con striature scure. Il carattere striatura  dominante sul carattere verde. La cv. "Alberello Sarzanese"  stata trattata con Ethrel (350 p.p.m.) allo stadio di I e 2 foglia vera ed  stato usato come linea portaseme. La cv. "Striata d'Italia" era allevata naturalmente senza alcun trattamento con fitoregolatori ed era usata come linea portapolline. La fecondazione incrociata cos ottenuta era pari al 91%. Nessuna relazione  stata riscontrata tra produzione del seme, impollinazione incrociata e distanza dalla linea parentale maschile, fino a 7 file di distanza.
42878135|Experiments in pea seedlings were performed in order to elucidate the possible role of "hormone directed transport" in regulating apical dominance. Auxin and cytokinin morphogenetic effects were related to the labelled assimilates distribution in inhibited and released lateral buds. Research clearly indicates that lateral bud release from apical dominance is always preceded by an increased assimilated accumulation at lateral meristems. IAA is effective in restoring apical dominance in decapitated plants, but only when applied immediately after decapitation and at an high, non-physiological amount. In such conditions IAA caused an assimilates accumulation at the stem segment just below the cut surface. Benzyladenine applied directly to the axillary meristems enhanced the lateral buds outgrowth and reduced apical dominance; a less dramatic, but similar effect was seen when BA was given to the root system. The stimulating effect of cytokinin on leaf photosynthetic efficiency was also confirmed. These results support the concept of nutrient competition as a basic mechanism in regulating apical dominance; this phenomenon, as well as other inhibitive correlations, can be regulated by environmental and chemical factors in that they are able to affect organs sink activity and growth correlations among different sinks. Nell'ambito del programma di studi volti a chiarire gli aspetti fisiologici della dominanza apicale, sono state intraprese su pisello alcune ricerche per verificare il ruolo che l'" hormone direct transport" svolge nella regolazione del fenomeno. In particolare sono stati messi in relazione gli effetti morfogenetici delle auxine e delle citochinine con la distribuzione degli assimilati in gemme laterali sbloccate e inibite. Per quanto riguarda gli effetti delle auxine, i risultati degli esperimenti indicano che lo IAA  in grado di ristabilire la dominanza apicale in piante cimate solo se applicato immediatamente dopo la decapitazione e in concentrazioni molto elevate, certamente non fisiologiche. Il ripristino della dominanza apicale provocato dallo IAA  accompagnato da un accumulo degli assimilati marcati nel tratto di fusto adiacente alla superficie di decapitazione; ci  prevenuto se, unitamente allo IAA viene applicato anche un inibitore del suo trasporto (TIBA). Nelle condizioni in cui lo IAA si rivela incapace di ristabilire la dominanza apicale, lo sblocco dei meristemi laterali  sempre preceduto da un maggior accumulo di assimilati marcati a livello del nodo sottostante la superficie di decapitazione. Per quanto riguarda gli effetti esercitati dalle citochinine, i risultati degli esperimenti, che prevedevano trattamenti con BA direttamente alle gemme ascellari e all'apparato radicale, indicano che l'ormone  in grado di ridurre la dominanza apicale, esaltando il germogliamento delle gemme laterali di piante intatte. I dati riguardanti la distribuzione degli assimilati evidenziano un maggior accumulo di metaboliti marcati nelle regioni trattate con BA. Sembra possibile che in presenza di pi elevate concentrazioni di citochinina, la gemma ascellare diventi un centro di mobilizzazione pi attivo, al punto di competer con l'apice nella distribuzione degli assimilati provenienti dai centri di mobilizzazione. Analogamente a tutti gli altri fenomeni di correlazione tra organi, la dominanza apicale appare dunque il risultato dei rapporti che si stabiliscono tra l'attivit dei diversi centri di mobilizzazione e di accumulo degli assimilati nella pianta. Il meristema apicale e quelli laterali di una pianta in accrescimento sono centri metabolici e di mobilizzazione che presentano per indici di attivit diversi. La maggior capacit di richiamo metabolico dell'apice rispetto a quella esercitata dalle gemme ascellari costituirebbe un meccanismo fondamentale attraverso cui agisce la dominanza apicale. Tale fenomeno pu pertanto essere regolato da fattori ormonali e ambientali nella misura in cui essi modificando l'attivit dei centri di mobilizzazione e di accumulo, regolano anche i rapporti di inibizione tra questi.
42878136| stata effettuata una prova di conservazione di mele esaminando l'effetto della lecitina, del confezionamento in sacchetti di polietilene e della durata della prematurazione prima della refrigerazione sulla comparsa dell'imbrunimento epidermico, del raggrinzimento, della perdita di peso e dei marciumi. La lecitina assicura una riduzione della perdita di peso e del raggrinzimento ma non dell'imbrunimento epidermico e dei marciumi. Il sacchetto di polietilene elimina il raggrinzimento ma tende ad aumentare l'imbrunimento e i marciumi oltre a limitare l'ingiallimento dei frutti. Lecithin associated with pimaricin treatment, polyethylene wrapping and delayed storage effects on browning of skin, shrivelling, weight loss and rottening of Golden Delicious apples were tested. Lecithin treatment caused reduction of weight loss and of shrivelled fruits, but not of browning and of rot. Apples wrapped in polyethylene bags were not shrivelled, but showed more rotten fruits and retarded yellowing of skin.
42878137| stata isolata una mutazione gemmaria della cultivar "Mirandino rosso" che presenta alcune caratteristiche morfologiche e biologiche diverse dalla cultivar originaria. In particolare, la "forma" mutata presenta internodi pi raccorciati, foglie, fiori e frutti pi grandi. Altri caratteri favorevoli invece sono rimasti stabili, come l'epoca precoce di maturazione dei frutti, le caratteristiche organolettiche, la conservabilit e la resistenza all'ammezzimento dei frutti stessi. Dalle osservazioni sulla biologia fiorale la nuova "forma"  risultata anch'essa praticamente autoincompatibile e incapace di produrre sufficientemente per via partenocarpica. Tra le cultivar saggiate sono risultate buone impollinatrici le seguenti:  Passa Crassana", "Conference", "Abate Ftel", "Mirandino rosso" e "William" che hanno determinato una percentuale di allegagione superiore od uguale a quella ottenuta dalla libera impollinazione. Inoltre, dalle indagini sulla microsporogenesi  emerso che il "Mirandino rosso mutato" al contrario della cultivar originaria presenta un andamento anomalo del processo meiotico, con produzione di granuli di polline disformi e scarsamente germinabili. Infine, per quel che riguarda il corredo cromosomico, la cv. "Mirandino rosso"  risultata diploide, mentre la "forma" mutata sembra essere "tetraploide".
42878138|A special inventory has enabled us to find 427 pear cultivars in Italy, while another 285 cultivars, although quoted by pomological literature in the past, have not yet been traced. A work scheme, based essentially on international co-operation, in order to safeguard and utilize pear germplasm, is illustrated. Un inventario, appositamente realizzato, ha consentito di individuare la presenza in Italia di 427 cultivar di pero. Non sono per risultate pi reperibili ben 285 cultivar, che la letteratura pomologica aveva in passato segnalato in Italia. Viene quindi illustrato uno schema del lavoro che dovrebbe essere organizzato per difendere e meglio utilizzare il germoplasma del pero attraverso una indispensabile cooperazione internazionale.
42878139|Peach trees cv.  Southland  provided with high fruit set (more than 3.500 fruits per tree), were submitted to an early hand thinning, to reduce the fruits number till 3.500-2.500 and 1.000 per tree. CEPA at 60 ppm has been applied at the same time of hand thinning or 20 days later. The fruit chemical thinning has been stronghly influenced by the  fruit charge  of the trees: with an higher number of fruits, the fruit drop percentage induced by CEPA has been greater. Within certain limits, it seems that the tree might influence the fruit drop modifying its "physiological response to the chemical compound" and or its "natural fruit drop potential": that means the amount of the dropped fruits (by a preliminary hand thinning and a subsequent chemical thinning) tend to reach quite similar or equivalent levels.
42878144|This analysis has been employed to discover " natural classes " of entities. The 19 varieties fall into six clusters. A cluster (N. 4) contains most varieties from Apulia (Tuono, Filippo Ceo, Troito, Durella, etc. The variety Pizzuta (N. 2) from Sicily, is a cluster by itself as well as Miagkusculunem (N. 6) from U.S.S.R. The third cluster (N. 3) represents a group of varieties with high kernel percentage and a very low proportion of double kernels. Two U.S.A. varieties (Jordanolo and Non Plus Ultra) make another cluster (N. 1). The remaining six varieties form cluster N. 5. The clustering could be improved by including more variables. L'analisi a grappolo  stata applicata in molte ricerche scientifiche allo scopo di raggruppare delle entit in classi naturali. In questo lavoro sono stati evidenziati sei grappoli. Un grappolo (No. 5) comprende le variet di mandorlo coltivate in Puglia (Tuono, Filippo Ceo, Troito, Durella, ecc.) La variet siciliana, Pizzuta d'Avola, costituisce un unico grappolo (No. 2) come pure la variet Miagkusculunem (No. 6). Il gruppo (No. 3)  rappresentato da variet aventi un'elevata resa ed una bassa percentuale di semi doppi. Le variet californiane, Jordanolo e Non Plus Ultra, costituiscono il grappolo No. 1. Le rimanenti variet (Picantile e Morska, Russia; Santoro e Rachele, Puglia; Peerless and Davey, California) rappresentano il gruppo No. 5 Questa analisi applicata a 19 variet potrebbe essere migliorata includendo ai 12 caratteri presi in esame altre variabili.
42878145|Si riferiscono i risultati di alcune esperienze relative alla messa a punto della tecnica di prelievo dell'apice vegetativo della Gerbera e della definizione di un mezzo colturale idoneo alla crescita dell'apice in strutture costituite da tessuto calloso alla base del taglio e germogli con alto potere rigenerativo. Risultati positivi sono stati conseguiti con l'impiego del substrato di Murashige et al. (1974) con aggiunta di citochinine in diversi rapporti. Il substrato contenente zeatina riboside ha permesso uno sviluppo maggiore di germogli rispetto alla kinetina e zeatina. La radicazione dei piccoli germogli  stata favorita con l'introduzione nel substrato di NAA 0,5 mg/l, 1 mg/l. Le piantine radicate sono state trasferite in vaso. The A.A. refer to some experiments carried out on meristem-tip culture of Gerbera. The explant technique and the composition of the medium were examined. The plants were first separated into divisions. Each division was reduced to a bud piece measuring 0,5-1,0 cm in length. After the disinfection, the bud piece was cut further until a 2-3 mm. tall shoot-tip was obtained and then it was transferred into a nutrient tube. The medium of Murashige et al.(1974 (Tab. 1) was used with the addition of kinetin 10 mg/l, zeatin riboside 1,3 mg/l, zeatin 1,6 mg/l and IAA 0,5 mg/l. The shoottip grows into divisions. The best results were obtained with the addition of zeatin riboside. The culture so obtained yielded only unrooted miniature divisions. The unrooted divisions were satisfactory for further culture and increase in vitro. The nutrient medium without citokinine with the addition of NAA 0,5 mg/l and 1 mg/l enhances the rooting in the miniature divisions. The rooted division were transferred from the test-tube to soil (Fig. 4).
42878146|Vengono riportate le indagini condotte da vari anni allo scopo di studiare la possibilit di coltivare " in vitro " i meristemi apicali di alcuni vitigni del Chianti. Le difficolt iniziali, rappresentate principalmente dalla determinazione del periodo pi opportuno per il prelievo dei meristemi e dalla composizione del substrato colturale, sono state in parte risolte con la messa a punto di una tecnica di coltura. Tale tecnica viene descritta sommariamente mettendo in evidenza alcuni aspetti di particolare rilievo, quali l'allestimento del materiale vegetale per gli espianti, nonch la composizione dei substrati impiegati. Alcuni risultati favorevoli sono stati ottenuti, specie con le cv. " Sangiovese " e " Malvasia nera ", ma il numero delle piantine vitali finora ottenute  piuttosto basso. Tuttavia la maggior parte degli espianti ha dimostrato un discreto grado di differenziazione e solamente in pochi casi si  notata assenza di sviluppo. Researches have been conducted for some years to investigate the possibility of growing " in vitro " shoot tip meristems of Chianti vine varieties. The greatest difficulties, mainly the most suitable period for the material collection and the choice of the cultural substrate, have been partially resolved by the setting of a special cultural technique, of which a synthetic description is given. Some of the most important aspects are the sterilizations and dressing of the expiants and the composition of the substrate. Encouraging results, particularly with " Malvasia nera " and " Sangiovese " cvs., seem to favour the possibility to grow " in vitro " tha shoot tip meristems of Vitis vinifera L. The number of the obtained plantules is reduced, at present although the majority of the explants showed a good differentiation degree, while only a few cases failed to develop. We consider this work as a starting point for more detailed research concerning particularly the composition of the most suitable substrate composition for the different cultivars.
42878147|A study has been carried out in the Sele river area (Southern Italy) for establishing the appropriate quantities and ratios of nitrogen, phosphorus and potattium in fertilization of summer squash grown in heated greenhouse during October - May period. In comparison with the unfertilized control, eight treatments obtained for factorial combination of two levels (150 e 300 kg/ha) of N, PO e KO were tested. In each treatment the same amounts of mineral fertilizers were applied every year determined by the scheme of the experiment. In the first year the yield of variants manured with different rates of mineral fertilizers exceeded that of the control; in the next year most of the variants manured with 150 Kg/ha of N did not differ significantly from the control. In both years, however, the variants manured with 300 kg/ha of N exceeded the corrisponding variants with 150 Kg/ha of N. The highest level of phosporus (300 kg/ha of PO) was generally favourable to the production: the effect on fruit yield was, however, much smaller than in the nitrogen. Yield response to added 300 kg/ha of KO occurred only in the first year and resulted a little difference on average of two years. This in connection, probably, to the high values of available potassium in the soil. The positive effects were due as increases both in the number of fruit for plant in their mean weight.
42878148|Nell'ambito delle necessarie maggiori conoscenze della importante attivit vivaistica di piante ornamentali di Pistola, gli A.A. hanno reperito tutte le specie e le variet di Magnolie coltivate nei vivai ed oggetto di commercializzazione e di crescente richiesta da parte del mercato. Gli A.A. hanno ritenuto indispensabile un lavoro di riordino prima di affrontare il problema della selezione clonale e quindi  per i cloni pi meritevoli  quello della loro propagazione. In particolare l'indagine ha individuato la presenza, sia nell'ambito della Magnolia grandiflora L. che nell'ambito della Magnolia soulangeana Soul., non solo la presenza di variet diverse ma di diversi gruppi di cloni confermando la necessit della selezione clonale nell'ambito delle piante ornamentali. The Authors, considering the large market request for Magnolia, have collected in the Pistola area, where nursery activities are highly developer, all the species and varieties belanging to this genus. After collection, the Authors have faced the problem of clonal selection and then, for the most promising clones, their propagation. The investigation has placed in evidence both in Magnolia grandiflora L. and in Magnolia soulangeana Soul. the presence of different varieties and of several clones, thus coufirming the necessity of clonal selection in the precincts of ornamental plants.
42878149| stato studiato l'effetto che la bagnatura ha sulla radicazione di talee portinnesti di vite (5BB e 140 R) a diversa capacit rizogena. I risultati ottenuti confermano l'azione favorevole dell'acqua di bagnatura sulla rizogenesi in ambedue i portinnesti e l'effetto positivo sulla formazione di germogli nel 140 R. Inoltre si rileva che i parametri della radicazione nel 140 R, trattato con le acque del 5BB, non vengono modificati, ed il germogliamento viene inibito; quando il 5BB viene trattato con l'acqua del 140 R, si ha uno stimolo nell'allungamento delle radici e dei germogli. La centrifugazione delle tale a 3500 rpm per 60' favorisce la rizogenesi solo del 5BB purch le talee non siano state precedentemente imbibite. I risultati ottenuti confermerebbero l'ipotesi che la bagnatura, permettendo il raggiungimento all'interno della talea di un equilibrio ormonale, favorisca la rizogenesi e che le sostanze eliminate siano strettamente legate alla composizione interna della pianta stessa. Il lavoro  stato eseguito con la collaborazione di L. Petrelli. The effect of steeping in water on rooting of vine rootstock cuttings (5BB and 140 R) with different rooting ability has been studied. The results obtained confirm the favourable action of steeping in water on the rooting of both rootstocks and on shoot formation of 140 R. Furthermore in thas been found that the rooting parameters of 140 R treated with 5BB water, were not modified, while shoot-development was inhibited; when 5BB was treated with 140 R's water a lengthening of both shoot and roots occurred. Centrifugation at 3500 rpm for 60' favours rooting of 5BB only, providing the cuttings had not been previously steeping. Centrifugation combined with steeping in water is negative for both rootstocks, more so for 140 R. It appears that steeping in water promotes root formation favouring a hormone balance inside the cutting, and that the eliminated substances are strictly connected with the internal composition of the plant.
42878154|Nell'intento di confrontare il contenuto di gibberelline di frutti Golden Delicious lisci e rugginosi per verificare l'ipotesi di una correlazione fra contenuto di gibberelline endogene e comparsa di rugginosit, sono stati analizzati, col metodo biologico dell'endosperma d'orzo, semi di frutti provenienti da un clone normale e da uno fortemente rugginoso. I semi dei frutti del clone rugginoso hanno dimostrato di avere un contenuto in sostanze gibberellino-simili molto inferiore a quelli del clone normale. La localizzazione delle sostanze gibberellino-simili nei cromatogrammi indicherebbe trattarsi di gibberelline del tipo A e A e ci concorderebbe coi risultati di precedenti ricerche da cui era risultato che trattamenti con GA ai frutticini in via di sviluppo possono ridurre la comparsa di rugginosit. To confirm the hypothesis that a correlation exists between endogenous GA content and russeting of Golden Delicious fruits, seeds of normal and russet Golden Delicious clones were bioassayed for GA-like substances using the barley endosperm method. Seeds of russet clone proved to contain much less total GA-like substances than seeds of normal clone. The position of higher peaks of GA-like substances in chromatograms (that were in strips 6, 7, 8) corresponds to the position of GA and GA. This fact is very interesting since from previous researches it has been found thot GA treatments on developing Golden Delicious fruitlets greatly reduced russeting while GA treatments had little effect.
42878155|Le prove hanno indagato sull'eventuale influenza della glicerina e degli acidi ascorbico, triiodobenzoico, naftossiacetico, indolacetico, indolbutirrico e fenilbutirrico sull'epoca di differenziazione delle gemme, la fioritura, l'aborto dell'ovario, la cascola, l'allegagione e la maturazione dei frutti nell'olivo. Le ricerche stesse hanno mostrato che, entro certi limiti ed in determinate condizioni,  possibile interferire sull'inizio dell'epoca di differenziazione delle gemme (acido indolacetico e glicerina), sulla fioritura (acido triiodobenzoico e glicerina), sull'aborto dell'ovario (acido indolbutirrico, acido triiodobenzoico, glicerina), sull'allegagione (glicerina, acido indolbutirrico ed acido naftossiacetico), sulla cascola (acido indolbutirrico ed acido fenilbutirrico), sul peso medio delle drupe mature (acido fenilbutirrico ed acido indolacetico). Si auspicano pertanto ricerche pi approfondite su questi aspetti direttamente collegati con la scarsa produttivit dell'olivo. Investigations on the probable influence of glycerine and of ascorbic, triodobenzoic, naphteoxyacetic, indole-acetic, indole butyric, phenilbutyric acids on the differentiationtime of the buds, flowering, ovary abortion, fruit-drop, fruit-set and ripening of olives, were carried out. The research has show that within certain limits and under determined conditions, it is possible to interfere with the start of differentiation-time of the buds (indole acetic acid and glycerine), on flowering (triodobenzoic acid and glycerine), on ovary abortion (indole butyric acid, triodobenzoic acid and glycerine), on fruit-set (glycerine, indole butyric acid and naphteoxyacetic acid), on fruit-drop (indole butyric and phenyl butyric acids), on average weight of ripe drupes (phenyl butyric and indoleacetic acids). Further investigations on these aspects directly connected with the scarce productivity of olive are hoped for.
42878156|In winter 1973-74 SADH was applied on December 28, January 15, February 21 and March 18 to mature  Cardinal " peach trees, at concentration of 10,000 ppm. Single treatments were able to delay flower buds opening by 3-4 days. Repeated applications gave a higher inhibitory effect ranging from 4-5 days. Likewise, leaf bud opening was delayed by 4-8 days with SADH applied at single and repeated doses. Earliest treatments showed to delay flower buds but not leaf buds opening; it was the contrary for latest applications. SADH applications reduced the percentage of flower buds opening; fruit set decreased by treatment repeated 4 times. Al fine di saggiare l'effetto del SADH sul ritardo dell'epoca di fioritura del pesco, cv. "Cardinal", nell'inverno 1973-74, sono stati effettuati, in epoche diverse (28 dicembre, 15 gennaio, 21 febbraio, 8 marzo), trattamenti singoli e ripetuti con SADH alla concentrazione di 10.000 ppm. I trattamenti singoli hanno determinato un ritardo di schiusura delle gemme a fiore di circa 3-4 giorni; quelli ripetuti hanno mostrato un maggior effetto posticipando la fioritura di 4-5 giorni. Anche le gemme a legno sono state influenzate dai trattamenti e sono schiuse 4-5 giorni dopo quelle di controllo. Le somministrazioni di SADH effettuate precocemente hanno mostrato un'azione ritardante sulla schiusura delle gemme a fiore, ma non su quella delle gemme a legno; il contrario  stato osservato per le applicazioni tardive. I trattamenti, specialmente quelli ripetuti, hanno ridotto la percentuale di fioritura.
42878157|Nell'ambito dei problemi scientifici, tecnici ed economici dell'attivit vivaistica per la produzione di piante ornamentali nei vivai di Pistola, gli Autori portano un contributo preliminare all'individuazione e selezione di cloni della Magnolia grandiflora L. In particolare gli AA. hanno individuato e descritto cloni appartenenti a due interessanti gruppi: quello dei cloni Gallissoniensis-simili e quello dei presunti cloni diversi dai Gallissoniensis-simili, mettendone in rilievo le non comuni caratteristiche "decorative" ed ornamentali. 2 - Clonal selection of Magnolia grandiflora L. Selection of clones and presume a clone spotted in nurseries in the Pistoia area. A preliminary contribution to the spotting and selection of clones in Magnolia grandiflora L. is described. The Authors have spotted and described clones belonging to two interesting groups: the one of the Gallissoniensis-like clones, and that of Gallissoniensis-unlike clones; placing in evidence their uncommon ornamental and decorative characteristics.
42878158|Nel corso di due anni si  studiata l'evoluzione della dormienza in tre cultivar di albicocco: "Reale dimoia", "Perfection" e "Luizet" prendendo nota dei tempi medi e delle percentuali di schiusura delle gemme a legno ed a fiore presenti su rami misti posti direttamente e periodicamente in cella climatica (25 C) e conservati per tempi crescenti in cella frigorifera (5 C) prima di essere posti nelle condizioni sopraindicate. Si  inoltre seguita l'evoluzione del peso della materia secca delle gemme a fiore prelevate ogni 7-9 giorni su 3 differenti produzioni fruttifere (dardi fioriferi, rami misti e rami anticipati di queste tre variet). Nelle diverse prove  emerso che la quantit di calore necessaria per la schiusura delle gemme , in un primo periodo, inversamente correlata al freddo ricevuto. La quantit minima di calore necessaria per la fioritura fu raggiunta solo quando le gemme ricevettero, all'esterno o in cella frigorifera, 70-80 Unit di freddo, a seconda delle cultivar. Anche il peso secco delle gemme prelevate in campo inizi ad aumentare sensibilmente dopo tali quantit di freddo. La data di fioritura, una volta che le gemme hanno raggiunto una quantit di freddo determinata (U.F.) sembrerebbe essere legata ad una precisa quantit di calore che, nell'ambiente considerato, sarebbe risultata per una stessa cultivar, per altre un decennio abbastanza costante (370 U.C.). Il punto inizale per calcolare le unit in caldo necessarie per la fioritura  stabilito in unit in freddo secondo il metodo esponenziale proposto da Bidab. Tale momento sembra corrispondere al massimo di azione delle basse temperature trovate in laboratorio nell'ambiente considerato. La percentuale delle gemme che schiudono non sembra essere regolata dalla stessa legge, ma piuttosto da una azione combinata di pi fattori. During two fall-winter periods trials had been carried out, to study the dormancy on three apricot varieties: 'Reale d'Imola', 'Perfection' and 'Luizet'. Mean time and percentage of leaf and flower buds opening were recorded on excised shoots, collected periodically and placed into a growth chamber (25 C) or stored for increasing times into a cool chamber (5 C) before passing to the aforesaid condition. In addition, on those varieties the dry weight of flower buds samples, collected every 7 days on three different types of wood (spurs, one year shoots, feathers) was determined. In the different trials it was stated that the amount of heat required for bud opening is, in a first stage, inversely related to the amount of chilling received. The minimum and constant level of heat required for flowering was reached only when the buds received, outside or in a cool chamber, 70-80 Chilling Units according to the variety. The buds collected in the orchard began to increase, appreciably, their dry weight only after this level of chilling. Therefore, the blooming date depends not only on the chilling requirement of the variety, but also on an appointed heat requirement. If the daily temperatures are expressed as exponential actions, according to Bidab, those requirements result, in our climatic condition, constant enough. Observations on phenoclimatological data collected for 11 years on 'Reale d'Imola' confirmed that this variety requires 370 H.U. for flowering.
42878164|Al secondo anno di impianto,  stata controllata la produzione (numero dei fiori e lunghezza media dello stelo) di piante delle cv. "Carla" e "Baccar" allevate secondo quattro differenti schemi di potatura di formazione, parte messe gi in produzione al primo anno di impianto e parte solo al secondo.  emerso che lo schema di potatura di allevamento influenza non solo lo sviluppo della pianta ma anche la produzione; che lo sfruttamento delle piante fin dal primo anno di coltura influenza negativamente la precocit della prima fioritura nella primavera successiva, diminuendo il numero di fiori prodotti ma non la loro lunghezza e che la cv. "Baccar" risente pi della cv. "Carla" dello sfruttamento precoce. La sistematica precoce eliminazione dei boccioli fiorali portati da rami corti, determina un significativo aumento della lunghezza media degli steli. In the first year after frafting young "Baccar" and "Carla" plants were subjected to the 4 following pruning treatments: 1) Shoots were cut above 3 or 4 buds, when they were about 30 cm long. This is the usual pruning method of young roses in our Country. 2) Shoots were pinched above the third five-leaflet leaf as soon as it developed. 3) Shoots were pinched above the 6th leaf. 4) Only flower buds were removed as soon as they appeared. Treatment (1) gave the worst results: the plants had a poor development with a little number of leaves and primary branches; unpruned plants (treatment 4), had a growth twice as much as usually pruned plants (treatment 1). Treatments 2 and 3 gave intermediate results. At the end the of the usual training period, in August, half plants of each plot stopped to be pruned and started flower production, and half continued to be pruned and production was delayed to the following spring. In the second year, ech subplot was divided into two parts: the plants of a part were subjected to traditional disbudding (removal of later flower buds), while on the plants of the other part, besides lateral flower buds, also flower buds produced by weak or short shoots, that could not become salable flowers, were removed as soon as they appeared. Training method influenced not only plant growth but also flower production. Flowering of plants in the first year had a negative effect on earliness of flowering in the next spring, since number of flowers produced was significantly lower for plants already exploited in the previous summer, particularly for cv. Baccar; stem length was not affected. Cv. Carla, more vigorous than cv. Baccar suffered less from flowering in the first year. Regular removal of flower buds produced on small branches induced a remarkable increase of mean stem length of marketable flowers.
42878165|Sono state effettuate delle ricerche sulla propagazione per talea della Magnolia soulangeana "Purpurea" con la tecnica della nebulizzazione per osservare la radicazione delle talee apicali di questa pianta ornamentale che normalmene viene propagata per propaggine semplice o per margotta aerea, tecniche quest'ultime che richiedono molto tempo e di conseguenza maggiori costi di produzione. Le prove di radicazione effettuate hanno dato degli ottimi risultati, infatti le talee hanno radicato in alta percentuale (97-99%) in giugno, in buona percentuale in agosto (80-88%) mentre non hanno affatto radicato in settembre. Le barbatelle ottenute sono state ritenute idonee sia per la vendita diretta quanto per il loro allevamento in vivaio. Trials have been carried on apical cuttings of Magnolia soulangeana "Purpurea" using mist propagation to see how this plant, which is normally propagated by simple layers or air layers, would respond to this technique, in order to lower the cost of production. The root trials have yielded very good results, (97 - 99%) in June, good (80 - 88%) in August and none in September. The rooted cuttings obtained were considered suitable both for the market and nurseries.
42878166|La ricerca si basa sulle analisi del materiale vegetativo (radici, steli erbacei e rami fioriti) prodotto da piante di Euphorbia fulgens durante il triennio di coltivazione 1972-75 per appurare il fabbisogno in macro e microelementi di una coltura industriale per la raccolta del fiore reciso effettuata in serra calda a Sanremo. La piantagione fu effettuata a met settembre; in base al ritmo vegetativo dell'E. fulgens sono stati considerati per ogni ciclo tre fasi: sviluppo vegetativo (met giugno-met ottobre); differenziazione e fioritura (met ottobre-met febbraio); riposo vegetativo (met febbraio-met giugno). La produzione media di rami fioriti per pianta  stata rispettivamente per le tre fioriture di: 1,8 - 8,6 - 15 fiori. Dai dati ottenuti si delinea un quadro abbastanza completo per quanto concerne la composizione chimica e lo sviluppo dei vari organi della pianta, gli asporti nutritivi e le necessit in elementi fertilizzanti nell'Euphorbia fulgens. a) composizione chimica degli organi vegetativi: viene riportata la composizione chimica del materiale vegetativo raccolto, suddiviso nei vari organi della pianta. Viene messo in evidenza come non sussistano grandi differenze sia per i diversi periodi che per i vari organi vegetativi. Si pu rilevare solo come i rami fioriti siano il materiale vegetativo pi ricco in sostanze nutritive (specialmente in N, K, Ca). b) asporti nutritivi: vengono precisati gli asporti verificad durante i tre anni nelle varie fasi vegetative; da questi derivano i rapporti di assorbimento dei principali elementi della nutrizione. Durante la fase di sviluppo vegetativo si  riscontrato un rapporto medio di 1 : 0,4 : 1, mentre la fase di fioritura  caratterizzata dall'avere maggiori contenuti in fosforo e potassio a parit di azoto (1 : 0,6 : 1,17). c) concimazione di produzione: in base ai dati ottenuti dalla ricerca, viene programmato un ciclo di concimazione per una coltura industriale in serra riscaldata di 1000 mq di superficie effettivamente coltivata. I dati relativi sono sintetizzati nella tab. n. 6. The research is based on the chemical analysis of the vegetable material (roots, herbaceous branches and flowered stems) produced by plants of Euphorbia fulgens during three years of cultivation (1972-75). The purpose is to of determine the macro and microelements required in commercial cultivation for the cut flower The cuttings were planted at the middle of September; on the basis of the vegetative cycle of E. fulgens the following phases of growth were examined: vegetative growth (middle of June - middle of October); flowering (middle of October - middle of February); dormancy (middle of February - middle of June). The production of marketable flowered stems per plant was 1,8 - 8,6 - 15 flowers rispectively in the three years. From the data obtained a fairly complete picture may be drawn with regard to the chemical composition and the nutrition of the Euphorbia fulgens. a) chemical composition of the vegetative organs: the chemical composition of the vegetative material collected, subdivided among the different organs of the plant, is noted. Large differences are not observed among the various organs and among the different vegetative phases. However the flowered stems are the richest material concerning the nutritive substances (especially N, K, Ca). b) absorbed substances: the amounts of absorbed elements during the triennium and during the vegetative phases are specified. The ratio of absorption of the principal nutritive elements derive from these data. During the vegetative growth the ratio of absorption was 1 : 0,4 : 1 and during the phase of flowering was 1 : 0,6 : 1,17. c) manuring for production: according to the data obtained from the research, a cycle of manuring can be programmed for the production of an heated greenhouse cultivation of E. fulgens occupying a only cultivated area 1000 sq metres. The data relating to this production manuring are summarised in the table n. 6.
42878167|Le acque di bagnatura di talee di due portinnesti di vite caratterizzati da diversa capacit rizogena, sono state saggiate su tessuti di rizoma di Helianthus tuberosus, var. Violet de Rennes, coltivati "in vitro". Questi tessuti formano radici solo se messi in presenza di sostanze auxiniche. Abbiamo evidenziato che il liofilizzato di entrambe le acque di bagnatura saggiate da solo non induce formazione di radici, sembrerebbe pertanto da escludersi la presenza di sostanze di tipo auxinico, per lo meno in quantit sufficiente ad essere rivelata con questo test. Il liofilizzato dell'acqua del 140R aggiunto ad NAA provoca una diminuzione del numero medio delle radici alterandone l'aspetto morfologico (radici ipertronche) soprattutto alla dose maggiore. Il liofilizzato dell'acqua di bagnatura del 5BB aggiunto ad NAA provoca invece una attivazione della radicazione alla dose minore mentre alla dose maggiore provoca un aumento del numero di radici per espianto radicato. Le osservazioni istologiche di questi espianti inoltre hanno messo in evidenza un aumento dei nuclei cribrovascolari considerabili come probabili "focus" di abbozzi radicali neoformati. The soakage water of two vine rootstock cuttings with different rhizogenic capacity, have been tested on "in vitro" cultures of Helianthus tuberosus, var. Violet de Rennes, rhizome tissues which form roots only in the presence of auxins. We have placed in evidence that the liofilised diffusate of both soaking waters on their own do not promote root formation, the presence of auxin-like substances in quantities sufficiently relevant for this test, seems therefore unlikely. The liofilised disusate of 140R added to NAA reduced the average number of roots and altered their morphological aspects (hypertrophie roots). The liofilised diffusate of 5BB added to NAA activates root formation at the smallest dose whilst at the highest dose it increases the number of roots per explant. Histological observations of the explants have placed in evidence an increase of cribrovascular nuclei wich are to be considered probably as "focus" of neoformed root primordia.
42878168|Si segnala la presenza in Liguria di una nuova malattia dell' Agapanthus umbellatus causata da Fusarium oxysporum var. subglutinans Wr. et Rg. A new disease of Agapanthus umbellatus caused by Fusarium oxysporum var. subglutinans Wr. et Rg. is reported from Liguria (Northern Italy). The symptomatology and the pathogen are briefly described.
42878169|Si riferiscono i risultati di una ricerca condotta nel Veneto al fine di studiare l'influenza del diametro della radice, dell'epoca di estirpamento delle piante e della temperatura durante l'imbianchimento sulla produzione del radicchio "Variegato di Castelfranco" (Cichorium intybus L.).  stata rilevata la notevole importanza della dimensione della radice nel determinare la produzione quanti-qualitativa dei cespi costantemente migliore in corrispondenza delle radici pi grandi. Inoltre  emerso che la cv. di radicchio studiata, male si adatta a raccolte molto ritardate durante l'inverno. Infine si  notato che gli effetti migliori sul prodotto si ottengono quando la temperatura nella fase di imbianchimento viene mantenuta a 15 C senza apprezzabili differenze tra il riscaldamento dell'aria ambiente o del terreno sul quale vengono collocati i cespi. Results of a research carried out in the Venetian Region on the effect of tap-root diameter, harvesting time and temperature on chicory production (Cichorium intybus L. cv. "Variegato di Castelfranco") during bleaching are presented. Two harvesting times (29-1-1970 and 3-3-1970), three tap-root sizes ( lower than 15 mm, between 15 and 20 mm, higher than 20 mm), and three temperature regimes (10  0,5; 15  1,5; 20  1,5 C) were compared. The different temperatures were obtained in a cold room (10 C), in a greenhouse and in a hot bed (15 and 20 C). Results pointed out that tap-root diameter larger than 20 mm permitted the best results. Considering the harvesting time, the production of the second harvest (3-3-1970) was always lower than that of first one (29-1-1970). Moreover it has been shown that the best temperature was 15 C; no valuable differences were observed when at the late temperature the plants were kept in greenhouse rather than in hot bed.
42878174|Dopo un rapido esame dei principali fattori condizionanti la meccanizzazione della raccolta degli agrumi, vengono descritte le diverse soluzioni, a meccanizzazione sia integrata e sia integrale, sino ad ora studiate ed utilizzate, dalle quali se ne evidenziano le prospettive ed i limiti d'impiego. Nella raccolta meccanica integrata, si richiede il ricorso a carri raccolta a "piattaforme elevatrici". I maggiori problemi che queste macchine sollevano riguardano, soprattutto, il limitato incremento di produttivit della manodopera (al massimo del 25-30%, rispetto alla raccolta con scale) e, specie per quelle a piattaforma individuale, il forte investimento di capitale per addetto. Nella raccolta meccanica integrale, attualmente rivolta solo alla produzione per l'industria, l'orientamento prevalente  rappresentato dal sistema a "scuotimento", per inerzia o per correre d'aria pulsante. Nel primo caso, i migliori risultati (1,0-1,3 t/h di prodotto raccolto, con efficacia d'intervento pari al 70-80% della produzione), si sono ottenuti realizzando uno scuotimento alle branche a grande ampiezza (10-12 cm) ed a bassa frequenza (2,5-3,3 Hz). Il sistema di scuotimento per corrente d'aria pulsante, invece, ha fornito le migliori prestazioni (3-4 t/h di prodotto raccolto con efficacia d'intervento del 70% circa della produzione), con frequenza di 1,0-1,3 Hz e con velocit dell'aria di 180-200 km/h. Nella meccanizzazione delle operazioni complementari alla raccolta, infine, il ricorso alla superpalettizzazione sembra offrire, come  gi avvenuto nel settore della frutticoltura, interessanti e valide prospettive, cio sensibile riduzione dell'impiego di manodapera e scarsa, se non nulla, incidenza dei danni al prodotto. After a rapid examination of the main factors conditioning the mechanization of citrus harvesting, the different solutions are described which have so far been studied and utilized, both integrant and for integral mechanization, together with their prospects and limitations of use. In integrant mchanical harvesting, it is necessary to use to a man (multi-man) positioners machine. The major problems that these machines raise concern, above all, the limited increase of labour productivity (at maximum 25-30% compared with harvesting with ladders) and, especially for those with man positioner, the high capital investment for operator. In integral mechanical harvesting, at present carried out only on industrial production, the "shaking" system, either by inerting or by pulsating air currents, is the most used. In the first case, the best results (1.0-1.3 t/h of harvested product, with efficiency equal to 70-80% of the production) were obtained by shaking the limbs, at a wide amplitude (10-12 cm) at a low frequency (2.5-3.3 Hz). Shaking with the pulsation air current system, however, gave the best performace (3-4 t/h of harvested product with efficiency equal to approximately 70% of the production) with frequencies of 1.0-1.3 Hz and an air speed of 180-200 Km/h. Finally, in the mechanization of operations complementary to harvesting, resorting to "bulk-harvesting" seems to offer good and interesting prospects. As has already been found in fruit-growing, there is a considerable reduction in the use of labour and very slight, if any, damage to the product.
42878175|Sono state effettuate delle ricerche sulla propagazione per talea della Magnolia grandiflora "Gallissoniensis" con la tecnica della nebulizzazione per osservare le possibilit di radicazione durante un intero anno di tre tipi di talea: apicale, mediana e basale, di questa bellissima pianta ornamentale che normalmente viene propagata per innesto laterale "a paraffina". Questa tecnica di propagazione agamica d ottimi risultati di attecchimento ma permette di ottenere delle piante di cm 50 di altezza in circa 6-7 anni dalla semina del portainnesto, un tempo troppo lungo ai fini del costo di produzione. Le prove di radicazione effettuate hanno evidenziato che questo clone radica in qualsiasi periodo dell'anno (10-60%) escluso il periodo durante il quale si ha la fase di schiusura e germogliamento delle gemme apicali. Hanno altres messo in evidenza che le talee apicali radicano in misura maggiore delle talee mediane e delle talee basali e che il trattamento con IBA a 20000 ppm  efficace per aumentare la percentuale di radicazione. Il periodo migliore per la radicazione, inoltre, nelle condizioni in cui si  operato, va da agosto a novembre. Anche le talee basali radicano, sia pure in bassa percentuale (5-10%), in alcuni periodi (ottobre, novembre e agosto). Le barbatelle ottenute sono state ritenute idonee sia per la vendita diretta che per il loro allevamento in vivaio. A one year research on the propagation of Magnolia grandiflora "Gallissoniensis" to observe the rooting possibilities of 3 types of cuttings: apical, median and basal "under mist" was carried out. Normally this beautiful ornamental plant is propagated by lateral "paraffin" grafting, which given very good setting results, but to obtained a 50 cm plant, 6 or 7 years (from the sowing of the rootstock) are required, which is too long a period for production costs. The trials have placed in evidence that this clone roots at any time of the year (10-60%) except for the period when the opening out the apical buds takes place, also that the apical cuttings root more than the median and basal cuttings and that 20000 ppm IBA treatment is effective to increasee rooting percentage. The best rooting period, under our working conditions, was from august to november. Basal cuttings also rootain in some periods (oct. nov. and aug.) although in a low percentage. (5-10%). The rooted cuttings obtained were held suitable both for the market and the nurseries.
42878176|La scacchiatura del pomodoro  una pratica colturale che incide notevolmente sul costo di produzione. Si , pertanto, intrapreso uno studio della formazione dei germogli ascellari nel pomodoro al fine di potrne controllare lo sviluppo. La sperimentazione  stata effettuata sulla cv Craigella e sulla linea isogenica di questa variet "Craigella Later Suppressor ". Innesti reciproci fra piante C +/+ e C ls/ls non hanno evidenziato alcuna influenza dell'apparato radicale sulla formazione dei germogli laterali. L'applicazione di citochinine all'ascella della foglia di piante C ls/ls ha stimolato la formazione di germogli all'ascella delle foglie formatesi dopo l'inizio del trattamento. La sostanza pi attiva si  dimostrata il riboside della zeatina. L'esame istologico della zona ascellare di piante C +/+ e C ls/ls nello stesso stadio di sviluppo ha evidenziato delle zone meristematiche, nelle piante C +/+ , che daranno origine alle gemme laterali mentre nelle piante C ls/ls non  stato rilevato alcun abbozzo di gemma. Nella linfa radicale, infine,  stata messa in evidenza la presenza di sotanz citochinino-simili. Differenze qualitative sono state riscontrate fra piante C +/+ e C ls/ls. The manual removal of side shoots in the tomato is of considerable economic value. The present paper deals with some experirments carried out to clarify some aspects of the growth of side shoot in the tomato. The plant examined were Craigella (C +/+) and Craigella Lateral Suppressor (C ls/ls). Grafting experiments were carried out to investigate the influence of the rootstock on the scion development and in particular on the formation of side shoot. The results showed that either C +/+ or C ls/ls scion growth is not affected by the type of rootstock (C +/+ or C ls/ls), used in the graft. The application of several cytokinins on C ls/ls plants at the leaf axil resulted in the development of side shoot at the leaf axil developed after the beginning of the treatment (fig. 2) Zeatin riboside had the best effects. The logitudinal section of the C +/+ plants showed a meristematic area at the leaf axil while such situation was never present at the leaf axil of C ls/ls plants (figg. 3 and 4). The investigation of the cytokinin-like substances present in root sap of the two varieties showed qualitative differences in correspondence of the elution volume of Zeatin glucoside (ZG) and isopentenyl-adenosine (2iPA). In the sap of the C +/+ plants the biological activity located in the zone 2iPA was predominant while no activity was detected at the elution volume of ZG (fig. 6). The opposite picture was found in the root sap of C ls/ls plants (fig. 5).
42878177|Viene descritto uno studio teso a chiarire le modificazioni anatomiche che si verificarlo alla base delle talee legnose di pesco durante il processo di radicazione. Il lavoro, condotto su materiale della Cv. "Fertilia" moltipllcato con la tecnica dei sacchetti di polietilene, descrive una alterazione che avviene a carico del tessuto legnoso neoformato, con conseguente formazione di gomme. Vengono inoltre descritti iniziazione e sviluppo dei primordi radicali. Dall'esame anatomico non sembra esistano influenze negative della gommosi su insorgenza e sviluppo delle radici avventizie. An anatomical investigation was carried out on "Fertilia" peach cultivar hardwood cuttings, propagated by means of polyethylene bags. The research work deals with some peculiar aspects of the anatomical changes occurring at the base of cuttings during propagation. A gummous degeneration of the cell walls, usually occurring during the first week of propagation to the embryonic wood cells, is observed. Such degeneration, after the destruction of most of the newly formed woody tissue, can be seen as a series of cavities surrounding the central cylinder, being only the main medullary rays respected by the degeneration. After reaching a maximum width, the cavities cease to expand, thus allowing the new wood cells to survive and differentiate; according to the above, such degeneration is not believed to be responsible for the low rate of survival which occurs to rooted cuttings when transplanted. The initiation and development of root primordia are also described. In both cases a large variability was noted for time and mode of development of the phenomena.
42878181|Un terreno limoso in provincia di Bari  stato trattato con dosi crescenti di Bromuro di metile e poi in parte arieggiato con una lavorazione e in parte irrigato con 1100 o 2200 m di acqua/ha. Solo in tutte le parcelle non irrigate sono stati trovati residui di Bromo totale, che, quando erano in concentrazione al di sopra di 2,5 g/g d terreno secco, hanno indotto fitotossicit e provocato la morte di numerose piante di Garofano che in quelle parcelle erano state trapiantate.  stata anche osservata correlazione lineare positiva fra contenuto di bromo nel terreno, all'atto del trapianto, e contenuto di bromo in tessuti di piante, 60 giorni dopo il trapianto. A loamy soil in the province of Bari has been treated with increasing doses of methyl bromide and after, in part areated by digging and in part irrigated with either 1100 or 2200 m/ha of water. Residues of Bromine have been found only in all the 2,5 -g/g unirrigated plots and when the concentration was higher than of dry soil, many carnation plants died. A direct correlation between Bromine content in the soil at transplanting and Bromine accumulation in carnation plants 60 days after transplanting was observed.
42878182|Viene descritta la morfologia dell'esina del polline di olivo al microscopio elettronico a scansione. Dalla documentazione fotografica risulta che la scultura dell'esina presenta alcuni caratteri finora non descritti, il cui studio andrebbe ampliato per definire se possano servire da elemento diagnostico nel riconoscimento delle variet. Exine morphology of olive pollen by scanning electron microscope is described. From the photographic documentation it is possible to see that the exine sculpturing presents some characters never been described up to now, the study of which should be amplified to decide their future application as a diagnostic element in the recognition of the varieties.
42878183|In 1975 and 1976 we made a comparative study between drip irrigation and the traditional basin irrigation in a citrus area of western Sicily. Climatic and soil conditions of this area are typical of the Sicilian citrus industry: hot, dry climate, red Mediterranean soil. The cultivar tested was the mandarin, " Avana di Palermo ". In 1975, during each two-week period of the dry season (May to October) all experimental plots were irrigated until they had received 700 m/ha of water. Four plots were drip irrigated with different numbers of drippers (one or two) and different periods of water delivery. A fifth plot was basin irrigated. Two of the drip plots received continuous irrigation (up to 700 m/ha) while the other two were irrigated a few hours per day. Since some cases of root rot occurred in the drip plots irrigated continuously, the plan was slightly modified in 1976: in these plots the amount of water was reduced to 80% (560 m/ha) and all 4 drip plots were watered only a few hours each day. The agronomical results did not seem to show appreciable differences in yield, either quantitatively or qualitatively, among the plots, even though the hydrological results showed a clear difference in the soil moisture pattern between drip and basin irrigated plots. As it was presupposed, drip irrigation caused persistence of soil moisture distributed according to the location of the drippers, whereas basin irrigation showed the usual temporal variability in moisture within wide ranges. In una zona agrumicola della Sicilia occidentale si  svolta nel corso degli anni 1975 e 1976, una prova di confronto tra l'irrigazione " a goccia " ed il tradizionale metodo " a conca ". Le caratteristiche pedoclimatiche della zona sono tipiche della agrumicoltura siciliana: clima caldo arido, terra rossa mediterranea. Specie oggetto della prova  il mandarino cv. " Avana di Palermo ". Lo schema sperimentale adottato per il primo anno di osservazioni (1975) ha previsto quattro parcelle irrigate " a goccia ", diversificate per il numero di gocciolatoi per pianta (1 o 2) e per i tempi di erogazione idrica (2 parcelle sottoposte ad erogazione di 24/24 ore per periodi continui durante il turno e le rimanenti due ad erogazione limitata ad alcune ore del giorno per tutti i 14 giorni del turno). Il volume di adacquamento stagionale adottato sia nelle parcelle irrigate con il sistema " a goccia " che in quelle irrigate " a conca "  stato pari a 700 m/ha. Detto schema  stato, nel secondo anno di prove (1976) parzialmente modificato. Essendosi, infatti, verificati nelle 2 parcelle irrigate 24/24 ore casi di marciume radicale, si  ridotto il volume di adacquamento all' 80% (560 m/ha) e le somministrazioni idriche si sono limitate, per tutte e quattro le parcelle, ad alcune ore del giorno per la durata del turno irriguo. I risultati delle osservazioni di carattere agronomico non sembrano evidenziare apprezzabili differenze, sia per gli aspetti quantitativi che qualitativi della produzione, tra le diverse tesi, anche se le osservazioni di carattere idrologico hanno evidenziato una netta diversificazione del regime della umidit del suolo tra le parcelle irrigate " a goccia " e le parcelle irrigate " a conca ". Precisamente, l'irrigazione " a goccia " ha determinato una persistenza nel tempo, per altro prevedibile, di contenuti idrici nel terreno con distribuzione nello spazio in rapporto alla ubicazione dei gocciolatoi laddove con l'irrigazione " a conca " si  rilevata la consueta variabilit temporale dei suddetti contenuti idrici entro ampi intervalli.
42878184|Following acute and chronic gamma irradiation (Co) on buds and plants of " Fertilia ", several mutations concerning ripening time, fruit shape, absence of pubescence, leaf shape and anther colour have been obtained. Genetic analysis of a nectarine mutant has shown that the L histogen is not mutated, keeping its original heterozygous pubscent genotype. Therefore the mutant is to be considered a periclinal chimera. The use of mutation breeding on a larger scale to obtain nectarines which may keep all the traits of the cultivar s of origin in L and L is prospected. In seguito ad irraggiamento acuto e cronico da Co di gemme e piante della cv. " Fertilia " sono state ottenute mutazioni che riguardano l'epoca di maturazione, la forma e l'assenza di tomento del frutto, la forma delle foglie e il colore delle antere. L'analisi genetica di un mutante nettarino di tipo periclinale ha permesso di concludere che l'istogeno L non  mutato e conserva il proprio genotipo di origine, eterozigote tomentoso. Pertanto la nuova forma  da considerarsi una chimera. Viene prospettato che l'uso della mutagenesi potrebbe essere adottato su pi larga scala per l'ottenimento di forme nettarine (in L), che mantengano tutte le caratteristiche della cultivar tomentosa di origine in L ed L.
42878185|Si riportano i risultati ottenuti nel confronto di quattro diversi substrati e cio: 1/2 torba + 1/2 sabbia, torba, agrilit e 1/3 torba + 2/3 agrilit nella propagazione per talea apicale mediante la tecnica della nebulizzazione del clone " Gallissoniensis " della Magnolia grandiflora L. Il substrato 1/3 torba + 2/3 agrilit  stato quello che ha dato la pi alta percentuale di radicazione (62,5%) mentre il substrato 1/2 torba + 1/2 sabbia  stato quello che ha presentato la percentuale di radicazione pi bassa (5%). Le barbatelle ottenute nei substrati 1/3 torba + 2/3 agrilit e torba sono state giudicate idonee al trapianto in vivaio ed alla vendita, mentre quelle ottenute nei substrati 1/2 torba + 1/2 sabbia e agrilit sono state giudicate non idonee in alta percentuale (50%). The results obtained using the four different substrates i.e 1/2 peat moss + 1 /2 sand, peat moss, agrilit and 1/3 peat moss + 2/3 agrilit in the propagation of apical cuttings of Magnolia grandiflora L., clone " Gallissoniensis ", under mist, are rep or ted. The substrate 1/3 peat moss + 2/3 agrilit gave the best rooting percentage (62,5%) whilst the substrate 1/2 peat moss + 1/2 sand gave the lowest rooting percentage (5%). The rooted cuttings obtained using the 1/3 peat moss + 2/3 agrilit and peat moss substrates were considered suitable both for the nurseries and the market, Whilst the ones obtained with the 1/2 peat moss - 1/2 sand and agrilit substrates had a high percentage of unsuitability (50%).
42878186|La produzione di piante ornamentali attraversa una fase di espansione causata dalle richieste sempre crescenti. In diversi casi la propagazione di queste piante, prima fase del processo produttivo, ha un'incidenza molto alta sul costo totale di produzione.  stata studiata la definizione delle tecniche di moltiplicazione per talea (epoca di prelievo, trattamenti rizogeni, etc.) su " Picea Abies excelsa Ohlendorffii " (PAEO) e " Juniperus virginiana Skirocket ". Dai risultati della sperimentazione (biennale) svolta,  emerso che le talee di entrambe le specie sono disposte favorevolmente alla radicazione nel periodo invernale; inoltre PAEO pu essere propagata anche in giugnoluglio. Alcuni trattamenti con sostanze rizogene si sono mostrati efficaci, in determinate epoche, nello stimolare la radicazione. The high contribution of the propagation price to the total production price or ornamental trees stimulates the search for commercially more profitable propagation methods. Research on the cuttings propagation of " Picea Abies excelsa Oblendorffii " (PAEO) and " Juniperus virginiana Skirocket " (JVS) has been carried out. Cuttings of PAEO show best rooting during the winter and also in June and July. The natural rooting capacity of JVS is very low all the year round with the exception of January and February when it is possible to obtain a good rooting. Chemical treatment improve the rooting only in a few particular periods of the year.
42878191|Si riferiscono i risultati di tre ricerche sul diserbo chimico della cipolla (Allium cepa L.) in semenzaio con diversi erbicidi condotte, nel 1974, 1975 e 1976, nella zona del litorale vneto di Sottomarina (VE). Su una infestazione molto varia costituita in prevalenza da Chenopo-dium album, Poa annua, Polygonum persicaria, Erigeron canadensis, la migliore efficacia erbicida si  riscontrata con l'impiego di miscele composte da chlorthal + prynachlor (7,50 + 3,43 Kg/ha) e (PCA + BiPC) + prynachlor (1,5 + 1,2 + 3,43 Kg/ha) in preemergenza oppure con penoxalin (0,99 Kg/ha) sia da solo in pre-emergenza che seguito da PCA + BiPC (1,5 + 1,2 Kg/ha) in post-emergenza. The results of a study on weed control in a seed bed of onion are reported. Three exsperiments were carried out in a sandy soil of a typical growing area along the shore of the Veneto, during the years 1974 -1975 and 1976. Untreated plots were plentiful of the follow species: Chenopodium album, Poa Annua, Capsella bursa -pastoris, Erigeron canadensis, Polygonum persicaria, Senecio vulgaris, Sonchus oleraceus Stellaria media, which reduced the number of plants suitable for transplanting to 40 pp/m. The best weed control was obtained with either chlorthal + prynachlor (7,5 + 3,43 Kg/ha) or (PCA + BiPC) + prynachlor (1,5 + 1,2 + 3,43 Kg/ha) both distributed in pre-emergence. Their weed control were of 95 and 82% respectively. The number of onion plants suitable for transplanting was higher than that counted on plots in which weed control was made by hand. Satisfactory results were also obtained by both pre-emergence treatments with either penoxalin (0,99 Kg/ha) or (PCA + BiPC ) + chlorthal (1,5 + 1,2 + 7,5 Kg/ha) and with a combination of penoxalin (0,99 Kg/ha) in pre-emergence and (PCA 4-BiPC) (1,5 + 1,2 Kg/ha) in post-emergence.
42878192|Si riferiscono i risultati di alcune esperienze relative alla messa a punto della tecnica di coltura " in vitro " di apici vegetativi di alcune variet " Mary ", " Orfeo ", " Fedra ", " Didone " di garofano mediterraneo. Risultati positivi sono stati conseguiti con l'impiego del substrato di Gregorini et al. (1975). Le variet hanno risposto in maniera significativamente differente alla coltura " in vitro " alle due epoche di prelievo considerati. I risultati sono impiegabili da un punto di vista pratico. The AA. refer to some experiments carried out on meristem-culture of some cvs of Mediterranea carnations. The expiant technique followed was that of Phillips (1968).The medium of Gregorini et al. (1975) reported in tab. 1, was used. The results were analysed for X values by the Skory method. The investigation has placed in evidence the different nutritional request of the mediterranean carnations.
42878193|Seadless citrus species show constant and abundant crops as opposed to the biennal bearing habit of seeded varieties. The suggestion from the litterature that the peef is responsable for the hormonal control of growth and development in seedless fruit is substained in this paper by discussing several hormone-dependent disordes in orange fruit development. Among them the rough-feel disorder is caused by an increased cell division responsable for an uninterrupted growth of the peel. Kinetine and gibberellins were found to be more abundant in rough over smoth fruit in both components of the peel (albedo and flavedo). Consistently, SADH and CCC treatment 3 weeks after bloom produced smooth fruit. A second disorder, the peel creasing, an enzymatic (pectolytic) degradation of the albedo, may be counteracted by Gibberellin treatment 8-10 mounts before maturation. Finally, the corky spots caused by unelastic tensione of the peel may be overcomed by tratments with 2,4-D. From these experiences appears that the citrus peel represents an interesting biological model whose hormonal balance may be influenced by exogenous growth regulators.
42878194|Over a three year period, a comparative study has been carried out on the cold damage to flower buds of 77 cultivars of peach and nectarine. The observations were made on two of the Bologna University's experimental orchards, one located in a low land near Bologna and the other in a hilly area near Faenza. The two localities differ more with respect to air relative humidity rather than winter low temperature, with the land zone being much more humid. Cold damage was quite a bit greater during the year in which low temperatures occured early in autumn (as low as  5 C and  7 C in November). This damage was especially significant in the lowland area for cultivars having a long growing period in the season. Likewise, damage was caused by late frosts in March-April, especially in the hilly area for cultivars which begin growth early in Spring. For these reasons, the classification of the cultivars into 3 groups based on their resistance to cold damage (>25%, 25-55% and >55% flower bud drop) is worthwhile only for these particular climatic conditions. In general, in the land area, where cold damage was greater than in the hilly area, peach was more resistant than nectarine, whereas, the opposite behavior was observed in the hilly area. Among the less resistant cultivars (> 55% flower bud drop) were the nectarines, " Armking ", " Early Sungrand ", " Fairlane ", " Fantasia ", " Flamekist ", " Flavortop ", " Mayred ", " Moon Grand ", " Stark Red Gold ", etc. and the peaches, " Early Coronet ", " Flamecrest ", " Merriam ", " Merrill Gem Free ", " Compact Redhaven ", " Cresthaven ", " Springbrite ", " Tufts ", etc. The possible relations between morphological evolution and physiological state of the buds were discussed with respect to resistance to cold damage.
42878195|Sono state messe a confronto due tecniche di incrocio nel pesco, facendo uso del gene marcatore foglia rossa Gr, dominante su foglia verde gr, allo scopo di verificare la possibilit di eliminare qualsiasi tipo di isolatore del fiore nell'impollinazione controllata. Con l'asportazione parziale dei petali e degli stami, l'inquinamento, probabilmente dovuto ad auto ed eteroimpollinazione,  molto elevato, per cui, tale tecnica  da scartare. Pu essere presa in considerazione, invece, la tecnica basata sulla asportazione totale della corolla e degli stami specialmente nel caso in cui, i semenzali di incrocio, vadano soggetti a selezione per un carattere che possa servire anche da marcatore e consenta di eliminare gli eventuali semenzali inquinanti. Il metodo non pu ritenersi valido per studi di genetica. With the aim to ascertain the possibility of eliminating bagging in controlled pollination two breeding techniques are compared in peach using the marker gene Red leaf Gr. With partial removal of petals and stamens, the contamination, probably due to self and cross pollination, is very high and for this reason the technique is rejected. The technique based on the total removal of the corolla and stamens can be taken into consideration, especially where a known dominant gene capable of easy identification in young seedlings is being used in crossing and any accidentally out-pollinated plants will be automatically excluded in the seedling selection. This technique is not valid for genetic studies.
42878196|La analisi delle trasformazioni del substrato associate alle somministrazioni di sostanze minerali ha condotto alla osservazione di un effetto specifico del pH nella rizogenesi di talee di fagiolo mungo. In particolare, quando soluzioni minerali tamponate a diversi livelli di acidit sono state immesse nel substrato di crescita delle piante madri  stato osservato un massimo di radicazione delle talee da esse derivate, coincidente con il pH 6,5. Una risposta analoga  stata anche ottenuta somministrando le stesse soluzioni direttamente alle talee. La coincidenza della risposta nei due sistemi suggerisce una azione diretta del pH delle soluzioni, al di l di possibili fenomeni permseiettivi delle membrane radicali. Ulteriori analisi hanno infine chiarito che il pH esercita una azione specifica ed indipendente dalla natura nutrizionale delle somministrazioni.  stato infatti possibile osservare la presenza dell'effetto pH usando tamponi non nutrizionali (Na, Ba) ed organici (citrato di sodio). Inoltre l'effetto pH persiste a concentrazioni bassissime (10 - 10 molare) e perfino quando i trattamenti vengono confinati alla incubazione dei semi da cui saranno prodotte le piante madri. In conclusione, l'indipendenza dell'effetto pH dalle variabili sperimentali introdotte (elementi, formulazioni e concentrazioni), la costanza della sua azione in sistemi differenziati (semi, piante madri e talee) e la natura non nutrizionale di tale stimolo (risposta a dosi bassissime e ad elementi non nutrizionali) induce a proporre l'esistenza di una funzione regolativa del rapporto H+/OH nella rizogenesi del fagiolo mungo. Nutrient solutions (N, P, K) supplied either to the stock plant or to the cuttings enhanced root regeneration in mung bean (Phaseolus aureus, Robb) cuttings. The activity was strictly pH dependent with maximum response associated with pH 6,5. This pH-dependent effect prevailed over variations due to chemicals or concentrations. However, when nitrogen was supplied to cuttings, a different response was observed, with NH being highly effective and NO ineffective. The stimulatory function of pH was also observed in conditions which seem to exclude a nutritional role of the elements supplied. In fact, a significant response to pH was present at levels of 10 molar concentration of supplied chemicals (equivalent to 0,4 ppm K of the cutting fresh wt). The effect was also reproduced by using non-nutritional elements (Na, Ba) or an organic buffer (Na citrate). The stimulatory function of pH was finally mantained when mineral solutions where supplied to the seed (from which stock plants were derived) during the imbibition stage. Significant (P = 0,001) Na effects were observed in this case up to 10 molar (about 0,3 ppb of the cutting fresch wt). A regulatory role of pH in root regeneration is proposed based on these findings.
42878200|The Author, after treating the origin of filbert and giving some information about the species of the gen. Corylus, considers the possibilities of emploing them directly in the orchard through their varieties or as rootstocks or material for genetic improvement. Then, by means of copious bibliographical research and critical examinations of the experimental results mostly obtained during the last thirty years, he mentions the existing knowledge on some filbert biological processes and relative cultivation problems, such as: flower bud induction; the first stage of the flower bud morphologic differentiation; type and functionality of the buds; male and female infllorescences and flowers; chilling requirements of buds; flowering dichogamy and its relationships with the environmental factors; resistance to cold of the catkins and female inflorescences; the time and duration of male and female bloom; pollen viability; compatibility between the gametes of the same and different varieties; receptivity of the stigma to the germination of the pollen; pollen quality and pollination; patterns of pollinizers planting arrangements; evolution of the female gametophyte; fertilization and fruit development; the dropping of pistillate flower clusters; unfertilized ovaries and fruits; the fenomena of blank before and after fertilization; leaf and flower bud drop caused by deficiency of nutritious substances; twig vigour and fertility; plant requirements in relation to climate and soil.
42878201|Gli AA. al fine di osservare la probabile influenza del clone sulla percentuale di radicazione, hanno posto a confronto il clone Gallissoniensis ed il clone B  C/I della Magnolia grandiflora L. Le prove effettuate hanno mostrato una maggiore percentuale di radicazione delle talle apicali del clone B  C/I rispetto al Gallissoniensis. Dai risultati ottenuti sembra potersi affermare che la percentuale di talee apicali radicate di Magnolia grandiflora L., propagate con la tecnica della nebulizzazione;  legata anche al clone impiegato. The authors have compared the Gallissoniensis clone and the B - C/1 clone of Magnolia grandiflora L. in order to obserwe the probable influence of clone on rooting percentage. The trials carried out place in evidence a greater rooting percentage in the apical cuttings of the B - C/I clone than the Gallissoniensis. From the results it seems that the rooting percentage of mist-propagated apical cuttings of Magnolia grandiflora L. connected to the clone enployed.
42878202|Researches have ascertained the possibility of breaking dormancy and delaying bloom by application of synthetic growth regulators. Neverthless, the use of growth regulators has its limitations, because of difficult timing of treatment, erratic results and phytotossic effects. Researches recently carried out both in U.S.A., and in Italy on the overhead sprinkling irrigation have shown the possibility to increase the accumulation of Chilling Units (C.U.) for meeting the rest requirements of fruit trees and to decrease the Growing Degree Hours (GDH) accumulation for delaying the fruit bud development. Author reviews the present state of knowledge on this subject and discusses the reliability and feasibility of the overhead sprinkling method in comparison with the use of growth regulators, crioprotectants and freeze protection equipments.
42878203|Si riportano i risultati di due anni di sperimentazione con l'Ethephon sulla cipolla. Nel 1976 tre irrorazioni con 5000 ppm di principio attivo hanno prodotto formazione del bulbo estremamente anticipata. Nel 1977 tre irrorazioni con 1000 ppm di principio attivo non hanno sortito alcun effetto significativo sull'epoca di raccolta delle cipolle. Sempre tre irrorazioni con 5000 ppm o con 10000 ppm di principio attivo hanno anticipato a met maggio l'epoca di raccolta delle cv. Gialla di Zattau e Ramata di Milano. I trattamenti con 10000 ppm hanno notevolmente ridotto le dimensioni delle piante. Two cultivars were chosen: "Gialla di Zittau" and "Ramata di Milano". In 1976 Ethephon was applied as spray at 5000 ppm (three foliage applications). The bulbing started earlier in the Ethrel treated plants than in the controls. Ethephon bring about earlier bulb maturity of " Yellow Zittau " (at maturity all the leaves blades were dry). In 1977 Ethephon was applied as spray at 1000, 5000 and 10.000 ppm (three fogliage applications). At 1.000 ppm Ethephon hastened the initiation of bulbing, but difference did no persist to maturity. At 5.000 and 10.000 ppm Ethephon bring about earlier bulb maturity. The Ethephon treatments reduced plant height. Applications of Ethephon at 10.000 ppm reduced plant height, bulb diameter and bulb weight.
42878208|Barbatelle di 4 cultivar di olivo (Carolea, Frangivento, Leccino e Coratina) trapiantate da 15 giorni in vasetti posti in serre di indurimento, sono state trattate per via fogliare 2 volte, con un intervallo di 14 giorni, con gibberellato di potassio alle concentrazioni di 50, 250 e 750 ppm di principio attivo. Il trattamento ha determinato una inibizione della schiusura delle gemme ed un maggior allungamento dei nuovi germogli, derivato sia da un maggior sviluppo degli internodi sia da un maggior numero di nodi formati. L'azione, se pure con differenziazioni tra le cultivar,  stata proporzionale alle concentrazioni. La dose pi alta ha causato inoltre una riduzione del diametro dei germogli ed una riduzione dell'area della lamina fogliare. L'intensit e la qualit dell'azione sulle singole coppie di gemme inserite sulla barbatella sembra esser condizionata dalla loro posizione (basale, mediana o apicale) e dalla presenza di foglie. The leaves of rooted cuttinngs of 4 olive cultivars (Carolea, Frangivento, Leccino and Coratina) obtained under mist, 15 days after transplanting in pots and kept in a glasshouse, were treated twice with Potassium Gibberellate at 50, 250, and 750 ppm. The treatment delayed bud opening and determined an increase in the new shoots' growth derived by a greater internode development and an increase of node formation. The action, although unequal in the different cultivars was proportional to the concentration. The highest dose caused a reduction of the shoots' diameter and leaf area. The intensity and quality of the action on the single pair of buds on the rooted cuttings seemed to be conditioned by their position (basal, median and apical) and by the presence of leaves.
42878209|L'Annurca  una variet di melo diffusa soprattutto nell'Italia del Sud ed  molto richiesta sui mercati locali per la sua qualit eccellente. Dal punto di vista agronomico presenta molti difetti: scarso rivestimento basale delle branche, notevole vigore della pianta, ritardata entrata in fruttificazione, alternanza di produzione, peduncolo del frutto molto corto, scarsa colorazione rossa dei frutti. Nel 1971  stato avviato un programma di irraggiamento per indurre mutazioni relative all'habitus vegetativo e produttivo e alle caratteristiche del frutto. Sono state irraggiate 1630 marze a 5 e 6 kR ( Co). Sono stati selezionati 228 tipi devianti, tuttora sotto controllo, per i seguenti caratteri: rivestimento basale e ampio angolo di inserzione delle branche, tipo spur, elevata produttivit, colore rosso dei frutti, pezzatura del frutto, peduncolo lungo e maturazione precoce. Annurca is an apple variety grown in southern Italy and very well accepted in the local markets for its high quality. From the agronomical point of view it has several shortcomings: bare wood, tremendous vigour, late bearing habit, biannual crop, very short peduncle, lack of red skin colour. An irradiation program was established since 1971 to induce mutations fo the growth habit, the bearing habit and fruit characteristics. 1630 grafsticks have been irradiated at 5 and 6kR ( Co). 228 deviant types are under evaluation for the following characters: no bare wood, wide crotch angle, spur type, heavy cropping, red fruit skin colour, fruit size, long peduncle, early ripening.
42878210|La constatazione della presenza, in piante di " Leccino ", " Frantoio " e " Maurino ", di olive aventi differente peso e diverso contenuto in olio da correlare con una diversa illuminazione dei rametti sui quali erano inserite, ci ha suggerito di saggiare l'effetto dell'ombreggiamento di piante di " Coratina " e " Leccino " sulla loro fruttificazione. Le piante, appena dopo l'impollinazione fino alla fioritura dell'anno successivo, erano coperte con uno o con due strati di rete nera fino a 40 cm da terra. La illuminazione media delle piante controllo, di quelle con uno o con due strati di copertura era di circa 36.000, 6.000 e 1.300 lux rispettivamente. In queste condizioni l'allegagione era di 0,602; 0,180 e 0,071 drupe per mignola. I frutti cresciuti in carenza di luce erano piccoli e con basso contenuto in olio. I germogli delle piante ombreggiate, pur avendo una lunghezza quasi simile a quelli delle piante controllo, non avevano alcun fiore nei confronti dei controlli in cui si riscontravano 1,32 e 1,59 mignole per nodo rispettivamente per il " Leccino " e per la " Coratina ". Pertanto le riduzioni della illuminazione nelle dosi utilizzate nella prova sono responsabili di scarsa allegagione dei frutti, di limitato sviluppo di questi e della inibizione della induzione fiorale. Tali situazioni, di carenza di luce, possono verificarsi in zone di chiome di olivi condotti irrazionalmente o troppo densi. The observation of olives on " Leccino ", " Frantoio " and " Coratina ", with different weight and oil content correlated to the light exposure of the shoots to which the fruit were attached, led us to test the effect of light exposure on the fruitfulness of " Coratina "+ " Leccino " trees. After the 1976 pollination till the flowering of 1977, the trees were covered with one or two layers of black net. The average light exposure of control trees, of those with one or two layers of cover was about 36,000, 6,000 and 1,300 lux respectively. Under these conditions the fruit set was of 0,602; 0,180 and 0,071 fruits per blossom. The fruits grown in darkness were small and with low oil content. The shoots of shaded trees were about the same lenght as those of the control trees and had no flowers respect to controls, where, there were 1,32 and 1,59 blossoms per node, for " Leccino " and " Coratina " respectively. Therefore, the reductions of light exposure used in this trial are responsable for the limited fruit set, for the scarce growth of these and for the inhibition of flower formation. Light deficiency occurs in zones of irrational grown or too dense olive orchards.
42878211|Sono state condotte delle ricerche collegiali in tre differenti ambienti climatici italiane (Bolzano, Verona e Pisa) allo scopo di saggiare la possibilit di ritardare la fioritura del melo mediante l'irrigazione climatizzante intermittente sovrachioma (" evaporative cooling "). Nei tre ambienti si  operato con metodologie sperimentali omogenee ed impiegando la stessa cultivar (" Golden Delicious "). L'irrigazione  iniziata nelle tre localit verso la met di febbraio, quando prove condotte in cella climatica indicavano come superata la dormienza nei tre ambienti climatici. Il livello termico al di sopra del quale si  irrigato  stato fissato a 8 C, la durata dell'irrigazione  variata tra 20" e 40" e gli intervalli sono stati automaticamente regolati in funzione delle condizioni climatiche. La piena fioritura degli alberi trattati (F)  avvenuta con un ritardo di 12 giorni a Bolzano e di circa 14 giorni a Pisa e Verona. Un simile ritardo  stato ottenuto a Verona anche sulla cv. " Granny Smith ". A Pisa le piante sottoposte al trattamento climatizzante circa 1 mese prima della fioritura, hanno presentato un ritardo uguale a quello delle piante che erano state irrigate per l'intero periodo (18/2 - 27/4). Specifiche osservazioni condotte sia a Bolzano che a Verona hanno messo in evidenza una minore produttivit degli alberi irrigati accompagnata da una maggiore pezzatura dei frutti e da una loro minore rugginosit. A jointed research program was carried out in Bolzano, Verona and Pisa provinces to comparatively test the evaporative-cooling effect of overhead irrigation to delay bloom in  Golden Delicious " apple trees. Irrigation was given from mid February to end of April when temperature was above 8 C. The watering-interval cycle was automatically regulated to match the evaporation rate. Full bloom (F) was delayed 12 days in Bolzano and 14 days in Pisa and Verona. A similar delay was also obtained in Verona on the " Granny Smith " variety. In Pisa, the effect of an irrigation treatment limited to the month of April matched the response obtained by irrigating for the entire period. Fruit production was reduced in the irrigated plots along with an increased fruit size and reduced russeting.
42878212|Sono state condotte indagini allo scopo di confrontare l'efficacia diradante dell'Amchem 69380 (75 e 150 ppm) e del CGA 15281 (150 e 300 ppm) rispetto a quella dell'Ethephon (75 e 150 ppm). I trattamenti sono stati effettuati su piante della cv. " Cardinal " in due epoche distinte e cio quando i frutticini avevano una lunghezza media di 15 e 25 mm. L'Amchem 69380 ha presentato la pi elevata azione diradante avendo fornito alla concentrazione di 75 ppm. una cascola di frutti analoga a quella rilevata con gli altri due prodotti somministrati alla dose di 150 ppm. L'effetto del CGA 15281  stato simile o di poco superiore a quello dell'Ethephon a 150 ppm. Nei confronti del diradamento manuale una soddisfacente cascola di frutti  stata rilevata nelle tesi con Ethephon a 150 ppm e con Amchem 69380 a 75 ppm somministrati il 5 ed il 15 maggio e con CGA 15281, ad entrambe le dosi, il 5 maggio. Anche l'Amchem 69380 ed il CGA 15281, come l'Ethephon, hanno influenzato negativamente la abscissione delle foglie e le dimensioni finali dei frutti. Con i trattamenti della II epoca i tre prodotti hanno manifestato un'azione diradante pi rapida: gi 10 giorni dopo le somministrazioni  stato possibile individuare abbastanza precisamente i frutti che sarebbero successivamente abscissi. Trials have been carried out to evaluate the thinning ability of two ethylene-releasing compounds, Amchem 69380 (75 and 150 ppm) and CGA 15281 (150 and 300 ppm), in comparison with Ethephon (75 and 150 ppm). Trees of the peach variety ' Cardinal ' were treated when the mean fruit length was 15 and 25 mm. Amchem 69380 showed a higher thinning effect, and at a concentration of 75 ppm gave a similar fruit drop as Ethephon and CGA 15281 at 150 ppm. These last two treatments influenced fruit drop to a comparable level. A satisfactory fruit drop, similar to the hand thinned treatment, was obtained with Ethephon at 150 ppm, and with Amchem 69380 at 75 ppm applied at 15 and 25 mm fruit length and with CGA 15281 at 150 and 300 ppm, applied at 15 mm fruit length. All three compounds increased leaf drop and reduced final fruit size. The thinning effect of the three compounds was more rapid when the applications were made at 25 mm of fruit length.
42878213|L'impiego dell'irrigazione climatizzante ha permesso di ritardare di 11 giorni la piena fioritura del pesco in campo. Ci equivale, nelle condizioni in cui si  operato, ad una sottrazione dalle gemme del 44% dei calore ambientale. Danni ai frutti ed ai germogli sono altres comparsi a seguito di questi trattamenti. Ci sembra tuttavia da imputare al protrarsi della irrigazione, eseguita con acque particolarmente dure, nelle fasi pi avanzate della evoluzione gemmaria. The evaporative-cooling effect of overhead irrigation caused a remarkable delay of peach flowering. The open flower stage (the most sensitive to frost) was delayed 11 days. This amounts to a 44% reduction of the warmth available in the environment. Damages to the sprouts and to the fruitlets were observed, due to the perduring of the treatment in the late stages of bud development.
42878214|Si  valutato, in giovani olivi autoradicati cv. "Frangivento", allevati in coltura "idroponica" se il numero degli stomi dipende dallo stato nutrizionale in cui sono poste le piante. Nelle foglie degli individui allevati in soluzioni nutritive diverse il numero degli stomi per unit di superficie  risultato sensibilmente modificato. In self-rooted olive plants of the "Frangivento" cv., grown in hydroponic culture, evaluations have been conducted in order to see if fluctuations of the stornata number is depending from the nutritional status of the plants. As a matter of fact, into the leaves of the plant grown in different nutritional solutions we have observed a considerable variability of the stornata number/surface.
42878215|Gli AA., dopo una rapida rassegna dei principali lavori concernenti la influenza della bagnatura sulla radicazione di talee di specie diverse, riferiscono di una prova volta a verificare l'influenza di pH diversi dell'acqua di bagnatura sulla radicazione di talee di olivo cv "Frantoio  in nebulizzazione. Le talee sono state trattate o meno con IBA a 4000 ppm dopo una bagnatura di 24 h con acqua mantenuta a pH 5,5, 7 e 8,5. Il trattamento con IBA aumenta la percentuale di radicazione, il numero medio di radici per talea e la lunghezza media dei germogli. La bagnatura ai pH differenziati modifica, oltre i parametri precedenti, anche la lunghezza media delle radici. In particolare la bagnatura a pH 7 incide negativamente su quasi tutti gli aspetti della vegetazione e della radicazione nei confronti dei trattamenti a pH 5,5 - 8,5 e "non bagnato". La combinazione bagnatura a pH 8,5 e trattamento con IBA a 4000 ppm ha effetto positivo su tutti i parametri esaminati ed in particolare sulla percentuale di radicazione e di conseguenza sull'allungamento dei germogli. La parte grafica  stata eseguita da P.L. Nannini. The Authors, after a brief review of the main works concerning the influence of steeping in water on the rooting of cuttings of different species, refer about an investigation on the effect of steeping in water with different pH on the rooting of "Frantoio" cuttings under mist. The cuttings, 100 for each trial, were treated or left untreated with IBA at 4000 p.p.m. after 24 hr's steeping in distilled water kept at a pH 5,5 -7 and 8,5 with phospate buffer (KHPO+NaHPO). IBA treatment increases the rooting percentage, the average number of roots per cutting and the average shoot's length. Steeping at different pH affects the average root length as well as the above parameters. Steeping in water at pH 7 in particular, affects negatively almost all the aspects of growth and rooting compared to the pH 5,5 - 8,5 and "non steeped" treatments. The combination of IBA at 4000 p.p.m. treatment with steeping at pH 8,5 has a positive effect on all the parameters under observation and particularly on rooting percentage and shoots growth.
42878222|The purpose of the present paper is to examine the economic problems connected with the growing of cling peaches in Northern Italy. After examining the EEC market characteristics of canned peaches, a detailed picture of the supply situation in some of the main producer countries is given, with particular reference to the production costs for cling peaches, the trend of prices paid to the producers and the growth of the canned peach exportation. The evolution of the production of Italian cling peaches is considered, and the relative production costs are determined with reference to the situation existing in the Emilia-Romagna farms. The situation of supplyng the canning industry is considered and, finally, the prerequisites for the growth of sound peach-growing for the canning industry are outlined.
42878223|Starting from 1971 a breeding programme has been carried out with the objective to obtain new cultivare allowing to make wider the processing period, which, in the Po Valley (Emilia-Romagna), covers about sixty days. Eight new strains, obtained from open or controlled pollination of some commercial cultivars, have been selected and tested in relation to their productivity, fruit quality, diseases resistance, and canning aptitude. Data from this experiment are here reported and discussed.
42878224|A survey of the bulk experimental results reached in Italy on the chemical and mechanical peach fruit thinning has been carried out with the aim to single out some general patterns which could be usefully applied to the clingstone peach industry. As far as concern chemical thinning, fundamentally based on CEPA sprays, low concentration (30-60 ppm) have proved to give the best results. With higer concentrations phytotoxic effects and remarkable fruit drop can be expected. The best time for CEPA application seems to be when the fruits diameter average is 20-25 mm or 40-45 days after the full bloom. Mechanical thinning has supplied better results than chemichal, but its efficiency has proved to be influenced by the shaker type, the training system and the method of pruning.
42878225|The effectiveness of a self-propelled mono-unit harvester (prototype CNR BO 75/2) has been tested with cling peaches, in relation to different training systems. A recovery of about 85% of the total fruits was obtained and the fruits harvested proved to be suitable for processing. The study has shown that the "californian vase", the "topped pyramid" and, to a less extent, the "4 scaffolds vase", are preferable to the traditional peach tree forms even when these were adapted for mechanical harvesting. Among the tree forms studied, the "topped pyramid" seems to be the most suitable to supply an high harvesting rate with a reduced damage when fruits fall from the tree. The percentage of the fruit falling out the frame was somewhat high because of the not proportional ratio "frame area/canopy size." Trees trained to "californian vase", by using a pruning technique including summer pruning, proved to be suitable for planting with a reduced inter-row distance.
42878226|This paper reports the results of harvesting trials made with a new single-unit machine on seven clingstone peach cultivars. Tests have shown that, for all the varieties concerned, the quality of mechanically harvested fruits was acceptable in terms of both maturity and damage. The average of fruits susceptible to be profitably used for processing was 93% with picking and 80% for mechanical harvesting. The major loss of product in mechanical harvest, compared with hand harvest, was caused by undersize fruits (8,7%) and by unharvested fruits (5,6%) hat is those that remained on the tree of fell before harvesting. Losses caused by fruit injury were very low (1,4%), because most of the injured fruits that cannot be processed as canned halves, can be used for making salad with a modest increase of manpower in the cannery line. Were mechanical harvesting has really shown its big advantage was in the working rate, that was to 10  14 times higher than that of hand picking. In conclusion, the harvester designed has proved to be very effective, and mechanical harvesting very competitive with hand picking.
42878227|The production cots of cling peaches grown in the Northern Italy (Emilia-Romagna) are 50% to 100% higher than those of the main producing overseas areas. Experiments have been performed in order to reduce the labour costs. In the present paper an economic analysis has been done of these experiments, applying their results to three typical orchards of the Ferrara and Ravenna areas. This analysis has confirmed that mechanical thinning, as well as mechanical harvesting, can allow to reduce to 75% the present production costs.
42878228|In the Emilia-Romagna Region, where peach orchards extend over more than 31,600 hectares, clingstone cultivars cover about 1,960 hectares, with an average production of 34,00C tons; 750 and 740 hectares are located rispectively in the provinces of Ravenna and Ferrara. In spite of the availabitlity of improved cultivars and technical facilities, the clingstone peach area did not increase as expected, and its production is not able to cover the needs of the local canning industry. The most important reason of this appears to be related to the lack of extablished marketing agreements, as well as to the good prices reached, in the last years, by freestone peaches. With the aim to increase the clingstone peach production, a marketing bill {see appendix) has been recently worked out by the Region Amministration.
42878231|Viene riferita per alcune variet italiane di patata (Biancona, Riccia, D *, Patata lunga di Carovilli) la possibilit di propagazione mediante la coltura di apici vegetativi. Con questo sistema, impiegando il substrato di Morel modificato per la componente ormonale (NAA ad 1 ppm oppure 0,1-0,5-0,5; 0,1, 0,05, 0,25 per la gibberellina, kinetina ed auxina) si  stimolato negli espianti la formazione di pi germogli. Questo metodo ci sembra da preferire rispetto alla organogenesi di altri tessuti sia per le migliori garanzie fitosanitarie che offre che per la maggior omogeneit del materiale ottenuto. The possibility of propagating four Italian potato varieties by apex culture has been investigated. The results point out that all varieties, when cultured on Morel mineral medium in the presence of Gibberellin, citokinin and NAA rispectively at 0,1; 0,05; 0,5 or 0,1; 0,05; 0,25 produce generally more than one shoot per explant. Similar results were obtained when the apex was subcultured in the same mineral medium containing 1 ppm of NAA. The possibility of pratical application is suggested.
42878232|Vengono riferiti i risultati di alcune esperienze relative alla propagazione "in vitro" di apici vegetativi di pelargonio con lo scopo di definire il miglior substrato in relazione alla composizione ormonale. I risultati migliori sono stati ottenuti con substrato di Murashige e Skoog (1965) agarizzato con aggiunta di 1 mg/l di I.A.A. e di 1 mg/l di Kinetina in accordo con quanto ottenuto da Reuther G. (1975). In questo substrato si ha formazione di callo e di germogli. Per la radicazione di questi ultimi si  dimostrato ottimo sempre il substrato di Murashige e Skoog (1965) agarizzato con aggiunta di 10 mg/l di I.A.A. The A.A. refer to some experiments carried out on meristem tip culture of pelargonium. The composition of the medium with regard to hormonal components was examined. The best results for callus growth and for shoot differentiation was obtained with Murashige and Skoog (1965) solid medium supplemented with 1 mg/l I.A.A. and 1 mg/l Kinetin according to results of Reuther G. (1975). For shoot rooting Murashige and Skoog medium supplemented with 10 mg/l I.A.A. has given the best results.
42878233|Sono state esaminate le caratteristiche tecnologiche dei semi di 13 cultivar di mandorlo prendendo in considerazione, per due anni consecutivi, i seguenti caratteri: resa in sgusciato, forma e peso medio del seme, percentuale di semi doppi e di quelli deformi, umidit e percentuale di grassi. Inoltre sono state effettuate prove di pelatura e di tostatura rilevando il tempo impiegato per quest'ultima operazione, il colore dopo la pelatura, ed il sapore allo stato naturale, dopo la tostatura e la pelatura. Dall'esame dei suddetti caratteri  stato possibile classificare le cultivar saggiate in due gruppi in relazione all'uso che se ne pu fare nell'industria dolciaria: 1) cultivar come la "Fascineddu", "Pizzuta d'Avola" e "Nonpareil", con semi di forma regolare, di aspetto attraente dopo la tostatura ed aventi una colorazione interna bianca-avorio, omogenea, senza macchie e segni particolari dopo la pelatura, idonei per essere usati interi per la preparazione dei confetti, torrone, mandorle salate, colombe e "drages"; 2) cultivar come la "Filippo Ceo", "Yaltano" e "Picantili", che presentano una elevata percentuale di semi doppi e deformi, poco saporiti e che pertanto forniscono un prodotto che pu essere destinato soltanto alla macinazione per la preparazione di creme, panforte, croccante e granella per gelati. Thirteen almond cultivars have been tested for their technological characteristics. Kernel's characters (weight, shapo, blemish and doublo kornels, peeling, color, roasting's time, taste before and after roasting and peeling) have been examined. After two year's results the cultivars were classified. 1) Cultivars such as "Pizzuta d'Avola", "Nonpareil", "Fasciuneddu" etc. with few double kernels, regular shape and ivory color after peeling, suitable for roasting salting almond, praline, candy and cake manifacture. 2) Cultivars such as "Yaltano", "Filippo Ceo" and "Picantili" with high percentage of double kernels and irregular shape, suitable only for almond cream, grain for ice-cream, almond sweetmeat.
42878234|Chemical and mechanical fruit thinning have been carried out on freestone ("Dixired", "Redhaven", "Southland" and "Hale sel. Moreschini") and on clingstone ("Dixon", "Coronado") peach trees. Treatments have been done with CEPA (50 ppm), CGA 15281 (150 and 300 ppm) and Morphactin EMD-IT (40 ppm). CEPA has been applied 23 days AFB and at 48-50-55 davs AFB (same time as hand thinning). The CGA 15281 and the Morphactin have been applied only at the time of the hand thinning. On "Southland" variety some trees sprayed with CEPA have been thinned further also by hand in order to obtain a better effect. On this variety with all the treatments the fruit number has been reduced nearly to that of hand thinned trees. Instead the successive hand thinning done on the CEPA sprayed trees at hand thinning time has strongly reduced fruit number and the total production per tree. Good CEPA results have been obtained on "Dixired" and "Redhaven" peach; but, on the contrary, unsatisfactory results have been obtained on "Hale sel. Moreschini" variety. Interesting possibilities of CEPA application have also been obtained on cling peach in Southern Italy. The results obtained with the CGA 15281 and the Morphactin, on the contrary, have been unsatisfactory because of the phytotoxicity and negative influence on fruit size. Regarding mechanical thinning, very interesting results have been obtained on all the varieties using a limb-shaker.
42878235|Nel 1966  stata costituita una collezione varietale presso l'azienda dell'Istituto Sperimentale per la Frutticultura a Fiorano (Roma) comprendente cultivar provenienti da diverse regioni italiane e diversi paesi albicocchicoli del mondo. Negli anni successivi la collezione  stata arricchita di nuove cultivar. A cominciare dal 1970 fino al 1977, ad eccezione del 1971,  stata rilevata l'incidenza della Sclerotinia su 147 cultivar. Il rilievo  stato fatto a primavera (tra la fine di Aprile e l'inizio di Maggio) quando i sintomi della malattia sui giovani germogli sono pi evidenti. La sensibilit  stata valutata mediante una stima visuale secondo un punteggio da 0 a 5. Per meglio evidenziare le differenze tra le cultivar non sono stati fatti i trattamenti durante e immediatamente dopo la fioritura per controllare la malattia. Sono state trovate correlazioni molto nette tra la sensibilit alla Sclerotinia e l'intensit di fioritura e tra Sclerotinia ed epoca di fioritura, una correlazione meno netta, ma statisticamente significativa,  stata pure trovata tra la malattia e la pioggia caduta nella seconda settimana successiva all'inizio della fioritura. In 1966 a variety testing trial has been established with cultivars from different Italian regions and different countries all over the world, at the experimental farm of the Istituto Sperimentale per la Frutticoltura in Fiorano (Rome). In the following years the variety trial has been improved with new cultivars. Starting from 1970 until 1977, except 1971, the incidence of the desease on 147 cultivars was recorded. The observations were made in spring (end of April, beginning of May), when the symptoms of the desease on young shoots are more evident. The sensitivity, determined by visual estimate, was scored from 0 to 5. To emphasize the differences among the cultivars, the desease control sprays during and immediately after bloom were not carried out. Tight correlations between bloom intensity and Monilia sensitivity and between blooming time and desease symptoms were found; a less strong, but statistically significant correlation, between the desease and rainfall in the week following the first 7 days after blossoming was also pointed out.
42878236|Viene riassunto lo stato attuale delle conoscenze in merito ai nuovi orientamenti circa gli impianti densi, i vari portinnesti, le distanze e forme di allevamento pi opportune per coltura del melo.
42878237|Prove precedenti avevano messo in evidenza la possibilit di ridurre significativamente l'incidenza della rugginosit della mela Golden Delicious, trattando con gibberelline i frutticini nelle prime fasi di sviluppo. Si  intrapresa, quindi, una sperimentazione pi ampia per individuare il tipo di gibberellina, il dosaggio, l'epoca e le modalit di trattamento pi efficaci per il contenimento della rugginosit. Si  confermato che la miscela di gibberelline A-A,  pi efficace della GA nel ridurre la rugginosit. L'epoca e il numero dei trattament hanno una notevole influenza: i migliori risultati si sono avuti con sei trattamenti settimanali a cominciare dalla caduta dei petali, cio con trattamenti eseguiti per tutto il periodo di massima sensibilit all'alterazione. On the ground of previous trials showing that it is possible to reduce russeting of Golden Delicious by GA treatments on fruitlets, it was tried to select the most effective type of GA, dose, time and number of treatments. GA, was tested at 100, 200, 400 ppm; GA/, that in previous trials appeared more effective, was tested at 50, 100, 200 ppm. The six gibberellin solutions were applied on six branches of the same tree according to the schedule that appears in tab. 1. Each group of treatments was replicated on ten trees. All fruits of the 360 treated branches were picked at ripening and scored for russet with scores from 0 (smooth) to 9 (completely russet). In the same way were scored all other not treated fruits of each tree. Taking as 100 the mean russet score of not treated fruits, the percent russet score of each treated fruit was computed. The results (tab. 4 and 5) show that only GA / significantly reduced russeting; greatest reduction was obtained with four or six weekly treatments of GA / beginning from petal fall. These results suggest that, to prevent russet, it is necessary to keep high the GA content of fruitlets during all the period of susceptibility to russet.
42878242|Nel 1975 e nel 1976 sono state condotte nella Piana del Sele (Salerno) prove rivolte ad indagare sugli effetti di tre densit d'investimento (40.000-60.000-80.000 piante per ha ) e di tre dosi di azoto (60-120-180 Kg/ha ) su pomodoro, cv. Roma selezione Istituto, in vista della raccolta meccanica. Dai risultati ottenuti  emerso che con il crescere della densit d'investimento il prodotto maturo aumenta, mentre il peso unitario delle bacche, il prodotto maturo per pianta ed il numero di bacche per pianta diminuiscono. Nelle altre frazioni di prodotto (verde, appena invaiato ed alterato), e nei risultati di alcune analisi chimiche eseguite sulle bacche mature non sono state riscontrate differenze di rilievo per effetto delle diverse densit allo studio. Per quel che riguarda l'azoto si  notato che il prodotto maturo aumenta solo passando dalla dose 60 alla dose 120 Kg/ha, e non da questa alla successiva. Il prodotto appena invaiato aumenta con le dosi di azoto; e con la dose pi elevata aumenta pure il prodotto alterato. Nessuna differenza si  riscontrata negli altri dati biologici, produttivi e qualitativi presi in esame. Le varie interazioni densit  azoto sono risultate tutte non significative. In order to achieve an economical mechanical harvesting of tomatoes, an experiment was carried out during two years (1975-76) in the Sele river plain (Salerno). Three plant pupulations (40.000 -60.000 -80.000 plants/ha) and three nitrogen levels (60 -120 -180 Kg/ha) were tested on cv.  Roma . Once-over harvest yields were greatly affected by the plant population. As this increased, the production of ripe fruits per hectar increased, while the mean weight of fruits, the production of ripe fruits per plant and number of fruits per plant decreased. Differences in the green, turned and cull fruits and in some qualitative characteristics did not result owing to the plant density. As to the nitrogen fertilization, the yield of ripe fruit was increased when the fertilizer applied rose from 60 to 120 Kg/ha of N; no difference was found between 120 and 180 Kg/ha of N. The turned fruits yield was increased progressively by the doses of nitrogen applied; the highest dose increased also the production of cull fruits per nctar The fertilizer applications did not influence other biological, productive and qualitative data. No significant interaction between plant density and nitrogen fertilization levels was found.
42878243|Si riferiscono i risultati di una sperimentazione biennale effettuata in provincia di Salerno al fine di accertare l'influenza esplicata dalla concimazione minerale sulla resa del pomodoro coltivato in serra riscaldata. Sono state confrontate tre dosi di N (0-100 e 200 Kg/ha), tre di PO (0-120 e 240 Kg/ha) e due di KO (0 e 100 Kg/ha) combinate tra loro in modo fattoriale. La produzione complessiva  aumentata linearmente al crescere delle dosi di fosforo fino ai livelli pi elevati sperimentati. La concimazione azotata, alla dose di 100 Kg/ha, ha aumentato significativamente le rese dell'I 1% rispetto al controllo; con il livello maggiore, per, l'incremento non  apparso proporzionale alla dose somministrata. La dose di 200 Kg/ha di risultata inefficace in assenza di concimazione fosfatica o con 120 Kg/ha di PO mentre ha esaltato la produzione in misura rimarchevole in presenza di 240 Kg/ha di PO. Nessuna efficacia sulla produzione totale ha mostrato la concimazione potassica che neppure in combinazione cori gli altri due elementi ha fatto riscontrare effetti statisticamente apprezzabili. Ci in relazione, probabilmente, alla elevata dotazione del terreno in potassio assimilabile. Sulla precocit di maturazione hanno influito favorevolmente il fosforo ed il potassio; la concimazione azotata, invece, sembra aver esplicato un effetto negativo al riguardo. In order to obtain information on manuring tomatoes, fertilizer trials were carried out in heated greenhouse in Southern Italy during 1974-1976. Three levels of nitrogen (0-100-200 Kg/ha N) were tested in factorial combination with three levels of phosphorus (0-100-240 Kg/ha PO ) and two levels of potassium (0-100 Kg/ha KO). Total yield increased linearly with increasing rates of P up to the highest level applied. N-fertilization at 100 Kg/ha increased significantly yields by 11% compared with the controls, but at higher levels the increase was not proportional to the dose applied. Highly significant positive interactions were found bertween nitrogen and phosphorus; the response to one nutrient was greater when the other nutrient was not limiting. Since the soils were rich in available potash the effect of K fertilization on total yield was not significant, but the early yield was increased. The ripening was delayed by the highest levels of N and hastended by P supply.
42878244|Nel corso di una sperimentazione per individuare il tipo di gibberellina, l'epoca e le modalit di applicazione pi favorevoli per il controllo della rugginosit, vennero notati e rilevati effetti collaterali della gibberellina sulla forma e sulla partenocarpia dei frutti di Golden Delicious. Sia la gibberellina A che la miscela di GA e GA irrorate sui frutticini nelle prime fasi di sviluppo determinano l'allungamento dei frutti, aumentano l'allegagione e inducono partenocarpia. Tali effetti sembrano influenzati pi dal numero e dall'epoca delle somministrazioni che non dalla concentrazione delle soluzioni. During trials aiming to select type of gibberellin and time of treatments most suitable for reducing russeting of Golden Delicious apples, data were also collected about collateral effects of GA on shape of fruits, fruit setting and parthenocarpy. The experimental design for reducing russeting considered treatments with GA 3 at 100, 200 and 400 ppm and with GA_ at 50, 100, 200 ppm. in different times according to the schedule reported in tab. 1. At ripening, all treated and untreated fruits of each plant were picked: longitudinal and transversal diameters were measured and number of seeds of each fruit was counted. Both GA and the mixture GA-GA  sprayed on developing fruitlets after blooming caused significant lenghtening of fruits (tab. 3), increased fruit set and induced development of parthenocarpic fruits (tab. 4). All effects seemed to depend more on number and time of treatments than on concentration of solutions.
42878245|Da osservazioni sulla dinamica delle popolazioni di Ditylenchus dipsaci (Khn) Filipjev su Fragola (Fragaria vesca L.), effettuate lungo il versante ionico della Basilicata nel 1973-1974,  stato notato che, durante la stagione autunnale (ottobre-novembre), le popolazioni del nematode incrementano di densit dopo la stasi estiva e raggiungono le cariche pi elevate a fine inverno (febbraio-marzo), dopo una ulteriore pausa dell'attivit riproduttiva in dicembre-gennaio. In prove sperimentali di lotta chimica i risultati migliori con incrementi di produzione del 91 e 82% rispetto al testimone sono stati ottenuti, in un fragoleto di nuovo impianto, con trattamenti a base di Fenamifos, somministrato al terreno 1 mese prima del trapianto alla dose di 50 Kg. p.a./ha o di Oxamyl, irrorato sulle foglie, alla dose di 10 1. p.a./ha, suddivisa in quattro trattamenti bimestrali, dall'ottobre al marzo. Il Bromuro di metile, alla dose di 60 g/m, il Dazomet, alla dose di 500 Kg./ha e 1'1, 3 dicloropropene, alla dose di 200 1/ha, hanno incrementato le produzioni rispettivamente del 64, 55 e 45% nei confronti del testimone. In un altro esperimento, effettuato in un fragoleto in fase di senescenza,  stato osservato che il numero dei trattamenti con prodotti sistemici pu ridursi a due, da eseguirsi in novembre, in coincidenza con la ripresa d'autunno dell'attivit biologica del nematode ed in febbraio-marzo, quando le popolazioni del parassita raggiungono le densit pi elevate. In questo caso, Tionazina, alla dose di 551 p.a./ha, Oxamyl, alla dose di 51. p.a./ha o Carbofuran, a quella di 24 Kg. p.a./ha, hanno ridotto significativamente l'infestazione del nematode e indotto incrementi di produzione compresi tra il 60 ed il 90%. Studies on the population dynamics of Ditylenchus dipsaci (Khn) Filipjev on strawberry (Fragaria vesca L.) have been carried out in Basilicata in 1973-1974. The nematode population densities increase at first in October-November, after a summer diapause, and reach the maximum level in February-March. In replant experiments either phenamiphos, at the rate of 50 Kg(a. i.)/ha., applied to the soil at transplanting, or oxamyl , at the rate of 10l(a. i.)/ha, applied by foliar sprays in four bimestral treatmens, from October to March, increased the production of 91 and 82% with respect to the control. Methyl bromide, at the rate of 60 g/m, Dazomet at 500 Kg/ha, and 1,3 dicloropropene at 200 1/ha gave yield increases of 64, 55 and 45% respectively compared with the control. Chemical treatments carried out in a three year old strawberry field showed that thionazin, at the rate of 551 (a.i.)/ha., oxamyl at 51(a.i.)/ha. or Carbofuran at the rate of 24 Kg(a.i.)/ha., all of them sprayed on the foliage, in November and in February-March, reduced significantly the nematode population densities and increased the yields from 60 to 90%.
42878246|The purpose of this study, carried out in Umbria, (Central Italy) on the cv. Moraiolo, was to find out the stage fructification-cycle corresponding to the maximum amount of extractable oil and to test the opportunity of the ethylenepromotors in olive harvesting. The results obtained showed that the best harvesting period lies within the range of 15-20 days: this period can be detected by a recurrent evaluation of a number of parameters such as the fruit drop and the oil-yield. Moreover the study allowed to conclude that, regardless of the harvesting-time, manual harvesting is more profitable than the integrated harvesting with Alsol and CEPA. The harvesting cost has been strongly affected by the cost of the fruit-drop inducing substances and by the pre-harvesting fruit-drop they determined. These phytoregulators however have been effective in reducing the removal force of fruits; their use could be an alternative to manual harvesting, consistently with the price, in those areas where olive crop can still be profitably exploited but are not liable to mechanical harvesting.
42878247|Prove metodologiche in vitro sulla germinabilit del polline e sulla crescita del budello sono state condotte su due cultivar di pesco:  May Grand  (nettarina) e  Cresthaven  in funzione di differenti concentrazioni di ioni calcio (come Ca(NO) e boro (come H)BO), addizionate al substrato colturale di MASCHARENAS e MACHLIS (Le). In generale, l'effetto positivo del calcio  stato pi marcato rispetto a quello del boro ed anche pi evidente nella cv.  Cresthaven  rispetto alla cv.  May Grand , dimostrandosi quest'ultima meno pronta e meno atta ad una buona germinazione. In particolare, rispetto al controllo, il catione calcio ha sempre indotto un aumento della percentuale di germinabilit e della crescita del budello senza toccare soglie inibitorie, che invece sono state raggiunte e superate dalle pi elevate concentrazioni di boro (da 0.020% a 0.030%); la concentrazione ottimale dello ione calcio  stata diversa nelle due cultivars (rispettivamente 0.1310M per la germinazione di  Cresthaven  e 0.43 10M per la germinabilit di  May Grand  nonch per la crescita del budello in entrambe le cultivars) mentre quella pi favorevole dello ione boro  risultata dello 0.005% e dello 0.010% in entrambe le cultivars. La temperatura di incubazione di 25 C  risultata preferibile a quelle di 20 C e 30 C sia per la germinabilit che per lo sviluppo dei budelli, tuttavia, a 30 C, si  notato, nelle suddette cultivar, un effetto negativo sul processo germinativo. The effect of different concentrations of Calcium (as Ca(NO) 4HO) and Boron (as HBO) in the nutrient media of MASCHARENAS, MACHLIS (1964) on pollen germination and subsequent tube growth of  May Grand  nectarine and  Cresthaven  peach, was tested. In general Calcium had a greater influence, improving pollen germination better than Boron, the response being more evident whit  Cresthaven  than with  May Grand . In comparison with the control, Calcium induced an increased percentage of germination and lenght of tubes without reaching inhibitory level. Boron become inhibitory to germination and pollen tube elongation from 0.020% to 0.030%. The optimum concentration of Calcium for pollen germination was 0.1310 M and 0.4310 M rispectively for  Cresthaven  and  May Grand . The latter concentration was optimum for tube development in both cultivars. The Boron optimum concentration for pollen germination and growth of both cultivars ranged between 0.005% and 0.010%. The best temperature for pollen germination and development was 25 C; at 20 C and 30C, pollens from both cultivars exhibited a reduced growth of their tubes; at 30 C the negative effect was especially noticeable on germination. -
42878248|Vengono riferiti i risultati ottenuti sulla suscettibilit all'attacco da Saissetta oleae di 15 cultivar di olivo da mensa e a duplice attitudine. Dai rilievi condotti (% di rami colpiti e numero di cocciniglie/unit di ramo) risulta che nessuna cultivar presenta immunit di campo. Sulla base di un indice di attacco, calcolato per ogni cultivar moltiplicando il valore percentuale dei due parametri presi in considerazione,  stato elaborato un sistema di punteggio da 0 a 5, secondo il quale sono state classificate le singole cultivar. Dall'indice di attacco, calcolato globalmente su tutte le cultivar, per ogni punto cardinale, emerge che la parte di chioma pi attaccata  quella esposta a nord ed est. Il lavoro  stato svolto con la collaborazione tecnica di G. Benelli e P. Nannini. The results obtained on the susceptibility of 15 olive cultivars, to Saissetia oleae are reported The trials (% infested branches and number of scales -branch unit) evidentiate that no cultivar has field immunity. A grading system from 0 to 5, on an attack index calculated for each cultivar by multiplying the percentage value of the two parameters under consideration, was applied. From the index calculated on all the cultivars, for each cardinal point it was found that the part of the canopy exposed to north and east was mostly attacked.
42878249|In olivi autoradicati cv.  Frangivento  allevati in coltura idroponica si  determinata Pinfluenza che un diverso stato nutritivo pu esercitare sulla struttura anatomica delle foglie. Tutti i caratteri considerati (spessore del tessuto, palizzata e. lacunoso, porosit), sono apparsi notevolmente modificabili e senza alcuna correlazione fra loro. The influence of a different nutritional condition on anatomic leaf structure was determined on self-rooted hydroponic grown olives cv.  Frangivento . All the characters taken in consideration (thickness of palissade and spongy tissues, and porosity) appeared sensibly modified and uncorrelated between themselves.
42878253|After a general description of different organs of angiosperm flower, cell wall structure of pollen is described. Microsporgenesis, macrosporogenesis, pollination and fertilization are developed with particular emphasis to their morphology and physiology in fruit trees and the influence of atmospheric conditions. Some problem concerning pollen germination are discussed such as the release of different proteins from cell wall and their implications in selfincompatibility. The synthesis of different types of RNAs during pollen germination and tube growth is pointed out and compared with what occurs during microsporogenesis.
42878254|Self-incompatibility, which occurs in more than 250 genera including most of fruit species, is defined as the inability of fertile hermaphrodite seed-plant to produce zygotes after selfing. The positive or negative implicatioons of self-incompatibility are considered, and on establishing the outbreeding, is considered. The various types of self-incompatibility due to the interaction between pollen and pistil, under control either of the haploid (gametophytic sistem) or of the diploid genome (sporophytic system) are considered. The distribution of self-incompatibility among the different fruit species has been reviewed and the distinction has been pointed out between self-incompatibility and other types of sterility. The main methods for overcoming the self-incompatibility barrier and some of the results so far obtained are discussed.
42878255|Gli Autori puntualizzano i problemi della fertilit nel melo e nel pero. A tal fine vengono analizzate e discusse, in ordine cronologico, le diverse tappe dei processi di induzione e differenziazione fiorale, di gametogenesi maschile e femminile, di allegagione e cascola evidenziando i rapporti tra fertilit potenziale dell'albero nelle diverse fasi fenologiche e intervento dei fattori ambientali e colturali. Al fine di rendere di interesse applicativo il lavoro, viene fata una rassegna delle conoscenze sul comportamento varietale, sulle caratteristiche genetiche e sugli interventi agronomici pi opportuni per assicurare le migliori condizioni per l'impollinazione e la fecondazione e quindi per ottenere una fruttificazione costante ed elevata anche sul piano qualitativo. The Authors point out the problems of apple and pear fertility. Induction and flower differentiation, male and female gametogenesis, fruit set and fruit drop are reviewed in chronological order, dealing with the relationship among the potential fertility of the tree during the different phenological phases and the role of environmental and cultural conditions. In order to give to the work a practical value, a review is made of variety behaviour, genetic charachteristics and commonest field practices to improve pollination, fertilisation and finally a steady, high and good quality crop.
42878256|Secondo alcuni autori per fertilit del pesco si intende il numero di gemme a fiore per cm di ramo misto, secondo altri la percentuale di allegagione di fiori. Le cultivar di albicocco sono classificate secondo 4 gruppi di produttivit tenendo conto sia del rapporto gemme a fiore/gemme a legno, che della lunghezza dell'internodo e della freqenza di rami misti, rami anticipati e dardi. Sono esaminati i vari aspetti della fertilit: differenziazione e cascola delle gemme a fiore, impollinazione, fecondazione, allegagione, cascola dei frutti. Si riportano le principali cultivar secondo classi di produttivit proposte per il pesco da Bellini e Mariotti (1976) e per l'albicocco da Guerriero e Xiloyannis (1975). Cultivar di pesco con grado di produttivit elevato sono: "Collins", "Early Redhaven", "Jerseyqueen", "June Gold", "Pekin", "Prodigiosa M.", "Royal Gold". Cultivar di albicocco con grado di produttivit elevato sono: "Abate", "Acqua del Serino", "Boccuccia", "Cafona", "Monaco". According to some Authors as fertility for the peach they mean the number of flower buds per cm of twig, according to others the set percent. The apricot cultivais have been classified according to 4 yielding groups considering both the flower buds/wood buds ratio and the internode length and the number of 1 year old twigs, lateral shoots and spurs. The various aspects of the fertility are pointed out: flower bud formation, pollination, setting, fruit drop. The main cultivars, according to productivity classes, proposed for the peach by Bellini, Mariotti (1976) and for the apricot by Guerriero, Xiloyannis (1975), are listed. Peach cultivars highly productive are: "Collins", "Early Redhaven", "Jerseyqueen", "June Gold", "Pekin", "Prodigiosa M.", "Royal Gold". Apricot cultivars highly productive are: "Abate", "Acqua del Serino", "Boccuccia", "Cafona", "Monaco".
42878257|The success of commercial industry of sweet cherry is largely dependent by biological factors such as self- and intercompatibility among varieties. After having summarized the morpho-physiological bases of flower bud differentiation, blooming, pollination and fertilization, the Author pointed out the genetical aspects of incompatibility and reviews the forms of sterility due to the climatic and agronomical factors. The pattern of growth of the fruit after fertilization for early- and late- ripening varieties is also discussed as well as the increase of the fertility by means of agronomical and genetical improvement. A list of pollinators for Italian sweet cherry varieties, and of incompatibility groups are reported.
42878258|Le principali specie di susino sono distinte con un criterio geografico in tre grandi gruppi, e cio: susini euroasiatici, cinogiapponesi e americani. Vengono riportate le principali caratteristiche morfologiche degli alberi, come l'habitus vegetativo e di fruttificazione, nonch le cause intrinseche ed esterne che influenzano tali caratteri. In base all'epoca di fioritura le cultivar vengono classificate in quattro gruppi: a fioritura precoce; medio-precoce; medio tardiva e tardiva. Viene inoltre messo in evidenza come l'andamento stagionale ed in particolare la temperatura atmosferica abbiano una influenza notevole sulle varie fasi fenologiche, come la fioritura. Passando ad esaminare i fenomeni connessi all'impollinazione ed alla fecondazione, vengono riportate le varie forme di sterilit (morfologica, genetica e fisiologica), in base alle quale le cultivar sono distinte in tre gruppi: autocompatibili, parzialmente autocompatibili ed autoincompatibili. Segue quindi la trattazione dell'allegagione, della cascola (che viene distinta in tre fasi successive) e della formazione del frutto e del seme. Viene poi riportata la letteratura pi recente sull'impiego dei fitoregolatori per il controllo della fertilit. Infine si accenna al miglioramento genetico in funzione della fertilit. The main plum species are divided into three large groups according to a geographical criterion, that is: euro-asiatic, chino-japanese and american plums. The main morphological characters of the trees, such as the vegetative and fruiting habitus, are reported and also the intrinsic and exeternal causes which influence these characters. The cultivars are classified in four groups, according to their flowering time: early flowering, medium-early, medium-late and late. The influence of the seasonal trend and particulary of atmospheric temperature on the various phenological phases such as flowering, is placed in evidence, connected with pollination and fertilization. The various forms of sterility (morphological, genetic and physiological) are reported, according to which the cultivars are divided in three groups: self-fruitful, partially self-fruitful and self-unfruitful. Fruit set and fruit drop follow (this latter being distinct in three subsequent phases) and also fruit and seed formation. At last the more recent literature on the use of phytoregulators and fertility control and breeding programs is reported.
42878259|The Author reviews the present state of knowledge on some filbert biological processes and relative cultivation problems, such as: type and functionality of the buds; male and female inflorescences and flowers; flower bud induction; the first stage of the flower bud morphologic differentiation; chilling requirements of buds; flowering dichogamy and its relationships with the environmental factors; resistance to cold of the catkins and female inflorescences; the time and duration of male and female bloom; pollen viability; compatibility between the gametes of the same and different varieties; receptivity of the stigma to the germination of the pollen; pollen quality and pollination; evolution of the female gametophyte; fertilization and fruit development; the dropping of pistillate flower clusters, unfertilized ovaries and fruits; the fenomena of blank before and after fertilization; the most important cultural practices and the genetic improvement as means for increasing the fertility of the plants.
42878260|Since on olive-growing there are an always more accentuated flower deficiency, it is necessary to make the flower biology deeper so that garantee the maximum of fertility. The determination of time in which the cultural practices can affect the flower bud differentiation, to employ as flowering regulator, is of fundamental importance. The flowering, in the inflorescence and in the tree, is gradual, therefore the stigma vitality is 4-5 day long or more, according to clima. While the pollen emission is more brief. On the olive the ovary sterility is frequent and the physiologic sterility is normal, therefore each cultivar cannot be fertilized by own pollen, but by that of interfertile cultivars, for this purpose the time of cultivar flowering and the results of interfertility with the list of the effective pollinators for each cultivar are carried out. After the fruit set, there are two periods of big fruit drop, depending from nutritional or climate reasons. On this manner the tree adjusts the fruit production to the own productive power. But it is possible to reduce it by proper, rational, cultural practices.
42878263|La vite  una pianta che non presenta grossi problemi a livello di differenziazione delle gemme, fenomeno influenzato, in particolare, dall'azoto. Durante l'antesi si verificano, invece, difficolt di caduta della caliptra nei fiori fisiologicamente femminili od anomali, che possono essere leggermente corrette don ormoni (benziladenina) ed elementi nutritivi (B). La colatura pu essere diminuita con interventi diversi, ma soprattutto riducendo la vigoria, somministrando elementi minerali (B e Zn in particolare) gli ormoni (gibberellina, benziladenina), anche per accrescere la partenocarpia. La gibberellina in fioritura pu agire da diradante per la sua azione pollinicida. La cascola pre-raccolta non  molto frequente in viticoltura, ma  difficile da prevenire. Il miglioramento della fertilit della vite viene spesso ottenuto anche per via genetica (selezione clonale, incroci, pi difficilmente con l'ibridazione e la poliploidia). I problemi posti dalla biologia fiorale della vite sono pertanto numerosi ma non sono insolubili; pi difficile  invece realizzare simultaneamente una fertilit elevata e la qualit dei prodotti. No big problem in generally met in bud morphogenesis of the vine, a phaenomenon largely influenced by nitrogen nutrition. Difficulties may met by anomalous of feminine flowers in the detachment of the calyptra. Such inconveniences may be partly corrected with hormone (benzyladenine) or nutrient (Boron) sprays. Flowers and fruits drop may be reduced with different interventions; mostly reducing vigour, or with mineral nutrient (particularly B or Zn), administration or hormone (benzyladenine and gibberellin) sprays also in order to increase parthenocarpy. Gibberellin may also act as a killing agent of pollen and therefore a thinner, during flowering. Preharvest drop is not frequent in vinegrape but it is very difficult to prevent. Genetical means such as clonal selection and intervarietal crosses, or polyploidy and hybridation at a minor extent, are a frequent for improving fertility. Flowering biology seems therefore concerned with many but not insoluble problems. A bigger difficulty however is met in obtaining both a high fertility and a good quality of the crop.
42878264| stata condotta un'indagine sulla biologia fiorale delle cultivar di olivo da olio pi diffuse in Abruzzo ("Dritta di Moscufo", "Gentile di Chieti", "Moraiolo" e "Leccino"). Dai risultati della prova  emerso che le cultivar esaminate sono autoincompatibili e pertanto, richiedono, per una buona fruttificazione, idonei impollinatori. La "Dritta di Moscufo" e la "Gentile di Chieti" sono interfertili e quest'ultima  risultata, tra le cultivar saggiate, quella con pi spiccate attitudini impollinanti nei confronti della Dritta di Moscufo. Il Leccino ed il Moraiolo sono interincompatibili ma esplicano una buona azione fecondante nei confronti della "Dritta di Moscufo" e della "Gentile di Chieti". La percentuale dei fiori con l'ovario abortito  risultata di circa il 10% per le cultivar Dritta di Moscufo, Gentile di Chieti, e Leccino e del 25,9% per il Moraiolo. Il polline delle cultivar esaminate ha fornito, su prove in laboratorio, buone percentuali di germinazione comprese tra il 35% della Dritta di Moscufo ed il 42% del Leccino. Dal punto di vista pratico la consociazione tra le cultivar "Dritta di Moscufo" e "Gentile di Chieti", resa possibile dalla loro interfertilit si reputa vantaggiosa per i riflessi positivi che si avrebbero nell'impiego della manodopera e dei mezzi meccanici durante le operazioni di raccolta del prodotto. In this paper the results of a study on the flower biology of the cultivars of the most widespread oil olive-trees of Abruzzo ("Dritta di Moscufo", "Gentile di Chieti", "Moraiolo" and "Leccino") are presented. The results have shown that the cultivars studied are self-incompatible and therefore suitable pollinators are needed for a good fruit yield. The "Dritta di Moscufo" and the "Gentile di Chieti" are interfertile; the latter was among the cultivars under study the best pollinator for the "Dritta di Moscufo". The "Leccino" and the "Moraolo" are interincompatible, but they show a good suitability as pollinators for the "Dritta di Moscufo" and the "Gentile di Chieti". The percentage of the flowers with an aborted ovary has been about 10% in the cultivars "Dritta di Moscufo", "Gentile di Chieti" and "Leccino" and 25,9% in the "Moraiolo". The pollen of the cultivars under study has shown good percentages of germination in laboratory-tests, which lie between 35% in the "Dritta di Moseudo" and 42% in the "Leccino". From a practical standpoint the mixture between the cultivars "Dritta di Moscufo" and "Gentile di Chieti" which is possible because of their interfertility is considered to have advantages in connection with the use of labour and of harvesting-machines.
42878265|Mediante separazione con diversi sistemi cromatografici e determinazioni fluorimetriche particolarmente sensibili (5  10-10M) sono state dosate nel polline di melo cv. "Golden Delicious" e "Starkrimson" tre poliammine (spermina, spermidina e putrescina), una monoammina (etanolammina) e Parginina. Sono stati separati ed individuati inoltre il triptofano, Tistidina, la lisina e Tornitala. Polyamines are growth regulators widely distributed in plant and animal kingdom. They are physiologically related to nucleic acids and probably may be indicators of fertility in pollen, as it was suggested for proline. Very few informations are available about the presence of polyamines in pollens. Apple pollen of two cultivars "Starkrimson" and "Golden Delicious M were collected in 1977 and 1978 and stored at  20 C under dehydration by NaOH. Viability and germinability were controlled (over 90%). Two different Chromatographie systems and fluorimetrie determinations of high sensibility (10 and 5.10 M) developed respectively by Villanueva and Adlakha and by Smith and Best, were used to separate and evaluate polyamines and other aminic compounds. It was possible also to separate and identify tryptophane, histidine, lysine and ornithine. The amounts of polyamines (spermine, spermidine and putrescine) ethanolamine and arginine depend not only on the cultivar but also on different physiological conditions of the trees in the years.
42878266|Sour cherry cvs. "Marasca Luxardo", "Marasca seconda", "Richmorency" and "Visciolina di Carpegna" are resulted self compatible, "Marascone rosso", "Petrovaradinka" and "Sentevska" self incompatible. A list of pollinators for seventeen cultivars of sweet cherry is reported and the incompatibility between "Bella di Pistola" and "Bella di Barbanti" is pointed out. The Authors also deal with some researches on pollen in vitro germination and on a new method for evaluating pollen production of the anthers by means of the Biirker's haemacytometer. Trials made in 1978 with "mentor pollen" on "Mora di Cazzano" and "Durone nero I" had no positive effect.
42878267|Un'indagine morfo-istologica sulla microsporogenesi, sulla germinabibilit del polline e sulla auto-ed etero-compatibilit delle nettarine  stata condotta su 15 cultivar (" Armking", "Early Sungrand", "Fairlane", "Fantasia" ,"Flamekist", "Flavortop", "Independence"," May Grand", "Moon Grand", "Nectared 2", "Nectared 6", "Nectared 8", "Nectarina", "Rhone Gold", "Stark Red Gold"); nonch su due cultivar di pesco ("Cresthaven" e "Dixired") come termini di confronto, a Cadriano (Bologna). Dette cultivar presentano fiori morfologicamente completi, con abbondante produzione di polline, ad eccezione di "Rhone Gold" che ha rivelato una forma di sterilit morfologica con antere atrofiche. Il polline delle nettarine  risultato germinabile ("in vitro") non meno di quello dei peschi di confronto, sebbene sia emersa, fra le diverse cultivar, una certa variabilit. La germinabilit  risultata massima per tutte le cultivar quando il polline  stato prelevato alla deiscenza delle antere. Le nettarine sono risultate potenzialmente fertili, auto-ed etero-compatibili fra loro come nei confronti delle cultivar di pesco. Tale compatibilita  risultata reciproca sebbene con minore efficacia da parte del polline di pesco. La tecnica della demasculazione (recisione dell'apparato staminifero e dei petali) ha ridotto, soprattutto nel pesco, la fertilit dei fiori. La capacit impollinatrice delle diverse cultivar non sembra essere correlabile, nei limiti di svolgimento delle prove, n con la germinabilit, ncon lo sviluppo del tubetto "in vitro". Morpho-histological investigations on the microsporogenesis, pollen germination and selfand cross-pollination among 15 nectarine varieties ("Armking", "Early Sungrand", "Fairlane", "Fantasia", "Flamekist", "Flavortop", "Independence", "May Grand", "Nectared 2", "Nectared 6", "Nectared 8", "Nectarina", "Rhone Gold", "Stark Red Gold") in comparison with two peach varieties ("Cresthaven" and "Dixired"), were carried out at the Cadriano Exp. Center (Bologna). All the varieties showed regular flowers and rich pollen anthers, except "Rhone Gold", that resulted male-sterile (atrophie anthers with poor pollen). Pollens picked up from flowers at the anthers dehiscence, appeared more germinable that the same pollens picked up from flowers at the balloon stage. "Dixired" and "Flavortop" gave the highest germinability of the pollen, until 85%; while pollen tubes of "Cresthaven", "Flavortop", "Independence" e "May Grand" resulted longer than other ones. Effects of self-pollination on fruit set and yield resulted not related with germinability and lenght of pollen tubes in vitro. From cross-pollination assays on emasculated flowers, among "Cresthaven", "Dixired", "Flavortop", "May Grand", "Nectared 2" and "Rhone Gold", the cv. "Flavortop" was the best pollinator; emasculation reduced the potential fertility of the flowers.
42878268|Gli Autori hanno condotto un'indagine sulle esigenze di impollinazione di otto fra le nuove cultivar "Golden-simili" in confronto a "Golden Delicious" e ad un suo mutante spur ("Stark spur").  risutato che: 1) "Mutsu" e "Missouri A 20-71" sono autosterili e, con meno evidenza anche "Ed Gould Golden"; 2) Sono risultate parzialmente autocompatibili oltre a "Golden Delicious", "Ozark Gold" e "Prime Gold'; le selezioni canadesi "CDA 9E/13-47" e "10 C/18-33". 3) Nonostante la stretta linea parentale, le "Golden-simili" possono essere impollinate da "Stark Spur Golden" e, con l'eccezione di "Mutsu" ed "Ed Gould Golden", anche da "Golden Delicious". In complesso la loro efficacia impollinante  per nettamente inferiore a quella di "Stark Delicious" con un'allegagione media del 38% uguale alla libera impollinazione. 4)  risultato compatibile l'incrocio "Golden Delicious" x "Stark Spur Golden" (7 semi per frutto), ma scarsamente il reciproco (2,6 semi per frutto). In generale nella "Golden Delicious" il polline del clone spur risulta pi efficiente di quello standard. The Authors carried out a trial on the fertility of eight new "Golden-like" apple varieties, in comparison with "Golden Delicious" and its mutant "Stark Spur Golden Delicious". The results are summarized as follows: 1. Triploid varieties "Mutsu" and "Missouri A 20-71", and with less evidence "Ed Gould Golden", "Virginia Gold", have proved to be self-sterile. 2. Partially self-compatible varieties: "Ozark Gold", "Prime Gold", and the Canadian selection "CDA 9E/13-47" and 10 C/18-33". 3. In spite of the close parent line the cross pollination of the Golden-like varieties with "Stark spur Golden Delicious" and "Golden Delicious" (with the exception of "Mutsu" and "Ed Gould Golden") gave a pretty satisfactory fruit set, but not with the same extent as when "Red Delicious" was pollinator. 4. The cross between "Golden Delicious" and "Stark Spur Golden Delicious "appelared compatible (7 seeds per fruit) but much less the reverse (2,6 seeds per fruit). Generally the pollen of the spur type resulted more efficient than that of "Golden Delicious".
42878269|L'indagine  stata compiuta sugli albicocchi cvv, "S. Castrese" e "Cafona". I prelievi, iniziati il 28-1-1976 sono proseguiti fino al 30-4-1976, ad intervalli di tre giorni. I danni delle gelate si sono riscontrati a livello del mesocarpo, dell'endocarpo e dell'ovulo per entrambe le cultivar. Per la sola "Cafona"  emerso un fenomeno del tutto peculiare, cio la costante presenza di tre ovuli nella cavit ovarica. Questo fatto potrebbe creare condizioni favorevoli all'aborto embrionale e quindi aggravare seriamente la cascola naturale. A research has been carried out on two apricot cultivars: "S. Castrese" and "Cafona". Samples of flower buds first and fruits later have been picked up, every three days, starting from January 28th till April 30th. In both cultivars, injuries have been observed in mesocarp, endocarp and ovule. In "Cafona", usually the differentiation of three ovules in the same ovary has been observed, and that seems to increase the abortion of the embryo.
42878270|All'inizio del riposo invernale nel 1976 e nel 1977 sono stati prelevati rami misti di diverse cv. di albicocco. Scopo del lavoro era di vedere se esisteva una correlazione tra accumulo di ore di freddo e contenuto in ABA nelle gemme a fiore. L'analisi dell'ABA mediante G.C. ha mostrato un aumento dell'inibitore con l'aumentare delle ore di freddo;  stata constatata anche una relazione tra ABA e portinnesto. A trial has been carried out for two years on apricot cultivars, to study the relationship between the chilling time and ABA content in flower buds. Starting the rest, shoots were collected for each cultivar and stored for different time at+5 C, then analyzed for ABA content in flover buds. The analisys by G.C. showed an increase of ABA content for each cultivar related to the chilling lengh; the highier level of hormn was observed in late blooming cultivars. A relationship was observed between ABA content in flowers buds and grafting.
42878271|In questa prova si  indagato sulla vitalit del polline di "Picolit giallo" utilizzando la colorazione di Alexander. Dai risultati  emerso che il suo polline  vitale per un 90%, con la vitalit pari a quella del "Tocai friulano" di poco inferiore a quella dePCabernet frane" e "Corvina veronese" e di poco superiore a quella del" Verduzzo friulano."  emerso esistere differenza sulla vitalit del polline in funzione dell'epoca di fioritura e non in funzione della provenienza o se l'infiorescenza era libera o insacchettata. This experiment is an inquiry into pollen viability of Vitis vinifera L. cv. "Picolit giallo" using Alexander staining. From results it appeared that the pollen of "Picolit giallo" is viable about 90%, with equal viability to "Tocai friulano", a somewhat inferior viability to "Cabernet franc" and "Corvina veronese", and a somewhat superior viability to "Verduzzo friulano". From this experiment pollen viability appeared to be dependant on the flowering time of the bunch of grapes and not on the origin or whether the inflorescence was covered or not.
42878272|Sul Picolit giallo, cultivar di grande interesse economico e scientifico, si sono condotte per un triennio delle prove sulla germinabilit del polline per constatare il comportamento di nuovi e diversi biotipi. In nessun caso il Picolit giallo ha presentato pollini germinati, al controrio di quanto  stato riscontrato sulle cultivar di Cabernet frane, Verduzzo friulano e Tocai friulano, usate come termine di confronto. "In trials carried on during three years, some new biotypes of Yellow Picolit grape vari ty have been tested for pollen germination and behaviour. In no case did Picolit pollen germinate in comparison with Cabernet franc, Verduzzo friulano and Tocai friulano".
42878273| stata condotta in un vigneto di "Cabernet frane", variet spesso soggetta, a fenomeni di colatura, cascola ed acinellatura che influenzano negativamente la produzione, una indagine atta a verificare le reali possibilit aplicative di alcuni prodotti, in confronto con pratiche di cimatura. Nell'ambito della prova  emersa la possibilit di incrementare la produzione sia attraverso cimature intense effettuate all'inizio della fioritura, sia con l'uso di alcuni fitoregolatori. Tali incrementi produttivi hanno influito per sul grado zuccherino abbassandolo e ci soprattutto nelle tesi in cui si sono usati i fitoregolatori. A research was carried out, on a vineyard of "Cabernet franc" variety, whose production is often negatively influenced by shelling, fruit drop and shoot-berry, to verify the possibilities of applying phytoregulators and topping. During the trials the possibility of increasing the production both with intensive topping carried out at the beginning of flowering and with the application of some phitoregulators emerged. The increased production lowered the sugar contents especially in the thesis where phytoregulators were used.
42878274|In questo lavoro vengono descritte le principali caratteristiche morfologiche ed istochimiche del tessuto trasmittente stilare del melo. Questa specie presenta uno stigma umido e stilo pieno e la sostanza intercellulare, dove crescono i tubetti pollinici,  formata da proteine e polisaccaridi. La presenza di queste sostanze viene discussa e messa in relazione al fenomeno dell'autoincompatibilit. The main morphological and histochemical features of stylar trasmitting tissue have been analysed in Malus communis. This species shows a wet stigma and a solid style. The stylar transmitting tissue cells ore very rich in organdes. The Rough Endoplasmic Reticulum is particulary abundant; some cisterns of it are dilated and contain weakly electron-dense material. Connection between nuclear ennvelope and RER cisterns have been found. A close relationship between the RER dilated cisterns and the plasma membrane is observed. After histochemical treatments, the stylar intercellular substance (through which the pollen tubes grow) positively reacts to tests for proteins and polysaccharides. The presence of these substances is discussed also in relation with the incompatibility phenomen.
42878275|Nel triennio 1974-1976 sono stati saggiati 8 tipi di impollinazione (compreso l'auto e la libera impollinazione) in 19 cc.vv. e selezioni recenti di susino giapponese. In generale  emerso quanto segue: 1) "Sorriso di Primavera"  risultata la migliore cultivar impollinatrice, particolarmente per "Early Golden", "Shiro", "Premier", "Eldorado", "Calita"; 2) "S. Rosa"  risultata buona impollinatrice, soprattutto per "Early Golden", "Sorriso di Primavera", "Shiro", "Eldorado", "Frontier"; gli altri impollinatori hanno dimostrato una azione ristretta a poche cultivar, esattamente "Shiro" per "Premier", "Morettini 355" per "Shiro" e "Frontier", "Early Golden" per "Premier" e "Shiro". Tenuto conto dei risultati di allegagione, di fruttificazione e dei periodi di fioritura vengono suggeriti gli impollinatori pi idonei per le diverse cultivar saggiate. Free pollination, self pollination, and pollination with six donor varieties were compared from 1974 to 1976 on nineteen Japanese plum varieties and selections. "Sorriso di primavera" was the best pollinator particularly for "Early Golden", "Shiro", "Premier", "Eldorado", "Calita"; "Santa Rosa" proved a good pollinator too, especially for "Early Golden", "Sorriso di Primavera", "Shiro", "Eldorado", "Frontier"; other pollinators acted on fewer varieties, "Shiro" on "Premier", "Morettini 355" on "Shiro", "Frontier" and "Early Golden" on "Premier" and "Shiro". Percentages of viability and germination of embryos have been pointed out for each cross-pollination. The most suitable pollinators for setting and flowering period are suggested (e.g. "Sorriso di Primavera" and "S. Rosa").
42878278|Dagli esami degli ovuli al microscopio  apparsa evidente la maggiore vitalit del sacco embrionale determinata dal portainnesto "M 9" rispetto al "franco". In ogni caso il numero di ovuli in condizioni di essere fecondati  notevole dall'inizio alla piena fioritura; esso decresce drasticamente alla caduta dei petali. Non sono chiare invece le differenze fra l'andamento dell'evoluzione del sacco embrionale di "Granny Smith" e quello del suo mutante spur. Tuttavia si  notata la tendenza ad una pi lenta degenerazione del sacco embrionale nel clone standard. Flowers were picked up from standard and spur "Granny Smith" apple tres, both on to "seedling" and "M 9" rootstocks, at balloon stage, full bloom and petal fall. Microscope examination showed a prolonged life of the embyro sac on the "M 9" rootstock, as compared to the "seedling". Ovules number with intact oosphere apparatus was more frequent from balloon to ful bloom stage; it descreased stronghly at the petal fall. A clear difference in embryo sac evolution between standard and spur "Granny Smith" was not detected, but a tendency to slower degeneration was noticed in the standard variety.
42878279|Nel 1976 furono confrontate 3 epoche di trattamento di Sevin a 1250 ppm in alberi di "Starkspur Golden D." su MM 106, i cui risultati sono stati gi resi noti. Ad ogni epoca di trattamento furono prelevati 50 frutticini in posizione "centrale" e 50 in posizione "laterale" di altrettante lamburde al fine di esaminare la corrispondenza fra stadio evolutivo dell'embrione e dell'endosperma nei semi, il diametro dei frutti al momento dei trattamenti ed il risultato del diradamento. L'esame al microscopio delle sezioni di 50 semi per ogni tesi e tipo di frutto ha confermato anche in questo mutante la maggiore sensibilit dei frutticini al trattamento diradante nel periodo in cui l'embrione passa dallo stato di "fine filamentoso" a quello "sferoidale" e corrispondentemente l'endosperma dalla fase di "nuclei liberi" a quella di "inizio cellulare". Questi stadi evolutivi corrispondevano ad un diametro medio dei frutticini "centrali" compreso fra mm 12 e 15 e di quelli laterali fra mm 10 e 12. In 1976 Sevin was applied at 1250 ppm in three different stages of the embryo on "Starkspur Golden D." trees grafted on to MM 106 roostock. Thinning results were reported in a previous paper (Cobianch and Faedi, 1977). At each date of spraying, 50 fruits in "central" and 50 in "lateral" position were picked from 50 spurs. The purpose was to examine the relationship among evolutive stage of embyro and of endosperm in the seeds, fruit diameter at treatments date and thinning results. The sections of 50 seeds for each date and fruit type were examina ted at the microscope. It has been noted that the fruits are more susceptible to thinning when the embryo goes from "end filamentous" to "spherical" stage, and the endosperm from "nucleate" to "early cellular" stage. At these evolutive stages the fruits diameter was from 12 to 15 mm for the "central" fruits and from 10 to 12 mm for the "lateral" ones.
42878280|In questo lavoro al microscopio elettronico vengono presentati i risultati preliminari dell'effetto delle radiazioni gamma sul tessuto trasmittente stilare di ciliegio. Il trattamento, con una dose totale di 800 R, era effettuato a fiori allo stadio di cellule madri del polline. Le radiazioni sembrano provocare danneggiamento al tessuto trasmittente stilare, tanto che anche la secrezione di sostanza intercellulare sembra essere alterata. Questo dato viene discusso e messo in relazione al superamento della barriera dell'autoincompatibilit. An attempt has been made to analyse the effects of acute gamma irradiation on stylar development in Prunus avium. The treatment was applied to meiotic buds. The observations with electron microscopy were made on styles collected from the flowers one day afther an thesis. The data showed that in the irradiated plants, some cells of the stigma were partially degenerated. The transmitting tissue in the style contained not only the cells with normal cytoplasm, but also the cells having cytoplasm at different stages of degeneration. Empty zones, similar to vacuoles, are present in intercellular substance of the style, probably due to poor secretion acitivity of the cells. Further, in the irradiated plants the cells of the trasmitting tissue contained exclusively free ribosomes and there was considerable decrease in the activity of RER and Golgi bodies indicating a decreased synthetic cellular activity of the transmitting tissue. The possible implications of the radiation effects on the stylar trasmitting tissue in relation to incompatibility mechanism are discussed in the light of the results obtained in the present study.
42878281|Gli Autori riferiscono su sette anni di ricerche sul comportamento di 63 cultivar di susino europeo (Prunus domestica L.) nei riguardi della biologia fiorale. Per ogni singola cultivar  stata determinata l'epoca di fioritura media, le autocompatibilit e le autoincompatibilit. Inoltre son stati individuati, per le principali cultivar, impollinatori validi in grado di favorire un miglioramento nella produzione. Sulla base dei risultati ottenuti le cultivar sono state classificate in tre gruppi: autocompatibili, parzialmente autocompatibili e autoincompatibili. A seven year research through 1969-1975 was carried out on flowering behaviour and pollination needs of 63 prune varieties (Prunus domestica L.). The average blossoming period was determined and graphically reported for each variety. On the basis of hand pollination crosses three groups of varieties were classified: fully self-compatible, partially self-compatible and not self-compatible. Pollination results are reported in table 1. A list of the suitable pollinators for the most important varieties has been reported.
42878282|Nel biennio 1973 e 1974 furono saggiate le esigenze di impollinazione di "Granny Smith spur" su MM 106 ponendo a confronto 6 tesi: autoimpollinazione, libera impollinazione, impollinazione con "Golden D.", con "Starkspur Golden D.", con "Stark D." e con "Wellspur". Queste due ultime ccvv. ("Stark D." e "Wellespur") hanno mostrato di garantire una allegagione (4%) pari o migliore a quella determinata da gli altri impollinatori saggiati; tuttavia non  sembrata sufficiente a garantire una buona produttivit di questo mutante al pari di quella delle ccvv. tuttora pi diffuse.  stata notata la tendenza alla riduzione della pezzatura dei frutti e del n. di semi per frutto, ed una maggiore percentuale di germinazione dei semi all'aumentare dell'allegagione. Pollination needs of the "Granny Smith spur" apple were studied during a couple of years on trees grafted on to "MM 106". Self pollination, free pollination, and pollination with "Golden Delicious", "Starkspur Golden Delicious", "Stark Delicious" and "Wellspur" have been compared. "Stark Delicious" and "Wellspur" pollinators gave the best fruit set (4%). However in no case fruit set was sufficient for a good crop if compared to the varieties average. Higher set induced a reduction fruit size and number of seeds, and an increase in seed germination percentage.
42878283|The apricot industry in Italy has two main adversities: Monilia and spring frost. The frost damages that occour at the end of the winter are particularly important for this species because of the early blooming of many cultivars. The breeding program of the Istituto Sperimentale per la Frutticoltura of Rome has been established to find and to breed late blooming cultivars according to the following lines of research: settlement of a variety testing trial including the best Italian and foreign varieties and singling out of new cultivars among the population of the Vesuvius apricots, cross pollination, mutagenesis. The variety testing trial has been done by the experimental farms in Fiorano (Rome) and Francolise (Caserta). In the climatic conditions of the trial the blossoming occours in a two months period (end of January, end of March) and most of the cultivars bloom in the first part of March. Among the late blooming cultivars, those choosen as parents for this caracter, together with positive agronomical and pomological characteristics are: Ampuis, Abate, Alfred, Ananassa, Cibo del Paradiso, Earle Orange,. Farmingdale, Polonais, Precoce de Sernhac, S. Francesco, Sucr de Holub Amlior. In 1976 a ionizing radiation program to induce late blooming mutations was began on the following varieties: Abate, Boccuccia, Boccuccia liscia, Boccuccia spinosa, Don Gaetano, Fracasso, Monaco Bello, Nennella, Nonno, Palummella, Pazza, Pelese di Giovanniello, Pellecchiella, Prete, S. Castrese, S. Francesco, Setacciara.
42878284|Dalle ricerche condotte su vitigni a fiori fisiologicamente femminili, anomali ed anche ermafroditi,  emerso che il boro somministrato per via radicale, fogliare e fiorale, pu migliorare la percentuale di allegagione, ridurre l'acinellatura, incrementare il volume delle bacche, il peso dei grappoli e della produzione per ceppo. L'accumulo degli zuccheri generalmente si riduce, per la competizione che esercita l'incremento della produzione. Nel complesso il boro rappresenta un microelemento indispensabile per correggere carenze conclamate od anomalie fiorali. Boron fertilisation or Boron sprays on flowers or leaves, on grape varieties with anomalous, physiologically feminine or even normal flowers, increased fruit set, decreased number of "shot" berries, improved berry volume, cluster weight and crop weight per plant. Sugar storage was generally reduced with increasing crop. Boron must therefore be considered an essential minor element to correct clear deficiencies or flower anomalies.
42878285|Si  condotta un'indagine per verificare l'autofertilit di 18 cvv. tipiche della zona vesuviana, presenti nella collezione della sezione di Caserta dello Istituto Sperimentale per la Frutticoltura. Si  provveduto pertanto, prima all'isolamento dei fiori, successivamente al prelievo di un certo numero di essi. Le osservazioni sono state fatte in luce fluorescente, secondo la tecnica di Martin, tenendo conto della percentuale di fiori con polline sullo stigma, della percentuale di germinazione del polline medesimo, del numero di budelli pollinici penetrati nello stilo, della porzione di stilo da essi interessata. Le medesime osservazioni sono state condotte su fiori lasciati liberi. I risultati ottenuti indicano l'albicocco come specie prevalentemente autofertile, anche se numerose cvv. possono avvantaggiarsi della impollinazione libera. Per la cv."Boccuccia" si ipotizza un caso di sterilit fattoriale da sottoporre a pi accurata verifica. A trial to observe the tfelf compatibility of 18 Neapolitan cultivars was carried out. The observation, in fluorescent light by Martin, were: percentage of flowers with pollinated stigma and with pollen tubes coming inside styles, till, the ovary. The results generally confirm the self compatibility of apricot, but for mauy cvv. the free pollination may be useful. Cv. "Boccuccia" is a probable case of factorial sterility.
42878286|Sono state identificate e descritte un certo numero di anomalie negli ovuli di sette combinazioni di innesto di melo. Nei campioni presi in esame queste anomalie non hanno rappresentato una percentuale rilevante, anche nella "Stayman Winesap" triploide. Negli ovuli nei quali non si  avuta la fecondazione si  notata con grande frequenza la proliferazione di nuclei che tendono a costituire ammassi irregolari. A certain number of anomalies were identified and described in the ovules of seven scionrootstock apple combinations. Anomalous ovules were not a consistent percentage on the whole, even in the "Stayman Winesap" triploid variety. Proliferating nucleusses in irregular masses were frequently noticed in the nucellus of unimpollinated flowers.
42878287|Il periodo utile per la impollinazione  stato rilevato su sette diverse combinazioni di innesto di melo, servendosi di prove di impollinazione scalari. Esso risulta legato alla evoluzione del sacco embrionale, che degenera con una certa rapidit, cosicch la impollinazione tardiva dei fiori  inefficace. Cultivar con una lunga durata del sacco embrionale ebbero una allegagione pi forte delle altre, nelle date pi tardive di impollinazione. I rilievi al microscopio suggeriscono che gli ovuli del fiore centrale tendono ad avere nocella di dimensioni maggiori e sacco embrionale pi durevole in alcune cultivar. Questa pu essere una delle ragioni della maggiore fertilit di questi fiori. Hand pollinations at different dates were made on seven scion-rootstock apple combinations, and embyro sac evolution was followed. The effective pollination period (EPP) lenght was largely dependant on the phase at which embryo sac degeneration took place; later pollinations were partly unsuccessfull and varieties with a long lived embyro sac had a better set. Central flowers of the spur showed a tendency to bigger nucellus size and longer embryo sac life, at least in some varieties. This might partially account for better set in these flowers.
42878288|Nel polline di 48 cultivar di Olea europaea sono stati determinati mediante osservazioni al microscopio ottico i seguenti parametri: a) percentuale di polline con citoplasma, assunto come vitale (colorazione con Cotton blue); b) percentuale di granuli di polline con o senza citoplasma contenenti dell'amido (colorazione mediante il reattivo di Lugol, soluzione iodio iodurata); c) percentuale delle varie anomalie morfologiche che sono le seguenti: 1) macro e microgranuli, cio granuli pi grandi e pi piccoli della media 2) granuli uniti da un canale 3) granuli con pori irregolari o con pi di tre pori 4) granuli di polline germinati nell'antera. La percentuale di granuli con citoplasma varia nei cultivar tra il 28 e il 98%. Comunemente un cultivar con bassa percentuale di granuli vitali presenta anche molte anomalie e anche molti granuli di polline con amido. La percentuale di vitalit e delle anomalie  costante nei cultivar dove si posseggono i dati dei due anni. Queste caratteristiche si mantengono costanti anche se i dati vengono dalla medesima cultivar coltivata per in luoghi diversi e raccolta in anni diversi. Le caratteristiche del polline sembrano quindi dipendere per la maggior parte dalla cultivar e poco dai fattori ambientali. Viability and morphological anomalies have been studied in 48 Olea europaea cultivars and the following percentages of occurrence have been recorded: a) Percentage of pollen grains with cytoplasm, that is grain considered as viable (after staining with Cotton blue); b) Percentage of pollen grains, both with and without cytoplasm, containing starch (after staining with Lugol); c) Percentage of the following morphological anomalies: 1) Macro and micro-grains; 2) Pollen grains not separated and connected by a cytoplasmic bridge; 3) Pollen grains with irregular pores or more than three pores; 4) Pollen grains germinated in the anther. The percentage of pollen grains with cytoplasm varies, considering all the cultivars, from 28 to 98. Generally a cultivar with a low percentage of viable pollen grains shows also numerous anomalies and many starch containing grains. The percentage of viable grains and of anomalies remain constant also in those cases where data were collected both in 1976 and in 1977, for the same cultivar, also if in different localities. Pollen characteristics therefore seem to depend mainly on genetical factors, rather than on ecological ones.
42878289|Negli anni 1976 e 1977 fiori femminili di "Tonda Gentile delle Langhe" sono stati impollinati con polline altamente compatibile nei seguenti 3 stadi dell'antesi:  1 : stili poco emergenti dalle gemme miste e non divaricati;  2 : stili completamente emergenti e moderatamente estroflessi;  3 : stili completamente estroflessi e in parte imbruniti o disseccati all'apice. La presenza dei budelli pollinici nella porzione basale degli stili, individuata attraverso l'osservazione di preparati microscopici in luce fluorescente, ha segnalato una massima recettivit degli stili medesimi nella fase di piena fioritura (2 stadio) nel 1976 e di fioritura avanzata (3 stadio) nel 1977. Una buona parte dei fiori (dal 44 al 59%) ha denunciato la presenza di budelli pollinici, in entrambi gli anni, anche all'inizio dell'antesi femminile (1 stadio). Queste prove pongono in evidenza che, nella "Tonda Gentile delle Langhe", il periodo di recettivit dei fiori femminili al polline  molto lungo e che, pertanto, scarso rilievo, ai fini dell'allegagione, assume lo stadio dell'antesi femminile. In 1976 and 1977 female flowers of the "Tonda Gentile delle Langhe "have been pollinated with highly compatible pollen in the following three phases of the flowering: 1st: styles just emerging from the flower buds and not wide apart; 2nd: styles completely emergent and moderately turned outwards; 3rd: styles completely turned outwards and partly black and withered at the apex. The presence of the pollen tubes at the base of the styles, identified using the method of observation by fluorescent light, pointed out the greatest receptivity of the styles in the phase o full bloom (2nd phase) in 1976 and of late bloom (3rd phase) in 1977. A considerable part of the flowers (from 44 to 59%) showed the presence of pollen tubes in both of the years, even at the beginning of the female flowering (1st phase). This research ascertains that on "Tonda Gentile delle Langhe" variety the period of the female flowers' receptivity to the pollen germination is very long and that, therefore, in regard to the setting, little importance attaches' to the phase of the female bloom.
42878290|In prove effettuate nel corso di tre anni (1975, 1976 e 1977) si  saggiata, nei confronti della "Tonda Gentile delle Langhe" (T.G.L.), Pattitudine a fini di impollinazione, di note variet a nucula tondeggiante (alcune delle quali italiane di buona rinomanza) e di ibridi anch'essi ad achenio tondeggiante, ottenuti presso PIstituto di Frutticoltura industriale di Torino. Tutti i pollini delle cultivar e degli ibridi sperimentati  con eccezione per quelli di "Tonda di Giffoni" e di "C 3/4" (Bargelona  T.G.L.) rivelatisi incompatibili con la "T.G.L."  hanno mostrato di possedere, nei confronti della medesima, un certo grado (pi o meno elevato) di interfertilit. Forse in conseguenza di fenomeni di sterilit sporofitica, non sempre si  manifestata compatibilita gamica reciproca tra la "T.G.L." e gli impollinatori. Per quanto riguarda gli ibridi, tale compatibilita  infatti emersa con "104 E" e "3 L" (entrambi T.G.L.  Cosford) e non negli altri casi. Con riferimenti ai rapporti fra i periodi di fioritura, maschile e femminile, della "T.G.L." e degli impollinatori, nessuno di questi  se impiegato da solo  ha palesato una sufficiente validit. A seguito di queste ricerche  risultata come la pi efficiente l'associazione a tre fra "T.G.L., 104 E e 101" (l'ultimo ibrido anch'esso T.G.L.  Cosford). In trials carried out during the course of three years (1975, 1976 and 1977) with reference to "Tonda Gentile delle Langhe" (T.G.L.), has been tested the pollinating aptitude of known varieties with round nuts (some of them are valuable Italian filberts) and the pollinating ability of hybrids also with round nuts, obtained from the Institute of "Frutticoltura industriale" of Turin. All the pollen of the varieties and hybrids tested  with the exception of the "Tonda di Gifoni" and "C 3/4" (Barcelona  T.G.L.), which showed to be incompatible with the "T.G.L."  have been proved to have, regarding to the same, a various degree of compatibility. Probably in consequence phenomena of sporofitic sterility, the "T.G.L." and the hybrids, used as pollinizers, did not always showed a reciprocal compatibility in pollination. In fact, such compatibility appared with "104 E" and "3 L" (both of them T.G.L.  Cosford), but not in the other cases. With reference to the relationships between the periods of male and female flowering of the "T.G.L." and the pollinizers, none of the same pollinizers, if singly employed, have been showed to be enough efficient. As regards this problem, the more interesting sample resulted the association "T.G.L., 104 E and 101" (the last also a hybrid T.G.L.  Cosford).
42878291|Due diverse metodiche di estrazione degli acidi nucleici sono state adattate al polline di melo cv. "Stark Delicious" e confrontate fra loro. Il granulo maturo presenta infatti una parete particolarmente resistente molto difficile da rompere. A condizioni ottimali di frantumazione della parete si sono ottenuti con entrambi i metodi quantit pressoch uguali di RNA anche se con purezze diverse. Sono stati separati su colonne Sephadex G 100 i diversi tipi di RNA e cio rRNA, 5S RNA, tRNA ed un quarto tipo di RNA a basso peso molecolare. Mature pollen of apple cv. "Stark Delicious" presents a strong cell wall which makes particularly difficult the quantitative extraction of nucleic acids. Two different methods are compared: the method of Laulhere and Rozier (1976) is less effective compared with that of Li and Andersen (1967), but a strong mechanical breach of the wall followed by sonication makes the two methods equally effective. The purity of the RNA extracted by the method of Li Andersen (1967) is higher than that obtained by the other method. Also after a year of storage of the pollen at  20 C, dehydrated by NaOH, the viability was over 90% and the yield in RNA was the same. The different kinds of RNAs (rRNA, 5S RNA, tRNA and a fourth type of low molecular weight) are separated by a column of Sephadex G 100; the ribosomal RNA was determined after alkaline hydrolysis.
42878296|Sulla cultivar di arancio  Washington navel  sono state studiate le variazioni di potenziale idrico fogliare che si verificano in condizioni idriche ottimali e in ambiente ad aridit crescente. Dal confronto fra le due situazioni  stato possibile individuare i cicli di variazione del potenziale di pressione xilematica, l'andamento giornaliero e peridico del potenziale idrico fogliare, il limite minimo di f (pari a  8,5) raggiunto dalle piante irrigate giornalmente e i valori riscontrati sulle piante allevate in condizioni di stress. Dall'esame dei risultati  stato individuato il momento in cui le piante, nelle condizioni in cui si  operato, risentono dell'aridit del terreno di coltura ed entrano nella  zona di stress idrico  individuata in questa nota attraverso i potenziali idrici fogliari. Variations of leaf water potential were inspected on the sweet orange  Washington navel  living in two different water conditions. One group lived in optimum conditions and the other one in a state of increasing aridity. Lowest leaf potential for the unstressed plants was-8.5 bars under which the stressed plants swent down generally after ten days. According the results, the necessity of re-watering can be estimated considering the stress area, the zone of needed irrigation, which was determined in this paper comparing two different water conditions.
42878297|Si riportano i risutati di due prove effettuate per accertare gli effetti del virus del  nanismo  del susino e della  maculatura anulare  del susino, singolarmente ed in associazione, sull'attivit vegetativa e produttiva di alberi di pesco cultivar  Dixired  e  Halford 2 . Lo sviluppo delle piante sane al termine del primo anno di vegetazione e l'accrescimento radiale del tronco al 6 anno sono risultati statisticamente superiori a quelli delle piante infette. Il maggior effetto deprimente  stato provocato dalla associazione dei due virus. La produzione cumulata al 3 anno degli alberi sani  risultata superiore a quella delle piante infette in misura oscillante dal 53% al 62% nella  Dixired  e dal 24% al 58% nell' Halford 2 . La riduzione di produzione pi accentuata  stata causata dalla combinazione dei due virus. Anche l'efficienza produttiva  risultata superiore nelle piante virus esenti. Relativamente a questo parametro il maggiore effetto deprimente delle infezioni si  avuto nella cv  Dixired . Per quanto riguarda il peso medio dei frutti e l'epoca di maturazione non sono state riscontrate differenze di rilievo fra le tesi. Al terzo anno di fruttificazione sono state riscontrate infette dal PRSV alcune piante originariamente sane. La loro produzione, tuttavia, non  stata influenzata dall'infezione nell'anno stesso in cui le piante si sono ammalate. Following are the results of two tests made to ascertain the effects of PRSV and PDV, singularly and in association, on the vegetative and productive active activity of peach trees cultivar  Dixired  and  Halford 2 . The growth of the healthy plants at the end of the first year and the radial expansion of the trunk in the sixth year are resulted statistically superior to those of infected plants. The mayor negative effect was produced by the association of the two viruses. The cumulated production of the healthy trees, at the end of the third year, was superior to that of the infected plants. The difference in production, between the healthy and infected plants, was from 53% to 62% for  Dixired  and from 24% to 58% for  Halford 2 . The more marked reduction in production was caused by a combination of the two viruses. Productive efficiency also resulted superior in virus free plants. The mayor negative effect on productive efficiency was that in  Dixired  plants. There was no notable difference in the average weight of the fruit and in the ripening time between the healthy and infected plants. At the end of the third year of production some originaly healthy plants, about 11%, were infected with PRSV. However, the production was not influenced by the virus in the same year in which the plants were infected.
42878298|Sono state effettuate prove comparative al fine di individuare l'indicatrice pi adatta per la diagnosi dell'accartocciamento fogliare della vite. Sono state messe a confronto le cv.  Mission ,  LN-33 ,  Baco 22 A ,  Pinot nero ,  Barbera  e  Croatina . Come innoculi sono stati impiegati quattro diversi cloni di V. vinifera sicuramente affetti da accartocciamento fogliare. Sono state inoltre impiegate tre diverse tecniche d'innesto. Le pi alte percentuali di risposte positive sono state ottenute con le cv.  Barbera  (65%),  Croatina  (57%),  Pinot nero  (51%) e  LN-33  (45%). La cv.  Pinot nero  ha anche manifestato la pi alta percentuale di innesti attecchiti (41%). Considering the difficulties frequently found in indexing for grapevine leafroll, comparative test have been made in order to find the most suitable indicator. Four cultivars already used as indicators ( Mission ,  LN-33 ,  Baco 22A  and  Pinot noir ) were compared with two Italian cultivars ( Barbera  and  Croatina ) which showed to be highly susceptible to leafroll. Four different clones of Vitis vinifera certainly infected with leafroll virus were used as inocula. Three different types of grafting were also used for the transmission of the virus. The highest percentage of positive results were obtained with the cv.  Barbera  (65%),  Croatina  (57%),  Pinot noir  (51%) and  LN-33  (45%). The cv.  Pinot noir  gaves also the highest percentage of successful grafts (41%).
42878299|The olive fruit is a drupe. Under irrigation, it grows continuously until ripening. There is a distinct difference between the early stage of fruit development characterized by seed and endocarp development and finalized in early July by pit-hardening, and the second, ultimate stage in which the pericarp develops. Heavy yielding delays ripening. Auxin treatments, such as 2-(2, 4, 5-trichlorophenoxy) propionic acid 40-200 mg/l; naphthalene acetic acid, 135-180 mg/l and 2,4- dichlorophenoxy acetic acid 10-250 mg/l, applied at the pit hardening stage, delayed ripening in  Manzanillo  fruits. In  Merhavia , an early ripening variety, the auxin treatments had no consistent effect on fruit ripening. L'oliva  una drupa che, se in coltura irrigua cresce continuamente fino a maturazione. Esiste una differenza marcata tra il primo stadio di sviluppo del frutto, caratterizzato dallo sviluppo del seme e dell'endocarpo fino all'indurimento del nocciolo che avviene i primi di luglio, e il secondo e ultimo stadio, durante il quale si sviluppa il pericarpo. Un'abbondante fruttificazione ritarda la maturazione. Trattamenti con auxine, come l'acido 2-(2,4,5-triclorofenossi) propionico a 40-200 mg/l. l'acido naftalenacetico a 135-180 mg/l e l'acido 2,4-diclorofenossi acetico a 10-250 mg/l effettuati allo stadio di indurimento del nocciolo, hanno ritardato la maturazione dei frutti della cv.  Manzanillo . Nella cv.  Merhavia , una variet a maturazione precoce, i trattamenti auxinici non ebbero effetti consistenti sulla maturazione dei frutti.
42878300|Dopo una breve premessa, sull'evoluzione della coltura del kaki in Italia e sull'importanza che riveste la specie Diospyros kaki L., vengono esposte alcune considerazioni sulla classificazione pomolgica pi opportuna per le cultivar oggi presenti nel Paese. Vengono elencate le cultivar di kaki introdotte in Italia dal Centro di studio sulla propagazione delle specie legnose del C.N.R. e dall'Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit di Firenze, raggruppandole secondo la classificazione pomolgica proposta: A) Fra le  costanti alla fecondazione  (portanti solo fiori femminili): 23 cultivar appartengono al gruppo delle completamente astringenti, 17 cultivar appartengono al gruppo delle completamente non astringenti, B) Fra le  variabili alla fecondazione : 16 cultivar portano esclusivamente fiori femminili, 12 cultivar portano contemporaneamente sia fiori femminili che maschili, acquistando quindi la funzione di impollinatrici. Si accenna, infine, al lavoro di miglioramento genetico intrapreso da alcuni anni per ottenere nuove cultivar di kaki meglio rispondenti alle esigenze del mercato. After a brief introduction on the evolution of Persimmon colture in Italy and on the importance of Diospyros kaki species, some considerations are made on a more suitable pomological classification of the cultivars present in this country today. Persimmon cultivars introduced in Italy by the Centro di studio sulla propagazione delle specie legnose del C.N.R. and by the Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit of Florence are listed in groups according to the proposed pomological classification: A) Among the  pollination costants  (carrying female flowers only); 22 cultivars belong to the completely astringent group, 18 cultivars belong to the completely non-astringet group; B) Among the  pollination variants ; 16 cultivars are carriers of female flowers exclusively, 12 cultivars carrying male and female flowers contemporaly functioning as pollinators. Finally, the genetic improvement carried out in the last few years to obtain new Persimmon cultivars better corresponding to market requirements is briefly outlined.
42878301|Due gruppi di cultivar di susino, caratterizzati dalla presenza o meno di radici preformate sulle piante madri, sono stati messi a confronto per verificare il potere rizogeno delle talee di ramo. Dai risultati ottenuti nell'ambito di P. domestica emerge che la presenza di radici preformate sulle branche delle piante madri permette di prevedere con buona probabilit l'ottenimento di piante autoradicate con l'uso combinato di auxine e calore. Esistono peraltro altre cultivar della stessa specie che, pur prive di radici preformate, consentono di ottenere, con lo stesso trattamento, un alto numero di piante autoradicate. Nell'ambito del gruppo cino-giapponese esistono cultivar prive di radici preformate sulle piante madri, ma dotate di alto potere rizogeno; queste possono consentire, anche con il solo riscaldamento basale delle talee, attecchimenti superiori a quelli riscontrati per le cultivar di tipo europeo. Two groups of plum cultivars, characterised by the presence or absence of preformed roots on the mother plants were compared to verify the rooting ability of one-year-old wood cuttings. The results obtained on P. domestica confirm that the presence of preformed roots on the mother plant indicate the good probability of obtaining self-rooted plants with the aid of combined auxins and basal heat. Other cultivars of the same species exist which, although without preformed roots, yeld a high number of rooted cuttings with the same treatment. In the chinese-Japanese group also, some cultivars without preformed roots on the mother plant show high rooting ability, these allow even with the basal heating of the cuttings alone, higher establishment than the european type cultivars.
42878302|La citochinesi viene indicata come la fase di maggiore sensibilit dei fiutticini ai trattamenti diradanti. Poich tale stadio di sviluppo dell'endosperma pu essere accertato esclusivamente per via microscopica, si  ritenuto utile condurre una serie di osservazioni al fine di stabilire se la citochinesi pu essere messa in relazione con parametri pi facilmente rilevabili, quali le dimensioni dei frutti e dei semi. Le indagini condotte su 4 cultivar da consumo fresco e su 2 cultivar da industria hanno messo in evidenza che la citochinesi costituisce un parametro biologico non utilizzabile praticamente poich, anche nell'ambito della medesima cultivar, in anni successivi, essa non avviene in corrispondenza di uguali dimensioni dei frutti e dei semi.  stato inoltre messo in evidenza che nelle cultivar da consumo fresco la citochinesi avviene, in linea generale, in corrispondenza di un maggiore sviluppo dimensionale del frutto e del seme, e tanto pi precocemente quanto pi precoce  la maturazione dei frutti. Cytokinesis is generally indicated as the phase of seed development at which fruit shows the highest sensitivity to chemical thinning agents. Since cytokinesis is evaluated by microscopy, from a praticai point of view it would be convenient if the process could be related to fruit or seed size. For this purpose observations were carried out from 1970 to 1974 on 4 freestone and 2 cling peach varieties. Research showed that varieties had different patterns in endosperm development; also, cytokinesis occurred at different fruit and seed sizes. In freestone peaches cytokinesis occurred at larger sizes than in cling varieties. It seemed that the process was related to harvesting time since the earlier the fruit maturation, the smaller the fruit size at which cytokinesis occurred. Furthermore, in the same variety, cytokinesis did not occur at the same fruit size in each year of observation. These observations indicate that cytokinesis does not rappresent a biological parameter of praticai significance, since it can not be related to the fruit or seed size. Moreover the relationship between cytokinesis and fruit sensitivity to the thinning chemical agents has been recently questioned.
42878307|Sono state condotte ricerche sull'accrescimento, sulla cascola e sulle variazioni di contenuto Ormonico nei frutti di kaki (cv.  Licopersicum ) derivati da partenocarpia e da fecondazione. Mentre da un lato non sono state osservate differenze sostanziali nell'andamento dell'accrescimento dei due tipi di frutti, i risultati delle indagini ormonali indicherebbero che la maggiore incidenza della cascola dei frutti partenocarpici pu essere, in parte, connessa al loro equilibrio ormonico, caratterizzato da un pi basso contenuto di auxine e citochinine, e dalla assenza di gibberelline. Questo ultimo fatto suggerisce alcune deduzioni interessanti da un punto di vista fisiologico ed applicativo.  possibile, infatti, che nel kaki, analogamente a quanto rilevato su altre specie, le gibberelline siano un fattore importante nella regolazione dell'allegagione con gibsuccessivo controllo della cascola dei frutti. Mediante trattamenti con gibberelline sintetiche dovrebbe, pertanto, essere possibile favorire la fruttificazione per via partenocarpica, aumentando l'allegagione, diminuire la cascola nelle varie epoche del ciclo di sviluppo dei frutti. Pollination increases crop in persimmon, a species which naturally produces seedless fruits. On the other hand the possibility of increasing fruit production by reducing seedless fruit drop is an important goal, since many problems associated with cross pollination would be overcome by this manner. A program was designed to elucidate relationships among changes in growth regulators in seeded and seedless fruits, fruit set, and fruit drop pattern. In order to prevent natural pollination, two trees of Diospyros kaki (cv.  Licopersicum  ) were isolated before anthesis with a 2 mm mesh white plastic net cage. All the observations were done on shoots left with two flowers, part of which were artificially pollinated. Growth curves, fruit drop patterns and hormone content, were determined for both seeded and seedless fruits until the maturity. No differences between growth curves of seeded and seedless fruits were observed. Growth rate was initially lower in seedless fruits, but at the end of the growth and maturation period no difference in size was observed between the two fruit categories. Fruit set was 97% and 3% respectively in fruits developed from pollinated flowers, and in parthenocarpic ones. The drop pattern of seedless fruits occurred mainly in three waves, the first with a peak at the last week of June, the second with a peak at the last week of July, and the last one with a peak at the first week of September. A relationship might exist between fruit drop and growth rate, since the drop peaks were always associated with each decrease in fruit growth rate. Seedless fruits contained a lower amount of auxins and cytokinins, and showed a complete lack of gibberellins. This might account for the dramatic drop which usually occours in seedless fruits. No connection can be made between growth inhibitors and fruit drop, since high amounts of inhibitors were found also in seeded fruits. On the other hand higer inhibitory activity was observed at the end of the growth and maturation period, in both fruit categories, when fruit drop was attenuated. The inhibitors level might be more likely related to the aging process rather than to the fruit drop, since fruit maturation is one of the physiological events leading to senescence.
42878308|The effects of 10 growth regulators on the development of 2 bulbous iris cultivars are reported. Particularly effective were treatments with GA and growth retardants. Early flowering was promoted by GA in cv. "Prof. Blaauw "without effects on flower quality. The role of gibberellins on iris flowering and their possible use in iris forcing are discussed. Sono riportati gli effetti di dieci regolatori di crescita sullo sviluppo di due cultivar di iris bulboso. Sono risultati particolarmente attivi GA ed i ritardanti di crescita. GA stimola precoce fioritura nella cv Prof. Blaauw senza effetti deleteri sulla qualit del fiore.  inoltre discusso il ruolo delle gibberelline sulla fioritura dell'iris ed il loro possibile uso nella forzatura di questa specie.
42878309|Trattamenti ad aria calda su piante di patata infette dal virus X consentono la graduale eliminazione deirinfettivit virale da apici meristematici ascellari. Con la coltura in vitro di apici prelevati da piante sottoposte preventivamente a trattamenti termici in cui temperatura e tempo di esposizione vengono fatti variare, si ottengono plantule esenti dal virus X in relazione all'intensit del trattamento termico preliminare. In pratica, i migliori risultati sono ottenibili applicando temperature moderate (30-32,5 C) per tempi relativamente lunghi (35-42 giorni). L'efficacia terapeutica delle due tecniche combinate  ascrivibile al trattamento termico preliminare condotto sulle piante madri, in quanto la coltura di apici di una certa complessit morfologica (meristema apicale pi 1-2 paia di foglioline) non risulta nella eliminazione dell'infettivit virale dalle plantule ottenute. La termoterapia elimina progressivamente l'infettivit virale verosimilmente mediante l'inattivazione piuttosto che l'immobilizzazione delle particelle virali. L'azione terapeutica della temperatura non si manifesta durante lo sviluppo degli apici a plantule: lo status fisiologico dell'apice  quindi determinante agli effetti della termoterapia. L'azione terapeutica della temperatura  ben evidente anche in apici dimoranti su piante defoliate ed  quindi indipendente dall'apporto metabolico delle foglie.I risultati del presente lavoro si adattano alla teoria proposta da MELLOR e STACE-SMITH (1977) sul meccanismo di eliminazione dell'infettivit virale mediante coltura di apici vegetativi su substrato artificiale. Heat treatments combined with in vitro culture of potato meristem tips result in PVX-free plantlets depending on temperature and duration of treatments. A positive correlation exists between the intensity (temperature per duration) of the heat treatments and the success in PVX eradication from tips. The rather low proportion of rooted plantlets obtained by tip culture from mother plants that have been kept at the higher temperatures (35-37C) means that the best yields of PVX-free plantlets are achieved by treatments at 30-32,5C prolonged for 35-42 days. Under such conditions, thermotherapy can be performed on mini-cuttings mantained in vitro, from which tips are excised after the heat treatments, making the whole procedure more convenient. The eradication of PVX is exclusively due to the action of heat on the axillary tips in situ; in fact, when meristem tips consisting of the apical dome plus one or two pairs of primordial leaflets, are cultured without prior thermotherapy, the yields of PVX-free plantlets are very low or nil. On the contrary, heat treatment progressively eradicates PVX from infected tips probably by inactivation rather than immobilization of the virus. No positive results are obtained by submitting in vitro growing tips directly to high temperature (30 to 34 C). For success, the tips must be an integral part of a whole plant (whether large, grown in pots or small, grown in vitro). Since excellent therapeutic results are obtained by dissecting and culturing meristem tips excised from PVX-infected potato plants, completely defoliated just before submitting them to heat treatment, we conclude that no leaf metabolite is actively involved in the mechanism of PVX-eradication from the axillary tips. The results of the present paper support the Mellor and Stace-Smith's theory (1977) on the mechanism of viral infectivity eradication by meristem tip culture on artificial media.
42878310|Si riferiscono i risultati di una indagine su alcuni caratteri del pomodoro da industria utili alla raccolta meccanica selettiva dei frutti maturi. Questi i caratteri presi in considerazione: resistenza al distacco dei frutti; resistenza dei frutti a compressione; peso dei frutti; diametro del picciolo; attitudine alla separazione dei frutti verdi in acqua. Le indagini sono state compiute sulle seguenti cvs. e selezioni: UC 105 J, ISOP 20-1, ISOP 20-2, ISOP 26, Chico III. I caratteri esaminati sono stati abbastanza differenziati nelle diverse cv/s La consistenza dei frutti e la loro resistenza al distacco diminuisce durante la maturazione. Questo comportamento  pi evidente nella selezione ISOP 20-1 che presenta il pi basso valore a livello di diametro del picciolo. Anche il peso dei frutti  determinante per la separazione dei frutti verdi alla raccolta meccanica; infatti solo i frutti verdi di peso limitato possono rimanere attaccati alla pianta ed essere scartati dalla macchina. The authors carried out research on some characteristics of processing tomatoes to examine the possibility of a selective mechanical harvesting limited to ripe fruits. The following were taken into consideration: fruit removal force; resistence of fruit to the pressure test; weight of fruits; diameter of fruit stem; aptitude to the separation of green fruits in water; these characteristics were investigated on UC. 105 J, ISOP 20-1, ISOP 20-2, ISOP 26 e Chico III. The results obtained show the different behaviour of varieties in respect to the characteristics examined. The solidity of fruits and fruit removal force decrease during the ripening. This behaviour is more evident in the selection ISOP 20-1, which has a lower fruit stem diameter. Also the weight of the fruits is determinant on the selective separation of green fruits at mechanical harvesting. Really only the green fruit with low weight will be able to remain on the plant and discharged by the harvest machine.
42878311|Si riferiscono i risultati di una prova di confronto tra cvs. e selezioni di pomodoro da industria in cui era stato differenziato il metodo di raccolta. La prova  stata effettuata nell'Azienda dell'Istituto di Orticoltura e Floricoltura di Pisa in localit S. Piero a Grado, utilizzando uno schema sperimentale a blocchi randomizzati con 4 ripetizioni. Le variet a confronto comprendevano: Ventura, H 2274, Roma VFN, Cal J, ISOP 23, ISOP 1 (SIRIO), ISOP 17, ISOP 20. Nei metodi di raccolta erano previste: una raccolta unica svolta dall'1 all'8 di settembre a seconda della precocit delle cvs. ed una raccolta scalare con 3 interventi (11 agosto, 30 agosto, 19 settembre). Oltre ai caratteri produttivi  stato controllato il livello qualitativo del prodotto ottenuto alla raccolta unica. La raccolta unica ha determinato una flessione media nella produzione commerciale del 32,3% rispetto alla raccolta scalare. Solo la selezione ISOP 1 (SIRIO) ha presentato una differenza limitata (15,3%) tra i due tipi di raccolta. La produzione totale, comprendente anche i frutti invaiati e verdi, non  stata invece influenzata in maniera significativa. Le caratteristiche qualitative dei frutti derivanti dalla raccolta unica sono risultate molto vicine agli standard ad eccezione dell'acidit che ha manifestato una tendenza all'abbassamento. Una quantit di frutti verdi superiori al 10% (in peso) ha determinato effetti negativi sul colore, il residuo ottico ed il contenuto in zuccheri. The results of some determined varieties and selection of processing tomatoes were examined. The varieties cultivated at the Institute of Horticulture of Pisa University with a factorial experiment and 4 replications, were: Ventura, H 2274, Roma VFN, Cal J, ISQP 23, ISOP 1 (SIRIO), ISOP 17, ISOP 20. The trial included the control of yield at the single-one harvest September 1/8) in confront to repeated harvest in 3 times (August 11, August 30, September 19) and the control of qualitative characteristics. The yield of ripe fruits resulted lower at single-one harvest, with a difference of 32,3% (average) in respect to the n. 3 harvest. Only the selection ISOP n. 1 (SIRIO) have a difference, limited to 15,3% between singleone and more harvest. If the total yield was considered, with green and non ripe fruits, the differences between the two types of harvest were not significant. The qualitative characteristics of the ripe fruits at the single-one harvest were near the standard with the exception of acidity which was lower. A quantity of green fruits higher than 10% in weight has a unfavourable influence on color, soluble solids and sugar fraction.
42878312|Vengono riferiti i risultati di una ricerca iniziata nel 1965 allo scopo di studiare comparativamente il comportamento vegetativo e produttivo dell'olivo "Frantoio "autoradicato ed innestato su semenzali di 9 diverse cultivar di olivo ("Ascolana tenera", "Frantoio", "Lea", "Leccino", "Mignolo", "Morchiai", "Ottobratica",  Rossellino  e  Sinopolese  ) . La prova  stata condotta in un oliveto di pianura del litorale toscano, posto ad elevata densit di piantagione (555 p/ha). Dopo 12 anni di osservazioni sono stati messi in evidenza diversi gradi di vigoria e produttivit tra le varie combinazioni di innesto saggiate. Le piante di "Frantoio" innestate su "Lea" e quelle autoradicate hanno mostrato rispettivamente una mole del 25 e del 12% inferiore a quella della combinazione "Frantoio"/"Frantoio". La produzione  risultata correlata positivamente allo sviluppo. L'efficienza produttiva  stata pi elevata sui seguenti portinnesti: "Frantoio", "Leccino", "Lea" e nel "Frantoio autoradicato". Data are referred on a research began in 1965 in order to study the influence of 9 different olive varieties' seedlings, used as rootstocks, on the behaviour of  "Frantoio" olive oil variety. The trial was done in a high density orchard (555 trees/ha) situated on the Tuscan coast plain. After 12 years different degrees of vigour among tested graft combination were found. Trees grafted on "Lea" seedlings ond ownrooted trees showed a trunk cross sectional area 30-20% lower than  Frantoio "trees on" Frantoio" seedlings. Cumulated crops were positively related to the tree vigour. Yield efficiency was higher on the trees grafted on  Frantoio", "u Leccino", "Lea" seedlings and on ownrooted trees.
42878313|Osservazioni condotte su un impianto di pesche e nettarine, innestate su "G. F. 655/2", allevate a "fusetto"e poste alle distanze di m 42, hanno messo in evidenza quanto di seguito esposto. Gli alberi hanno manifestato uno sviluppo vegetativo abbastanza contenuto ed equilibrato, mantenendosi bene rivestiti di branchette fruttifere fino dalla base. La forma di allevamento adottato ha richiesto, nel triennio di osservazioni, quantit di lavoro per la potatura inferiori a quelle normalmente impiegate per impianti tradizionali a vaso o a palmetta. La fruttificazione  iniziata gi al secondo anno di vegetazione, raggiungendo in alcune cultivar, quali la " Redhaven" e la "Stark Redgold", produzioni/albero alquanto soddisfacenti, che, per la elevata densit di piantagione, si sono tradotte in rese/ha di notevole rilievo. La produttivit  aumentata in modo progressivo e in misura accentuata, raggiungendo alla terza foglia livelli compresi tra i 275 q. li/ha nella "Dixired" e nella "Springerest" ed i 555 q. li/ha nella "Flavortop". La qualit dei frutti  risultata soddisfacente sia come pezzatura, sia come colorazione. Non  stato osservato alcun sintomo di disaffinit con il portinnesto impiegato, la cui attivit pollonifera  apparsa molto limitata e facilmente controllabile con la sfalciatura ed il diserbo chimico. Observations were carried out from 1976 to 1978 on three peach ("Springerest", "Dixired", "Redhaven") and three nectarine ("Early Sungrand", "Flavortop", "Stark" rootstock, were trained to free Spindel ("fusetto") in a single row spaced. at 4  2 m (1,250 trees/ha). The growth in the trees was recorded by measuring the trunk girth at 15 cm above the bud union, the height and the spread of the canopy. In order to promote early cropping the trees were pruned very slightly; consequently they filled the row space in the third growth season (1977) reaching the most desiderable height, ranging from 2.9 m ("Springerest") to 3.9 m ("Flavortop"). At the winter pruning of the fourth year it was necessary, in some varieties, to head back the central leader. The times required for pruning (winter and summer) can be considered rather low. In fact, in the winter 1978-1979 they ranged from 45 to 73 h/ha. Data on yield (number of fruits per tree and average fruit weight) show that the trees started to crop in the second growth season with production ranging from 3.3 Kg/tree ("Dixired") to 9.5 kg/tree ("Stark Redgold"), i.e. from 4 to 12 tons/ha respectively. The cumulative yield, 1976-1978 ranged from 39.4 tons/ha ("Dixired") to 83.1 tons/ha ("Stark Redgold"). All varieties, especially "Flavortop" and "Stark Redgold", produced well sized and satisfactory red overcolored fruits. No symptoms of graft incompatibility appeared, and only in a few cases were suckers emerging from the "I.N.R.A. Saint-Julien G. F. 655/2" observed.
42878319|After briefly considering the widespread use of plant growth regulators in tomato crops, the Author, who is also the Director of the Centre, has dealt with the application techniques of such products. Afterwards he describes and illustrates the stages of research on this topic, which the Centre is carrying out for the Oriented Project "Pesticides and Plant Growth Regulators" (National Council of Research).
42878320|After indicating the successive stages of the process of fructification in the tomato, the Authors analyse, on the basis of information given in relative literature, the physiological bases of the process of carpogenesis and the influence of the environmental factors on each single stage. Particular attention is paid to the temperature, which variations as regards optimum values influence unfavourably all the stages in the process of fructification; therefore, the use of plant growth regulators is considered useful and often essential for those crops grown in cycles or environments, where the temperatures do not correspond to the requirements of the species. Finally an outline of further research has been traced out, which is considered useful in order to control more rationally the process of fructification. This can be achieved acquiring more precise information on the relationship between environmental factors and the process itself.
42878321|Effects of different concentrations of sucrose, calcium [as Ca(NO)  4HO] and boron (as HBO) on pollen germination of Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. var. Supermarmande, in vitro, were studied. In general calcium and boron have had a greater influence with concentrations between 0,1 and 0,3 and sucrose with concentrations of the 10%. The best temperature for pollen germination was 27 C. At 20 C the germinability is slower; we have obtained very good results after 20 hours. At 4 C and 37 C the negative effect on germination was considerable. Besides were studied the relations between germination and temperatures surveyed in the 15 days preceding the opening of flowers. From our observations it results that the pollen germinate in appreciable quantity when it is producted under termic conditions corresponding to a minimum temperatures included between 10 C and 14 C.
42878322|After briefly considering the importance of endogenous hormone substances and the part played by them in the fruit setting process of the tomato, data have been examined concerning the use in Italy of plant growth regulators and particularly those relevant to fruit setting. These regulators are widespread in those areas where mostly vegetables are grown under protected cultivation. Hence results are reported of a specific study of auxin-like products on the market, used in Italy to promote fruit setting and in any case salad tomato fructification. Data and remarks on active constituents, concentrations and use are reported for each product.
42878323|The study refers to the work carried out  on the basis of a five-year programme  as part of the Oriented Project "Pesticides and Plant Growth Regulators" of the National Council of Research (sub-Project no. 6). It concerns several aspects of the application of plant growth regulators to promote fruit setting and earliness in the tomato under protected cultivation. The results of the research regarding the first year's work have proved that the auxin treatment of open flowers of the first three clusters has brought about significant and favourable effects both on earliness and marketable yield. These effects, due to an increase in both fruit setting rate and especially single weight of fruits, have been clearer, at least in the relative sense, in Winterbrid A 65, the round-smooth fruit type, than in Supermarmande. The most efficacious of the 9 different auxins studied have been 2,4-D and 4,CPA. However, the former has brought about the most significant anomalies on the fruits. Insignificant differences have been observed in relation to the three concentrations  25, 50 and 100 ppm of active substance  of the solution distributed on the single flowers.
42878324|The study refers to several results obtained through research in relation to part of a five-year programme, being carried out, concerning the application of auxin plant growth regulators to the salad tomato for the Oriented Projet "Pesticides and Plant Growth Regulators" (National Council of Research). The work described in the present paper refers to several trials intending to examine the effects of auxin substances taking into consideration application methods of the solution (to the single open flowers or to the whole cluster at the anthesis of the flowers) and minimum temperatures during flowering of the first three clusters (above 10 C in comparison with those recorded in the coldhouse). The plants treated with auxin substances and particularly 2,4-D and 4,CPA have given sirice the very first stages and for all the productive cycle, the highest yields. These positive effects of auxin treatments have been determined, above all, by the single weight of the fruits. However, treatment caused significant anomalies in the fruits which were more serious in the Raf cultivar than the Winterbrid cultivar. On the whole, the application of the solution to the open flowers did not seem more favourable compared with the whole cluster. Finally, raising the minimum temperature levels to the 10 C limit, influenced favourably earliness. This was the case only for plants which were not treated or those whose flowers had been treated with less efficacious auxins.
42878327|This research was carried out using olive cuttings cv.  Frangivento  from 5 different places and from mother plants showing different vegetative conditions in the various places. The best results were obtained from cuttings taken from vegetatively vigorous mother plants, while the worst coincided with a good fruit yield of the same mother plants. Abnormal conditions, such as drought or severe parassite attack seem strongly to discourage root formation. No correlation between age of the mother plant and root formation was observed. Hormone treatment seemed particularly important in the periods of reduced natural rooting capacity, and helps generally to obtain cuttings with a better developed root system. Questa ricorca  stata condotta utilizzando talee di olivo della cv  Frangivento  provenienti da 5 localit e da piante madri che presentavano diverse condizioni vegetative nelle varie localit. I migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti con talee prelevate da piante madri in forte sviluppo vegetativo, mentre i peggiori si sono avuti in coincidenza con una buona fruttificazione delle piante madri stesse. Anche alcune condizioni anormali, quali la siccit o forti attacchi parassitari, sembrano deprimere fortemente l'emissione delle radici. Non  stata osservata nessuna relazione tra et della pianta madre e rizogenesi. Il trattamento ormonico acquista particolare importanza nei momenti di ridotta capacit rizogena naturale, comunque, in generale, permette di ottenere delle barbatelle con migliore apparato radicale.
42878328|Al fine di ottenere un anticipo della formazione scheletrica di piante di ciliegio dolce e contenere cos gli oneri connessi al lungo periodo improduttivo che caratterizza, in genere, questa specie in fase di allevamento,  stata condotta un'indagine sugli effetti indotti da alcuni fitoregolatori (Butralin, CEPA, CEPA + SADH, CEPA + CCC CCC, MB 25105, MH, NC 9634, OFF-SHOOT-T, P 293, PP 528 e SADH) sullo sviluppo di piante della cv  Durone Nero I . L'intervento chimico  stato effettuato una sola volta nello stesso anno di esecuzione dell'innesto (praticato a triangolo), quando il germoglio aveva raggiunto la lunghezza di circa cm 45 (I epoca) o cm 65 (II epoca). Le piante trattate sono state messe a confronto con due gruppi di piante cimate a mano, rispettivamente alla I ed alla II epoca, e con un gruppo di piante testimoni. Tutti i prodotti hanno rallentato in misura statisticamente significativa, ad eccezione del CCC e del SADH, la crescita delle piante; specialmente alla prima epoca. Il CEPA, CEPA + SADH, MB 25105, MH, NC 9634 e PP 528 hanno temporaneamente sbloccato o attenuta l'azione della  dominanza apicale , favorendo l'emissione anticipata di rami laterali nella totalit o quasi delle piante trattate. L'intervento tardivo per ha, generalmente, promosso lo sviluppo di tali rami in posizione medio-basale del fusto, la pi idonea per una loro successiva utilizzazione per l'allevamento della pianta. A questo proposito, indipendentemente dal fattore  epoca di trattamento , solo l'MB 25105 e la miscela CEPA + SADH, fra i suddetti formulati, hanno manifestato oltre ad un marcato efletto brachizzante anche la capacit di indurre la formazione del maggior numero di tali rami, ben sviluppati e caratterizzati da un ampio angolo d'inserzione, ad un'altezza del fusto pi conveniente per l'impostazione della futura struttura scheletrica delle piante. In order to reduce the tree size and, at the same time, to promote the feather formation, very young clerry plants cv.  Durone Nero I  were sprayed early in the spring, with some growth regulators (Butralin, CEPA, CEPA + SADH, CEPA + CCC, CCC. MB 25105, MH, NC 9634, OFF-SHOOT-T, P 293, PP 528 e SADH) when shoots were 45 or 65 cm long. All these substances, except CCC and SADH, reduced the shoot growth, intensity of this effect being generally related with the spray time. In addition, some of these chemicals (CEPA, CEPA + SADH, CEPA + CCC, MH) temporarily inhibited or minimized (MB 25105, PP 528, NC 9634) tie  apical dominance  and promoted an early development of lateral shoots. In general late sprays have induced the emergency of lateral shoots at the best level (45-100 cm above the grafting point) to form a suitable tree frame. Treatments with MB 25105 or with the mixture CEPA + SADH supplied the best results, combining a remarkable marked plant size reduction with the induction of tie higest number of vigorous lateral shoots, inserted with a wide angle on the most suitable position.
42878329|Allo scopo di definire una tecnica di propagazione per talea di Arbutus unedo e Camellia japonica che assicuri condizioni di ripetibilit  stato individuato l'andamento del potenziale rizogeno naturale e indotto con sostanze chimiche. Rilevando contemporaneamente i principali parametri relativi al ciclo di sviluppo morfofisiologico delle piante madri  stato correlato il momento di maggiore disponibilit alla radicazione delle talee con lo stadio vegetativo della pianta madre. Tale procedura elimina la possibilit di prelevare il materiale di propagazione in momenti meno favorevoli a causa delle variazioni climatiche da un anno all'altro che determinano andamenti diversi del ciclo vegetativo delle piante madri. L'impiego di questa tecnica ha permesso di individuare esattamente in anni successivi il momento pi favorevole alla ridicazione delle talee delle due specie considerate. The variation of rooting throughout the vegetative cycle of mothers plants of Arbutus unedo and Camellia japonica was analysed in order to define a propagation technique which ensured the repetibility of the results and contained the variability often noticed in cutting propagation. The knowledge of the relationship between the vegetative cycle of mother plants and the rooting allows the nursery man to collect the propagation material at the most convenient developmental stage. This procedure, based on experimental data, makes aware of the possible error due to collection of the propagation material convincing of the biased use of collecting cutting at determined data. Following this technique in successive years it has been possible to define exactly the most appropriate phase of mother plants vegetative cycle for the best rooting of its cuttings.
42878330| stata saggiata l'influenza di alcuni fattori ambientali sulla vitalit e germinabilit del polline di due cultivars di melo. I rami recisi sono stati posti in quattro differenti situazioni per quanto riguarda luce (cicli ed intensit), temperatura ed umidit relativa, a partire dal 21.3.1978 per un periodo che, a seconda delle condizioni sperimentali, si  protratto da 3 a 7 settimane. Nelle diverse condizioni si  evidenziata una maggiore resistenza della  Starkrimson  rispetto alla  Golden Delicious , sia relativamente all'aspetto dei fiori sviluppatisi che per quanto riguarda la germinabilit del polline. La vitalit invece non sembra influenzata dalle diverse situazioni realizzate. We have investigated the relationship between some environmental factors and viability and in vitro germinability of pollen of two apple cultivars. Excised branches have been tested in four different conditions of light (cycles and intensity), temperature and relative humidity, during a period of 3-7 weeks starting from 21.3.1978. Environmental factors make evident that the  Starkrimson  is more resistent than the  Goldein Delicious , botl for the behaviour of growing flowers, and for pollen germination. On the other hand, viability is quite different between the two cultivars only in the condition D, where the lowest temperatures and highest relative humidities are asociated. Generally, le viability is not affected by our simulated conditions.
42878337|Per verificare se esiste una correlazione tra capacit rizogena e fabbisogno in freddo, sono state moltiplicate, con la tecnica del riscaldamento basale, 53 cultivar di pesco con esigenze diverse di freddo ed in varie epoche. Si evidenzia la capacit rizogena delle cultivar, o gruppi di cultivar, legata alPepoca di prelievo delle talee confermando la variabilit dei risultati ottenuti da vari Autori. Molte sono le cultivar in grado di fornire oltre il 50% di radicazione ed i risultati migliori sono stati ottenuti subito dopo la caduta delle foglie. Interessanti, ma non certo definitivi, sono i risultati ottenuti con il trapianto anche se in pochi casi si supera il 40%. To verify an eventual correlation between rooting ability and chilling requirement, 53 peach cultivars with different chilling requirements at different times, have been propagated using the basal heat method. The variability in the results of various authors linked with sampling time and rooting ability of the cultivars or group of cultivars is verified. Many cultivars can root to 50% and over and best results are obtained just after leaf fall. The results obtained with established plants although in some cases over 40% interesting but not definitive.
42878338|Vengono riferiti i primi risultati di un'indagine sul seccume del nocciolo Gentile delle Langhe condotta a partire dal 1973 in collaborazione fra il Laboratorio di Fitovirologia applicata e l'Istituto Nazionale Piante da Legno di Torino. Sono state indagate le seguenti possibili cause: a) virus ed agenti di tipo micoplasma; b) condizioni sfavorevoli di coltura; c) alterazioni radicali. Non  stato possibile dimostrare alcuna correlazione fra seccume ed agenti virali o di tipo micoplasma, o mettere in evidenza alterazioni ultrastrutturali legate al seccume. Prove di trasmissione mediante chip budding a Vinca rosea sono risultate negative. Prove di trasmissione per innesto da nocciolo a nocciolo hanno presentato notevoli difficolt per la bassa percentuale di attecchimento e non hanno fornito finora risultati positivi; ulteriori osservazioni saranno per necessarie dato che la malattia si manifesta 6-7 anni dopo la messa a dimora delle piante. Le condizioni di coltura, bench non sempre ottimali, non sembrano direttamente collegate al seccume. Sulla base delle indagini finora svolte l'ipotesi pi probabile  che il seccume sia collegato a danni da nematodi ectoparassiti. Hazelnut seccume is the most serious disease of hazelnut present in Piedmont (North Italy). This paper reports the first results of investigations on seccume conducted since 1973 in joint work between Turin's Laboratorio di Fitovirologia applicata and Istituto Nazionale Piante da Legno. The following hypothetical causes of seccume have been investigated: a) virus or mycoplasma-like agents; b) unfavourable growing conditions; c) root damage. It has not been possible to demonstrate any sure correlation between seccume and virus or micoplasma-like agents or ultrastructural alterations of diseased tissues. The disease has not been transmitted to Vinca rosea through chip budding. Graft transmission trials from hazelnut to hazelnut were difficult owing to the low percentage of grafts which took; positive transmission have not yet been observed, but further observations are necessary because the disease does not appear until 6-7 year after planting. Growing conditions, although not always the best, do not appear to be the direct cause of the disease. Although the data obtained do not indicate clearly any one cause of the disease, at the moment a likely hypothesis is that seccume could be connected with infestation by ectoparasitic nematodes.
42878340|E' stata determinata la densit stomatica per unit di superficie fogliare in 5 cultivar e in alcuni cloni normali e compatti di olivo per verificare se questo parametro possa valutare il potenziale vigore delle piante. I risultati hanno messo in evidenza che il numero di stomi  costante sulle foglie del tratto medio-apicale del ramo di un anno e che il parametro pu essere utilizzato per discernere genotipi notevolmente diversi tra loro per vigoria. Tale conclusione  valida per piante coltivate nello stesso ambiente che hanno superato il periodo giovanile. Rimane da dimostrare se le stesse conclusioni siano valide per i semenzali nei primi anni di et. Ci potrebbe permettere di effettuare una selezione precoce dei genotipi desiderati. The stomatal density per unit leaf area has been determined in 5 cultivars and in some normal and dwarf clones of olive to verify whether this parameter could estimate the potential vigour of the plant. The results have placed in evidence that the number of stornata is constant in the leaves of the median apical tract of the one old year branch and that the parameter could be used to select genotype which are notibly different among themselves in vigour. This conclusion is valid for plant grown in the same environment and which have passed the juvenile stage. It remains to be seen whether the same conclusions are valid for seedlings in the early period of growth. This could enable to carry out an early selection of the desired genotypes.
42878341|Tentativi di superare l'autoincompatibilit del melo cv. Starkrimson (Delicious rossa) sono stati svolti mediante la tecnica del mentor recognition pollen (polline di riconoscimento, o polline vettore). Il polline compatibile della cv. Golden Delicious, quando irradiato a 150 Krad e mescolato con quello vitale e incompatibile di Starkrimson indusse un'allegagione del 4% (dei fiori impollinati) con una bassa percentuale per di frutti provvisti di semi maturi (0,1 seme per frutto), mentre nel caso di polline vitale di Golden Delicious l'allegagione raggiunse il 20%, con una media di 6,9 semi per frutto. Il polline irradiato fino a 300 Krad o devitalizzato con metanolo non produsse alcuna allegagione. La germinabilit del polline  stata fortemente ridotta da irradiazioni di 150 Krad (6% di granuli germinati) o totalmente annullata da 300 Krad, mentre quella del polline vitale, sempre in Golden Delicious, raggiunse il 76% di granuli germinati. Attemps to overcome gametophitic self-incompatibility of the Red Delicious apple (cv. Starkrimson) were carried out by using mentor (= recognition) pollen techniques. The compatible pollen (cv. Golden Delicious, when irradiated at 150 Krad and mixed with the live self-incompatible one, was able to induce fruit set (4%) but with a very poor seeded fruits (0.1 seeds per fruit) if compared with those of Golden Delicious viable pollen (20% of fruit set and 6.9 seeds per fruit). Highly radiated (300 Krad) or killed by methanol pollen was ineffectual. The germination of irradiated pollen is stronghly reduced by 150 Krad (6% of grains) or totally annulled (by 300 Krad), while that of live pollen reached 76% of germinated grains.
42878344|Nella zona di Amendolara (CS), in oliveto irriguo (cv  S. Agostino , forma di allevamento vaso cespugliato) sono state condotte delle prove di defogliazione parziale o totale per studiare l'influenza dell'epoca di questo operazione sulla differenziazione a fiore delle gemme. Gli interventi sono stati effettuati in 5 epoche diverse (30.9.1974; 28.10; 29.11; 16.1.1975; 14.2) operando con le tesi: 1) defogliazione totale; 2) lasciando 1 foglia su 4; 3) lasciando 2 foglie su 4; 4) lasciando 3 foglie su 4; 5) lasciando a met la lamina di tutte le foglie del ramo. I rilievi hanno riguardato la formazione di mignole in relazione al numero di gemme presenti nelle diverse tesi e in funzione della presenza (od assenza) della foglia ascellare. Dall'insieme dei risultati ottenuti operando su singoli rami, l'epoca di defogliazione sembrerebbe avere un effetto fondamentale sulla evoluzione a fiore della gemma; tuttavia il punto di  viraggio  non si determina in una data precisa, ma quote successive (e sempre pi elevate fino a dicembre-gennaio) di gemme subirebbero l'induzione e differenzierebbero. Tale processo, gi iniziato ad ottobre, sembrerebbe ancora in atto fino al febbraio. Tale progressione risulta anche in presenza di met della lamina fogliare, seppure con valori assai pi elevati che non nel caso della completa assenza di foglie. Questi due fenomeni farebbero pensare ad una azione correlata all'et relativa della foglia. L'asportazione sul rametto di una parte dell'apparato fogliare ha effetto bivalente; da un lato diminuisce la fioritura nelle gemme dotate di foglie nei confronti del controllo, dall'altro la fa aumentare in quelle prive nei confronti della tesi  totalmente defogliato  . Ci potrebbe essere attribuito ad un fenomeno di diffusione e diluizione relativa di uno o pi principi, tanto pi evidente quanto pi  anticipata o forte la defogliazione. Partial or complete defoliation trials were carried out in an irrigated  vaso cespugliato  grown olive orchard in the Amendolara (CS) area, to study the influence of defoliation time on flower bud differentiation of cv.  S. Agostino . Defoliation was carried out in 5 different periods: 30.9.1974; 28.10.1974; 29.11.1974; 16.1.1975; 14.2.1975, as follows: 1) complete defoliation; 2) leaving 1 leaf in 4; 3) leaving 2 leaves in 4; 4) leaving 3 leaves in 4; 5) halving each leaf on all the branch. Flower formation in relation to the number of buds present in the different thesis in the presence or absence of the uxillary leaf were recorded. From the obtaines results and operating on single brancles, the defoliation time seems to have a fundamental effect on flower bud formation, nevertheless the actual changing point is not determined at a definite date but successive number of buds (increasingly higher till Dec-January) undergo induction and differentiate. This process, started in October, continues up to February. The progression takes place also in the presence of half leaf, although with greater values than in the complete absence of leaves. These two phenomena suggest a correlation between the action and relative leaf age. The partial removal of the leaves on the branch has a bivalent effect; it diminishes flowering of tie buds with leaves compared to the control on the one hand, whilst it increases flowering in those without leaves compared to the  totally leafless  control. This could be attributed to a phenomenon of diffusion and diluition relative to one or more principles, the more evident when defoliation is early or strong.
42878345|Allo scopo di verificare le cause di variabilit della capacit rizogena nelle talee di alcune cultivar di pesco, sono state condotte parallelamente prove per ognuna delle quali si  preso in considerazione un diverso aspetto del problema: 1) Influenza della concentrazione ormonica e dell'epoca di prelevamento. 2) Influenza del tempo di permanenza delle talee in  riscaldamento basale . 3) Modalit di conservazione del materiale. Per quanto riguarda il primo aspetto il trattamento ormonico ha sempre avuto un effetto positivo sulla radicazione. Le cultivar esaminate si comportano per in maniera diversa in funzione sia della concentrazione, sia dell'epoca. Per quanto riguarda il secondo aspetto, si  notata una diversa velocit di radicazione, diversa tra le cultivar, che talora potrebbe essere fonte di errore nella valutazione comparativa della capacit rizogena. Per quanto concerne il terzo aspetto, la conservazione del materiale di propagazione pu incidere sulla rizogenesi; la conservazione in frigorifero a + 2C per prelievi anticipati di materiale, effettuata con le opportune cautele,  risultata utilmente applicabile od addirittura preferibile al lasciare i rami sulla pianta madre: con probabilit ci  dovuto anche al diverso accumulo di  ore freddo , non escludendo una probabile interazione con altri fattori dipendenti dalle diverse esigenze delle singole cultivar. Il lavoro  stato eseguito con la collaborazione tecnica di Poggiali G. e Pardini E. La parte grafica  stata eseguita da Nannini P.L. In order to verify the causes of rooting variability in cuttings of some peach cultivars, parallel trials have been carried out, each taking into consideration a different aspect of the problem: 1) Influence of hormone concentration and sampling period; 2) Influence of length of time of cuttings in  basal heat ; 3) Conservation of material. Considering the first aspect, hormone treatment has always positively affected rooting. The tested cultivars behave differently according to concentration and period of sampling. The second aspect: it has been noted that some cultivars root earlier than others and this could give rise to errors in the comparative rooting evaluation. Finally tle third aspect. The conservation of the cuttings may affect rooting. Keeping the cuttings for early sampling in the refrigerator at + 2C, if properly carried out, is useful or even preferable to keeping the branches on the mother plant. This is probably due to different accumulation of  chilling hours , not excluding the probable interaction with other factors depending on the different requirements of each cultivar.
42878346|Dall'osservazione al microscopio elettronico a scansione di 13 cultivar di olivo da tavola risulta che  possibile la suddivisione in gruppi delle cultivar in base alle dimensioni del polline essiccato (diametro polare ed equatoriae), all'ampiezza delle maglie del reticolo esinico e dei muri che le delimitano e alle ornamentazioni sui muri. L'identificazione di alcune cultivar non sembra particolarmente difficile. Per altre che appartengono allo stesso gruppo e divergono solo per leggere differenze la identificazione  pi difficile. In questo caso le caratteristiche del polline servono solo a fare escludere o a confermare l'appartenenza ad un gruppo. On observing 13 cultivars of olive with a scanning electron microscope it si possible to subdivide them in groups according to the size of dehydrated pollen (polar and equatorial diameter) and also from the width, thickness and patterns of the exine sculptures. The identification of some cultivars seems relatively easy; for others belonging to the same group, the differences are so slight that the identification becomes difficult. In this case the pollen characters are useful only either to exclude or confirm the belonging to a group.
42878347|La relazione mette inizialmente in evidenza la specificit del miglioramento genetico delle piante a (prevalente) propagazione vegetativa in cui la possibilit e spesso la necessit di non passare attraverso la meiosi permette il permanere nel tempo di situazioni genetiche ed epigenetiche. Vengono pertanto analizzate le cause di variabilit spontanea, i metodi proposti per la sua salvaguardia e valutazione nella prospettiva di sfruttarla adeguatamente attraverso la selezione e la selezione clonale. Sono descritti e prospettati numerosi metodi seguiti nella mutagenesi indotta e l'ibridazione interspecifica, nel caso in cui la variabilit non sia sufficiente a coprire le esigenze di miglioramento. Sono brevemente descritte, infine, alcune nuove tecniche di miglioramento. Initially the work places in evidence the specificity of breeding in (mainly) vegetatively propagated plants  to which the possibility and often the necessity of not passing through meiosis allows genetic and epigenetic situations to persist in time. The causes of spontaneous variability are analysed, methods for its safeguard and evaluation proposed, in view of its adequate employment through selection, and clonal selection. Numerous methods for induced mutation breeding, and interspecific hybridization are described and prospected, when the variability is insufficient to cover the breeding requirements. Lastly a few new breeding techniques are outlined.
42878348|Nell'ambito di una ricerca condotta per studiare l'induzione chimica della fioritura delle bromeliaceae ornamentali,  stato effettuato un ampio studio per rilevare a livello istologico la comparsa dell'infiorescenza. E' stato possibile, esaminando giornalmente al microscopio gemme apicali di Aechmea fasciata trattate con Ethephon a 2000 ppm, rilevare la comparsa dei primordi fiorali fin dal quarto giorno dopo il trattamento. Si  inoltre notato che l'apice della pianta, solo leggermente convesso prima dell'induzione della fioritura, assume, dopo il trattamento induttivo, una forma conica sempre pi allungata in conseguenza della crescita dello scapo dell'infiorescenza. Dalla misurazione dell'allungamento dell'apice  emerso che tale allungamento inizia entro le prime 48 ore successive al trattamento induttivo e ci indica che l'effetto dell'Ethephon  praticamente immediato. Trials on flower induction of Aechemea fasciata were supported by microscopical investigation on flower bud defferentiation, to study the development of flowers and to determine the time elapsing between chemical treatment and appearance of flower primordia. Every day, beginning from the day of treatment with Ethephon 2000 ppm, and for 26 days, five apical buds were cut off from as many Ethephon treated plants and immediately fixed in formaldehyde-acetic, acid-alcohol solution. Buds were then embedded in paraffin, sectioned by microtome, stained with clorazol-black and examined by microscope. Flower primordia can be seen four days after treatment and the whole inflorescence is evident after fifteen days; after twenty days carpels appear in older flowers. The vegetative apex of Aechemea fasciata is a low dome surrounded by foliage primordia; after the flower inducing treatment, the shape of the apex begins to change, getting more and more cone-like. By measuring the elongation of apex it resulted that the modification of shape begins within the first forty-eight hours after treatment and this fact shows the immediate effectiveness of Ethephon.
42878352|Dallo studio del comportamento "in vitro" dei frammenti internodali tangenziali comprendenti cribro e cambio e coltivati in associazioni a diverso grado di correlazione sistematica (intraspecifiche, interspecifiche, intergeneriche, interfamiglie), si  dedotto che, nei casi esaminati, esiste in generale la possibilit che si verifichino suture. Tali suture mostrano percentuali che sono proporzionali alla intensit di proliferazione e indipendenti dalla correlazione sistematica; questa invece influenza strettamente la evoluzione istologica del callo di giunzione inducendo differenziazione di strutture proporzionalmente pi complesse in rapporto alla maggiore affinit. Le strutture pi complesse consistono nella mutua interpenetrazione delle cellule dei due componenti, nella differenziazione di zone generatrici e di fasci di tracheidi sin nella regione di sutura e talora di tracheidi di raccordo fra i due compoenti delle associazioni. Sul piano anatomico la disaffinit "in vitro"  cos quasi sempre superata, mentre dal punto di vista fisiologico la disaffinit  superata solo nei casi di differenziazione di tracheidi di raccordo fra le due produzioni. Tali casi sono limitati, oltre alle associazioni controllo intraspecifiche, a quelle interspecifiche e a diverse intergeneriche della famiglia delle Rosaceae. I risultati ottenuti dimostrano quindi che "in vitro", fra le associazioni esaminate a qualsiasi grado di correlazione sistematica,  possibile lo stabilirsi di calli di giunzione in cui non solo le cellule non subiscono segni evidenti di necrosi, ma sono suscettibili di una evoluzione istologica, spesso addirittura notevole. Internode fragments from tangent longitudinal stem sections, including cambium and cribrum layers and tied in various associations with different levels of systematic correlation (intraspecific, interspecific, intergeneric, interfamilies) have demonstrated that, in the cases examined, there generally exists a possibility of sutures. These may have percentages proportional to their intensity of proliferation and independent of their systematic correlation. This correlation, on the contrary, strictly affects the amount of development of joining calli with a differentiation of structures which are more or less complex according to their more or less systematic affinity. Such differentiations consist of a mutual interpenetration of the two cellular components, of cambiform tissues and bundles of tracheids even in the fusion region and sometimes of vascular junctions from both components of the associations. Therefore "in vitro" anatomical incompatibility is almost always overcome; on the contrary from a physiological point of view incompatibility is overcome only when there exist vascular junctions of calli from both components. Such cases are limited to all intraspecific and interspecific associations and to various intergeneric associations in the Rosaceae family. In conclusion, our experiments indicated that "in vitro" mixed cultures at any level of systematic correlation may have junction calli in which cells do not present any noticeable signs of necrosis, but on the contrary they show a certain amount of hystological evolution and complex junctional structures.
42878353|The optimum plot size and number of replications were estimated on 13 Vinifera wine-grape cvs. trials to reduce the cost of the experiment and to obtain the most informations from the minor number of vines. To get a significant value of degree Brix of wine grapes plants it has been more efficient to increase the number of replications than to increase plot size. Increasing the plot size from 1 to 2 vines it gives little precision and rather nothing has been gained by increasing plot size to 3 or 4 vines. Vinifera wine grapes experiments can be efficient using 1 vine plot and 6 or more replications. Le dimensioni ottimali delle parcelle ed il numero di repliche sono state calcolate su 13 variet di uve da vino allo scopo di ridurre il costo della sperimentazione e per ottenere il maggior numero di informazioni con il minor numero di piante. Per quanto concerne la rivelazione del grado rifrattometrico (oB) delle uve da vino, si  potuto notare che  pi efficace aumentare il numero delle repliche piuttosto che aumentare le dimensioni delle parcelle; si  riscontrata pochissima differenza tra parcelle di una pianta e parcelle di 2 piante mentre non si ha alcun vantaggio aumentando le dimensioni delle parcelle a 3 o 4 piante. Un efficiente disegno sperimentale si pu condurre sulla vite usando parcelle di una sola pianta e con 6 o pi repliche.
42878354|Il costo e la disponibilit della manodopera pongono problemi complessi anche per la raccolta delle olive da mensa per cui si  effettuato un confronto, sulla cv. Intosso, tra la brucatura, la raccolta integrata mediante pettini e reti, la bacchiatura e la scuotitura meccanica con o senza l'impiego del CEPA a 2000 ppm. Dai risultati  emerso che la possibilit di utilizzare sistemi di raccolta diversi dalla brucatura  legata alla qualit del prodotto. Se il mercato, a parit di caratteristiche organolettiche, richiede drupe completamente integre senza alcuna lesione superficiale, la brucatura rimane l'unico sistema utilizzabile. Gli scuotitori, dal punto di vista della qualit del prodotto, non determinano problemi particolari, purch si operi con teli sollevati da terra e con intercettatori. Dal punto di vista economico non offrono invece particolari vantaggi rispetto alla brucatura poich la loro convenienza viene annullata dal valore del prodotto non raccolto o dall'onerosit del ripasso manuale o dal costo del trattamento con il prodotto cascolante. Tuttavia le difficolt nel reperimento crescente della manodopera possono a breve termine rendere economico l'uso di tali macchine. The cost and labour availability are complex problems involving harvesting of table-olives; therefore various techniques such as browsing, completed harvest with combs and nets, knocking down and mechanical shaking with and without the use of CEPA at 2000 ppm, have been compared with each other on the cv.Intosso. The results have shown that the possibility to use techniques different from browsing depends on the quality of the product. If the market, at parity of organolectic characteristics, requires completely entire fruits without any superficial lesion the only technique to be used is browsing. The shaking machines don't decrease the quality of the product when rised cloths or intercepter are used. But from an economical standpoint they are not more advantageous than browsing, because their convenience is cancelled either by the value of the non harvested product or by the high cost of a manual "once-over", or by the cost of the treatment with a fruit drop inducing agent. Yet the difficulties to find labour and its increasing cost may, in a near future, make the use of those machines economical.
42878355|Sono state effettuate delle indagini al fine di verificare la possibilit di applicare la propagazione "in vitro" degli apici nel settore della moltiplicazione vegetativa di alcuni portainnesti e cultivar di melo ("M 26", "M 9", "EMLA 27", MM 106" e "Golden Delicious", "Stark Spur Golden Delicious" e "Starkrimson"). I risultati conseguiti hanno messo in evidenza come soltanto l' "M 26" e, in minor misura, l' "EMLA 27" abbiano presentato un certo grado di proliferazione e una veloce radicazione dei germogli che  avvenuta, in generale, in circa 20-25 giorni. Il fluoroglucinolo aggiunto al substrato di crescita dei portinnesti (ad eccezione dell' "M 26") e delle cultivar non ha mostrato alcun effetto sull'accrescimento e sulla moltiplicazione dei germogli. Tra gli inconvenienti osservati quelli di maggior rilievo sono rappresentati da uno scarso allungamento dei germogli neoformati di "M 26", dalla difficolt di attecchimento nel terreno delle nuove piantine e dalla formazione, nell' "EMLA 27", di germogli morfologicamente anomali. Sebbene non sia stato indagato sull'origine di questi ultimi germogli, sembrerebbe possibile attribuire le anomalie rilevate alla composizione ormonale e/o nutritiva del substrato di crescita pi che alla comparsa di meristemi mutati. Trials were carried out to evaluate the possibility of propagating some apple rootstocks ("M 26", "EMLA 27" and "MM 106") and varieties ("Golden Delicious", "Stark Spur Golden Delicious" and "Starkrimson") by "in vitro" culture. Only "M 26" and, to lesser extent, "EMLA 27" showed shoot multiplication. Shoots of both rootstocks rooted (66%) within 20-25 days. Phloroglucinol tested on all the varieties and on "M 9", "EMLA 27" and "MM 106" did not increase shoot multiplication and growth. Some drawbacks are pointed out, such the reduced shoot elongation during "M 26" multiplication, the difficulty of plant establishment after transplanting from the tubes and the presence, in "EMLA 27" cultures, of a few shoots with stems and leaves showing irregular shape. During rooting the shoot morphology improved and, probably, the observed abnormalities may be attributed to some substrate component.
42878356|Le prospettive e le possibilit di miglioramento del geranio vengono esaminate per diversi aspetti. Le cv. attualmente diffuse sono di- o tetraploidi; casi di aploidia e di aneuploidia sono conosciuti, ma praticamente inutilizzati. Sotto il profilo genetico sono considerati i principali caratteri di interesse commerciale: numero dei petali, pigmentazione del fiore, portamento ed altezza della pianta. Per quanto riguarda la maschiosterilit, uno studio comparativo sullo sviluppo delle antere in piante fertili e sterili ha rivelato che non esistono differenze nella formazione del tapetum. L'espressione della maschiosterilit nel geranio  fortemente influenzata dalle condizioni ambientali, ed  determinata geneticamente da almeno due fattori recessivi. Esaminando il comportamento del gametofito maschile sono stati individuati alcuni casi di autoincompatibilit e numerosi di incompatibilit interspecifica. Sono stati esaminati alcuni fattori legati al processo di germinazione del seme, quali il livello ottimale di temperatura e di energia luminosa. E' possibile che la maggiore o minore percentuale di germinazione sia regolata su basi strettamente genetiche. Vengono considerati i principali obiettivi del miglioramento: pigmentazione fiorale, tipo di fiore, portamento della pianta, precocit di fioritura, germinabilit del seme, resistenza ai patogeni. Si esaminano le possibilit offerte dall'impiego, sempre pi diffuso, degli ibridi F. The prospects and the possibilities of geranium breeding are examined from different points of view. The best known cultivars at present are diploid or tetraploid; several instances of aneuploidy and haploidy are reported but practically unemployed. From a genetical point of view the main characters of commercial interest are considered: number of petals and its relation with number of sepals, flower color and pigments that cause it, plant habit and gibberellic acid influence. As regards male-sterility, a comparative study on anther development in male-fertile and male-sterile plants revealed that there are no differences in tapetal development. At their early stage of development, young microspores as well grow normally in all anthers; later after cell wall formation, the microspores of sterile anthers become empty loosing their cytoplasm, whereas those of fertile anthers increase in volume and complete their growth. The male-sterility expression in geranium is greatly influenced by environmental conditions and, from a genetical point of view, is at least controlled by two recessive genes. For a better knowledge of the fertilization patterns the behaviour of the male gametophyte is interesting. Some instances of self-incompatibility and several of interspecific incompatibility are reported. Both patterns were found in Pelargonium stenopetalum. Some factors bounded to seed germination are examined such as the optimum temperature and light requirement and the treatments that can improve this a process. There is some evidence that the germination rate is genetically controlled. The main aims of geranium breeding are treated: flower color, floret type, plant habit, earliness of flowering, seed germination, disease resistance. One examine as well the possibility of using F hybrids that has many advantages over the vegetative propagation. Particularly it eliminates the serious pathological consequences of the asexual propagation and forms again the genetic variability lost by repeated clonations.
42878357|Gli autori riferiscono i risultati di una prova biennale (1977-1978) riguardante gli effetti dell'Ethrel sulla contemporaneit di maturazione e sul distacco delle bacche di peperone ai fini della raccolta meccanica. E' stata studiata la migliore concentrazione utilizzando le due cv. Quadrato d'Asti selz. Sumo e Yolo Wonder. La distribuzione dell'Ethrel  avvenuta quando due frutti sulle piante erano maturi, ossia conpletamente colorati. La concentrazione di Ethrel di 2000 ppm ha dato i migliori risultati incrementando in entrambe le cv. la frazione del maturo di circa il 30% rispetto alle piante non trattate. I trattamenti con Ethrel non hanno determinato alcuna riduzione della forza di resistenza al distacco delle bacche. Incrementando la concentrazione di Ethrel  stata rilevata nelle bacche una riduzione della sostanza secca, del contenuto in zuccheri e vitamina C. Results of two year trials (1977-78) on the effect of Ethrel (2-cloroethylphosphonic acid) to hasten ripening and loosen fruits for mechanical harvesting are referred. The most suitable concentrations were selected on cv. Quadrato d'Asti "Sumo" and "Yolo Wonder". Ethrel was applied when two fruits on the plants were ripe (completely coloured). The 2000 ppm Ethrel concentration gave the best results increasing the percentage (30%) of ripe fruits in comparison with control plants. Treatment with Ethrel did not loosen fruits. Reduction of fruit quality (dry matter, sugar and vitamin C content) on increasing the Ethrel concentration has been observed.
42878358|In oliveti specializzati di "Frangivento" ad elevata densit di impianto della Maremma toscana,  stata segnalata una scarsa e incostante produttivit. Allo scopo di accertare la eventuale autoincompatibilit della cultivar, la presenza nella zona olivicola di eventuali impollinatori, nonch di verificare l'influenza che la luce pu esercitare sulla struttura delle mignole e sull'incidenza dell'aborto dell'ovario, sono state svolte delle ricerche i cui risultati hanno messo in evidenza: - che il "Frangivento"  completamente autoincompatibile; - che negli impianti specializzati ad elevata densit  necessario assicurare la presenza di adatti impollinatori come il "Leccino" ed il "Frantoio"; - che il "Frangivento" presenta un'elevata incidenza di fiori con ovario abortito; - che l'ombreggiamento diminuisce sia la "fertilit" dei flori che il "numero" dei fiori a mignola; - che la "fertilit"  maggiore nella fascia mediana della pianta; - che l'aborto  localizzato prevalentemente nei fiori di III ordine della mignola che schiudono per ultimi e rappresentano circa la met dei fiori totali presenti sulla pianta. In specialised high density olive orchards of cv. "Frangivento" in the Tuscan region of Maremma, a slight and inconsistent productivity was registered. The results of various research carried out to ascertain the presence of eventual pollinations in the zone, and the influence of light on flower structure and ovary collapse, place in evidence that: - "Frangivento" in completely self-incompatibile - the presence of suitable pollinations such as "Leccino" and "Frantoio" in essential in high density orchards - in "Frangivento" there is a high incidence of aborted flowers - shading lowers both the "fertility" of the flowers and the "number" of flowers per cluster - the fertility in higher in the middle region of the plant - the abortion is localised mainly in 3rd order flowers of the cluster which open last and rappresent roughly half the total number of flowers per plant.
42878359|A survey on the distribution of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae was made in the citrus nurseries grown in non-fumigated soil in Apulia, Basilicata, Calabria and Sicily regions of Italy. Forty-nine percent of 149 samples were found to contain the beneficial fungi. Gigaspora and Sclerocystis species were detected only in two samples collected from sour orange (Citrus aurantium L.) nurseries in Sicily. Two other species, both unidentified, and designated types A and C were found in the remaining samples. Un'indagine sulla distribuzione geografica delle specie di endomicorrize vescicolari-arbuscolari nei vivai italiani, non sottoposti a fumigazione del suolo,  stata effettuata in Sicilia, Calabria, Basilicata e Puglia. Su 149 campioni esaminati il 49% conteneva specie di questi utili funghi. Specie dei generi Gigaspora e Sclerocystis sono state rinvenute in due campioni di arancio amaro (Citrus aurantium L.) raccolti in Sicilia. Due nuove specie, con caratteristiche del genere Glomus, indicate come tipo A e C e non ancora identificate, sono state osservate nei rimanenti campioni.
42878362|Dopo aver richiamato l'attenzione sulle favorevoli possibilit che si prospettano, anche nel nostro Paese, per la coltivazione di idonee cultivar di pesco a polpa bianca, vengono brevemente esposti i primi risultati conseguiti con il lavoro di miglioramento genetico per la costituzione di pregevoli cultivar di pesco a polpa bianca, in corso presso le aziende sperimentali ed i campi di orientamento del Centro di studio del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose di Firenze. L'Autore descrive quindi dettagliatamente le caratteristiche morfologiche, pomologiche e bio-agronomiche della nuova cultivar di pesco a polpa bianca che  stata denominata "Maria Bianca". Questa nuova cultivar, la prima diffusa commercialmente dall'Autore, deriva dall'incrocio "Honey Dew Hale" X "Michelini", effettuato a Firenze nel 1971 e selezionata a Follonica (GR) nel 1975. La nuova cultivar possiede caratteristiche meritevoli di considerazione, assai superiori a quelle possedute dalle principali cultivar a polpa bianca oggi conosciute. Matura a met luglio a Follonica, circa 8 giorni dopo la "Flavorcrest" e 12 giorni prima di "Suncrest". Produce abbondanti frutti di grossa pezzatura, sferoidali, con polpa di squisito sapore ed assai consistente, almeno pari a quella delle pesche a polpa gialla. La "Maria Bianca" viene diffusa commercialmente, libera da ogni vincolo contrattuale. Limitati quantitativi di gemme sono disponibili per chiunque ne faccia richiesta al Centro suddetto o all'Istituto di coltivazioni arboree dell'Universit di Firenze. The Author points out the favourable possibilities for growing suitable white flesh peach cultivars in Italy, then briefly outlines the first breeding results obtaining improved white flesh peach cultivare, from trials carried out and still taking place at experimental stations of the "Centro di studio del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose" of Florence. The morfological and pomological characteristics of the new white flesh peach cultivar, which has been named "Maria Bianca" are then described in detail. This new cultivar, the first diffused commercially by the Author, derives from the cross of "Honey Dew Hale" X "Michelini", carried out in Florence in 1971 and selected in Follonica (GR) in 1975. The new cultivar's characteristics are well-worth consideration and by far superior to those of the main white flesh cultivars known. It ripens in mid-july in Follonica, roughly 8 days after "Flavorcrest" and 12 days before "Suncrest". It produces abundant, large sized, spheroid fruits, with a deliriously flavoured consistent flesh (at least as consistent as yellow flesh peaches). " Maria Bianca" is commercially diffusable, free from any contractual tie. A limited number of buds are available on request from the above "Centro" or from the "Istituto Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit" of Florence.
42878363|La sopravvivenza di oliveti produttivi ma situati in zone disagiate, scarsamente suscettibili, per la loro orografia, di usufruire dell'impiego delle macchine,  subordinata alla possibilit di reperire la manodopera necessaria per l'espletamento delle varie pratiche colturali ed in particolare per la raccolta del prodotto. Considerando che tale condizione si fa ogni anno pi precaria, potrebbero essere consigliabili i sistemi di raccolta con minore carico di manodopera di quanto ne abbisogna quello attualmente diffuso della brucatura. A tale scopo si  istituito un confronto tra la raccolta manuale con pettini e la bacchiatura con e senza l'impiego di due prodotti cascolanti (CEPA ed Alsol). Dai risultati della prova  emerso che la bacchiatura, pur richiedendo opportuni accorgimenti per limitare i danni ai rami e per ridurre l'incidenza del prodotto residuo sulla chioma delle piante, potrebbe essere presa di nuovo in esame negli oliveti produttivi ma non suscettibili di meccanizzazione. Le sostanze cascolanti, pur incrementando significativamente le rese di raccolta, non costituiscono un fattore di convenienza per l'alto costo dei formulati, per l'eventuale effetto negativo sulla fruttificazione dovuto alla filloptosi indotta e per l'impossibilit di controllare e prevedere tutti i fattori che condizionano l'efficacia dei prodotti stessi. The permanence of productive olive groves situated in unsuitable areas, such as those characterized by an orography which does not allow mechanical harvesting, depends upon the possibility to find the necessary labour for all the cultivation work and especially the harvesting of the product. As this condition is becoming year by more uncertain the use of harvesting techniques which require less labour than the browsing-technique at present widespread may be advisable. For this purpose manual harvesting with combs and knocking down with and without the use of 2 fruit drop inducing agents (CEPA and Alsol) have been compared. The results have shown that knocking down might be used again in the productive olive groves un-suitable for mechanization, nevertheless this technique requires suitable devices to reduce branch damages and the incidence of the not harvested product. Inspite of the fact that the fruit drop inducing agents significantly increase the harvest yield, they are of no convenience because costly, of a possible negative effect on the fructification due to the induced "filloptosis", and because it is impossible either to control or foresee all the factors which affect the efficiency of the different products.
42878364|Pollen grains of dehiscent anthers of the cultivars of Malus domestica "Golden Delicious" (partially self incompatible) and "Starkrimson" (self incompatible) were studied by Feulgen cytophotometry, autoradiographie Technique, starch staining and germination test. The pollen grain morphology concerning the two cultivars may be assembled into two groups: group a not showing any germinative pores and group b evidenciating well differentiated germinated pores. Both groups are however not homogeneous, as their pollen grain may be characterized by the lack of starch or by the presence of it in variable amount. On the basis of starch grains content, pollen grains of both groups are therefore subdivided into four distinct types. The collected results show that: i) cv. "Starkrimson" is faster in pollen germination as well as in pollen tube elongation than cv. "Golden Delicious"; ii) The percentage of pollen grains of group a and b and of each pollen type within both groups are different in the two cultivars. Particularly large is the difference at the level of starch lacking types within group b, being 10, 8 in cv. "Golden Delicious" and 34,8 in cv. "Starkrimson". iii) In both cultivars generative cells in G (DNA content/nucleus 1C) and in G (DNA content/nucleus 2C) are present. The pollen population of "Golden Delicious" is however characterized by a higher frequently of grains with 2C generative nuclei than pollen population of "Starkrimson" (82% and 55% respectively) while in the cv. "Starkrimson" the pollen grains with 1C generative nuclei are more numerous (79%) in cv. "Starkrimson" and 58% in cv. "Golden Delicious". iv) H-Thymidine and H-uridine experiments evidence an almost general cytoplasmic labelling. According to the authors this aspect could be the result of a metabolism of plastids and/or mitochondra nucleic acids. Granuli di polline, raccolti da antere deiscenti sono stati studiati in due cultivars di Malus domestica. Le due cultivars sono: "Golden Delicious" parzialmente auto -incompatibile, e "Starkrimson" auto -incompatibile. I metodi usati per la presente indagine sono stati: 1) la citofotometria al Feulgen per la stima del contenuto in DNA del nucleo generativo; 2) la tecnica autoradiografica dopo incorporazione di precursori tritiati del DNA, RNA e proteine; 3) Colorazione dell'amido; 4) test di germinabilit. Per quanto concerne la morfologia i granuli pollinici delle due cultivars possono essere divisi in 2 gruppi: gruppo a i cui granuli non evidenziano pori germinativi determinabili al microscopio ottico; gruppo b i cui granuli sono caratterizzati da pori germinativi ben differenziati.Ambedue i gruppi non sono tuttavia omogenei nel senso che i granuli di ogni singolo gruppo possono mancare completamente di riserve amilacee o possono contenerle in entit variabile. Sulla base del contenuto in amido i granuli di polline di ambedue i gruppi sono stati suddivisi in 4 classi distinte (Tab. 2). I parametri considerati hanno inoltre consentito di mettere in evidenza quanto segue: i) la cv. "Starkrimson"  pi rapida sia nella germinazione del polline che nell'allungamento del tubetto pollinico (Tab. 1). ii) La distribuzione percentuale dei granuli di polline nei gruppi a e b e nelle singole classi di essi  diversa nelle due cultivars in studio. Particolarmente vistosa  la differenza fra le due classi prive di riserve amilacee nel gruppo b (10,8% nella "Golden Delicious" e 34,8% nella "Starkrimson"). iii) Ambedue le cultivars hanno cellule generative con contenuto in DNA per nucleo 1C (cellule nel G del ciclo mitotico che porter alla seconda divisione della microspora) o 2C (caratteristico delle cellule in G dello stesso ciclo mitotico). La "Golden Delicious" e la "Starkrimson" hanno tuttavia una percentuale diversa di cellule in G (58% e 79% rispettivamente) ed in G (82voe 55% rispettivamente). Alcuni nuclei con contenuto in DNA intermedio fra i valori di 1C e 2C sono presenti in ambedue le cultivars (nuclei in fase di sintesi del DNA) (Fig. 1). iv) La incorporazione da  H-timidina ha dato marcatura in una bassa frequenza di nuclei sia generativi che vegetativi (nuclei impegnati nella replicazione del DNA), ma nella quasi totalit dei citoplasmi della cellula vegetativa, almeno alle pi alte esposizioni (tabella 3). La incorporazione da H-uridina ha fornito una risposta chiara soprattutto a livello di entit di marcatura. Se si esclude infatti la minore esposizione, la marcatura  risultata sempre pi intensa nella "Starkrimson", sia a livello dei 2 nuclei che a livello del citoplasma della cellula vegetativa (Tab. 4). Sulla base dei risultati ottenuti gli autori concludono che esiste una correlazione positiva fra la frequenza dei granuli di polline del tipo b privi di riserve amilacee e velocit di germinazione dei granuli pollinici stessi. Ci sembra indicare che i granuli di polline maturi per la formazione del tubetto pollinico siano i granuli del tipo b senza amido. Per quanto riguarda la cellula generativa i dati indicano che la cv. "Starkrimson" che sembra avere una maggiore percentuale di cellule vegetative mature manifesta una minore frequenza di cellule generative in G e quindi una minore percentuale di cellule generative pronte a subire la seconda divisione della microspora. Per quanto concerne la incorporazione di H-timidina, la marcatura del citoplasma della cellula vegetativa suggerisce un possibile metabolismo del DNA contenuto nei mitocondri e/o nei cloroplasti.
42878365|Vengono riferiti i risultati di un biennio di prove condotte in Sardegna sull'efficacia di diversi fitoregolatori in funzione anticascola sulle cultivar di arancio "Tarocco" e "Washington navel" e di pompelmo "Marsh seedless". Le ricerche sono state condotte nei principali comprensori agrumicoli dell'Isola: Muravera (Sardegna sud-orientale), Serramanna (Sardegna sud-occidentale), Oristano (Sardegna centro-occidentale) e Sassari (Sardegna nord-occidentale). Sono stati saggiati diversi formulati, e cio gli esteri etilesilico, ottilico ed isottilico dell'acido 2,4-diclorofenossiacetico (2,4-D), l'acido  -naftalenacetico (NAA) e l'acido  -naftossiacetico (NOA), l'acido 2,4-diclorofenossipropionico (2,4-DP), e l'acido gibberellico, quest'ultimo sempre in combinazione con i precedenti. Dai dati ottenuti si rileva che la cascola interessa una notevole percentuale della produzione in tutte le cultivar: 65%-7O% nel "Tarocco"; 50% nel "Washington navel"; 60% nel pompelmo "Marsh seedless". Tra i diversi prodotti utilizzati i clorofenossi derivati si sono rilevati decisamente pi efficaci della miscela NAA + NOA. Nel primo gruppo rientravano il 2,4-D e il 2,4-DP; il primo ha mostrato in genere una maggiore efficacia, soprattutto nella cv. "Washington navel", mentre il secondo ha fornito i mgiliori risultati nella cv. "Tarocco" in combinazione con acido gibberellico a 20 p.p.m., e risultati assai positivi nella cv. "Marsh seedless" senza nessun altro fitoregolatore. L'influenza dei diversi prodotti saggiati sulle caratteristiche qualitative dei frutti si  tradotta, in generale, in un'attenuazione pi o meno marcata della colorazione della buccia, ma limitata solamente ai formulati in cui era presente l'acido gibberellico. La fioritura, infine, non ha subito apprezzabili modificazioni in seguito ai trattamenti. A two-year study was conducted in Sardinia to evaluate some growth substances used to control the pre-harvest fruit drop in "Tarocco" and "Washington navel" sweet oranges and in "Marsh seedless" grapefruit. The research was carried out in the following citrus areas: Muravera (South-eastern Sardinia), Serramanna (South-western Sardinia), Oristano (Center-western Sardinia), and Sassari (North-western Sardinia). Several compounds were tested: ethylhexilic, octylic and isoctylic esters of 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D),  -naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), and  -naphthoxyacetic acid (NOA), 2,4-dichlorophenoxypropionic acid (2,4-DP); gibberellic acid (GA) was also tested, but always in combination with the above mentioned compounds. All the treatments were made in early november, except for one treatment which took place in late January, in a trial on "Marsh seedless" grapefruit. Concentrations of 8, 10,15, and 20 p.p.m. in acqueous sprays were used for 2,4-D, depending on the different experiments, while NAA, NOA 2,4-DP, and GA, were always used at the concentrations of 10,9, 30, and 20 p.p.m. respectively. Observations were made on the fruit-drop changes from the spray-period to the harvesting time, on the fruit quality, and on the subsequent bloom behaviour. The results have evidenced that in the check trees the percentage of the pre-harvest fruit-drop was remarkable: 65% -70% in ' Tarocco" orange, 50% in Washington navel" orange, and 60% in "Marsh seedless" grapefruit. Among the different compounds tested 2,4-D and 2,4-DP, the last one in combination with GA, proved to have the best efficiency in preventing the pre-harvest drop, respectively for "Washington navel" and ' Tarocco" oranges. In "Marsh seedless" grapefruit 2,4-DP alone gave the best results. The only treatment effect on fruit quality consisted in a delay of fruit colour when GA was used. Any influence of the different treatments on the subsequent bloom was never found with all the compounds tested.
42878366|Peocedures used in strawberry breeding are first summarized followed by a review of regional breeding programs in USA. Objectives and screening systems of the different projects are pointed out with particular emphasis to disease resistance. The varieties introduced in the last ten years, the propagation status and their area of adaption are reported. Vengono dapprima esposte le linee programmatiche e le metodologie impiegate nei programmi di miglioramento genetico negli USA. I diversi programmi statali e dell'US DA vengono quindi esaminati approfonditamente evidenziando i criteri di selezione ed i particolari obiettivi soprattutto nei confronti della resistenza a parassiti e patogeni. Vengono anche ricordate tutte le cultivar introdotte nell'ultimo decennio, la loro situazione nei confronti della libert di propagazione, l'area di possibile diffusione.
42878370|Some modalities of preparation and solubilization of growth promoting substances (IAA and IBA) were tested in order to define their effects of root promoting efficiency. Root promoting activity was analysed using mung bean rooting test. IAA and IBA Ethanol (1%) solutions stimulated adventitious root formation only at the strongest concentration. IBA solubilized with Tween 80 show strong promotion of rooting over a wide range of concentrations. The best results was obtained when IAA and IBA were salified and dissolved in ammonia - acetic buffer at pH 6.5 for treatments. Treatments with salified IBA solutions increased roots number at 10 to 10 M concentration while salified IAA solutions stimulated cuttings rooting at 10 to more than 10 M concentration. The results show also that IBA had a greater root promoting ability than IAA.
42878371|The influence of supraoptimal root, temperature on net nitrate uptake (NU) was determined for clonally propagated Marianna 2624 (Prunus cerasifera X Prunus munsoniana) andMyrobolan 3- J (Prunus cerasifera) plants grown in nutrient solution. Nineteen hours at 39C inhibited NU by Marianna 2624 roots but not by Myrobolan 3 - J. NU returned to normal when the roots were restored to 25C. At 3OC NU by M - 2624 was much more smaller. At 25C the rate of NO uptake is greater inM - 2624 than in Myro 3 - J. E' stato misurato l'assorbimento di $NO_3^ - $ da parte di piante autoradicate di "Marianna 2624" (Prunus cerasifera  P. munsoniana) e di "Mirabolano 3 - J" (P. cerasifera), allevate in soluzione nutritiva, tenute a tre diverse temperature (25; 30; 39C). E' stato osservato che a 25C il "Marianna 2624" assorbe $NO_3^ - $ in misura pi elevata del "Mirabolano 3 - J". L'aumento della temperatura (30C) riduce la capacit di assorbimento di $NO_3^ - $ da parte del "Marianna 2624"; non ha invece, alcun, effetto nel "Mirabolano 3 - J". L'assorbimento di $NO_3^ - $  cessato quando la temperatura  stata elevata a 39C ed  ritornato al valore normale a 25C; il "Mirabolano 3 - J"  risultato, invece, capace di assorbire $NO_3^ - $ anche a 39C. Vengono avanzate alcune ipotesi nel meccanismo fsiologico che regola l'assorbimento dell'$NO_3^ - $ in rapporto alla temperatura del substrato.
42878372|Di un'indagine sui pigmenti di foglie di melo cv. "Golden Delicious" e del suo mutante "Starkspur Golden Delicious", vengono riferiti i risultati conclusivi sul loro confronto riguardanti: il contenuto di clorofilla, la sua variazione nel tempo e la comparazione fra alcuni cicli stagionali completi; il valore e le variazioni stagionali nel rapporto Cla/Clb; si riporta anche una accurata revisione metodologica per ridurre l'entit degli errori sperimentali in particolare quelli provenienti dalle analisi di estratti di foglie autunnali senescenti. I risultati mostrano che le differenze quantitative stagionali in contenuto di clorofilla fra il mutante e la cv. d'origine, tendono a diminuire al crescere dell'et delle piante, restando significative solo quando ci si riferisce alla superficie. Non ci sono differenze a livello del rapporto Cla/Clb: i relativi andamenti stagionali dei due termini a confronto presentano la stessa curva caratteristica con un massimo (circa 4,5) nel periodo primaverile, quindi una diminuizione fino a valori considerati normali (intorno a 3) i quali restano pressoch costanti anche durante la senescenza autunnale. Infine viene confermata sia da dati sul contenuto in clorofilla sia da quelli delle prove d'abscissione, la tendenza del mutante ad avere una senescenza precoce. This conclusive investigation on the comparison of the leaf pigments of the apple tree cv. "Golden Delicious", includes evaluation of the chlorophyll content, its seasonal variation and comparison between two complete annual courses moreover the values and the seasonal variations of ratios Chla/Chlb. One reports an accurate revision of some impotant methods to reduce the influence of the experimental errors and a critical discussion on some methodologies proposed by other authors, having as main reference the work of Egle and Ziegler (1965). In particular the analysis are carried as much as possible in the our real experimental conditions and in such a way as to avoid the difficulties in carrying analysis on crude extracts of senescing leaves. Moreover on reports the data with regard to the possibility that the spurtype have an early senescence. The results show that when the plants were 2 years old only (Cardini 1968) the differences in chlorophyll content between the standard type and the spurtype were marked. When the age of plants increases these differences tend to decrease; they are significant only during the period of maximum vegetative development and only on a leaf area basis. Besides the ratios Chla/Chlb of the two terms do not show any difference; the seasonal changes of two ratios show the same course with a maximum (about 4,5) in the early spring, then they decrease reaching the usual range of values (about 3). This remains almost constant also during the senescence (autumn). The chlorophyll content and the abscission force evaluation confirm that the mutant spurtype has an early senescence.
42878373|Si riferisce su una prova di raccolta di olive della cv 'Oliva da Olio" effettuata mediante l'impiego di reti e di prodotti chimici etilenproduttori. I fitoregolatori utilizzati, Alsol, Hl, Ethrel, sono stati somministrati una sola volta alle piante ad una concentrazione di 1200 ppm di principio attivo. Gli etilenproduttori hanno permesso di raccogliere in queste condizioni il 95% circa del prodotto pendente in 40 giorni (contro il 42% nel controllo), abbreviando pertanto in maniera significativa il tempo e la manodopera impiegati per la raccolta. L'Alsol e l'Hl hanno determinato defogliazioni molto contenute (8% circa) e pressoch identiche a quelle del controllo. L'Ethrel ha causato una filloptosi del 26%, non tale comunque da destare preoccupazioni per le produzioni successive. Alsol, Ethrel, Hl were sprayed on olive trees of "Oliva da Olio" variety to hasten fruit drop and reduce time required for harvesting on permanent nets. Treatments were made on Nov the 1st using 1200 ppm of active component. All chemicals allowed a good recovery of fruit (95% fruit abscission was recorded within 40 days) aside with a proportional reduction in labor required for harvesting. Alson on Hl also caused a very defoliation (8%) against 26% caused by Ethrel. Even in the latter case, however, defoliation did not affect differentiation in the following year.
42878374|E' stata saggiata sotto tettoia la reazione di 9 linee di pesco franco alle infestazioni dei nematodi galligeni Meloidogyne arenaria (Neal) Chitw. M. incognita (Kofoid et White) Chitw. razza 1 e M. javanica (Neal), Chitw. Nessuna delle linee saggiate  risultata immune dagli attacchi dei 3 nematodi. Solo le linee P.S.C. 1, e P.S.C. 14 sono state significativamente (P = 0,05) meno attaccate, in confronto alle altre linee messe a confronto, da M. incognita e M. javanica la prima e solo da M. arenaria la seconda. Asimmetria della stele, presenza di sincizi con a volte reazione necrotica dei tessuti circostanti ha rivelato l'esame istologico di sezioni di radici della linea suscettibile P.S.C. 12, infestate da M. javanica. Accentuata reazione necrotica con conseguente assenza di sincizi e mancato sviluppo del nematode  stata notata, invece, in sezioni di radici infestate della linea leggermente resistente P.S.C. 1. The reaction of 9 peach rootstocks to Meloidogyne arenaria (Neal) Chitw., M. incognita (Kofoid et White) Chitw., race 1 and M. javanica (Treub) Chitw. was evaluated in a screenhouse experiment. None of the tested rootstocks was immune to the three parasites. Only the selections P.S.C. 1 and P.S.C. 14 were significantly (P = 0,05) less infested in comparison to the other selections by M. incognita and M. javanica the former and only by M. arenaria the latter. M. javanica infested root cross sections of the susceptible line P.S.C. 12 showed eccentric stele, syncytial formation and, some times, necrotic reaction of the surrounding tissues. No syncytial formation and accentuated necrotic reaction of tissues surrounding the nematode body showed the parasitized roots of M. javinica slight resistant line P.S.C. 1.
42878375|Micropropagation trials were carried out on "Vladimir" and "Selezione FI" (Prunus cerasus L.) rootstocks. The aseptic material was placed first in conditioning and subsequently in multiplication and rooting media. On both clones the best multiplication results were obtained with media containing BAP - IBA - GA in the ratio 1; 0,1;1 and 1;0,1;0,1. Using these media the shoots obtained were 24 and 22 respectively for "Vladimir" and 12 and 10 for "Selezione FI". Best rooting was had from previous media containing IBA. Rooting percentage with this material were 37,9 for "Vladimir" and 61,3 for "Selezione FI". Some difficulties were had in the establishment phase for which further investigations are required. Sono state condotte prove di micropropagazione dei due portinnesti "Vladimir" e "Selezione FI" (Prunus cerasus L.). Il materiale, previamente disinfettato,  stato posto in substrati di condizionamento e successivamente di moltiplicazione e radicazione. I migliori risultati di moltiplicazione sono stati ottenuti per entrambi i cloni con il substrato contenente BAP - IBA - GA nei rapporti di 1;0,1:1 e 1;0,1:0,1. Con tali substrati i germogli ottenuti sono stati rispettivamente 24 e 22 per il "Vladimir" e 12 e 10 per la "Selezione FI". La migliore radicazione  stata ottenuta con il materiale proveniente da substrati privi di GA che derivano da precedenti substrati contenenti IBA. Le percentuali di radicazione con questo materiale sono state del 37,9% per il "Vladimir" e del 61,3% per la "Selezione FI". La fase di ambientamento si  dimostrata la pi difficoltosa per cui necessitano ulteriori indagini.
42878376|Techniques, methods and results obtained at Beltsville Fruit Laboratory with micropropagation of apple, thornless blackberry, blueberry and strawberry are reported. A survey of crops cultured in vitro in North America and of techniques and methods used for, is enclosed giving a complete information on the current status of the research in 38 different laboratories. Vengono descritti i metodi impiegati ed i risultati raggiunti nel Fruit Laboratory di Beltsville nella micropropagazione del melo, del rovo inerme, del mirtillo gigante e della fragola. Una rassegna delle specie coltivate in vitro in Nord America, dei metodi e delle tecniche usate fornisce un quadro completo sullo stato attuale delle ricerche in 38 differenti laboratori.
42878377|Le prove sono state condotte su pere della cv. "Passacrassana" provenienti da piante di 17 anni innestate su cotogno. I frutti sono stati trattati in post-raccolta con GA (Berelex) a 3 concentrazioni (100, 200 e 400 ppm) e con sale di calcio (Stip Control contenente CaCl al 28%) pure a 3 concentrazioni (2,4 e 6%). Il piano sperimentale prevedeva inoltre tutte le possibili combinazioni fra i prodotti secondo uno schema fattoriale. Dai risultati  emersa chiaramente una influenza positiva esercitata dalla GA sull'insorgenza dell'alterazione confermando cos la sua azione ritardante sulla senescenza del frutto (l'imbrunimento interno  probabilmente dovuto a senescenza). Il fatto, poi, che non esistano differenze significative tra le varie concentrazioni di prodotto fa supporre che i 100 ppm rappresentino il livello massimale e che livelli minori possano anche fornire risultati similari. Non altrettanto efficace  stata l'azione del sale di calcio e questo pu essere dovuto alle condizioni eco-pedologiche del terreno (tendente al tenace e con ristagni di acqua) che avrebbero determinato un processo irreversibile nella comparsa della alterazione. Nell'interazione fra GA e sale di calcio quest'ultimo ha mascherato l'effetto positivo della GA. Nessun risultato  stato ottenuto usando il NAA a 50, 100 e 200 ppm da solo e in combinazione con il sale di calcio al 2%. In an investigation on Gibberellin and Calcium effect on fruit internal browning, Passacrassana pears were collected from mature trees on quince and received postharvet dipping. Commercial preparation Berelex was used as gibberellin source and Stip Control (28% CaCl) as calcium source. 100, 200 and 400 ppm gibberellin and 2, 4, 6% Stip Control concentrations were used, both separately and in every possible combination in a factorial scheme. GA decreased very markedly internal browning. As internal browning is thought to be a senescence phenomenon, a delaying effect of gibberellin on fruit ageing seems confirmed. No significant differences were found among gibberellin concentrations; 100 ppm may possibly be an optimum concentration and even lower levels might be effective. Calcium dippings were not equally effective: heavy soil and poor drainage condition may caused irreversibility in the browning process. Combined treatments behaved similarly; most likely calcium effects masked the favourable action of gibberellin. No results were obtained using NAA at 50, 100 e 200 ppm alone and combined with 2% calcium salt.
42878380|Trattamenti con MH-30 (Idrazide maleica 30%) allo 0,25% e con Atrinal (prodotto commerciale della Dr. Maag al 20%) alla dose 0,5% su Cornus alba hanno ridotto efficacemente lo sviluppo delle piante oltre ad aver influenzato lo sviluppo dei germogli laterali e la superficie fogliare. Un trattamento analogo su Viburnum opulus, ha provocato un arresto pressoch totale dello sviluppo e la comparsa di sintomi di fitotossicit. Shrubs of Cornus alba and Viburnum opulus grown for two years in a nursery were sprayed in April 1979 when new shoots were 12-13 cm in lenght with 0.25% MH -30 and 0.25% Atrinal (Dikegulac-Sodium 20%). In Cornus alba both chemicals reduced shoot growth, influenced leaf area and induced lateral shoot formation. In Viburnum opulus both chemicals stopped the growth and had undesirable effects, as they induced necrosis of young expanding leaves.
42878381|Nel 1977, 1978, 1979 sono state condotte ricerche al fine di accertare, su differenti specie di ligustro, gli effetti provocati da Dikegulac Sodium. Nel 1978 tali effetti sono stati anche comparati con quelli provocati da MH. Al termine del triennio di ricerche  stato messo a punto il dosaggio ottimale al fine di ottenere una riduzione di sviluppo delle piante. In 1977, 1978 and 1979 were made some trials on Ligustrum sinensis and L. ovalifolium to assure the retardant effect induced by Atrinal (Dikegulac Sodium 20% a. p.). All the tests of 1977 were carried out to find the optimal dosage for Ligustrum sinensis. The phytotoxic symptoms were restricted and never compromised the appearance of the hedge. Shoot growth was considerably reduced in comparison with the control by both concentrations (1.25 and 0.625% of Atrinal). Growth inhibition stopped at the end of June in the case of the higher concentration and at the beginning of the same month in the case of the concentration. The test of the following year with ACR 1093 (Dikegulac-Sodium 90%) gave no results. The concentration (0.25) was too high and caused very strong phytotoxic symptoms; moreover there was no emission of lateral shoots. In the same year the different parts of Ligustrum sinensis hedge were treated by 0,25 MH, respectively 1,2 and 3 times. The best results were obtained in the hedge parts sprayed twice, where MH reduced the shoot growth of 40%. In 1979 Ligustrum ovalifolium was treated with Atrinal 0.25%. This regulator reduced the shooth growth of 30% in comparison with the control and induced many lateral shoots.
42878382|Trattamenti con Atrinai (Dikegulac Sodium 20% al 2,5 % e MH 30 (Idrazide Maleica 30%) allo 0,25% su Carpinus betulus, Fraxinus ornus e Cornus sanguinea hanno provocato, oltre a sensibili riduzioni dello sviluppo delle piante, anche influenza sulla superficie delle foglie ed un accentuato sviluppo di rami anticipati particolarmente nelle piante trattate con Atrinai. Four years-old potted plants of Carpinus betulus, Fraxinus ornus and Cornus sanguinea were sprayed in May 1979 with 0,25% MH 30 and 2,5% Atrinal (Dikegulac Sodium 20%). Both chemicals had always undesirable effects, as they induced necrosis of young expanding leaves. Regulators also reduced shoot growth and leaf area. Atrinal promoted sprout almost all the lateral buds in treated shoots. In Cornus sanguinea. Atrinal induced also an enhanced basal shoots formation.
42878383|Per i tulipani, i giacinti e i narcisi  possibile ottenere una fioritura molto anticipata, senza alterare le caratteristiche qualitative dei fiori, mediante la vernalizzazione preliminare dei bulbi. Poich sembra che il trattamento a basse temperature induce variazioni qualitative e quantitative di fitormoni endogeni tipo gibberellina, presso l'Istituto di Agronomia e Coltivazioni erbacee dell'Universit degli Studi di Bari, si stanno effettuando delle ricerche allo scopo di individuare la possibilit di sostituire, almeno parzialmente, la vernalizzazione preliminare dei bulbi con il trattamento con fitoregolatori tipo gibberellina. I diversi trattamenti hanno indotto effetti diversi sull'anticipo di fioritura e sulle caratteristiche qualitative delle tre specie oggetto della ricerca. In tulips, hyacinths and daffodils, flowering can be greatly advanced by pre-cooling technique on bulbs, without impairing the qualitative characteristics of the flowers. For the low temperature treatments induce quantitative and qualitative variations on endogenous plant hormones, like gibberellins, the Institute of Agronomy and Herbaceous crops, University of Bari, is now carrying out researches wich are directed to identify the possibility of using plant hormones (gibberellins) to replace pre-cooling at least in part. Varying results have been obtained according to species and treatments. In particular, on tulips growing in the garden gibberellin does not work well, while pre-cooling gives early flowering and good flower quality; hyacinths with gibberellin treated at the base of the bulbs give better results than those treated at the top of the bulbs. Perhaps, treatments lasting longer should given even better results on early flowering. On daffodils treatments made at the base of the bulbs with 1OO ppm gibberellic acid of two week duration are enough to give a good early flowering without impairing the characteristics of the flowers.
42878384|Preliminary trials ware carried out on sunlight interception and penetration within the canopy of peach (cv "Suncrest") and nectarine (cv "Stark Redgold") trees, planted at three planting distances (4 x 1 m, 4 x 1.5 m and 4 x 2 m). Sunlight measurements were made a few days before harvesting by selenium photocells placed above, under and at two points (40 and 140 cm from the soil) within the canopy. For each planting distance sunlight was measured for 50-60 minutes in the morning and for the same length of time in the afternoon. From these measurements, values of sunlight interception by trees of 'Stark Redgold' did not show relevant differences at the three different planting distances (86%, 82% and 86% for 2,500, 1,666 and 1,250 trees/ha, respectively). With 'Suncrest' light interception was similar at 1,250 and 1,666 trees/ha (84% and 81%) but much less (71%) at 2,500 trees/ha. This is due to poorer tree growth in the lower part of the canopy of the trees planted at 4 x 1 m. Light penetration within the canopy was generally low for both the varieties. For 'Suncrest' the highest values (21 and 27% at 40 and 140 cm from the soil, respectively) were observed with the largest planting distance. With 'Stark Redgold' maximum light penetration was 14% at 140 cm and 6% at 40 cm from the soil. Observations on some characteristics of fruits harvested on the upper 2/3 of the canopy (above 140 cm to the top of the tree) and on the lower 1/3 (below 140 cm) showed that soluble solids and fruit weight were reduced by 12-16% and 22-23% respectively. Fruit color and dry weight of leaves were greatly influenced too. Indagini preliminari sono state condotte sulle intercettazione e penetrazione della luce solare nella chioma di piante della cultivar di pesco "Suncrest" e di nettarine "Stark Redgold", disposte alle distanze di 4 x 1 m., 4 x 1,5 m e 4 x 2 m. ed allevate a fusetto. I rilievi sono stati eseguiti prima della raccolta dei frutti utilizzando fotocellule al selenio distribuite al di sotto ed all'interno della chioma delle piante. Per ciascuna distanza di impianto le misurazioni sono state fatte per circa 50-60 minuti nel mattino e per un periodo simile nel pomeriggio. L'intercettazione della luce da parte degli alberi di "Stark Redgold" non ha mostrato variazioni di rilievo alle tre densit di piantagione (86%, 82%, 86% rispettivamente per 2.500, 1.666 e 1.250 alberi/ha). Con la "Suncrest" alle densit di 1.250 e 1.666 alberi/ha, si sono osservati valori analoghi ai precedenti (84% e 81%), mentre alla densit pi elevata l'intercettazione  scesa al 71% a causa dello scarso sviluppo dei rami nella zona pi bassa della chioma di questa cultivar. La penetrazione della luce solare all'interno della chioma  stata generalmente molto bassa per entrambe le cultivar. Per la "Suncrest" i valori pi alti (21 e 27% rispettivamente a 40 e 140 cm. di altezza all'interno della chioma) sono stati rilevati alla distanza di piantagione maggiore mentre con la "Stark Redgold" la massima penetrazione di luce  stata soltanto del 14% a 140 cm. e del 6% a 40 cm. dal suolo. I rilievi su alcune caratteristiche dei frutti raccolti nella zona pi bassa della chioma e quindi maggiormente ombreggiata, compresa tra 40 e 140 cm., hanno messo in evidenza una riduzione del peso medio e degli zuccheri, rispettivamente, del 22 -23% e 12 -1 6% in confronto ai frutti raccolti al di sopra di 140 cm. Anche l'estensione della colorazione dell'epidermide dei frutti e il peso secco delle foglie hanno presentato una consistente riduzione.
42878385|Viene descritta un'indagine tendente a chiarire l'influenza di talune caratteristiche del ramo sulla capacit rizogena di talee di olivo, cv "Frangivento", provenienti da cinque diverse localit della Toscana. Il lavoro, condotto su materiale ricavato da talee destinate alla nebulizzazione, consiste nella valutazione dei rapporti percentuali fra corteccia, legno e midollo, e sullo spessore e continuit della guaina sclerenchimatica, in relazione alla capacit rizogena delle talee provenienti dalle cinque localit. Per il materiale esaminato non appare esservi alcuna correlazione significativa fra le caratteristiche anatomiche considerate e l'attivit rizogenetica. Influence of some anatomical characters on rooting of " Frangivento " olive cuttings. An anatomical investigation was carried out on mist propagated "Frangivento'' olive softwood cuttings, in order to detect a possible influence of the anatomical structure of the cutting (i. e. of the stem it comes from) on its rooting capacity. The cuttings (FAA fixed, freeze sectioned and stained with safranin-fast green), observed in two different phenological periods, were taken from five mother-plants, grown in five different environments. A large variability was observed in the ratios of bark, xylem and pith, as well as for the continuity and thickness of the sderenchyma tissue but, though they seem influenced in some instances by environmental factors (including attacks of sooty mould), they do not seem to be significantly related to the rooting activity; the root initials actually appear to be able to break or remove the sderenchyma ring.
42878389|The Author examines the situation of pear culture in the Emilia Romagna region, with particular reference to the productivity trend over the last ten years in the single provinces, so as to obtain perspective indication and pursuable technical courses in order to avoid market crisis following excess production and inorganic culture expansion.
42878390|L'Italia con un raccolto medio-annuo di quasi 13 milioni di q di pere risulta la maggior prodruttrice non solo a livello europeo, ma anche su scala mondiale. Nell'ambito comunitario i flussi commerciali, pari a circa 3,8 milioni di q annui, sono alimentati in misura preminente dall'Italia, seguita a distanza dalla Francia e dai paesi del Benelux. Sui mercati comunitari pervengono anche consistenti quantitativi di pere fornite dai paesi australi (Sud-Africa, Argentina, Cile, ecc.) e dalla Spagna Notevole importanza rivestono anche la produzione e la commercializzazione del prodotto sciroppato, basato sull'utilizzazione della "William". Pure in tale comparto l'Italia occupa una posizione di preminenza, bench la concorrenza dei paesi d'Oltreoceano (Sud-Africa e Australia) risulti particolarmente accentuata. Il drastico ridimensionamento della produzione italiana di pere, attuato a partire dall'inizio degli anni settanta, ha consentito di riequilibrare una situazione di mercato, che era andata gravemente deteriorandosi. Nelle ultime campagne l'andamento dei prezzi  risultato soddisfacente per i produttori. Occorre evitare un nuovo, incontrollato aumento della produzione che avrebbe conseguenze del tutto negative sul livello dei prezzi. La domanda di pere per il consumo fresco tende infatti a restringersi in tutta l'area europea. Indice sintomatico  la diminuizione dell'export italiano, che negli ultimi anni si  ridotto di circa il 40%. Italy with an average annual crop of around 13 million quintals of pears is the greatest producer not only on a European but on a world level. In the EEC sphere the commercial fluxes, equal to about 3.8 million quintals annually, are supplied prevalently by Italy, followed by France and Benelux. The EEC markets also receive substantial quantities of pears supplied by countries of the Southern hemisphere (South Africa, Argentina, Chile, etc.) and by Spain. The production and marketing of canned pears achieved notable importance, based on the employment of pear "William". Italy occupies a preeminent position also in this field, even though the competition from the countries across the ocean (South Africa and Australia) is particularly strong. The drastic re-organization of the Italian pear production, begun at the beginning of the 70's, has permitted the balancing of a market situation, which was deteriorating badly. In recent years the price trend has been satisfactory for the producers. It is imperative to avoid a new uncontrolled increase in production which would have extremely adverse effects on the price levels. The demand for fresh pears tends infact to contract in the whole area of Europe. The fall in Italian exports, which in recent years has falled by as much as 40% is a symptom.
42878391|Viene esaminato il lavoro di selezione iniziato nel 1949 da J. Brossier sui cotogni quali portinnesti del pero presso la Stazione Sperimentale di Angers. Dal confronto fra 350 cloni diversi raccolti in Francia, Inghilterra e Paesi dell'area mediterranea si  giunti alla diffusione di due portinnesti: il BA 29, appartenente al gruppo dei cotogni di Provenza, nel 1967, per la buona vigoria e produttivit indotte nell'astone, l'affinit con le cultivar e la resistenza alla clorosi superiore a quella di altri cloni; il SYDO, appartenente al gruppo dei cotogni di Angers, nel 1976, di vigoria leggermente inferiore al cotogno EM A, ma di produttivit superiore del 5-10%. Negli ultimi anni sono state impostate prove di confronto, in Francia, fra questi due portinnesti ed i clini EM A, EM C (di cui  ora disponibile un clone virus esente) e cotogno Adams, diffuso in Olanda quale portinnesto per la "Decana del Comizio". Dal lavoro sui cotogni  per emerso che nessun clone  perfettamente affine con tutte le cultivar, la tolleranza al calcare  sempre limitata e la variabilit nel vigore  di circa il 20%, fra il clone pi debole e quello pi vigoroso. Nel 1962 inizi quindi un lavoro di selezione sui semenzali di peri da sidro molto eterogenei per il vigore. Ottanta di questi vennero propagati vegetativamente ricorrendo alla nebulizzazione e successivamente innestati con la "William"; attualmente sono ancora allo studio 12 cloni, che coprono una gamma di vigoria molto ampia, dal 50% rispetto all'EM A ad un vigore leggermente superiore. Alcuni cloni influiscono positivamente ed altri negativamente sulla pezzatura dei frutti. Le osservazioni condotte per 10 anni sono in parte falsate da tre gelate che in anni successivi (4, 5 e 7) hanno distrutto le produzioni, nonostante ci  evidente la correlazione positiva fra produzione e vigoria che fa ritenere possibile la creazione di pereti ad alta densit, con i portinnesti pi deboli, quanto questi saranno disponibili. The selection work on quince rootstocks for pear started by J. Brossier in 1949 is regerred. From the observation of 350 quince clones collected in France, England and in the Countries of the Mediterranean basin two rootstocks were released: BA 29, a Provence quince, in 1967, for the good vigour and the productivity induced in the scion, the affinity with the scion cultivars and the resistance to chlorosis which is superior to other clones; and SYDO, an Angers quince, in 1976, a little less vigours than EMA quince but inducing a hogher cropping capacity of 5-10%. Recently comparative trials started in France, among these two rootstocks, and EMA, EMC (a virus - free clone is now available) and Adams quinces. The last is used in Holland as a rootstock for Comice pear. From the work on quince it appears that none of the observed clones shows good affinity with all the cultivars, that the tolerance to calcium is rather limited and that the difference in vigour is only of 20% between the most vigours and weackest clones. As a consequence, in 1962 a selection program started on perry pear seedling populations showing large variability for vigour. Eighty seedlings were vegetatively propagated under mist and these budded with Bartlett pear. Actually 12 clones, covering a wide range of vigour, from 50% compared with EMA to a higher vigour, are still under observation. Some clones have a positive effect and other a negative effect on fruit size. The observations continued for 10 subsequent years but results are not conclusive considering that spring frosts in three years (4th, 5th and 7th) destroyed the production. In spite of that a positive correlation in shown between vigour and production which leads to the future possibility of high density pear orchards when dwarfing rootstocks will be available.
42878392|Esaminata la situazione attuale della coltura, che  basata su un numero limitato di cultivar - meno di 10 su scala mondiale - originate nel secolo scorso e che si raccolgono in un arco di tempo di circa 3 mesi, dall'inizio di luglio alla prima met di ottobre, con una concentrazione nel periodo che segue la "William", vengono passate in rassegna metodiche e problemi del miglioramento genetico delle specie. In natura sono stati individuati pochi mutanti, i pi frequenti sono quelli interessanti il colore dell'epicarpo. I programmi di miglioramento genetico basati sull'impiego di mutageni hanno dati risultati scarsi, il materiale isolato  ancora in fase di studio; la via maggiormente seguita rimane quella dell'incrocio che deve superare il problema della lunga fase giovanile; i semenzali fioriscono a distanza di 8-10 anni dall'incrocio. Gli obiettivi del miglioramento genetico riguardano il miglioramento della qualit e dell'aspetto dei frutti, l'ampliamento del calendario di maturazione e la resistenza alle malattie, in particolare al batterio Erwinia amylovora. Due sono le strade seguite: quella dell'incrocio interspecifico con specie orientali (alla quale si preferisce ora ricorrere quando si ricerqa la resistenza a parassiti e patogeni diversi, al fine di eliminare i trattamenti antiparassitari) e l'incrocio fra cultivar ("William", "Decana del Comizio", "Seckel", "Re Carlo di Wurtenberg") eterozigoti per il gene dominante della sensibilit al fine di sfruttare, nella progenie, la variabilit additiva ed ottenere individui con buona resistenza all'E. amylovora. Le tecniche messe a punto per la selezione in serra, su semenzali di pochi mesi di vita, permettono ora di snellire il lavoro di selezione. La nota  completata da un elenco delle cultivar di pero introdotte negli ultimi 10 anni di cui viene riportata, anche, sulla base della bibliografia, l'origine e l'epoca di maturazione. The actual pear production is based on a limited number of varieties - less than ten on a world basis - released in the last century which are harvested in a period of three months with a peak in the season after "Barlett". Methods and perspectives of pear breeding are discussed. The number of spontaneous mutants is rather limited with pears, the most frequent are interesting only the skin color. Breeding programs with mutagenesis gave poor results and the isolated types are still under observation. Crossing is still the most used technique but a very long juvenile phase - seedlings start flowering only when 8-10 years old - has to be overcome. Breeding objectives are: fruit quality and appearence improvement, harvesting season elongation and disease resistance with particular emphasis to fire blight. Two ways were followed: either interspecific crosses with oriental pear species (this method is now used when the aim is wide resistance to different diseases and pests) or the cross between cultivars ("Barlett", "Comice", "Seckel", "Roi Charles de Wurtemberg") heterozigote for the dominant gene of susceptibility to take advantage of additive variability within the progeny and select seedlings with good resistance to fire blight. Early screening techniques actually allow to make simpler and faster the selection on few months old seedlings. The paper is completed with a list of the pear varieties released in the world in the last 10 years in which origin and ripening season are reported.
42878393|CCC (Chlormequat), Daminozide (SADH o B nine), Ethrel (Ethephon o Cepa) e Acido gibberellico (GA), sono le sostanze che possono avere pratiche applicazioni, sul pero. Su tutte le cultivar l'effetto nanizzante del CCC nel contenere lo sviluppo vegetativo  notevolissimo, tanto che, piante di Decana del Comizio, dopo 8 anni di trattamenti consecutivi, raggiunsero il 43% del volume delle piante non trattate ed il 69% dell'altezza. L'effetto del CCC sulla differenziazione delle gemme a fiore in diverse prove  stato nullo, in altre, vi  stato un leggero incremento. Le differenti entit di fiori ottenuti nelle varie prove sono da attribuire alle diverse entit di carico produttivo delle piante avutesi negli anni precedenti. Il CCC ha anche un notevole effetto sulla produttivit: piante di Decana del Comizio trattate per otto anni ebbero in media una efficienza produttiva (produzione/volume delle piante) quasi doppia, mentre su Spadona di Salerno, trattata per 5 anni, l'incremento produttivo fu del 30%. L'incremento della produttivit viene attribuita ad una migliore allegagione nelle piante trattate o ad una minore cascola. Utilizzando CCC marcato in C su giovani piante allevate in vaso si pot riscontrare che la radioattivit persiste specialmente nel punto di applicazione e solo minime quantit vengono traslocate verso altre parti della pianta. All'analisi chimica eseguita durante il periodo di riposo, CCC non metabolizzato fu riscontrato su tutta la pianta, con una certa prevalenza nella parte ipogea. Il Daminozide ha un effetto riduttivo sull'accrescimento vegetativo delle variet finora provate, ma la sua efficacia come ritardante di crescita del pero  sensibilmente inferiore a quella del CCC. Esso ha invece una notevole influenza sulla differenziazione delle gemme miste, consentendo anche di far raddoppiare o triplicare il numero di fiori delle piante trattate. Il Daminozide pu trovare quindi utili applicazioni quando si debba incrementare la differenziazione delle gemme miste, come nel caso di piante giovani, o nel caso di piante per le quali si possa temere una inibizione della induzione fiorale in seguito a forti cariche produttive. L'Ethrel pu trovare pratica applicazione come defogliante per favorire la raccolta degli astoni in vivaio, ma la sua efficacia dipende dall'epoca del trattamento dalla dose e dalla variet. L'Ethrel consente un sensibile anticipo di maturazione di variet precoci con la Coscia, e favorisce la maturazione dei frutti trattati dopo la raccolta. L'acido gibberellico, per la sua capacit di stimolare la produzione di frutti partenocarpici, pu essere utilmente applicato per evitare i danni da gelate tardive. I trattamenti vanno eseguiti prima o subito dopo che la gelata sia avvenuta . Non tutte le variet rispondono al trattamento, ma fra le pi diffuse, ottimi risultati sono stati ottenuti su Passa Crassana e Butirra Hardy. L'acido gibberellico tende per a produrre frutti alquanto deformi. CCC (Chlormequat), Daminozide (SADH o B nine), Ethrel (Ethephon or Cepa) Gibberellic acid (GA) are the growth regulators can be usefully applied on pear. CCC has a highly repressive effect on the vegetative growth of all the varieties so far tried. The volume and height of Comice trees sprayed for eight years was 43% and 69% respectively of the volume and height of untreated trees. In some trials no influence at all on bud differentation was found, but in some other, sprayed trees showed a slight but significant increase in the number of fruits buds. These differences were rather attributed to the variations in crop quality with the different treatments in the precedings years than to the direct effect of CCC. The effect of CCC on yield, especially of young trees, is considerable. The yield efficiency (yield/volume of the tree) of Cornice trees sprayed for eight consecutive years was almost the double of the control value. In a trial with Spadona di Salerno sprayed for five consecutive years, CCC induced a cumulative yield 30% over control value. The bigger yield efficiency is attributed to better fruit setting. By utilizing the radio isotope CCC-C on young trees grown in pots, it was observed that the radioactivity persisted especially in the zones of application, whereas only minor quantities were translocated to the other zones. Chemical analysis of the whole trees in the rest period demonstrated that the dosis applied had not been entirely metabolized. In fact unmetabolized CCC was found in the whole tree with highest concentrations in the cpigeal part. Daminozide has a repressive effect on the pear vegetative growth, but notably smaller than the one of CCC. On the contrary CCC has a strong effect on bud differentiation, by causing the treated trees to double or triplicate the blossoms amount. Therefore Daminozide can be usefully applied in every cases bud differentiation must be increased, as in the case of young trees still in training or in the cases an inibition of bud differentiation can be expected for extreme yield. Ethrel can be usefully used in the nursery for the defoliation of scions as defoliating but its effectiveness depend on the time of application, concentration and varieties. Ethrel allows a notably early ripening of summer varieties as Coscia and it also hastens the ripening of fruit post-harvest. Gibberellic acid (GA) can be usefully applied to avoid the damages caused by spring-frost because of its capacity to stimulate the production of partenocarpic fruits. Treatments must be done before or just after spring-frost is occurred. GA is effective on some of the varieties and among the most cultivated very good results have been obtained on Passecrassane and Beurre Hardy. G A trend to produce fruits a little deformed.
42878394|Gli Autori descrivono dettagliatamente le condizioni ottimali di conservazione delle principali cultivar di pere italiane indicando durata, temperatura, regimazione dell'atmosfera, alterazioni ed evidenziando gli indici di maturit ottimali per ottenere dei buoni risultati. Vengono, inoltre, prospettate nuove tecnologie e metodologie operative che potrebbero essere adottate per migliorare i risultati della conservazione quali la prerefrigerazione, il controllo dell'umidit relativa, i trattamenti profilattici con sali di calcio, i pretrattamenti con anidride carbonica ed infine la postmaturazione al termine del periodo di stoccaggio. The Autors describe in detail the best storage conditions for the principal varieties of italian pears, indicating duration, temperature, levels of CO and O, diseases and rating the index of maturity which is the best to obtain good results. New technological and methodological procedures that could be adopted for better storage results as precooling, control of relative humidity, prophylactic treatment with calcium salt, pretratment with carbon dioxide and finally the post-ripening at the end of storage period are also pointed out.
42878395|E' stata valutata l'attitudine rizogena di due selezioni di cotogno, EMA e BROSSIER 98/4, in funzione di tre epoche di piantagione (15 e 31 ottobre, 20 novembre) e del trattamento con IBA a 1000 ppm. Il cotogno EMA ha rivelato |un'alta| capacit rizogena che per decresce procedendo verso l'inverno. Il trattamento con IBA  risultato efficace solo sui taleaggi pi tardivi. Il BROSSIER 98/4 ha radicato solo al 15/10 con trattamento con IBA. Rooting ability of two quince selections, EMA and BROSSIER 98/4, was tested in relation to plantation time (10/15, 10/31, 11/20) and to a treatment with IBA at 1000 ppm. Quince EMA revealed a high rooting ability which decreases entering the winter. IBA treatment was effective only on late cuttings. BROSSIER 98/4 rooted only with early planting associated with IBA treatment.
42878396|Sono state condotte delle indagini sulla possibilit di propagare alcune cultivar di pero con la tecnica dell'innesto "al tavolo". A questo scopo, nella seconda met di febbraio, talee e barbatelle di "cotogno A" sono state innestate a marza con una innestatrice meccanica che effettua un incastro ad "omega", comunemente impiegata per la vite. Le talee e le barbatelle innestate sono state poi messe direttamente a dimora nel vivaio. I risultati relativi alla percentuale di astoni ottenuti con gli innesti-talea sono stati soddisfacenti: i valori sono oscillati tra l'84% e il 100%. Anche lo sviluppo dell'apparato radicale  stato di un certo rilievo e tale da non lasciare intravedere inconvenienti nel successivo trasferimento delle piante nel frutteto. L'altezza degli astoni  risultata invece piuttosto scarsa. Le cause sono da ricondursi ad un arresto troppo precoce dell'accrescimento dell'apice del germoglio cui si potrebbe ovviare con accurati turni irrigui al sopraggiungere del periodo pi caldo. L'innestatrice meccanica, impiegata sia su talee che su barbatelle, ha fornito rispote interessanti dal punto di vista pratico; infatti la percentuale di attecchimento degli innesti  risultata, nelle varie cultivar, molto elevata anche quando  stato impiegato l'intermediario. In generale i risultati ottenuti consentono di affermare come l'utilizzazione dell'innesto-talea e della innestatrice meccanica possa apportare un valido contributo alla riduzione dei costi di propagazione del pero, essendo possibile produrre l'astone in meno di 1 anno ed effettuare l'operazione di innesto molto rapidamente anche utilizzando personale non specializzato. Hardwood cuttings and rooted layers of 'quince A' were collected on the second half of February and bench grafted with scions of several pear cultivars by an 'omega' grafting machine, generally used to make cutting-grafts on grape vines. All the tested cultivars gave good results, even when double working was applied. The percentage of maiden trees obtained from grafted cuttings ranged from 84% to 100%. Root system and graft union at the end of the growth season appeared satisfactory with all the cultivars, but with 'Kaiser' the union between scion and interstock (cv. 'Butirra Hardy') was irregular. Maiden tree development was not so satisfactory: this result could depend on an early stop of the shoots growth and could be overcome by adequate irrigations during summer. The grafting machine showed a satisfactory response also with 'quince A' rooted layers allowing, even unskilled workers, to operate a remarkable amount of grafts per hour. The possibility of producing pear maiden trees in a 10-12 months period and the use of the grafting machine could reduce the costs for nursery tree production, thus reducing the purchase price for the fruitgrower.
42878397|Si  saggiato l'effetto del fungicida Dodina sull'allegagione della cv. "Butirra Precoce Morettini" e sulla germinabilit "in vitro" del polline intercompatibile della cv. "William". In campo  stato effettuato il trattamento e l'impollinazione ad epoche diverse ma non si  osservata alcuna influenza del fungicida sia rispetto all'epoca del trattamento che dell'impollinazione ai fini dell'allegagione. In laboratorio, l'effetto del fungicida  irrilevante quando viene spruzzato sul terreno di coltura; non cosi quando viene incluso nel substrato, anche a concentrazioni inferiori a quella d'uso corrente in frutticoltura, perch la percentuale di germinazione  bassa (soprattutto alla dose commerciale) e la lunghezza del budello pollinico si mantiene sempre a volori molto esigui per tutte le concentrazioni. Effect of Dodine fungicide was tested on fruit set of pear cv. "Butirra Precoce Morettini" and on the "in vitro" germination and growth of intercompatible pollen of "Bartlett". Sprayings of Dodine were carried out in the orchard at different time during the blooming period and before or after hand pollination and no reduction of the fruit set was observed by this way. By the "in vitro" essays, Dodina had no effect on pollen germination when il was sprayed on the agar medium: whereas, when it had been incorporated in agar medium, even at lower concentrations, Dodine greately reduced mainly the tube length and the germination percentage especially at the field concentration rate.
42878398|E' stato saggiato l'effetto dei fungicidi Captano (50% p.a.) 200 gr/hl, Dithianon (75% p.a.) 100 gr/hl, Dodina (65% p.a.) 100 gr/hl, Fenarimol (6% p.a) 80 gr/hl e Mancozeb (80% p.a.) 200 gr/hl irrorati in piena fioritura sulla cv. "William" nella libera impollinazione e nell'impollinazione artificiale con la cv. "Butirra Precoce Morettini". Tutti i fungicidi in esame, e particolarmente Captano e Dithianon, hanno ridotto la germinazione "in vitro" ed "in vivo" e la vitalit del polline di entrambe le cultivar. L'allegagione  stata ridotta solo da Captano e Dithianon in entrambe le impollinazioni, mentre gli altri fungicidi non hanno prodotto alcun sensibile effetto negativo. I frutti raccolti sono stati analizzati per indice diametrico e presenza di semi: i risultati indicano che Captano ha fornito frutti leggermente pi stretti nella libera impollinazione rispetto al controllo e che tutti i fungicidi hanno ridotto la fertilit ovulare, in particolare Captano, Dodina e Fenarimol nella libera impollinazione e Captano e Dithianon nell'impollinazione artificiale. The fungicides Captan (50% p.a.) 200 g/hl, Dithianon (75% p.a.) 100g/hl, Dodine (65% p.s.) 100 g/hl, Fenarimol (6% p.a.) 80 g/hl and Mancozeb (80% p.a.) 200 g/hl were sprayed on open pollinated and cross pollinated flowers of "Bartlett" pears, at the full blossom time. These fungicides, especially Captan and Dithianon, reduced the pollen germination "in vitro" and "in vivo" and its viability in "Bartlett" and "Butirra Precoce Morettini" pear varieties. Fruit set was reduced only by Captan and Dithianon whilst the other fungicides did not induce negative effects. The number of seeds was riduced by some fungicides: Captan and Fenarimol in open pollinated flowers riduced ovular fertility whilst Captan and Dithianon had the same effect in hand pollinated; fruit shape (lenght/width ratio) were also negatively affected by Captan application.
42878399|Nel 1980 sono state condotte su peri cv. "Abate Ftel" due prove sperimentali al fine di valutare l'efficacia di vecchi e nuovi fungicidi contro il marciume dei frutti causato da Alternaria sp. e Stemphylium sp.. Sono state eseguite n. 10 applicazioni a turni variabili da 9 a 18 giorni nel periodo compreso tra la fine fioritura e la raccolta. I risultati dei rilievi eseguiti su foglie e su frutti hanno messo in evidenza la elevata efficacia di Procymidone, Dyrene, Iprodione e Captafol da soli o in miscela con altri fungicidi; una buona protezione  stata anche fornita da Mancozeb e Propineb + Diclofluanide. In 1980, the efficacy of old and new fungicides was tested in two trials carried out on pear cv. Abate Ftel. In the period from post flowering to harvest, 10 sprays were made every 9-18 days. The best effectiveness was shown by Procymidone, Dyrene, Iprodione and Captafol used alone or mixed with other fungicides; a good control was also obtained with Mancozeb and Propineb + Dichlofluanide.
42878400|Il periodo giovanile del pero  molto lungo, da qui l'opportunit di trovare parametri che siano in grado di fornire precocemente indicazioni circa le caratteristiche delle piante adulte. Con questo studio si  voluto verificare la possibilit di correlare la superficie fogliare e la dimensione del frutto. Nella primavera 1970 sono state messe a dimora nell'azienda Ruffio di Cesena 8.239 semenzali provenienti da incroci intervarietali effettuati nel 1968. Nel 1977 e nel 1978 rispettivamente su 1.033 e 434 semenzali in fruttificazione sono state raccolte 2 foglie nello stadio di completo sviluppo, dal 5 e 6 nodo dalla base, di 10 germogli per un totale di 20 foglie per pianta. La superficie fogliare per pianta  stata correlata con la pezzatura media dei frutti della pianta stessa. La superficie fogliare  stata determinata con l'"Automatic Area Meter", modello AMM-7, mentre la pezzatura dei frutti  stata stimata secondo una scala di valori compresi da 1 a 5. E' stata messa in evidenza una correlazione positiva tra i due parametri. The juvenile period of the pear is particularly long, hence the opportunity to find parameters able to give early informations about the mature trees characteristics. This study has been done to verify the possibility to correlate the leaf surface and the fruit size. In spring 1970, 8.239 seedlings obtained by cross-pollination done in 1968 have been planted in Cesena. In 1977 and 1978, rispectively on 1,033 and 434 fruiting seedlings 2 mature leaves of the 5th and 6th node of 10 twigs, have been picked. The average leaf surface per tree has been correlated to the average fruit size of the same tree. The leaf area has been determinated with the Automatic Area Meter mod. AMM-7, the fruit size has been estimated according to 5 grades from 1 to 5. A light positive correlation between the two parameters has been pointed out.
42878889|Viene esaminata la situazione mondiale delle pere da industria (sciroppate e macedonie), sia per quanto riguarda la produzione di prodotto trasformato ed i rapporti fra produttori ed industria di trasformazione, che le correnti di importazione ed esportazione ed i rapporti fra paesi produttori e consumatori. Una pi approfondita analisi riguarda la situazione del mercato italiano in cui viene destinato alla trasformazione industriale circa il 15% della produzione. Fra le utilizzazioni predomina quella delle pere allo sciroppo (circa 500.000 q. li di prodotto finito) seguita dalla macedonie e dai succhi (nettari). Le prospettive favorevoli ad una espansione per la produzione italiana non sembrano azzardate. Il problema maggiore  rappresentato dall'assenza di un'azione coordinata fra produttori agricoli e trasformatori. The world situation of processing pears (canned and fruit cocktails) is examined having in mind the production of processed fruits and the relations between growers and processors. The actual international trade and the connections between countries interested to production and to consumption are also regerred. The situation of the Italian market, in which the 15% of fruit production in processed, is studied with particular interest. The most important use of processed pears is for canning with syrup (around 50.000 tons of canned fruits) followed by fruit cocktails and juices (nectars). Fair possibilities exist to increase the Italian presence on foreign markets of processed pears. The main problem to a further development is tied to the absence of a coordinate action between growers and processor.
42878890|Si  impostata una prova preliminare sul comportamento agronomico di alcuni presunti cloni comprovati esenti o affetti da virus di "Decana del Comizio" e "Conference", in diverse combinazioni d'innesto con cloni di cotogno virus-esenti. I cloni di pero virus esenti hanno fornito risultati produttivi sempre superiori a quelli infetti. Si sono distinti, in particolare, i cloni A di "Decana del Comizio" ed A e D di "Conference" - tutti di provenienza olandese - e, fra i cotogni, i cloni Cts 211 ed EMA. Scarse indicazioni sono invece emerse sulle caratteristiche dei frutti, almeno limitatamente ai caratteri esaminati (ad es.: frutti appena pi colorati nella "Conference D"). L'EM C ha indotto la pi elevata efficenza produttiva di "Decana del Comizio" ma l'eccessivo effetto nanizzante di tale cotogno pu compromettere la formazione dello scheletro specialmente nella cv. "Conference", pur nella prospettiva di costituire impianti ad elevata densit. A preliminary test was carried out to observe the agronomical behaviour of different clones of the pear varieties "Comice" and "Conference", either virus free or infected, budded on virus free clones of quince. The highest yield and tree development were always obtained from the virus free clones. "Comice A" and "Conference A" and "D", of Dutch origin, Budded on quince clone CTS 211 and elone AM A were particularly successful. The fruits of the various clones showed only slight differnces, i.e. more evident pink color of the skin in the "Conference D". The highest tree efficiency was obtained by the trees budded on EM C quince; but the severe dwarfing influence induced by this rootstock offers more possibilities for high density planting, although in Conference, the tree size and framework were too much affected.
42878891|Sono state condotte fino al 6 anno d'impianto, prove di confronto fra alcune combinazioni d'innesto di tre fonti clonali di "William" con il cotogno d' "Angers" e di "Provenza", con e senza intermedio ("Butirra Hardy", "Butirra precoce Morettini"). Sulle stesse piante sono stati effettuati indexaggi virali attraverso l'uso di specifiche piante indicatrici. Gli alberi sono risultati tutti infetti da almeno una delle seguenti virosi: "mosaico anulare", "giallume delle nervature" e "anulatura fuligginosa del cotogno". Tra i cotogni, quello di "Provenza" ha indotto una vigoria superiore all' "Angers" ed una pi elevata fruttificazione, mentre la loro efficienza produttiva  risultata simile e nettamente superiore a quella del franco. Entrambi i cotogni, per, hanno indotto accentuati sintomi di clorosi in relazione all'elevato tenore del calcare del suolo (8,5%). Gli alberi sovrinnestati (specialmente la combinazione "William L"/"Butirra Hardy"/cot. di Provenza) hanno complessivamente fornito risultati migliori di quelli innestati direttamente su cotogno indicando che in assenza di materiale di propagazione sano, l'uso dell'intermediario rappresenta una soluzione accettabile e preferibile all'innesto diretto su cotogno (almeno in terreno clorosante), oltre che sul franco. Comparative field trials on pear rootstocks were carried out until the 6th planting year using three different donai sources of "William" budded on Angers and Provence quinces with and without pear interstocks (cvs. Beurr Hardy and Beurr precoce Morettini) and on pear seedling (as control). These trees were virus tested by double budding on specific indicators in order to determine the health status of the trees, (virus free or virus natural infected). All the trees were found to be affected by at least one of these virus-diseases: "Pear vein yellow", "Pear ring pattern mosaic" and "Quince sooty ring-spot". The Williams/Provence quince trees had more vigour and produced more than those on Angers quince, although the tree efficencies (ratio between yield and trunk sectional area) were similar and higher than that of William/pear seedling trees. Both quinces were more susceptibile to chlorosis because of the high percentage of active lime in the soil. On the whole, the results were obtained with the use of an interstocks (William L/Beurr Hardy/Provence Quince) incating that without virus free propagation material, both stocks and scions, the double worked trees on quince rootstocks are preferable to those budded directly on quince, at least in calcareous soils.
42878892|Una prova comparativa condotta per cinque anni dall'impianto, in un terreno alluvionale e calcareo (8,5% di calcare attivo) della pianura romagnola, ha dimostrato che: 1) il pero "William" si pu innestare su alcune selezioni di cotogno senza necessit dell'intermedio, purch soggetto e marza siano virus-esenti; fino al quinto anno lo sviluppo  paragonabile al franco ma la efficienza produttiva  nettamente superiore ; 2) la presenza di due o tre virus ("giallume delle nervature", "mosaico anulare" e "anulatura fuligginosa del cotogno") provoca una forte riduzione oltre 50%) della crescita degli alberi e, in minor misura, della fruttificazione. L'efficienza produttiva degli alberi malati  risultata apparentemente buona, come o pi di quelli sani, ma la vigoria  troppo scarsa per ritenere che gli alberi virosati possano costituire validi impianti anche se a maggiore densit di piantagione; 3) negli alberi malati, l'effetto negativo  stato assai maggiore quando i virus sono stati portati dal nesto, piuttosto che dall'intermedio o dal cotogno; 4) l'utilizzazione del sovrinnesto riduce la sensibilit dell'albero ai virus, attenuando anche alcune manifestazioni di disaffinit d'innesto da essi indotte od accentuate (es. clorosi e arrossamento fogliare). 5) le selezioni di cotogno pi interessanti sono state, in particolare, il Provenza "C 98/IV" (anche perch ha ridotto la clorosi e la filloptosi), e oltre a questo, il cotogno "A" di Angers, il cotogno "Ct. S 212" ed anche il Provenza "BA 29". L'altra selezione "Ct. S 214" ha dato pure buoni risultati, specie per la vigoria, nonostante sia risultato virus-affetto; 6) dalla prova si deduce che la sola selezione sanitaria non basta per massimizzare il risultato produttivo degli alberi; si impone anche la selezione clonale e la successiva valutazione dei cloni di "William" e delle interazioni fra questi ed i vari cotogni. Five years of observations after planting on "William" pear trees budded on new quince selections with and without pear interstocks grown on alluvial and calcareous soil (8,5% active lime) in the Po valley, showed that: 1) "William" pear can be budded directly on some quince clones without interstocks, only if both scions and rootstocks are virus-free. At the end of the 5th year the virus-free tree growth was similar to that of trees on seedlings but their yield efficiency was quite higher. 2) Growth of trees naturally infected with "Pear vein yellow", "Pear ring pattern mosaic" and "Quince sooty ring spot" was more than 50% less than the growth of uninfected trees; crop yield instead was reduced less strongly; their yield efficiency was similar to that of the virus free trees, but their growth was so weak as to make them unsuitable for high density planting systems. 3) When the scions were virus infected, the negative influence of the virus was higher than that due to the infected interstock. 4) The use of the interstock reduced the negative effects of virus infections 5) Among the tested quinces, good performance was found for "Provence C 98/IV" (less susceptible to chlorosis and to early leaf drop), together with quince A (Angers), quince "CtS 212" and "Provence BA 29". The selections "CtS 214" induced a satisfactory growth and yield even though the trees were virus infected; 6) Our trials showed that the use of virus free material is very usefull but more work should be done on both scion and root stock to select the best clones.
42878893|E' stato saggiato l'effetto dei preparati ormonici Regulex (GA -28% + GA -72%) e PP 341 (20% GA + 30% DPU + 5% NAA) sulle cultivar di pero "William", "Abate Ftel" e "Passa Crassana" a tre diverse epoche: piena fioritura e caduta petali (a 20 ppm di gibberelline) e 20 giorni dopo la fioritura (15 ppm di gibberelline). Risultati positivi sull'allegagione si sono avuti: a) nella cv "William", irrorando Regulex 20 ppm alla caduta dei petali e PP 341 (20 ppm di GA) in piena fioritura, ma tali trattamenti hanno per ridotto il numero di gemme a frutto nell'annata successiva; b) nella cv "Abate Ftel" con Regulex e PP 341, 15 ppm, 20 giorni dopo la fioritura ; c) nella cv "Passa Crassana" non  stata aumentata l'entit della fruttificazione bens soltanto la percentuale di frutti partenocarpici, con perdita della pezzatura dei frutti. L'aumento nell'allegagione  stato prevalentemente determinato, nella "William", dalla formazione di frutti partenocarpici senza apprezzabili modificazioni di forma e di pezzatura e, nell'" Abate Ftel", dalla "ritenzione" di un maggior numero di frutti prevalentemente gamici. Sulla base dei risultati acquisiti sembra consigliabile fare uso di tali preparati nelle sole annate con sfavorevoli condizioni climatiche durante la fioritura, utilizzando per concentrazioni non superiori a 15 ppm di gibberelline per evitare o ridurre eventuali effetti collaterali negativi sulla fruttificazione dell'anno successivo. Two growth regulators, Regulex (GA, 28% + GA, 72%) and "PP 341" (GA, 20%DPU, 30% + NAA, 5%) were tested on "William", "Abate Ftel" and "Passa Crassane" pear trees varieties at three different spraying times: full bloom, petal fall (both times at 20 ppm of gibberellins) and 20 days after full bloom (15 ppm of gibberllins). The fruit set increased only: a) in the cv. "William" treated with Regulex at petal fall or with pp 341 at full bloom, b) in the cv. "Abate Ftel" by Regulex or PP 341 treatments at 20 days after full bloom. In the cv. "Passe Crassane" either mixtures were unable to improve fruit set whilst increased the percentage of smaller parthenocarpic fruits. The higher fruit set and yield induced by growth regulators in "William" trees, had been related to the increased number of both parthenocarpic and seeded fruits; consequently the fruit bud differentiation was greatly reduced. The fruits did not show any appreciable reduction of the weight and only very little changing of the shape. In the "Abate Ftel" the increasing of the fruit set by late treatments was due mainly to the retenction of more seeded fruits. As conclusion it appears a relationship between the growth regulator response of the pear varieties and time of treatments. From a practical point of views these experimental compounds may be economically applyed on the pear industry only when poor fruit set conditions occur.
42878894|Prove di potatura meccanica ed estiva (con due potatrici semoventi a lame rotanti), condotte per un quinquennio su alberi adulti di pero "Butirra Precoce Morettini" / cotogno, allevati a palmetta, hanno portato ai seguenti risultati: 1) Gli alberi potati con "topping" ed "hedging" hanno prodotto, in complesso, il 10% in pi di peso di pere di pezzatura disforme e un po' ridotta rispetto a quelli potati manualmente; il numero di gemme a frutto negli alberi potati a macchina  aumentato in ancora maggiore quantit. 2) Gli alberi non hanno riportato danni, e pur con una chioma pi densa, hanno ricostituito un accettabile equilibrio vegetativo. 3) Il solo topping, seppure integrato con un leggera potatura manuale (asportazione succhioni), non basta a migliorare la qualit dei frutti. 4) La potatura estiva si  dimostrata pi veloce, pi facile e pi praticabile (per le condizioni del suolo) rispetto a quella invernale ed  quindi preferibile specialmente per la esecuzione del topping negli alberi vigorosi. 5) Il tempo di potatura meccanica (13/ore/ha)  stato meno di un decimo di quello manuale, ma  risultato ancora troppo elevato in quanto ha richiesto 5 passaggi della macchina per filare (4 per l'hedging e 1 per il topping). 6) Nelle predette condizioni di lavoro la prova ha dimostrato la validit della potatura meccanica annuale solo se integrata manualmente per il taglio all'interno dell'albero (circa il 50% del tempo totale). A 5-year study on the summer and winter mechanical pruning of cv. "Butirra Precoce Morettini"/quince, palmetta trained pear trees, using two self-propelled mechanical pruners with two or four rotating blades, showed the following results: 1) Trees pruned with topping and/or hedging produced, over the five years, about 10 wt% more pears, non-uniform in size and slightly smaller, in comparison with the hand pruned trees; the increase in the number of fruit buds was even greater for the mechanically pruned trees. 2) No tree damage resulted and even though the canopy of the mechanically pruned trees was more dense, a new acceptable vegetative equilibrium was established in the trees. 3) Topping only, even if integrated with light hand pruning (removal of suckers), was not efficient to improve fruit quality. 4) Summer pruning was found to be faster and easier than winter pruning, also because of the soil conditions, and thus was preferible, especially for topping vigorous trees. 5) The net time required for mechanical pruning (13 hours/ha) was less than 1/10 of that required for hand pruning; this, however, is still too high since 5 passages of the machines per row were required (4 for hedging and 1 for topping). 6) For the working conditions of this study, the results of the tests showed the validity of annual mechanical pruning but only if it is integrated handly for pruning the internal zones of the canopy; the hand integrative cuts need about 50% of the usual hand pruning time.
42878895|Sulle cultivar di pero "Conference" ed "Abate Ftel" sono stati sperimentati trattamenti cosmetici con Golclair e Shionox, che si erano dimostrati efficaci nel prevenire la rugginosit dei frutti di melo "Golden Delicious". Entrambi i trattamenti hanno ridotto solo parzialmente l'insorgenza dell'alterazione nella cv. "Conference", i cui frutti sono apparsi pi rugginosi di quelli di "Abate Ftel". I migliori risultati si sono ottenuti con sei applicazioni di Golclair alla dose di 750 gr/hl a partire dalla caduta dei petali e ripetuti ad intervalli di 8-10 giorni di distanza l'uno dall'altro. Con queste applicazioni, che aumentano di circa il 5-10% il costo di produzione, si  ridotta la rugginosit di oltre un terzo in "Abate Ftel" e di oltre la met in "Conference", senza riflessi negativi collaterali sull'allegagione e senza fenomeni di fitotossicit. Efficacia minore su "Conference" o nulla su "Abate Ftel", ha dimostrato il Shionox. L'applicazione di questi preparati appare proponibile in quelle zone ove la elevata rugginosit dei frutti costituisce un motivo di notevole deprezzamento della produzione. Cosmetic sprays with Golclair (containing sulphur and various silicates) and Shionox (containing silicon dioxide) were applied to the pear trees cvs." Conference" and "Abb Ftel"; these two compounds had shown some effect in preventing Golden Delicious" fruit russenting. Untreated "Conference" pears appeared more susceptible to the skin russeting than these of "Abb Ftel". Althought both the above mentioned compounds are able to reduce fruit russeting, the best results were achieved after six sprays of Golclair (750 g/hl) starting from petal fall and applied weekly. By means of these sprays, which involve an increase of the costs of about 5%, russeting was reduced of more than 30% in "Abb Ftel", and of more than 50% in "Conference", without any negative effect on fruit set, or fitotoxicity simptoms. Shionox had a lower effect on "Conference" than Golclair and was ineffective on "Abb Ftel". The use of the two compounds could only be recommended in the areas where high skin russeting markedly reduces the commercial value of russeting susceptible pears.
42878896|E' stata effettuata una prova di conservazione di pere Kaiser, provenienti da quattro frutteti diversi, in atmosfera controllata (2-3% di CO e 4-5% O) allo scopo di vedere se i trattamenti preventivi (raffreddamento rapido in acqua e prematurazione) su frutti raccolti in 2 stadi di maturazione diversi possono prolungare il periodo di conservazione senza pregiudicare le caratteristiche qualitative dei frutti. Il disfacimento si  presentato solo dopo una postmaturazione di 4 giorni a temperatura di 24C, mentre all'uscita dalla cella frigorifera era molto ridotto. La prematurazione ha causato un aumento della perdita di peso e della percentuale di frutti appassiti e affetti da disfacimento, mentre  risultata positiva per i frutti raccolti precocemente in quanto ne ha permesso la pi completa evoluzione. L'idrorefrigerazione ha permesso di contenere significativamente la percentuale di frutti appassiti e affetti da disfacimento, soprattutto tra quelli pi suscettibili alle alterazioni in quanto di maturazione pi avanzata o prematuri. I frutti idrorefrigerati al termine della conservazione frigorifera presentavano acidit maggiore e residuo secco rifratto metrico minore di quelli refrigerati in aria, ma tali differenze si sono annullate in seguito alla postmaturazione. L'idrorefrigerazione non ha avuto effetto sulla perdita di peso, n sulla percentuale di frutti marci. Kaiser pears, harvested in two dates, were hydrocooled immediately after harvest or after 6 days' delay, and stored in C.A. (2-3% CO and 4-5% O). Pithy brown core did not appear at the end of cold storage but only after 4 days at 24 C. Delayed storage increased weight loss, and increased incidence of shrivelling and pithy brown core, but had a positive effect on early harvested pears, which ripened completely. Hydrocooling significantly decreased incidence of shrivelling and pithy brown core, mostly among those more susceptible of the disorder, i.e. those late harvested or with delayed storage. Hydrocooled pears at the end of cold storage showed higher titratable acidity and lower soluble solids than those air-cooled, but these differences disappeared after 4 days at room temperature. Hydrocooling did not affect weight loss nor incidence of rot.
42878897|Nell'autunno del 1978 sono stati effettuati trattamenti pre-raccolta su pere Kaiser con Vinclozolin, Metiram, Carbendazim a 21, 12 e 2 giorni prima della raccolta, seguiti in magazzino da trattamenti post-raccolta con Vinclozolin a due dosi, Carbendazim e miscela di Carbendazim e Captano. Al termine della conservazione in cella ad atmosfera normale con temperatura di O-1C, dopo 5 mesi dalla raccolta, sono stati controllati i frutti colpiti da Pnicillium e da Botrytis. I soli trattamenti pre-raccolta non si sono dimostrati positivi, mentre lo sono stati quelli post-raccolta. La combinazione dell'irrorazione pre-raccolta con prodotto sistemico (Carbendazim) seguito in magazzino da un prodotto di contatto (Vinclozolin) ha fornito risultati assai soddisfacenti. In autumn 1978 treatments at 20-12-2 days before harvest were made on Kaiser pears with Vinclozolin, Metiram, Carbendazim and postharvest with Vinclozolin (2 concentrations), Carbendazim, Carbendazim and Captan mixture. At the end of cold storage (0C), after 5 months from harvest, percentage of fruit affected by rots was controlled. Singly pre-harvest treatments did not give good results, while the post-harvest gave good results. Association of pre-harvest sprays whit sistemic product (Carbendazim) followed by post-harvest dipping with the product (Vinclozolin) get good results.
42878898|Vengono passate in rassegna le ricerche sulla composizione degli aromi nelle pere. Sono stati separati e identificati dai vari autori oltre novanta composti, la cui presenza dipende dalle variet, dalle condizioni culturali, dallo stato di maturazione e dai trattamenti post-raccolta e di trasformazione. Per le pere William sono stati riconosciuti come composti caratterizzanti d'impatto dell'aroma gli esteri dell'acido trans: 2-cis 4-decadienoico e come contribuente l'acetato di esile. Vengono discusse le prospettive di ricerca in questo campo con riferimento al recupero degli aromi nella tecnologia dei succhi di frutta. Research on the composition of pear aroma are reviewed. More than ninety volatiles compounds have been separated and characterized by the concerned investigators. Their occurrence and amounts depend on variety, growing conditions ripeness, post-harvest treatments and processing. Volatile esters of trans: 2-cis: 4decadienoic acid have been identified as "character impact compound" of William (Bartlett) pear, while hexyl acetate as "contributory flavour compound". The trends of the research in this field with reference to pear aroma recovery during pear juice processing are discussed.
42878416|Gli autori, dopo una rassegna della letteratura riguardante la selezione clonale dell'arancio e del mandarino, esaminano le ricerche effettuate in Italia nell'ultimo quarantennio, riportano le esperienze ed i risultati di miglioramento, ottenuti attraverso questa via, presso l'Istituto Sperimentale per l'Agrumicoltura, in parte gi oggetto di pubblicazione; mentre descrivono per la prima volta una nuova cultivar di arancio a polpa pigmentata: "Sanguinello S.S.A.". The authors, after a survey of the essential literature on clonal selection of orange and mandarin, review the research carried out in Italy in the last forty years and report the results of experiments obtained at the Istituto Sperimentale per l'Agrumicoltura on citrus breeding using this method. Some of these results were already published, while for the first time a new blood orange, the "Sanguinello S.S.A.", is described.
42878417|Seguendo contemporaneamente l'andamento del potenziale rizogeno naturale e l'evoluzione del ciclo di sviluppo nelle piante madri,  stato individuato il preciso stadio morfofisiologico in cui il prelievo delle talee fornisce la massima percentuale di piantine radicate per due specie vivaistiche ornamentali, il Picea abies pungens kosteriana glauca ed il Cupressus sempervirens. I risultati sono discussi in relazione all'efficacia del metodo impiegato nel soddisfare le esigenze di ripetibilit dei risultati ottenibili e di piena utilizzazione degli impianti in aziende specializzate. Following the variation of rooting throughout the vegetative cycle of mother plants of Picea abies pungens ko s tenaria glauca and Cupressus sempervirens, the most convenient development stage for cuttings collection in order to obtain the best rooting was determined. The results are discussed in relation to the repetibility in different years. Since the correlation between the most appropriate phase of mother plant vegetative cycle and rooting is very reproducible the possibility of planning multiplication by cuttings is discussed.
42878418|Dopo aver sottolineata la necessit di disporre costantemente di nuove pregevoli cultivar di pesco, con caratteristiche adeguate alle mutevoli esigenze sia agronomiche che commerciali, viene riferito succintamente sui primi risultati ottenuti con il lavoro di miglioramento genetico per l'ottenimento di nuove cultivar di pesco a polpa gialla, in corso gi da tempo presso il Centro di studio del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose e l'Istituto di coltivazioni arboree dell'Universit degli studi di Firenze. Vengono quindi dettagliatamente descritte le caratteristiche morfologiche, biologiche, agronomiche, pomologiche e mercantili della nuova cultivar di pesco precoce a polpa gialla, alla quale  stato attribuito il nome di "Maria Luisa". Questa nuova cultivar, la seconda diffusa commercialmente dall'Autore, deriva da un complesso programma d'incrocio, iniziato nel dopo guerra dal prof. Morettini a Firenze e conclusosi con la costituzione della "Fertilia I Morettini". Il programma di miglioramento genetico  stato quindi proseguito con l'incrocio "Panamint" (nettarina) X "Fertilia I. M." (pesca), effettuato nel 1967 e successivamente nel 1973 con l'isolamento e la propagazione della nuova "selezione FI-67.006". La "Maria Luisa"  caratterizzata da una abbondate e costante produzione di frutti assai attraenti e di grossa pezzatura, con polpa gialla di ottimo sapore e serbevolezza, piuttosto resistenti sia alle manipolazioni che ai trasporti. L'albero  risultato molto rustico, con un'ottima adattabilit ai differenti ambienti colturali nei quali la cultivar  stata provata (Maremma Toscana, Ravennate e Forlivese, Vercellese). I frutti maturano in epoca assai favorevole (tra "Springerest" e "Flavorcrest") e precisamente 2-3 giorni dopo la "Dixired". Anche la "Maria Luisa", coma la "Maria Bianca",  stata diffusa commercialmente libera da ogni vincolo contrattuale e da marchio di impresa. The author stresses the necessity of constantly available quality peach cultivare, with characteristics corresponding to the changing agronomic and market requirements, then briefly outlines the first results of breeding trials for obtaining new yellow flesh peach cultivare which have been going on for some time at the Centro di studio del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose and the Istituto di coltivazioni arboree dell'Universit degli Studi di Firenze. The morpho-biological, agronomic, pomological and market characteristics of the new early yellow fleshed peach cultivar, named "Maria Luisa" are then described in detail. This new cultivar, the second diffused commercially by the author, derives from a compie cross program, started in Florence after the war by prof. Morettini and concluded with the constitution of "Fertilia I Morettini". The breeding program has then continued with the cross between "Panamint" (nectarine) X "Fertilia I Morettini" (peach) in 1967 and later in 1973 with the isolation and propagation of the new "FI-67.006 selection". "Maria Luisa" is characterised by an abundant and constant production of attractive, large sized yellow fleshed fruits, with a delicious flavour and good storage properties, resistant to both handling and transport. The plant is very rustic with an excellent adaptability to the different cultural habitat where it has been tested (Maremma Toscana, Ravenna, Forli and Vercelli regions). Ripening takes place in a very favourable period (between "Springerest" and "Flavorcrest") and precisely 2-3 days after "Dixired". Both "Maria Luisa" and "Maria Bianca" are diffused commercially free of any contractual tie or patent.
42878419|Poich la conoscenza di alcuni aspetti legati al modo di fruttificare delle singole specie e cultivar pu fornire utili indicazioni in fase di organizzazione dei cantieri di raccolta, su alcune cultivar di arancio diffuse in Sardegna (" Biondo comune", "Moro", "Tarocco", "Valencia" e "Washington navel")  stata valutata la distribuzione della fruttificazione nell'ambito della chioma, attraverso la determinazione del numero dei frutti presenti in diversi settori della pianta, sia in funzione dell'altezza (da 0 a 180 cm, e oltre i 180 cm), che della profondit (nei primi 50-100 cm - a seconda dell'et della pianta -e oltre), che dell'esposizione. Per le cultivar "Tarocco" e "Washington navel" le osservazioni sono state condotte su piante di diversa et e in zone di coltura differenziate, mentre per le altre sono stati esaminati alberi in piena produzione e in un'unico ambiente. I risultati hanno messo in evidenza che sulle piante giovani si  avuta, rispetto alle piante in piena produzione, una notevole percentuale di frutti anche all'interno della chioma. Nelle piante adulte, infatti, la produzione  risultata in preponderanza distribuita nella fascia periferica della chioma. Si  rilevato, inoltre, che mentre nelle piante giovani la produzione era pressoch tutta concentrata nei primi 180 cm di altezza, in quelle adulte, sopratto nelle cultivar "Moro" e "Tarocco", oltre il 50% dei frutti era distribuito ad un'altezza superiore a 180 cm. Per quanto riguarda l'esposizione, si  osservato che la met chioma esposta a SO e SE presentava una produttivit nettamente superiore alla corrispondente met esposta a NO e NE. I frutti situati all'interno della chioma sono risultati pi piccoli, meno colorati, con buccia pi sottile e maggior contenuto in succo, ma minor tenore zuccherino e maggiore acidit. I frutti prodotti nella parte alta della pianta, infine, erano di maggiori dimensioni, pi colorati e con un maggior contenuto di solidi solubili totali. Tutti i dati sono stati discussi in merito, soprattutto, alla loro influenza sulla raccolta meccanizzata. A study to determine the fruit-bearing characteristic of orange trees was made in different citrus areas of Sardinia and on different varieties (" Biondo Comune", "Moro", "Tarocco", "Valencia", and "Washington navel"). The research was intended primarily to provide information for hand harvesting using picking aids, such as man positioners. Several trees of different age were selected for "Tarocco" and "Washington navel" orange, while only mature trees were used for the other varieties. On each tree fruit was counted in four quadrants (N.E., N.W., S.E., S.W.), at two different tree heights (from the ground to 180 cm, and from 180 cm to the top of the trees), and on two different canopy depths (from the outer part of the canopy to 50 or 100 cm inside, depending to the tree age, and from 50 or 100 cm inside to the trunk of the trees). In young trees a great percentage of fruit was produced both by inner and outer part of the canopy, while in mature trees most of the fruits were located on the outer part of the canopy. Moreover in young trees almost the totality of the fruit was produced on the lower part of the canopy. In mature trees, mainly in "Moro" and "Washington navel" varieties, more than 50% of fruit was produced by the higher part of the canopy. In almost every case the majority of the fruit occured on the south half of th tree. Considering the fruit quality, it was observed that the fruit located on the inner part of the canopy had smaller size, thinner and less coloured rind, more juice content with less total soluble solids and more acidity percentage. The fruit located on the higher part of the trees had bigger size, more coloured rind, and more total soluble solids content in the juice. The results were discussed in order, primarily, to their influece on the harvesting operations.
42878420|Vengono riportati i risultati di una ricerca che aveva come scopo la moltiplicazione in vitro di apici vegetativi della variet di melo "Annurca". Su un substrato di coltura che conteneva 1 mg/1 di BAP si otteneva un notevole sviluppo degli apici vegetativi, ma solo casualmente lo sviluppo delle gemmette ascellari presenti nel germoglio. Queste venivano invece indotte a svilupparsi se la concentrazione di BAP veniva aumentata a 2 mg/1. Per indurre la radicazione dei germogli, tra le prove effettuate, i risultati migliori erano ottenuti con 1 mg/1 di NAA e 162 mg/1 di floroglucinolo aggiunto dopo la sterilizzazione del substrato in autoclave. In queste condizioni circa il 58 % di germogli produceva radici. Le plantule radicate venivano poi trasferite su un misto torba-perlite (15%), con buoni risultati di attecchimento. Attemps have been made to propagate in vitro the apple variety "Annurca". On a modified Murashige and Skoog medium (1962) containing an additional amount of thiamine-HC1 (0.3 mg/1), m-inositol (100 mg/1), indoleaceticacid (0.05 mg/1), benzylaminopurine (1 mg/1), gibberellic acid (0.1 mg/1), ascorbic acid (10 mg/1), sucrose (3% and agar (0.7% at pH 5.5, a satisfactory development of the shoot apices has been observed, but only an occasional development of the axillary buds. These were induced to start growth by increasing the BAP concentration to 2 mg/1. To induce rooting in the proliferated shoots, among the different auxins used (IAA, IBA and NAA), 1 mg/1 of naphtaleneacetic acid (NAA) was the most effective. Beside NAA, the medium contained half concentration of the MS macro and micro-elements, FeEDTA, MS vitamins, an additional amount of thiamine-HC1 (0.3 mg/1), m-inositol (100 mg/1), phloroglucinol (162 mg/1) sterilized by filtration, sucrose (2% and agar (0.7 %, the pH was adjusted to 5.5. In these conditions about 58% of the shoots rooted. The plantlets were transfered on a mixt peat-perlite (15% mixture with 100% of humidity where most of them developed very well.
42878421|Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati di una prova biennale (1979-1980) effettuata nella Piana del Sele (Sa) allo scopo di valutare l'influenza della concimazione azotata (Kg/ha 0,50, 100, 150, 200 alla semina, come solfato ammonico 20/21, o all'inizio della fioritura, come nitrato di Calcio 15/16, oppure distribuiti fra le due epoche - 50/50, 50/100, 50/150, 100/50, 100/100, 150/50 - in modo che la dose totale risultasse non superiore a Kg/ha 200) sulla produzione quali-quantitativa del fagiolino nano da industria (cv "Cascade"). Soltanto la concimazione all'impianto ha influito sui rendimenti per ettaro i quali hanno subito incrementi fino al limite dei 100 Kg/ha di Azoto ma con differenze non significative fra le produzioni realizzate con le dosi 100 e 50. L'entit dei residui ha manifestato invece andamento crescente con la dose. Di dubbio significato  apparsa l'influenza della concimazione azotata sulle caratteristiche tecnologiche dei baccelli. Results are reported on a two year test (1979 and 1980) carried out in the Sele river Plain (Salerno) on the influence of nitrogen fertilization (Kg/ha 0,50, 100, 150, 200 at sowing, as sulphate of amminia 20/21, or at the flower initiation, as Calcium nitrate 15/16, or both applid between the sowing and the flower initiation times - 50/50, 50/100, 50/150, 100/50, 100/100, 150/50 - at a nitrogen total level never higher than 200 Kg/ha) on the yield and quality of snap bean for processing (cv."Cascade"). The response to  was positive at sowing only. The yields of pods increased with the increase of the nitrogen fertilization from 0 to 100 Kg/ha but there was no statistical difference between plots supplied with 100 and 50 Kg/ha N. The enhanced yields were associated with increases in the number of pods/plant. The production of vines rose by increasing the N level. No clear influence of the nitrogen fertilization on the technological traits of the pods was found.
42878422|Viene descritta una nuova variet di carciofo a produzione primaverile denominata "Terom" e se ne asaminano le differenze in confronto ad alcuni cloni della "Violetto di Toscana". La variet  stata isolata in una progenie da autofecondazione del clone 38 S1 e quindi moltiplicata pervia clonale. Il clone 38 SI derivava da una riproduzione libera della "Violetto di Toscana" in una collezione varietale. La nuova variet si differenzia soprattutto per la prococit, la forma e dimensione dei capolini. La raccolta del 1 capolino  risultata anticipata di 9 e 24 giorni rispettivamente nel 1979 e 1980. I capolini di colore violetto intenso risultano pi pesanti e di forma ovoidale pi compressa rispetto a quelli della "Violetto di Toscana". A new globe-artichoke cultivar (Cynara scolymus L.) named "Terom" for spring production in Tuscany is described in detail. This new cultivar derives from the self pollination of 38S1 clone and donation of a single paint. The 38S1 clone derived from "Violetto di Toscana" cv. reproduced in free pollination in a field with many cultivars. "Terom" is earlier than "Violetto di Toscana" and have buds heavier and more globose, of violet colour. The harvest of the first bud (in the half of the plants) was 9 and 24 days earlier than "Violetto di Toscana" in the 1979 and 1980 years respectively.
42878426|Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati di una prova triennale (1977-1979) effettuata allo scopo di accertare l'epoca ottimale di semina per il fagiolino nano da industria (cv "Cascade") nella Piana del Sele (SA). Sona state realizzate quattordici epoche d'impianto con frequenza all'incirca bisettimanale a partire dalla prima decade di marzo. Le pi elevate produzioni in baccelli hanno corrisposto alle semine eseguite tra la terza decade di marzo e la prima d'aprile. Un maggiore anticipo comporta una riduzione nell'investimento unitario, dovuta essenzialmente all'influenza negativa esercitata dalle basse temperature, ed una precocit di maturazione irrilevante. Le coltivazioni attuate durante il periodo pi caldo hanno fornito rendimenti per ettaro molto bassi in conseguenza di riduzioni nell'investimento, nel numero di baccelli/pianta e nel peso medio dei legumi. Mentre risultano non convenienti le semine in settembre, quelle effettuate nella prima met di agosto offrono la possibilit di conseguire produzioni apprezzabili in secondo raccolto. Results are reported on a three year test (1977-1979) performed in order to investigate the optimum sowing date of snap bean for processing (cv "Cascade") in the Sele river Plain (Salerno). Fourteen planting dates at a twice a week interval starting from the tenth of March have been examined. Large differences in pod yield were found among the different dates. In the earlier sowings the soil and air temperatures were below the requirements for a good stand; heavy rains during the emergence period also contributed to reduce the stand. Higher yields were obtained from the spring crops, sown between the twentieth of March and the tenth of April. By delaying the sowing up to July 15th there was a progressive decrease in the yield. The experiments showed that the sowings in the first half of August are suitable for the snap bean as catch crop. No convenience has been found in September sowing.
42878427|In una serra non riscaldata, in provincia di Napoli, sono stati esaminati gli effetti esplicati da tre regimi idrici (-75, -50 e -25 cb) e da quattro livelli di concimazione azotata (0- 250-500 e 750 Kg/ha di N) in combinazione fattoriale sulla entit e sulla qualit della produzione della rosa cv. "Baccar". Nella media di un biennio la produzione di fiori  aumentata significativamente al crescere delle disponibilit idriche e delle dosi di azoto ma l'incremento di resa  risultato maggiore quando i due fattori sono stati impiegati insieme. L'interazione esistente tra concimazione azotata e rgime idrico  stata calcolata con equazioni di regressione dalle quali emerge che la produzione e la lunghezza degli steli fiorali non variano in misura apprezzabile per determinate combinazioni di dosi di azoto e di valori di tensione dell'umidit nel terreno. "Baccar" roses on R. indica major stock, fertilized with 4 rates of N (0-250-500 and 750 Kg/ha) and 3 irrigation regimes (-25, -50 and -75 cb) factorially combined, were grown for 2 years in a glasshouse at Naples, Italy. The flower numbers and the stem lenght were increased by either nitrogen fertilizer or irrigation, but a far greater increase was obtained when both were used. The interaction of nitrogen and irrigation was best described by regression equation which shoved that yields and stem lenght did not change greatly for many combinations of soil moisture tension and N. The isoquant curves suggested possible combinations of N and soil suction which will produce the same yield and the same stem lenght.
42878428|Trattamenti fiorali con CEPA su pesco (Prunus persica L., Batsch) hanno permesso di ottenere un controllo dell'allegagione proporzionale alle concentrazioni impiegate. Inoltre, tali trattamenti hanno ridotto la cascola di giugno e la cascola pre-raccolta. Se in tal senso i trattamenti fiorali sembrano interessanti, l'uso specifico del CEPA d una forte inibizione dello sviluppo dei frutti che, a maturazione, presentano una taglia sostanzialmente simile a quella dei frutti non diradati. La sperimentazione in questo settore deve pertanto mirare alla ricerca di prodotti alternativi privi delle propriet inibitive sullo sviluppo proprie del CEPA. Peach flower thinning with CEPA allowed a good, proportional control of fruit set (Fig. 1). It also reduced June drop and preharvest drop (Fig. 2). Final fruit size was proportionally increased by hand thinning (Fig. 3). Flower thinning with CEPA, however, stunted the growth of persisting fruit (Fig. 4) reminding analogous response to this chemical sprayed on fruitlets. Final fruit size remained in the range of the unthinned control (Fig. 4) and showed non relation with the amount of thinning caused by the chemical (Fig. 3). The objective of future research is to screen for chemicals which have a good control on flower abscission but, unlike CEPA, do not hamper fruit growth.
42878429|Si riferisce su una indagine condotta sulla biologia fiorale e di fruttificazione della cv. "Pisciottana", tra le pi diffuse nella provincia di Salerno. La variet, vigorosa e produttiva,  autosterile e pertanto necessita, per una buona fruttificazione, di opportuni impollinatori. I pi idonei tra quelli provati sono risultati l'"Oliva Grossa" e la "Racioppa". Le drupe, di piccola dimensione, sono caratterizzate da notevole contenuto in olio. La inolizione, gi nel mese di dicembre,  su valori ottimali. Flowering and fruiting biology is analysed in "Pisciottana", one of the most diffuse olive varieties of the Salerno province. The variety appears to be vigorous and productive. It is, however, practically self incompatible. Best pollinators appear to be "Oliva Grossa" and "Racioppa" varieties. The truit are characteired by o small size and high oil content. Maximum (optimal) oil content appears to be present in december.
42878430|Observations by means of fluorescence on pollen tube growth into selfed and crossed styles of "Filippo Ceo" and "Genco", two almond cultivars commercially grown in Apulia, allowed to visualize clearly the overcoming of incompatibility barrier by selfing. The methods pointed out also a faster pollen tube growth into the styles of the above self-compatible cultivars when cross-pollinated with cv "Tuono". Osservazioni in microscopia per fluorescenza dell'accrescimento dei tubetti pollinici in stili auto ed eteroimpollinati di due cultivar di mandorlo pugliesi autocompatibili. In campo, fiori emasculati delle cv "Filippo Ceo" e "Genco" sono stati parte autoimpollinati e parte impollinati con polline della cv "Tuono" nel febbraio 1977. Sui prelievi effettuati ad intervalli di 24 ore e fino a 120 ore dall'impollinazione  stata misurata la lunghezza totale dei pistilli, apprezzata la comparsa di tracce d'imbrunimento degli stigmi (intesa come perdita di recettivit) ed osservato, infine, l'accrescimento dei tubetti pollinici all'interno degli stili. Per le osservazioni microscopiche  stata adottata la tecnica della fluorescenza con lampada HBO da 200W e colorazione del preparato con Blu anilina idrosolubile. Per quanto concerne l'allungamento dei pistilli e l'imbrunimento degli stigmi sono state rilevate differenze tra le cultivar. In particolare, i pistilli di "Filippo Ceo" sono risultati allungarsi di pi e possedere una recettivit relativamente pi durevole di quelli di "Genco". La fase di "riconoscimento" del tipo di stigma da parte delle proteine dei granuli di polline  protratta per almeno 24 ore, dal momento che in entrambe le cultivar e le combinazioni un reale accrescimento dei tubetti pollinici all'interno degli stili  stato osservato soltanto dopo 48 ore dall'impollinazione. La metodica adottata ha consentito di visualizzare chiaramente il superamento della barriera d'incompatibilit nelle due cultivar in seguito ad autoimpollinazione, confermando cosi la loro capacit di allegare frutti per autofecondazione gi accertata in precedenti ricerche di campo. Tuttavia, nell'impollinazione con "Tuono", l'accrescimento dei tubetti pollinici  risultato molto pi rapido e la percentuale di stili completamente attraversati dopo 4  5 giorni dall'impollinazione molto pi elevata, a riprova della maggior efficienza dell'impollinazione incrociata rispetto all'autoimpollinazione.
42878431|E' stata saggiata in ambiente controllato la reazione delle cultivar di olivo (Olea europaea L.) 'Ascolana', 'Frantoio', 'Leccino', 'Manzanilla', 'Moraiolo', 'Morchiaio' e 'Taggiasco' all'infestazione di Pratylenebus vulnus Allen et Jensen, Rotylenchulus macrodoratus Dasgupta, Raski et Sher, Tylenchulus semopenetrans Cobb e Meloidogyne incognita (Kofoid et White) Chitw. Tutte le cultivar saggiate sono apparse suscettibili alle prime tre specie di nematodi, Ridotta riproduzione delle popolazioni M. incognita usata  stata notata, invece, su di esse e in particoalre sulla cv. 'Moraiolo'. The reaction of seven olive (Olea europaea L.) cultivars 'Ascolana', 'Frantoio', 'Leccino', 'Manzanilla', 'Morchiaio' and 'Taggiasco' to the infestation of Pratylenchus vulnus Allen et Jensen, Rotylenchulus macrodoratus Dasgupta, Raski et Sher, the biotype 'Citrus' of Tylenchulus semipenetrans Cobb and the race 1 of Meloidogyne incognita (Kofoid et White) Chitw. was tested in bins, maintained in a glass-house at 22-26C. All the cultivars were susceptible to the three first nematode species that reproduced actively on their root system. Low nematode population densities were observed on the roots of these cultivars grown in presence of the root-knot nematode M incognita. In particular in the cv 'Moraiolo' the number of M. incognita eggs/g of moist root, collected 18 months after the seedlings transplanting in infested soil, was lower (P=0.05) in comparison to that of other varieties.
42878432|E' stata messa a punto una tecnica per la micropropagazione del l'Aeschynanthus lobbiana Hook., che prevede l'espianto di gemme apicali e la coltura in substrato di Murashige e Skoog (1962) modificato. Il coefficiente di moltiplicazione  risultato in funzione, tra l'altro, dei macroelementi presenti nel substrato e del tipo di suddivisione eseguita ad ogni trapianto. E' stato ottenuto il 100% di radicazione, e l'acclimatazione delle piantine si  dimostrata facile. L'applicazione industriale della tecnica descritta dovrebbe permettere l'ottenimento di 20.000 gemogli in 12 mesi, partendo da un singolo espianto. Rapid "in vitro" propagation of Aeschynathus lobbiana Hook, was obtained on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium (1962) using shoot tips as primary expiants. The basal medium consisted of: the inorganic salts of Murashige and Skoog plus(mg/liter): NaHPO - HO 170, nicotinic acid 0,5; pyridoxine HCl 0,5; thiamine HCl 1,0; glicine 2,0; inositol 100; sucrose 30.000; agar 7.000. The best medium used for establishment of expiants was the basal medium supplemented with 3,0 mg/liter benzylamino purine (BA) and 1,0 mg/liter indolebutyric acid (IBA). The best medium for shoot multiplication was the basal medium supplemented with 1,0 mg/liter BA and 0,1 mg/liter IBA. The best rooting medium consisted of the basal medium with inorganic salts reduced at onehalf strength, supplemented with either 1, 2 or 4 mg/liter IBA. With this technique, subculturing all the proliferating shoots every 3 months, 20.000 plants could be annually produced from a single explant.
42878433|Si riferisce su una indagine atta a verificare la possibilit di stimolare lo accrescimento e la maturazione delle olive mediante un etilenproduttore (Ethrel a 100 ppm e 500 ppm) somministrato dopo l'indurimento del nocciolo (16 settembre 78). Questi trattamenti hanno influenzato l'accrescimento del solo mesocarpo (14% per la concentrazione di 500 ppm e 11,5% la concentrazione di 100 ppm) e hanno determinato incrementi del contenuto in olio delle drupe. Al contempo il fitoregolatore non ha determinato sostanziali differenze sulla cascola di frutti e foglie rispetto alle piante controllo. Anche l'effetto sull'anticipo della maturazione commerciale  risultato limitato (7 giorni per la concentrazione di 500 ppm e 6 per la concentrazione di 100 ppm). Il maggiore sviluppo delle drupe, l'incremento del contenuto in olio e la limitata cascola hanno permesso per di ottenere nelle piante trattate una quantit di olio totale superiore a quello delle piante controllo. Questa ricerca conferma inoltre che la produzione massima di olio ricavabile da una unit produttiva non coincide con l'epoca in cui la inoleazion  elevata ma, secondo i nostri calcoli, essa  possibile 30-40 giorni prima dell'epoca di raccolta abituale, che attualmente  compresa tra la fine di dicembre e la prima decade di gennaio. La raccolta eseguita tempestivamente permetterebbe di ottenere produzioni superiori di circa il 30% a quelli attuali. Trial was carried out in order to test the possibility to stimolate growth and ripening of the olive fruit by treatment with an etilenreleaser (Ethrel at 100 and 500 ppm) after the pit hardening (16.9.1978). The treatment increased mesocarp growth (11,5% and 14% respectively at 100 ppm and 500 ppm) and enhanced oil content (18% and 22% respectively at 100 ppm and 500 ppm). Ethrel did not cause substantial increase in fruits and leaves abscission. Commercial maturation was slightly affected (7 or 6 day earlyness, at, respectively, 500 and 100 ppm). Increase in fruit growth and oil content, and reduction in fruit abscission caused a greater quantity of total oil produced. Total oil analyses also showed that the greatest production obtainable does not coincide with the time of greatest fruit oil content (or the time of harvesting) but antecedes such a time of about 30-40 days. This time would then coincide, in our situation, with the end of December ten days of January. Picking at the right time would then allow a greater (30%) totale oil recovery than what possible at the convencione harvesting time.
42878436|The reaction of twenty Citrus spp. and hybrid seedling selections to the Mediterranean biotype of Tylenchulus semipenetrans was evaluated in Sicily. All Citrus rootstocks, Carrizo, Troyer and Yuma citrange, and Sacaton citrumelo supported high nematode populations. Two hybrids, Savage citrange and Shekwasha  'Swingle' trifoliate orange appeared to be resistant to this citrus nematode biotype. La reazione di portainnesti di Citrus spp. e ibridi all'infestazione del biotipo mediterraneo di Tylenchulus semipenetrans  stata saggiata, all'aperto, in Sicilia. Su tutte le specie di Citrus saggiate, sui Citrange Carrizo, Troyer e Yuma e sul citrumelo Sacaton sono state osservate le densit pi elevate delle popolazioni del nematode. Gli ibridi citrange Savage e quello Shekwasha  l'arancio trifoliato 'Swingle' sono apparsi resistenti al fitomizio.
42878437|Pollen grain production of 10 almond cultivars was evaluated by means of a "Brker" haemocytometer in 1978 and 1979. Pollen grains number decreased greatly in 1979 in all the cultivars, maybe because of reduced microsporogenesis due to cold spells and frosts in January. Cultivars exhibited significant differences in pollen production per anther and per flower: "Ferrante", "Genco", "Scorza verde" and "Texas" resulted good pollen producers, whereas "Fragiulio grande", "Nonpareil" and "Tuono" resulted poor producers. "Brker" haemocytometer allowed us to obtain satisfactory results, as regards accuracy and ease of the observations. Il presente lavoro prende l'avvio dalla considerazione che, per massimizzare l'efficienza dell'impollinazione incrociata, anche la quantit di polline prodotto dalle cultivar dovrebbe essere tenuta in conto ed illustra i risultati al riguardo ottenuti a Bari nel biennio 1978/79 su dieci cultivar di mandorlo. Per il conteggio dei granuli di polline per antera  stato adoperato l'ematocitometro di "Brker", largamente usato in campo medico per il conteggio degli elementi figurati del sangue; in base al numero di antere  stato quindi calcolato il numero di granuli di polline per fiore; test col Carminio-acetico hanno infine permesso di determinare il numero di granuli di polline vitali per antera e per fiore. In media, il numero di granuli di polline per antera  risultato di poco inferiore a 1.500;  stato tuttavia osservato un generale, sensibile calo di produzione dal 1978 al 1979 imputabile, con ogni probabilit, al rigido decorso del gennaio 1979, che avrebbe rallentato i processi di microsporogenesi. Anche tra le cultivar sono state rilevate significative differenze, per quanto concerne sia il numero di granuli di polline per antera, sia il numero di antere per fiore sia la vitalit e, quindi, il numero di granuli di polline vitali per fiore. Delle dieci cultivar, solo "Ferrante", "Genco", "Scorza verde" e "Texas" sono risultate produrre mediamente oltre 50.000 granuli di polline vitali per fiore; all'altro estremo, "Fragiulio grande", "Nonpareil" e "Tuono" sono risultate produrne mediamente meno di 40.000. L'ematocitometro di "Brker" si  rivelato strumento assai utile per la determinazione agevole e corretta dell'interessante carattere.
42878438|Variet di Lycopersicon esculentum UC-105, Sirio, Craigella, Red River, Petomech, l'ibrido F Mariner, la linea 129 e Lycopersicon peruvianum sono stati saggiati "in vitro" per la formazione e differenziazione di callo da semi e dischi cotiledonari in diverse condizioni di coltura. UC-105, Sirio e Petomech rigeneravano facilmente piantine da cotiledoni alla concentrazione di zeatina riboside 2-10 M, mentre alte concentrazioni di citochinine riducevano la capacit di differenziazione. Sia 1'UC-105 che la linea 129 generavano con facilit callo molto friabile ma solo TUC-105 era in grado di formare anche radici. Il Lycopersicon peruvianum dava luogo a callo a lento accrescimento ma differenziava radici e gemme da cui si ottenevano piante intere. I risultati sono discussi in vista della costruzione di un sistema per lo studio "in vitro "della genetica del pomodoro. Lycopersicon esculentum cultivars UC 105, Sirio, Craigella, Red-River, Petomech, the F hybrid Mariner, the line N 129 and Lycopersicon peruvianum were tested for callus formation and re-generation from seeds and excised cotyledons in different "in vitro" cultural conditions. UC-105, Sirio and Petomech regenerated easily plantlets from cotyledons at zeatin riboside concentrations -2. 10 M whereas higher cytokinin concentrations and gibberellin treatments seemed to reduce the differentiation capacity. UC-105 and 129 moreover dedifferentiated most easily from seeds giving rise to abundant callus from which however out of all Lycopersicon esculentum genotypes only UC-105 regenerated roots. On the other hand Lycopersicon peruvianum was shown to proliferate slowly but produced also spontaneously roots and buds from which plantlets could be obtained. The results are finally discussed in view of the construction of a tomato genetic system with good "in vitro" behaviour as far as ontogenetic plasticity is concerned.
42878439|Vengono passati in rassegna i casi osservati relativi ad attacchi di erisifacee nuove o poco note su 13 specie da fiore o ornamentali in Toscana. Tra questi, l'esatta collocazione tassonomica dei parassiti, permessa dal reperimento delle forme ascofore,  stata possibile sono per il "Mal bianco" della Robinia pseudo-acacia -sulla quale viene segnalata, per la prima volta in Italia, la presenza di Mtcrosphaera baeumleri -e per il "Mal bianco" del Lathyrus odoratus, il cui agente responsabile  stato classificato come Erysiphe martii. Negli altri casi di "Mal bianco", rispettivamente su Laurus nobilis, Piatanus sp., Prunus laurocerasus, Acer negundo, A. platanoides, Syringa vulgaris, Vinca sp., Dahlia pinnata, Zinnia elegans, Chrysanthemum sp. e Calendula officinalis, gli agenti responsabili sono stati presunti sulla base delle osservazioni sintomatologiche e delle caratteristiche morfo-biometriche delle forme conidiche, nonch dall'esame della letteratura. Viene riportato, infine, un aggiornamento sulle possibilit di lotta chimica contro le erisifacee delle piante ornamentali e da fiore. Thirteen powdery mildews of flower and ornamental plants recently found in Tuscany are described. The exact taxonomic collocation of the parasites - on the basis of the characters of the perfect stage - has been possible only for Microsphaera baeumleri on Robinia pseudo-acacia (first record in Italy) and for Erysiphe martii on Lathyrus odoratus. Other specimens are powdery mildews of Laurus nobilis, Platanus sp., Prunus laurocerasus, Acer negundo, A. platanoides, Syringa vulgaris , Vinca sp., Dahlia pinnata, Zinnia elegans, Chrysanthemum sp. and Calendula officinalis, whose responsable agents have been presumed on the basis of symptoms observations, morphological and biometrical features of conidiophores and conidia, and from an examination of literature. In addition, a revision of the possibilities of chemical control of powdery mildews of flower and ornamental plants is presented.
42878440|Vengono riferiti i risultati di un triennio di prove (1978-1980) sull'influenza della cimatura delle piante di peperone ai fini della contemporaneit di maturazione e del distacco delle bacche. Le prove sono state condotte a A. Piero a Grado (Pisa) utilizzando le due cv Lamuyo F e Success F. Le piante sono state cimate in tempi diversi e ci al fine di stabilire il momento pi opportuno della cimatura. In tutti gli anni di prova la cimatura ha determinato, rispetto al testimone non cimato, un aumento della percentuale di prodotto maturo sulla produzione totale vendibile costituita da frutti maturi, invaiati e verdi. Tale aumento  variato negli anni di prova dal 13 al 28%. La produzione maggiore di maturo  stata conseguita nelle piante cimate in ritardo. La produzione totale vendibile  risultata maggiore nelle piante cimate vicino al periodo di raccolta e nelle piante non cimate. La cimatura non ha influito sulla forza necessaria per il distacco delle bacche. La cimatura ha invece influito sulle caratteristiche chimiche delle bacche, aumentando la sostanza secca, il residuo attivo e la Vitamina C. Results of pinching of pepper plants on the uniformity of fruit maturation and on fruit detachment force are referred. In 1978, 1979, 1980, the plants of cv Lamuyo F and Success F were pinched at different times. The uniformity of ripening was calculated on the basis of the percentage of ripe fruits at the time of the one-over harvest. An increase of percentage of ripe fruits production was obtained with the application of pinching. In comparison with the control plants, the increase varied from 13 to 28%. The highest yield of ripe fruits has been obtained in the plants which were pinched later. The highest commercial yield including green, not completely ripe and ripe fruits resulted from control or later pinched plats. Pinching had no effects on the fruit detachment force. It had effects on chemical fruit characteristics, increasing dry matter percentage, total soluble solids and vitamin C content.
42878441|Con lo scopo di meglio valutare la radicazione delle piante di olivo (cv "Frangivento"), in questo lavoro si  cercato di mettere in evidenza una possibile correlazione tra stato nutrizionale, stadio fenologico e rizogenesi. Da talee prelevate in 5 localit, in 2 epoche diverse (primavera ed autunno), si sono utilizzate tre frazioni (foglie, corteccia e legno) per la determinazione degli elementi nutritivi prima e dopo la radicazione. A primavera, con uno stadio fenologico caratterizzato da un forte accrescimento vegetativo, la radicazione  ottima e si hanno elevati contenuti di N, P e K; Ca e Mg sono a livelli normali come pure i microelementi. Con uno stadio fenologico caratterizzato da una forte fioritura si hanno livelli quasi deficienti di N, P e K mentre Ca e Mg raggiungono valori elevati, per i microelementi si nota un abbassamento dello Zn. In autunno si ha una omogeneit nella rizogenesi e lo stato nutrizionale riflette questa caratteristica. Per avere una visione globale degli equilibri nutritivi si propone un modello di grafico (fig. 1, 2 e 3) in cui sono posti a confronto gli elementi considerati. The aim of this work has been to place in evidence the possible correlation between nutritional state, phenological stage and rooting, in order to better evaluate rooting of olive plants "Frangivento". The cuttings were collected in 5 different places in two different periods (spring and autumn) and the estimation of elements before and after rooting was carried out on three different parts of the cutting (leaves, bark and wood). In spring, with a phenological stage characterised by a strong vegetative growth, rooting was excellent and high contents of N, P and K were obtained, with normal levels of Ca, Mg and microelements. With a phenological stage characterised by heavy flowering almost deficient N, P and K were registered while Ca and Mg reached high values and in the microelements a drop of the Zn was noted. In autumn a homogeneous rooting was had and the nutritional state reflected this characteristics. For a global view of the food balance a graph is proposed (fig. 1, 2 and 3) where the considered elements are compared.
42878442|Gli Autori riferiscono su una sperimentazione condotta durante il sessennio 1975-80, su suoli franchi o tendenzialmente argillosi, con lo scopo di valutare il comportamento produttivo di 44 cultivar di pomodoro da concentrati nella Piana del Sele (Salerno). Il confronto ha interessato le medesime 9 cultivar nel 1975 e nel 1976, 9 nel 1977, 29 nel 1978, 22 nel 1979 e nel 1980. La cv. "Roma" e le sue derivazioni (sei. "1 ", "2", "3", "Roma  Ventura") hanno evidenziato per tutto il sessennio un'elevata capacit produttiva; si sono distinte anche "Ventura", "Laurano 70", "Europeel", "Petogr", "Earlymech" e "Cal J". E' stata accertata stretta correlazione tra esito produttivo e numero di bacche mature per pianta. La percentuale di scarto si  mantenuta entro limiti modesti pur manifestando una certa tendenza all'incremento nelle cultivar con bacche pi pesanti e di forma sferica. Sulla precocit e sulla contemporaneit di maturazione hanno esplicato influenza sia le condizioni climatiche che l'epoca di trapianto. Anche la qualit del prodotto  apparsa fortemente condizionata dai fattori esterni, motivo per cui i valori dei diversi parametri hanno fluttuato sensibilmente da un anno all'altro. Results are reported of a comparative test carried out during six years in the Sele river Plain (Salerno), on loam or clay loam soils, with 44 tomato cultivars for Paste. The comparison concerned 9 cv. in 1975, the same cv in 1976, 9 in 1977, 29 in 1978, 22 in 1979 and in 1980. The cv. "Roma" and its derivatives (sel. "1 ", "2 ", "3 ", "Roma  Ventura") showed in all the six years a better yielding ability with once-over harvest; "Laurano 70", "Europeel", "Petogr", "Earlymech", and "Cal J" also performed in a good way. The percentage of not-marketable product was rather low, but a tendency upwards in cv. with heaviez fruits and with a spherical shape was showed. Both the climatic factors and the transplant time influenced the earlyness and the ripening uniformity. Fruits quality also was strongly conditioned by external factors; this is the reason why the different parameters differed among the years.
42878877|In the years 1977 and 1978, using mostly "Corno di Bue" and "Yolo Wonder" berries at market ripeness, an attempt was made to establish which was the most suitable post-harvest ripening period of time. It was found that a minimum of 20 days is needed for the treatment to have any real effect and that, if possible, it is worth while prolonging this to a period of 30 days. A decided increase is thus obtained in the percentage of fruits containing viable seeds, in the number of viable seeds per plant and in the percentage of germination. Finally, in 1980, a comparison was made of the effects of storing the berries at two different temperatures (10 and 20C) before removal of the seeds; the higher temperature definitely favoured the growth of the seeds within the berries that had been harvested while still green. In any case the two cultivars did not show any difference in behaviour from one treatment to the other. Hence post-harvest ripening of the seeds before removal from the berries seems to be a procedure that can be applied to advantage in the case of the pepper, especially if the berries have to be picked before market ripeness and the seeds in question are of particular genetic value. Si era accertato in precedenti esperimenti (1974-75) che lo stadio di maturazione migliore, in cui raccogliere le bacche di peperone, per ottenere una resa elevata in semi di ottima germinabilit,  quello della maturazione commerciale (piena colorazione). Si era anche constatato che, se le bacche vengono raccolte alla maturazione verde, si pu indurre un sensibile miglioramento nella germinabilit del seme, lasciandolo post-maturare entro le bacche raccolte, prima di estrarlo. Negli anni 1977 e 1978, lavorando prevalentemente su bacche a maturazione verde di "Corno di bue" e di "Yolo Wonder", si  tentato di individuare quale fosse la durata pi conveniente del periodo di post-maturazione. Si  constatato che il periodo minimo di efficacia del trattamento  di 20 giorni e che, se possibile, vale la pena di prolungarlo a 30. Si ottiene in tal modo un deciso incremento della percentuale di frutti contenenti semi vitali, del numero di semi vitali per pianta e della percentuale di germinazione. Infine, nel 1980, si sono confrontati gli effetti di due temperature (10 e 20C) di conservazione delle bacche, prima dell'estrazione del seme: la temperatura superiore ha decisamente favorito l'accrescimento dei semi entro le bacche raccolte verdi. In nessun caso le due cultivar hanno mostrato differenze di comportamento nei riguardi dei trattamenti. La post-maturazione dei semi prima dell'estrazione dal frutto sembra dunque una tecnica validamente applicabile nel peperone, specie se le bacche devono essere raccolte prima della maturazione commerciale e se si tratta di seme di particolare valore genetico.
42878878|A bacterium isolated from holding water of cut carnation flowers produces in presence or in absence of carnation stem a metabolite which reduces strongly water flow in stems of cut flowers. There is a strong correlation between growth of the bacterium and reduction of water flux caused by the metabolite which is preferentially produced when the bacterium is grown at pH around neutrality. This metabolite was partiallly characterized: it is not dializable, is partially destroyed by autoclaving and it has a molecular weight around 12,000. Si  parzialmente caratterizzato un metabolita che riduce fortemente il flusso d'acqua nello stelo dei fiori recisi di garofano, prodotto da un batterio isolato dall'acqua in cui erano conservati fiori recisi di garofano. Questo metabolita viene prodotto in larga quantit dal batterio sviluppatosi per quattro giorni su di un substrato artificiale o su steli di garofano, a pH attorno alla neutralit: esiste una relazione diretta tra sviluppo del batterio e produzione della sostanza tossica. Questa sostanza ha un peso molecolare intorno a 12.000 e la sua attivit non viene ridotta dalla dialisi e soltanto parzialmente dalla autoclavazione.
42878879|Vengono riferiti i risultati di due anni di prove (1979-1980) concernenti lo studio dei fabbisogni nutritivi della zucca da zucchini coltivata in serra. Nel 1979 sono stati studiati i ritmi di formazione della sostanza secca e di asportazione degli elementi nutritivi. La maggior formazione di sostanza secca, nonch il pi elevato assorbimento degli elementi nutritivi si verificano a partire dal 15 giorno dall'inizio del raccolto; la quantit di elementi asportati  risultata di 18,36 g/p di N, 9,14 g/p di PO e 46,85 g/p di KO. Nel 1980  stata eseguita una prova di concimazione per esaminare l'influenza di due livelli di N e KO (N-125 -250 Kg/ha, KO = 340-680 Kg/ha) in combinazione fattoriale, sulla produzione e sulle asportazioni. I pi alti valori produttivi sono stati conseguiti con 250 Kg/ha di N e 340 Kg/ha di KO; le asportazioni degli elementi nutritivi in questa tesi risultano di 13,98 g/p di N, 5,84 g/p di PO, 32,34 g/p di KO, 29,98 di CaO, 4, 22 g/p di MgO, 0,03 g/p di Fe. In 1979, a study was carried out on nutrient uptake of squash grown in greenhouse. The amounts of uptaken elements by a plant resulted: 18,36 g/pt of N; 9,14 g/pt of PO; 46,85 g/pt of KO. The total nutrient requirements are increasing after 15 day from the beginning of the fruit harvest. In 1980, the trials compared two levels of N (125-250 Kg/ha) and of KO (340-680 Kg/ha) in a factorial combination. The higest yields are obtained with 250 Kg/ha of N and 340 Kg/ha of KO; the uptake of the elements with this treatment was: 13,98 g/pt of N; 5,84 g/pt of PO; 32,34 g/pt of KO; 29,98 g/pt of CaO; 4,22 g/pt of MgO; 0,030 g/pt of Fe.
42878880| stata effettuata un'indagine sulla cultivar di oliva da mensa "Intosso" allo scopo di valutare gli effetti, sull'attivit vegetativa e produttiva, della defogliazione indotta dai trattamenti con CEPA nel periodo della raccolta. Dai risultati della prova  emerso che la filloptosi determinata dal CEPA influenza negativamente, nell'anno successivo al trattamento, l'attivit vegetativa e produttiva delle piante. Quest'ultime infatti hanno mostrato rami brevi e scarsa presenza di mignole. Come conseguenza l'allegagione e la produzione sono risultate di modeste entit significativamente inferiori a quelle delle piante controllo. Infatti l'allegagione ha raggiunto appena lo 0,5% e la produzione media per pianta non ha superato i 1000 grammi. In seguito, sospendendo il trattamento, le piante hanno riacquistato il normale comportamento vegetativo e produttivo. Le possibilit applicative del CEPA nelle cultivar di olivo da mensa sono risultate alquanto limitate. Infatti dovendo intervenire in uno stadio precoce di maturazione dei frutti sono necessarie dosi elevate di prodotto cascolante per conseguire un certo risultato, ma in tal caso si determina un'intensa filloptosi che esercita un'influenza negativa sull'induzione e sull'attivit vegetativa delle piante. L'ipotesi di una raccolta chimica ad anni alterni da introdurre negli oliveti produttivi ma non meccanizzabili richiede una preventiva verifica sul comportamento nel tempo delle piante sottoposte a ripetuti trattamenti biennali. Research has been carried out on the table-olive cultivar "Intosso", in order to evaluate the effects, on the vegetative and fruit-producing activity, of the leaf-drop produced by C.E.P.A. treatments during the pickingtime. The results of the test showed that the leaf drop produced by C.E.P.A. has a negative influence on growth and cropping of the plants, in the year following the treatment. The plants in fact showed short branches and a limited blossom clusters. As a consequence the fruit-set and the production turned out tas those of the control-plants. The fruit-set hardly reached 0,5% and the average production per plant did not exceed 1.000 grams. Later on, if the treatment was interrupted, the plants recovered their usual vegetative and fruit-producing behaviour. The possibilities of applying C.E.P.A. in the table-olive cultivars proved to be rather limited. In fact, if it is necessary to intervene in an early stage of fruit-ripening, large quantities of fruit-dropping product are required, to obtain a certain result, but in this case an intense leaf-drop is produced, and this has a negative influence on flower differentiation and on vegetative activity in the plants. The eventual introduction in altervate years of a chemical harvest in fruit-producing but not mechanizable olive-groves, requires a preventive investigation of the long-term behaviour of the plants subjected to repeated biennial treatments.
42878881| stata posta in evidenza la possibilit di ottenere rapidamente, attraverso la coltura "in vitro", elevati quantitativi di piantine del clone "Vladimir" di ciliegio acido. Questo fa intravedere interessanti possibilit di pratica applicazione, ad una specie che risulta di difficile radicazione con le tecniche tradizionali. Si  riscontrato un tasso di moltiplicazione mensile, nella fase di proliferazione di 8-10 : 1 ed una percentuale di radicazione del 100% dopo circa 10 giorni di permanenza sul mezzo di coltura adatto alla radicazione. Questi risultati sono stati ottenuti con mezzi di coltura contenenti i sali minerali e gli altri composti organici di Murashige e Skoog (con la componente minerale ridotta alla met nella fase di radicazione) il 3% di saccarosio, lo 0,7% di agar e l'aggiunta di GA 0,1; IBA 0,1 e BA 1 mg/1 per la proliferazione; il 2% di saccarosio, GA 0,1 ed IBA 1 mg/1 per la radicazione. The results show the possibility to obtain a large number of plants of the "Vladimir" sour cherry in a limited period of time through in vitro culture. That is opening interesting perspectives of practical application for a clone having difficulties in rooting with the traditional techniques. A month rate of proliferation of 8-10 : 1 and a rooting percentage of 100% after 10 days on rooting media were recorded. These results were obtained with a culture medium with mineral salts and the organic compounds proposed by Murashige and Skoog (with mineral salts reduced to half during rooting) and 3% sucrose; 0,7% of agar and the addition of GA 0.1; IBA 0.1 and BA 1 mg/1 for proliferation and of GA 0.1 and IBA 1 mg/1 for rooting.
42878882|Gemme ascellari erano indotte quando plantule di Cupressus sempervirens (L.) venivano coltivate per 3 settimane su substrati contenenti Benzilaminopurina (BAP) da 0,1 a 1 ppm da sola o in combinazione con Kinetina (k). Gemme con aspetto diverso erano formate alle basse e alte concentrazioni di citokinine e la pi alta percentuale  stata realizzata su terreni con BAP. Lo sviluppo delle gemme a germogli avviene dopo trasferimento dell'espianto su mezzo fresco senza ormoni.  stata ottenuta una percentuale dell'80% di germogli radicati. The apical portion (3cm) of Cupressus sempervirens seedlings was aseptically grown on M.S. medium with no hormons for 10 days. Then it was transferred on the same mineral medium in the presence of different amount of BAP, K or a combination of both growth substances. BAP (0,5-1 ppm) stimulates the highest shoot number for explant either on the base of the cutting or along the main shoot. The higher concentration of BAP produces thick leaves and short internodes; the transfer of the explant on a medium free from growth substances was necessary to obtain normal plants. Kinetin doesn't stimulate shoots formation. Rooting of in vitro produced shoots has been obtained (80%) by dipping them, after their excision, on a induction NAA 1 ppm.
42878883|Two elongated viruses were detected in plants of Iris hollandica (cvs Prof. Blaauw, Symphony and Prof. Blanco) showing stunting, flecks and stripes on the foliage, leaf malformations and colour breaking of the flowers. Large inclusion bodies were observed in epidermal strips with the electron microscope and pin wheels, scrolls and laminated aggregates in thin sections viewed with the electron microscope. The two viruses were identified serologically as Iris severe mosaic virus (ISMV) and Iris mild mosaic virus (IMMV). Only the latter was mechanically transmitted to herbaceous hosts. Lack of mechanical transmission of ISMV provides another means to discriminate ISMV and IMMV.  stata osservata la presenza di due virus filamentosi in piante di Iris hollandica (cvs Prof. Blaauw, Prof. Symphony e Prof. Blanco) con sintomi di nanismo, striature e macchie clorotiche sulle foglie, deformazioni fogliari e rotture del colore dei fiori. Al microscopio ottico sono stati osservati grossi corpi d'inclusione in spellamenti epidermici ed al microscopio elettronico, in sezioni sottili, sono stati evidenziati inclusi a girandola con aggregati laminari e lamelle concentriche. I due virus sono stati identificati sierologicamente come il virus del mosaico severo dell'Iris (ISMV) e il virus del mosaico leggero dell'Iris (IMMV). Solo quest'ultimo  stato trasmesso meccanicamente a piante erbacee. L'impossibilit di trasmettere meccanicamente ISMV costituisce un altro mezzo per distinguere ISMV e IMMV.
42878884|Le prove, condotte su alberi di 10 anni, allevati a palmetta, sono state protratte per una quadriennio. Sono stati sperimentati i fitoregolatori: GA (20 ppm), GA+GA (20 ppm), PP341 (100 ppm), irrorati all'inizio fioritura (30-40% di fiori aperti). GA  stato somministrato solo od in combinazione con Fruitone (NOA, NAA, NAD), SADH o con il fertilizzante fogliare Fruttaflor PK.  stata pure saggiata l'efficacia del biostimolante Ergostim (15 + 15 ppm) irrorato allo stadio di bottoni rosa ed al 30-40% di fiori aperti. L'Ergostim ha aumentato la produzione in misura non significativa. I prodotti a base di gibberelline hanno influito positivamente sulla fruttificazione della cultivar in studio. GA da solo od in combinazione con una auxina ed una citochinina (PP341), quanto la combinazione delle due gibberelline GA+GA hanno sensibilmente aumentato l'allegagione e la produzione delle piante trattate in confronto a quelle di controllo, anche se in misura variabile e talora contrastante in funzione dell'andamento stagionale. I prodotti gibberellici non hanno provocato alcuna malformazione dei frutti. Essi hanno invece influito negativamente sulla differenziazione delle gemme miste per l'anno successivo al trattamento. L'effetto  stato statisticamente significativo dopo due anni consecutivi di trattamento per la GA, mentre per gli altri prodotti  stato rilevato fin dal primo anno. La combinazione della GA con SADH ha ridotto tale effetto e quella con il concime fogliare ha aumentato la produzione in misura pressoch uguale al solo GA. From 1977 to 1980 several trials were carried out on scarcely bearing mature trees of cv. "Doyenne du Comice". Were tested: 1 - Ergostim (15 ppm) applied at pink bottons and at 30% of flowering; 2 - Some chemicals, sprayed at 30-40% of flowering as GA+GA (20 ppm), PP341 (100 ppm), based on gib ber el lie acid and l, 3, diphenylurea, incorporating 1-naphthyl acetic acid, and GA (20 ppm) alone or in combination with Fruitone (20 ppm), SADH (2000 ppm) or also with the leaf fertilizer Fruttaflor PK (700 ppm). Ergostim enhanced the cropping of treated plants (+ 5 -10% of control) and the number of fruit buds (+ 21 %). GA alone or in a mixture with NAA and DPU (PP341) as GA+GA increased the fruit set and cropping of treated plants in comparison to control. GA gave the best results: it induced a doubled or triplicated yield in comparison to that of untreated plants. The results varied in relation to temperatures and raining rates. Fruit shape modifications were not seen. On the contrary, the regular use of GA - chemicals caused the reduction in the following year's fruit buds, especially that of GA + GA and PP341. SADH and Fruttaflor PK combined with GA slightly improved the effect of GA alone.
42878867|E' stato effettuato, nel biennio 1978-79, uno studio sull'andamento di alcuni parametri fisici (peso fresco, dimensioni e forza al distacco delle drupe, rapporto polpa/nocciolo, durezza della polpa, contenuto in olio, produzione totale e pendente, cascola) e chimici (contenuto in clorofilla a, b e totale delle drupe) nella cultivar di olio da mensa "Ascolana tenera" allo scopo di individuare l'epoca migliore per la raccolta delle olive. L'indagine  stata completata con una prova degustativa delle olive sottoposte a lavorazione industriale per verificare l'influenza dell'epoca di raccolta sulla conservabilit e sulle caratteristiche organolettiche del prodotto lavorato. Nel biennio considerato i parametri esaminati hanno seguito un andamento pressoch analogo. Con il progredire della maturazione sono diminuiti: la forza al distacco, il contenuto in clorofilla ed in acqua nelle drupe e la durezza della polpa mentre sono aumentati: il peso fresco, le dimensioni ed il contenuto in olio, la cascola delle drupe, il rapporto polpa/nocciolo, la produzione totale e quella pendente. La prova degustativa delle olive lavorate ha messo in rilievo una preferenza per le olive raccolte nelle ultime epoche. Ci  probabilmente dipeso dalle maggiori dimensioni delle drupe, dal pi elevato rapporto polpa/nocciolo e dalla minore durezza della polpa. Tali risultati consentono di affermare che se la cascola si mantiene limitata conviene effettuare la raccolta nel periodo che precede l'inizio dell'invaiatura. During the period 1978-79, research has been carried out into the state of some physical parameters (fresh weight, hardness, oil-content, production, fruit-drop), and chemical parameters (A. B. and total chlorophyll content on fruits) in the table-olive cultivar "Ascolana tenera", in order to determine the best picking-time for the olives. The researche has been completed by a tasting-test of the olives, which have been subjected to industrial processing, to examine the influence of the picking-time on the preservation and on the organolettiche characteristics of the processed product. During the period under consideration, the parameters examined have given a nearly similar result. Removal-resistance, chlorophyll-nd water content in the fruits, and pulp-hardness have diminished in the course of ripening; on the contrary, fresh weight, size and oil-content, fruit drop, pulp/pit ratio, and yield have increased. The tasting-test of the processed olives indicated a preference for the fruits picked late in the season. This was probably due to the larger sized fruits, to the higher pulp/pit ratio and to the reduced pulp/hardness. These results allow us to affirm that, if the fruit-drop remains small, it is better do the picking in the period-preceding the beginning of the colour-change.
42878868|Genetic dwarfism has been investigated in the peach cv. "Bonanza", a brachytic dwarf phenotype, compared with the normal peach cv. "Cresthaven". Hormonal levels of two cultivars were tested. Five fractions of GAlike substances, one of auxin-like materials and another having inhibitory activity of ABA were extracted from the shoots, the shoot apices and leaves, removed on the mature plants of each cultivar in spring and autumn. With the exception of leaves, which contained slightly more ABA-like inhibitors in samples collected from "Bonanza" than from "Cresthaven", shoot samples revealed large variations between the cultivars considered. The free acidic GA-level in the ethyl acetate fraction of extracts was much higher in the normal than in the dwarf phenotype. Both peach extracts induced much GA-like activities in the n-butanol fraction, but these were always more large in the normal peach. In autumn, shoot apex extracts exhibited no differences between GAlevels of two phenotypes, while shoot subapical portion extracts did. These last dwarf peach samples released much lower amount of GA-like substances (especially acidic) than those of normal peach. We may so speculate that a different gradient exists in the shoots of the two phenotyps. Higher quantity of GA-substances in shoot subapical portion of normal peach might be produced by some concomitant processes as an enhanced synthesis of such hormons by the lateral buds and by the cells in the subapical regions of elongation and/or by hydrolysis and conversion of other GA-s. As far as auxin-like substances are concerned, the correlation between their levels and shoot growth, in addition to the GA more effective influence, is confirmed by the differences found in the spring growing shoots. On the other hand the poor elongation of "Bonanza" shoot internodes agrees with the general deficiency of acidic GA in the ethyl acetate fraction as well as with the higher concentration especially in autumn, of the ABAlike inhibitors. Nella presente ricerca sono stati comparati i livelli ormonali delle due cultivar di pesco "Bonanza" e "Cresthaven", fenotipicamente diverse in rapporto al loro modello di sviluppo: "nano" nella prima cultivar e "normale" nella seconda. La comparazione  stata effettuata sugli estratti dei germogli, dei relativi apici e foglie raccolti in primavera e in autunno da piante adulte delle due cultivar. Da ciascun estratto sono state separate, purificate, cromatografate ed analizzate con specifici saggi biologici cinque frazioni di sostanze gibberellino-simili (1 -libere acide solubili in etile acetato, 2 -libere acide solubili in n-butanolo, 3 -libere neutre solubili in etile acetato, 4,5-legate aiglucosidi ed ai protidi), una frazione di sostanze auxino-simili ed una di inibitori tipo acido abscissico. Ad eccezione delle foglie, che hanno rivelato solo un pi elevato contenuto di inibitori nel "Bonanza" rispetto al "Cresthaven", i germogli, cio gli organi biologicamente pi attivi, hanno rivelato notevoli differenze ormonali fra le due cultivar. I germogli della cv. "Cresthaven", rispetto a quelli della cv. "Bonanza", hanno presentato contenuti molto pi elevati di sostanze gibberellino-simili libere, specialmente di quelle acide solubili in etile acetato, ritenute fra le pi attive biologicamente. Il livello delle sostanze gibberellino-simili legate, considerate, invece, materiale di riserva generalmente privo di attivit biologica,  risultato simile nelle due cultivar. Gli apici dei germogli, prelevati in autunno, hanno evidenziato quantit di sostanze gibberelliche pressoch simili, contrariamente alle relative porzioni sub apical i che nel "Cresthaven", rispetto al "Bonanza", sono risultate molto pi ricche di tali composti. Questo fatto sembra dimostrare l'esistenza di un diverso gradiente di livelli gibberellino-simili riscontrate nella porzione subapicale del germoglio del pesco normale potrebbe essere determinata da una pi cospicua ed attiva sintesi di questi ormoni da parte delle gemme laterali e/o da parte delle cellule meristematiche della zona subapicale d'accrescimento. Per quanto riguarda le sostanze auxino-simili la correlazione fra i loro livelli e la crescita dei germogli  confermata dalle differenze riscontrate in essi, specialmente in primavera, quando i germogli della "Cresthaven" hanno rivelato contenuti molto pi elevati di tali composti in confronto ai corrispondenti del "Bonanza". D'altra parte la minore crescita dei germogli del fenotipo "nano" pare pure correlabile con la pi alta concentrazione di inibitori specialmente nei loro apici in autunno.
42878869|Nella presente nota viene descritto l'effetto di diversi tipi e dosi di carboidrati (mono e disaccaridi), impiegati sia singolarmente che in miscela tra loro, nei substrati di proliferazione e di radicazione di colture "in vitro" di Damasco 1869. Nella fase di proliferazione il saccarosio, alla concentrazione di 15-20 g/l, si  confermato il carboidrato pi idoneo. Nella fase di radicazione i migliori risultati si sono ottenuti impiegando fruttosio, galattosio e glucosio a diverse concentrazioni, da soli o miscelati tra di loro o con il saccarosio. In the present note the effect of different kinds and rates of carbohydrates (monosaccharides and disaccharides), employed either separately or in a mixture, in proliferation and rooting media for the "in vitro" culture of Damas 1869 is described. At the proliferation stage sucrose, at 15-20 g/l, confirmed to be the most suitable. In the rooting phase the best results were obtained by the use of fructose, galactose and glucose at different concentrations, alone, or in combination or in addition to sucrose.
42878870|Nel corso di un lavoro effettuato utilizzando circa duecento isolati di Fusarium oxysporum Schlecht f. sp. dianthi (Prill, et Del.) Snyd. et Hans., agente della fusariosi vascolare del garofano, si  potuto accertare la presenza in Italia di otto patotipi differenti di tale patogeno facilmente differenziabili mediante inoculazione su 10 cultivars di garofano appartenenti sia all'ecotipo americano, sia a quello mediterraneo, sia al gruppo dei "miniatures". I patotipi pi comuni sono quelli indicati con i numeri 1 e 2, che rappresentano rispettivamente il 23 e il 56% di tutti gli isolati. Viene brevemente discussa l'influenza di tale elevata variabilit del fungo sul miglioramento genetico del garofano nei riguardi della resistenza alla fusariosi. Using 197 isolates of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi, obtained from Italy and other european countries, it was ascertained the presence of eight different pathotypes easily recognized when inoculated on 10 carnation varieties (1 american, 4 miniatures and 5 mediterranean). The most frequently isolated pathotypes were number 1 and 2, which represent 23 and 56% of all isolates respectively. The influence of this large variability of the pathogen on transfer by breeding of Fusarium resistance to commercial varieties is briefly discussed.
42878871|NAD e NMC utilizzati come diradanti chimici del melo sembrano modificare alcuni parametri delle qualit dei frutti: poich tali effetti implicano delle influenze sul sistema metabolico si  voluto indagare sull'attivit respiratoria dei frutti sottoposti a diradamento con NAD (84 ppm) e NMC (850 ppm). E' emerso che l'attivit respiratoria dei frutti, sia durante l'accrescimento che dopo la raccolta non  influenzata dalle sostanze diradanti; il trattamento con NAD diminuisce sia il numero di semi per frutto, che la velocit di crescita dei germogli della pianta nel primo periodo dopo il diradamento. Si  indagato anche sull'influenza dello stadio di maturazione di raccolta sulla respirazione, programmando tre raccolte dei frutti successive e scalari (129, 141 e 151 giorni dopo la piena fioritura). Tali indagini hanno evidenziato l'importanza del momento di raccolta sull'evoluzione di questo fenomeno: le mele della prima raccolta (troppo precoce ) non mostrano il climaterico, che invece si  verificato nei frutti raccolti a 141 giorni dalla piena fioritura, i quali peraltro raggiungono le migliori qualit organolettiche; la terza raccolta si  rivelata troppo tardiva per una ottimale serbevolezza: i frutti si trovavano infatti in fase post-climaterica. NMC and NAD sprayed in apple thinning seem to affect some characteristics of apple quality. As some methabolic effect of such chemicals is probably implied a research was done on fruits respiration, rates. Cv. "Auvilspur" apple fruits from trees thinned with NMC at 850 ppm or NAD at 84 ppm, 17 days after full bloom were examined in one esperiment. Respiration rate of the fruits was not, affected by the thinning substances either during the growth or after the harvest. NAD reduced average seed number, and shoot growth during the first month after spraying. The maturity stage at harvest affects fruit quality too. Respiration rate was therefore investigated in a second experiment on cv. "Auvilspur" fruits harvested 129, 141, 151 days from full bloom. The earliest picked fruits did not show the climateric peak. A normal climateric pattern and a very good quality was found in the fruits harvested 141 days from full bloom. The third harvest date proved to be too late for an optimal shelf life: the fruits in fact were in post climateric stage.
42878872|E' stata effettuata una indagine biennale sull'andamento della macrosporogenesi e gametogenesi delle cultivar "Frantoio", "Moraiolo" e "Cipressino" e su alcuni aspetti del processo fecondativo. Dai numerosi preparati microscopici allestiti si sono potute individuare abbastanza chiaramente le diverse fasi dei processi di macrosporogenesi e gametogenesi; questi sono risultati piuttosto regolari nelle tre cultivar e si completano generalmente dopo 10-15 giorni, sempre posteriormente al processo di microsporogenesi. Le osservazioni sullo sviluppo del tubetto pollinico nel pistillo hanno permesso di stabilire che la durata di tale accrescimento  variata da 6 a 12 giorni ed  risultata pi veloce nella cv. "Frantoio" che nella cv. "Moraiolo". Infine dalle prove di autoimpollinazione della cv. "Moraiolo" si  constatato che i tubetti pollici in nessun preparato hanno mai superato la regione stilare, prospettando l'ipotesi che si tratti di una forma di incompatibilit di tipo "gametofitico". Dalle ricerche espletate  emerso come la scarsa allegagione che si verifica spesso negli impianti intensivi sembra dipendere non da fattori a carattere citologico ma di ordine morfologico, come l'aborto dell'ovario, e fattoriale, come l'incompatibilit. A two year investigation was carried out on the macrosporogenesis and gametogenesis trend of the cvs "Frantoio", "Moraiolo", "Cipressino" and on some aspects of the fecondative process. From the material prepared, the different phases of the macrosporogenesis and gametogenesis processes were clearly individuated these took place quite regularly in the three cultivarsand were generally completed 10-15 days, after microsporogenesis. From the observations of the pollen tube development in the pistil it was established that the time of growth varies from 6-12 days and was quicker in "Frantoio" than in "Moraiolo". Lastly, from the self-pollination trials on "Moraiolo" it was observed that the pollen tubes in none of the preparations have ever gone beyond the style region, prospecting the hypothesis of incompatibility of the gametophytic type. From the complete data the fact has arisen the scarse fruit-set which often takes place in intensive orchards seems to depend from morphological factors, like ovary collapse, rather than cytological ones, like incompatibility.
42878873|Spraying peach trees with (2-chloroethyl) phosphonic acid (CEPA) when the fruit cheek diameter was about 28 caused deceleration of fruit growth and enhanced abscission. The chemical did not affect the abscisic (ABA) level but a sharp increase of free phenolics, previously identified as para-coumaric acid (PCA), was observed. Since the potential of a fruit to grow or to abscise relates well to its free PCA content, it is hypothesized that CEPA affects fruit growth and abscis sion through PCA, a well known cofactor for indoleacetic acid (IAA) oxi dases. Il trattamento con acido (2-cloroetil) fosfonico (CEPA) a 75 ppm, effettuato in corrispondenza di un diametro trasversale dei frutti a 28 mm, causa una diminuizione del ritmo di crescita e stimola l'abscissione. Il diradante non influisce sul livello di acido abscissico (ABA) mentre determina un aumento in acido para-cumarico (PCA). Poich il potenziale naturale del frutto ad accrescersi o ad abscindere sembra essere in relazione con il suo contenuto di PCA, l'effetto del CEPA sulla crescita e sulla abscissione del frutto potrebbe essere il risultato morfogenetico di un pi elevato livello di PCA indotto dal trattamento. D'altra parte  noto che il PCA pu svolgere un ruolo importante nella regolazione della crescita agendo, come cofattore delle IAA ossidasi, sul metabolismo auxinico.
42878469|E' stato effettuato un confronto tra vari prodotti chimici (CEPA 2000 p.p.m., Alsol 2000p.p.m., Hol 2000p.p.m., SIP 9147 3000p.p.m., SIP 9161 6000p.p.m.) per verificare la loro efficacia nella raccolta delle olive.- La prova  stata condotta in Umbria su piante delle cv. Frantoio e Moraiolo che sono state trattate il 16 novembre, il 4 ed il 20 dicembre. Nell'anno successivo al trattamento si  provveduto a valutare gli effetti dei prodotti impiegati sull'attivit vegetativa e produttiva delle piante. L'efficacia dei vari formulati  risultata significativa nelle prime due epoche d'intervento e si  poi attenuata, tranne che nei confronti del CEPA e del SIP 9161, nell'ultimo periodo di raccolta quando la maggior parte delle drupe si trovava in uno stadio di maturazione pi avanzato. I vari prodotti, pur risultando efficaci nel ridurre la forza al distacco delle drupe, hanno prodotto in alcuni casi (CEPA, SIP 9147 e SIP 9161) effetti collaterali negativi quali la cascola pre-raccolta delle drupe e la filloptosi. Si , in tal modo, ridotta la quantit del prodotto raccolto e si  pregiudicata la fruttificazione nell'anno successivo al trattamento. Tra i prodotti impiegati, l'Alsol ha fornito i risultati pi interessanti avendo ridotto, limitatamente ad alcune epoche d'intervento, la forza al distacco delle drupe, senza determinare la cascola pre-raccolta e la caduta delle foglie. Resta, tuttavia, l'interrogativo della ripetibilit dei risultati nel tempo, problema questo che fino ad ora, ha precluso unitamente al costo dei formulati, l'impiego pratico dei prodotti sperimentali. Several chemical products (CEPA 2000 p.p.m., Alsol 2000 p.p.m., Hoi 2000 p.p.m., Sip9147 3000p.p.m., Sip 9161 6000p.p.m.) were compared, in order to examine their effectiveness on olivepicking. This test was carried out in Umbria on plants of the cultivars Frantoio and Moraiolo. which were treated on the 16 th of November, and on the 4 and the 20 of December. The effects of the products employed on vegetative and productive activity in the plants were evaluated in the year poliowing the treatment. The effectiveness of the several chemicals was considerable in the first two treatment-times, and then it diminished (except for the CEPA and the Sip 9161) in the last picking-time, when most of the drupes was in a more advanced ripening-stage. Even is the several products could reduce the removal-resistance of the drupes, in some cases they caused (CEPA, Sip 9147 and Sip 9161) negative collateral effects, such as the fruits-drop before the picking and the leaf-drop. So the quantity of the crop diminished, and the fructification was prejudiced in the year following the. treatment. Among the products employed, ALSOL gave the most interesting results, because it reduced the removal-resistance of the drupes as for the first two treatment-times was concerned, without cau-sing any fruits-drop before the picking, and any leaf-drop. However, it remains open whether these results con repeat themselves in the course of time; this problem (as well as the cost of the chemicals) has till now prevented the practical employement of the tested products.
42878470|Si riferiscono i risultati di un'analisi sul determinismo genetico di caratteristiche qualitative nel pomodoro da industria voka ad individuare la possibilit di una selezione per tali caratteri in generazioni precoci (F-F). Sono stati presi in considerazione il residuo rifrattometrico, che ha dimostrato un pi basso grado di ereditabilit relativamente agli altri caratteri, il pH, ed i rapporti percentuali zuccheri/R.R. ed acidit/R.R.. Quest'ultimo ha evidenziato un valore di h relativamente pi elevato. Sempre significativi sono risultati, inoltre, i valori dei coefficienti di correlazione tra famiglie F e rispettive progenie F e, in ogni caso, di entit maggiore di quelli entro famiglia. I dati ottenuti indicano una maggiore efficacia della selezione tra progenie, piuttosto che su base individuale, gi a partire da generazioni relativamente precoci. The results of an analysis concerning the genetic control of qualitative characters of canning tomatoes are reported in order to evaluate the possibility of a selection in early generations (F-F) for such traits. The investigated characters were: soluble solids, which showed the lowest heritability, pH, sugars/S.S. and titratable acidity/S.S. ratio, both of which were expressed in percentage. The titratable acidity/S.S. ratio showed a relatively higher heritability. Significant correlation coefficients were recorded between F families -F progenies. Values of correlation between families were always higher than those recorded within families. Data suggest a greater efficiency of a selection between families than within, even starting in early generations.
42878471|The history and current status of olive introduction in China are reported in detail. At present, olive trees have been cultivated in 16 provinces and regions, and the best record of the average yield has amounted to more than 400 Kgs. per mu** for a period of over six consecutive years. The highest yield per tree on record was 212 Kgs. Conclusively, it has been proved that, contrary to conventional opinion, the north subtropical region and east Yunnan highland are better than the central subtropical region for olive cultivation in China. Based on a series of studies for more than 20 years the authors summarize the major important results of olive introduction in China and suggest a theory named the Habitat Factor Analysis Method whose principles, contents and methods are demonstrated. According to this theory, a comprehensive comparison and analysis of ecological factors between Mediterranean and Chinese growing areas were conducted, areas suitable for olive cultivation in China were designated and the fruitful prospect was described. The paper has brought anew concept to the world's olive cultivation. Vengono descritti in dettaglio la storia dell'introduzione e lo stato attuale di coltivazione dell'olivo in Cina. Al momento l'olivo  coltivato in 16 Provincie e Regioni, con produzioni massime di pi di 400 Kg per mu** ottenute in un periodo di 6 anni consecutivi. La produzione pi alta per albero  stata di 212 Kg. Contrariamente all'opinione corrente,  dimostrato che la regione subtropicale del nord e le zone est dell'Altopiano dello Yunnan sono migliori per la coltivazione dell'olivo rispetto alla regione subtropicale centrale. Gli Autori trattano dei maggiori risultati ottenuti basati su una serie di studi effettuati in pi di 20 anni di introduzione dell'olivo in Cina e descrivono una teoria chiamata Metodo di analisi del fattore habitat di cui sono descritti principi, contenuti e metodi. Secondo questa teoria viene descritta un'analisi comparativa dei fattori edologici delle aree olivicole Mediterranee e Cinesi e stabilite e descritte le aree idonee alla coltivazione e produzione dell'olivo in Cina. Il lavoro apporta una nuova concezione sulla coltivazione dell'olivo nel mondo.
42878472|Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati di una prova triennale condotta nella Piana del Sele (Salerno) allo scopo di definire l'epoca ottimale di raccolta nel fagiolino da industria (cv "Provider" e "Cascade"). Sia in ciclo estivoautunnale (1979-80) che primaverile (1981) sono state effettuate raccolte in unica soluzione a giorni alterni, con decorrenza dal 14 giorno successivo all'inizio della fioritura. Le determinazioni effettuate sul prodotto fresco hanno riguardato il rendimento per ettaro, il calibro, il grado tenderometrico, il peso medio, l'intensit di colorazione, il residuo rifrattometrico, il residuo secco totale e, sul prodotto surgelato, l'incidenza ponderale dei semi nel baccello, i solidi insolubili in alcool, la fibra, il colore. Dai risultati conseguiti sembra di poter concludere che il calibro rappresenti l'indice di raccolta pi rispondente perch, oltre ad essere di facile e rapida determinazione, consente di prevedere con notevole approssimazione l'epoca di raccolta pi conveniente per il produttore senza contravvenire ai limiti di tolleranza fissati dall'industria. Results on a three year test performed in the Sele river Plain (Salerno) in order to investigate the optimal harvesting time of two snap beans for processing (cv "Provider" and "Cascade") are reported. Summer-Autumn (1979-80) and Spring (1981) crops were carried out and once-over harvesting at 2-day intervals were executed, starting 14 days frome the flowering. On the raw product the evaluation concerned yield, sieve size distribution, tenderometer values, pod average weight, colour, soluble solids and dry matter content; on the frozen product ratio of seed to total pod weight, alcohol insoluble solids, fiber and colour were examined. The results indicated that sieve size appears the most reliable index of maturity because it is a rather easy and quick parameter and because it gives a very short-term prediction of the harvesting time, which is convenient for both the growers and the processing industries.
42878473|E' stata effettuata l'analisi genetica per il colore della polpa del mutante di pesco cv Honey Dew Hale a polpa bianca attraverso un incrocio di prova con la cv Cherryred, omozigote per il carattere recessivo polpa gialla (yy). Dall'analisi della progenie  risultato che la cv Honey Dew Hale  eterozigote Yy in L segregando in parti uguali per il colore bianco e giallo della polpa. In Li (epidermide)  fenotipicamente gialla e quindi geneticamente omozigote recessiva (yy). Lo strato L dovrebbe essere con molta probabilit uguale ad L perch non si  riscontrata nessuna zona gialla nella polpa. In definitiva la cv Honey Dew Hale  da considerare una chimera periclinale (eteroistonte) in cui la mutazione in L ed L ha coinvolto un solo alele recessivo con passaggio a dominante. The genetic analysis for flesh colour of the peach mutant Honey Dew Hale was carried out by test cross with cv. Cherryred, homozygous for the recessive yellow flesh character (yy). From the analysis of progeny it was found that Honey Dew Hale is heterozygous Yy in L, segregating in equal parts for white and yellow coloured flesh. In L (skin) the mutant is phenotypically yellow and therefore homozygous recessive (yy). The L layer should be probably the same as L because no yellow areas were found in the flesh. Concluding, Honey Dew Hale must be considered apericlinal chimera (heterohistont) where the mutation in L and L has involved just one alele which has passed from recessive to dominant.
42878474|Talee di due cultivar di olivo, "Frantoio" e "Leccino", sono state trattate con acido indolbutirrico (per via basale) e talee e barbatelle con benziladenina e acido gibberellico (per via fogliare), verificando la possibilit di modificare sia la radicazione che l'accrescimento dell'apparato epigeo nelle suddette cultivar. Dai risultati ottenuti si  ulteriormente confermata la possibilit di stimolare la rizogenesi con trattamenti di acido indolbutirrico per via basale. Anche la benzil-adenina riesce a stimolare la radicazione delle talee di olivo. Interessante  anche notare la possibilit di migliorare l'effetto (sinergico e/o addittivo) dell'acido indolbutirrico sulla radicazione attraverso trattamenti ripetuti di benzil-adenina eseguiti sin dall'inizio dell'impianto delle talee. L'acido gibberellico invece presenta una chiara inibizione della rizogenesi. La schiusura delle gemme, durante la fase di radicazione pu essere a sua volta modificata con trattamenti di BA (stimolandola) e di GA (inibendola). Durante la prima fase di acclimatazione (barbatelle e invasato) si  rilevato un forte effetto residuo del trattamento basale con IBA che stimola sia la schiusura delle gemme che l'allungamento dei germogli; questo effetto  probabilmente da attribuirsi al miglior apparato radicale (maggior numero di radici per talea) presente nelle piantine trattate con il suddetto regolatore di crescita. Per quanto riguarda i trattamenti effettuati durante la fase di acclimatazione si  rilevata la possibilit di stimolare la schiusura delle gemme con trattamenti di benzil-adenina, portando rapidamente la piantina ad assumere un aspetto "cespuglioso" anche se compatto; tale process sembra essere inibito anche in questa fase dall'acido gibberellico, che, mentre inibisce la schiusura delle gemme mostra invece di essere in grado di stimolare energicamente l'allungamento dei germogli. Da quanto sopra esposto si pu notare la possibilit di modificare l'habitus vegetativo dell'olivo per mezzo di trattamenti fogliari di BA e/o GA (un asse lungo: GA, pi germogli corti: BA). Per quel che riguarda infine le interazioni tra i diversi fitoregolatori impiegati sembra che gli effetti di trattamenti con GA e BA siano antagonisti, sia perch sembrano modificare in senso opposto gli stessi fenomeni sia perch possono ciascuno parzialmente eliminare l'effetto inibitore dell'altro. Cuttings and rooted cuttings of two olive cultivars ("Frantoio" and "Leccino") were basally treated with indolbutirric acid, and leaf treated with benzyl-adenine and gibberellic acid in the attempt to modify the rooting and shoot growth. The results obtained confirmed the possibility of stimulating rooting with basal treatment using indol-butirric acid. Benzyl adenine also improves rooting in olive cuttings. It is interesting to note the possibility of improving the effect (synergic or/and additive) of indol butirric acid and on rooting through benzyl adenine treatments carried out from the moment of planting the cuttings. Gibberellic acid shows a clear inhibition on rooting, presenting an antagonism on this phenomenon with IBA. During the acclimatisation phase (rooted material already in pots) a strong residual effecrof the IBA basal treatment, which stimulated bud opening and elongation of the shoot was registered; this effect can be attributed to the well developed root system (greater number of roots per cutting) present in the treated plantlets as for the treatments carried out in the acclimatisation phase, it seems possible to stimulate bud opening with benzyl adenine treatments, giving the plant a bushy appearance, this process seems to be inhibited in this phase by gibberellic acid, which inhibits bud opening whilst energically stimulates shoot growth. From this data emerge the possibility of modifying the vegetative habitus of olive through leaf treatment of BA with/or GA3 (a long axis: GA, more short shoots: BA). Lastly, regarding the interaction amongst the different growth regulators employed, it seems that the effects of GA3 and BA treatments are antagonistic, either because they seem to modify the same phenomenon in opposite directions or because they each tend to partially eliminate the others' inhibitory effect.
42878475|Gli Autori, nel descrivere la scarsa tossicit acuta dei fitoregolatori, si soffermano su alcuni degli aspetti che caratterizzano queste sostanze e che rendono l'impiego in agricoltura pi maneggevole e assai meno pericoloso di quanto lo sia quello dei pi comuni fitofarmaci. Fra questi aspetti vanno ricordati il modo di azione, le vie di degradazione metabolica e, come corollario, le piccole quantit utilizzate e le modalit stesse di applicazione. Viene per sottolineato il fatto che tossicit acuta scarsa non vuoi dire piena sicurezza d'uso; esistono infatti gli eventuali effetti legati ad una utilizzazione ripetuta, anche se di dosi molto basse, con particolare riferimento ad una azione tossica cronica e ad una eventuale azione mutagena e cancerogena. Anche se a questo proposito la letteratura  piuttosto scarsa, non sembra che vi siano particolari indicazioni in tal senso, spesso anzi alcuni degli effetti attribuiti alle sostanze stesse sono in realt legati alla presenza di contaminanti o di metaboliti. Gli Autori concludono raccomandando comunque una continua cautela nella utilizzazione di queste sostanze, soffermandosi sul problema dei residui e di una eventuale cotossicit e sottolineando la necessit di costanti ed ulteriori ricerche in questo campo. The Authors in describing the scarse acute toxicity of growth-regulators, punctualise some caracteristic aspects of these substances which make their employment in agriculture more manageable and considerably less dangerous than the more common pesticides. Among these aspects, the method of employment must be considered, metabolic degradation, the small quantities used and method of application. It is emphasized that scarse acute toxicity does not mean complete safety of use, the effect con 1 nected to repeated use, even in very small doses, may exist, with particular reference to a chronic toxic action and to an eventual mutagenic and cancer-producing action. Though literature on this subject is rather scarse, there are no particular indications confirming this point, often some of the effects attributed to the substances are actually connected to the presence of impurities and metabilic compounds. The authors conclude recommending the use of these substances with continuos caution, dwelling on the residual problem and eventual co-toxicity, and stressing the neccessity of constant and further research in this field.
42878479|In una serie di ricerche sul P.U.I. (periodo utile di impollinazione) del pero e del melo, venne osservata attivit proliferativa anomala sia nel sacco embrionale sia nella nocella. Questa attivit riscontrata nei fiori pi vitali sia giovani che senescenti condusse alla formazione di sacchi embrionali irregolari e ad altri tipi di proliferazione. Si  ritenuto utile descrivere questi fenomeni perch sono stati osservati anche da altri Autori, e la nocella del melo  stata indicata come possibile fonte per ottenere embrioni nucellari e quindi materiale clonale. During several researches on the effective pollination period in apple and pear, an anomalous proliferative activity was observed in the embryo sac and in the nucellus. Such activity was found both in young and senescing flowers and lead to irregular embryo sacs and other proliferations. As such proliferative activity has been observed as a suitable material for obtaing nucellar embrios for clonal stock an accurate description seemed worthy.
42878480|L'irrigazione climatizzante invernale, effettuata allo scopo di ritardare la fioritura richiede normalmente elevati apporti di acqua, capaci di provocare la saturazione del terreno ed effetti negativi sulla biologia fiorale delle piante. Nel biennio 1978-79 su piante adulte di melo (cv. Golden Delicious, Starkspur Golden e Starkrimson) sono state condotte prove aventi lo scopo di individuare l'epoca di inizio del trattamento e l'intensit di erogazione che consentissero, a parit di effetto ritardante, il maggior risparmio idrico. Il ritardo di fioritura maggiore (24 giorni)  stato conseguito iniziando l'irrigazione il 10/3 (circa 20 giorni dopo la fine della dormienza e 40 giorni prima dello stadio F1), protraendo il trattamento per 56 giorni e somministrando oltre 1.100 mm di acqua con irrigatori a media intensit di erogazione (7 mm/h). L'impiego di irrigatori a bassa intensit (2,5 mm/h), mentre ha permesso un risparmio di acqua di 540 mm, ha ritardato la fioritura di soli 15 giorni. L'inizio del trattamento in epoche pi tardive ha ridotto progressivamente l'entit del ritardo (iniziando 25 giorni prima della fioritura il ritardo  stato di soli 6-7 giorni). In tutte le prove l'inizio dell'irrigazione  avvenuto quando la temperatura ambientale superava gli 8C. Le erogazioni avevano una durata variabile tra 1'15"-2', in relazione alle condizioni climatiche, e una sosta di 3'. E' stato accertato che in alcuni casi l'irrigazione ha provocato la mancata schiusura o l'aborto di una elevata percentuale di organi fiorali (25-46%) e in generale una ridotta allegagione dei frutticini. La produzione delle piante trattate  risultata sempre sensibilmente inferiore a quella delle piante di controllo, in misura variabile a seconda delle cultivar, dell'epoca di fioritura e della vicinanza delle piante impollinatrici. Nel migliore dei casi tale riduzione  stata del 30-40%. I frutti delle piante irrigate alla raccolta presentavano una pezzatura superiore a quella dei frutti delle piante di controllo, nonostante avessero conservato un certo ritardo nel loro sviluppo fino a 2 mesi dopo la fioritura. Le loro caratteristiche qualitative non sono apparse essere influenzate in maniera univoca dal trattamento. During the years 1977-78 trials have been conducted on apple trees of Golden Delicious, Starkspur Golden and Starkrimson, in order to determine the starting time of treatment and the amount of water applied by overhead irrigation to achieve the best efficiency for bloom delay. The greatest bloom delay (24 days) was produced beginning the irrigation on 10 March (about 20 days after the end of rest and 40 days before first bloom stage) extending the treatment for 56 days and delivering over 1.100 mm of water with medium size nozzles (7mm/h). The use of smaller nozzles (2,5 mm/h) allowed to reduce water consumption to 560 mm, but the bloom delay was only 15 days. Beginning the irrigation later decreased the delay progressively (starting 25 days before bloom the delay has been of 6-7 days). All irrigation treatments began when air temperature was above 8C. The watering-interval cycle was regulated by an automatic timing clock. The rest was always 3', the operating time changed, according to the climatic conditions, from 2' to l'15". The irrigation determined in some cases a high percentage (25-46% of undeveloped or failed buds and generally a reduced fruit set. The trees treated yield was always considerally lower than that of check, changing according to the variety, the flowering time and the nearness of pollinators. In the best cases such reduction was about 30-40%. The fruits of irrigated trees had consequently a better size, while their qualitative characteristics at the ripening time do not appeared to be evenly affected by treatment. In conclusion the results of the biennal trials show that, out of the light soils, the negative effects such irrigation, principally caused by the large amounts of water applied in a period of low E.T.P., are greater than possible advantages.
42878481|Attraverso l'uso di tests biochimici basati sull'ossidazione di substrati fenolici catalizzata dalla poli-fenol-ossidasi e la coagulazione di omogeneizzati di giovani germogli di agrumi si riesce a distinguere tra di loro 50 variet di limone. Inoltre saggiando discendenze di incroci tra: "Lisbon 4n" (C. limon)  "Trovida 2n" (C. sinensis), Arancio Amaro (C. aurantium)  se stesso e di "Fortune" (C. reticulata)  "Tardivo di Ciaculli" (C. deliciosa) sel. Crescimanno si cerca di fare anche uno studio genetico in F1 dei due caratteri (bruno-nonbruno) e (coagulato-noncoagulato). Homogenates of young shoots from 50 cultivare of C. limon and from population s of cross pollination of Sour Orange (C. Aurantium)  self, "Lisbon 4x" (C. limon)  "Trovida 2x" (C. sinensis) and "Fortune" (C reticulata)  "Tardivo di Ciaculli" (C. deliciosa) sel. Crescimanno have been tested in order to make a distinction among lemon cultivars and to study genetically the two caracters (browning-nobrowning) and (coagulating-nocoagulating).
42878482|Si riferiscono i risultati acquisiti nel corso di un biennio di ricerche condotte al fine di studiare gli effetti esercitati sul pomodoro coltivato in serra fredda da differenti modalit di somministrazione di fitoregolatori auxinici in funzione allegante. Su entrambi i tipi e con tutti i fitoregolatori studiati, la somministrazione ai singoli fiori allo stadio di antesi (modalit tradizionale) ha esercitato gli effetti pi favorevoli sulle rese. La somministrazione all'intero grappolo ha rivelato una efficacia in molti casi paragonabile a quella esercitata dal trattamento ai singoli fiori; quella all'intera pianta, al contrario, oltre a rivelarsi meno efficace, ha talvolta indotto negativi effetti sulla produzione dei grappoli differenziatisi successivamente al trattamento. The results obtained trough a two-year research carried out to study the effects of different application techniques of some growth regulators to promote fruit setting on tomato in protected cultivation are refered. On both cultivars and with all growth-regulators studied, the application to individual flowers at the anthesis stage (traditional technique) achieved the best results on the yield. Application to the whole cluster offered results in many case comparable to those achieved by the individual flower treatment; administration to the whole plant, on the other hand, as well as being clearly less efficient, sometimes induced negative effects on the production of the clusters which appeared on the plant after the treatment.
42878483|Vengono riferiti i risultati di un triennio di ricerche rivolte a studiare l'influenza esercitata da alcuni fitoregolatori (IAA, Ag e CCC) sull'epoca di differenziazione e sul ritmo di accrescimento dei tuberi in due variet (Spunta e Atica) coltivate in ciclo autunno-primaverile. I risultati ottenuti hanno permesso di accertare che tutti i fitoregolatori studiati hanno influenzato, in misura pi meno rilevante, il processo di tuberificazione. Gli effetti sono risultati, tuttavia, tendenzialmente pi evidenti nelle prime fasi di crescita del tubero e differenziati in rapporto alla variet.Su Spunta il CCC e il IAA hanno fatto registrare un pi precoce ingrossamento dei tuberi. Su entrambe le variet l'Ag ha comportato, per contro, un ritardo nell'ingrossamento dei tuberi e ha provocato evidenti deformazioni. The results of a three-year research on the influence exerted by some plant growth regulators (IAA, Ag, and CCC) on the differentiation period and on the growth rate of tuber of two varieties (Spunta and Atica) cultivated in the autumn-spring cycle are reported. The results indicate that all the plant growth regulators studied influenced, to a varying degree, the process of tuberization. The effects tend, however, to be more evident in the early phases of the tuber growth and vary according to the cultivar. On Spunta, CCC and IAA caused an earlier growth in the tuber. On both cultivars, Ag, caused, on the other hand, a delay of tubes growth and evident defor-mations.
42878484|Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati conseguiti in una prova condotta negli anni 1980 e 1981 in due ambienti della Campania (Portici e Piana del Sele) allo scopo di ricavare elementi di giudizio circa l'influenza esercitata dalla concimazione azotata sulla coltura della melanzana (cv "Violetta lunga di Napoli") realizzata in regime irriguo adottando spaziamenti di cm. 80 tra le file e di cm. 40 sulla fila. Sono stati sottoposti a confronto 22 trattamenti risultanti dalla combinazione fattoriale di 3 livelli di Azoto (100, 200, 400 Kg/ha) e di 7 epoche di somministrazione del concime (nitrato ammonico 26/27) oltre al controllo. Si  adottato lo schema distributivo a blocchi randomizzati con tre ripetizioni. La coltura ha manifestato sensibilit notevole alla concimazione azotata. L'azoto ha determinato l'aumento del peso medio della bacca e, in misura meno accentuata, un maggior numero di frutti per pianta; influenza alcuna ha esplicato invece sulla precocit di maturazione. L'efficacia della dose d'impiego  variata in funzione dell'epoca di somministrazione del concime. Pi rispondenti si sono dimostrate le dosi elevate e le applicazioni ripetute. Nei confronti del controllo, il trattamento rivelatosi pi rispondente (400 Kg di Azoto, equamente ripartiti fra il trapianto, l'inizio della fioritura e la prima raccolta) ha indotto incrementi produttivi medi di 27,8 t/ha, pari al 77,4 per cento. Results concerning a two-year experiment (1980-1981) of nitrogen fertilization on irrigated eggplants (cv "Lunga violetta di Napoli" planted at 80  40 cm) in the provinces of Naples and Salerno (Campania) are reported. Three nitrogenous levels (100, 200, 400 Kg/ha as ammonium nitrate) and seven application times were compared in a randomized bloc with three replications. Eggplants showed high response to N through the increase of the average weight of the berry and, in second order, of the number of fruits per plant. No nitrogen effect was found on the fruiting time. The effectiveness of applied nitrogen changed with its application time. The highest yields and the best returns were obtained by applying many times high levels of nitrogen. As compared with the unfertilized control, the best treatment (400 Kg/ha N justly shared among the transplant, the beginning of flowering and the first harvest) raised the yield of 77.4%.
42878487|E'stata effettuata una analisi della segregazione per il colore del fiore in progenie derivanti da auto fecondazioni di nove variet mediterranee di garofano (Dianthus caryophyllus L.) ("Rubino", "Marco", "Derby", "Sandra", "Tucano", "Sorrento", "Alice", "Elena", "Fabio"). Sei delle variet considerate hanno mostrato segregazione rivelando la presenza di un gene, omozigote recessivo per il colore bianco, epistatico sugli altri geni del colore. Anche la screziatura ed il colore chiaro (ambedue recessivi) risultano controllati da geni recessivi. I dati ottenuti vengono discussi con particolare riferimento al comportamento dei genotipi mediterranei e di quelli di origine americana. An analysis of segregating progenies obtained from nine selfed cultivars of mediterranean carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus L.) (" Rubino", "Marco", "Derby", "Sandra", "Tucano", "Sorrento", "Alice", "Elena", "Fabio") was carried out for the character flower colour. Six cultivars showed segregation for this character. Particularly the data obtained showed the presence of a gene homozy gous recessive for white colour, epistatic on other genes for colour. Variegation and light colours (both rcessives) are also controlled by recessive genes. Data are discussed in view of a comparison between the behaviour of american and mediterranean genotypes.
42878488|Vengono descritte le caratteristiche pi salienti della nuova cultivar di olivo denominata "Briscola", ottenuta per mutagenesi indotta, comparate con la cultivar di origine "Ascolana". La nuova cultivar  caratterizzata da scarso sviluppo della pianta, da forma globosa, densa di vegetazione. I frutti presentano caratteristiche simili a quelle dell'Ascolana anche se le dimensioni e il contenuto in olio, rispetto a questa, sono leggermente ridotti. La nuova cultivar ha spiccati caratteri ornamentali per cui pu essere coltivata a questo scopo sia in vaso che in piena terra. Per lo sfruttamento agronomico viene consigliato, come per utte le novit vegetali, di provarla su piccola scala. Per la nuova cultivar "Briscola"  stato effettuato il deposito di brevetto previsto per le novit vegetali. Some of the more important characters of the new olive cultivar "Briscola", obtained by gamma rays, are described in comparison to the original cultivar "Ascolana". The new cultivar is characterised by the scarse plant development, globous shape and dense vegetation. The fruits have similar characters to those of Ascolana although both size and oil content are very slightly inferior. The new cultivar has outstanding ornamental traits and could be grown for this purpose either in pots or in gardens. For its agronomic utilisation it is recommended as all new cultivars to try the novelty on a small scale. The patent for "Briscola" has been requested.
42878489|Some genetic parameters have been estimated to know the genetic variability and correlation of fruit characters in table olive varieties, Flesh weight, the edible part of fruit, presents the lowest heritability (0,54), which is due to environmental variation while fruit length, pit length and pit diameter present the highest heritabilities and they are little affected by environment. The possibility that genetic correlation between flesh weight and pit weight might reduce the selection response based on flesh weight has been considered. The genetic correlation values show that flesh weight and pit weight are independent characters and that, to increase the flesh weight, we must select varieties with high fruit weight and small pit diameter. Alcuni parametri genetici sono stati stimati allo scopo di valutare la variabilit genetica e correlazioni di alcuni caratteri del frutto in variet di olive da tavola. Il peso della parte edule del frutto  influenzato dall'ambiente perch l'ereditabilit di questo carattere ha il pi basso valore calcolato (0,54) mentre la lunghezza del frutto, la lunghezza e il diametro del nocciolo sono caratteri pi stabili. Le correlazioni genetiche calcolate rivelano che il peso della parte edule del frutto e il peso del nocciolo sono caratteri indipendenti e che, per aumentare il peso della parte edule, bisogna selezionare variet aventi frutto con peso elevato e nocciolo con piccolo diametro.
42878490|Nel biennio 1979/80  stata condotta un'indagine per studiare le possibilit d'impiego del CEPA (Ethrel) nella raccolta delle cultivar di olive da mensa Ascolana tenera e S. Caterina. Il prodotto cascolante  stato utilizzato alle dosi di 2000 e 4000 ppm il 26 settembre il 4 e 11 ottobre, nel 1979 ed alle concentrazioni di 1500 e 2500 ppm il 23 settembre e 8 ottobre nel 1980. I trattamenti hanno ridotto la forza al distacco delle drupe con un andamento variabile a seconda dell'epoca d'intervento della cultivar e della dose del formulato commerciale. Questi non ha interferito sul processo di inoliazione (contenuto in olio sulla s.f. e sulla s.s.), mentre ha influenzato la consistenza della polpa e limitatamente alla cv. Ascolana tenera, ha ridotto il rapporto polpa/nocciolo, il contenuto idrico e l'accrescimento dei frutti. II CEPA ha inoltre indotto una cascola pre-raccolta ed una defogliazione tanto pi intense quanto pi alta era la dose impiegata e variabile a seconda della cultivar e dell'epoca d'impiego. Si  avuta, pertanto, nell'anno del trattamento, per effetto della cascola, una perdita di prodotto variabile dal 15 al 77% mentre la caduta delle foglie, ha influenzato negativamente l'induzione antogena pregiudicando la fruttificazione nell'anno successivo quando l'abscissione ha interessato pi del 30% delle foglie presenti sulla chioma. During the period 1979/' 80 research has been carried out, in order to examine the possibilities of employing C.E.P.A. (Ethrel) in the harvesting of table-olive cultivars "Ascolana tenera" and "S. Caterina". The fruit-fropping product (C.E.P.A.) was employed at 2000 and 4000 ppm in 1979 (on the 26th of September, and 4th and the 11th of October) and at 1500 and 2500 ppm in 1980 (on the 23rd of September and on the 8th of October). These treatments reduced the removal-force of the drupes with different results, according to the application-time in the cultivars and to the quantities of the commercial product. It had no influence on oil content in the s. f. and s. S.; on the contrary, it infuenced flesh-firmess and, as far as the cultivar "Ascolana tenera" was concerned, it reduced the pulp/pitratio, water content and the fruit size. C.E.P.A. also produced Pre-harvesting drop and leaf-drop: their intensity was proportional to the C.E.P.A. quantities employed; besides, these results differed according to the cultivar considered and to the application-time. As a consequence, a loss of product (from 10 to 77% was caused, because of the fruitdrop, in the period under consideration. The leaf-drop had a negative influence on flower induction thus compromising cropping in the following year, when the leaf-drop concerned more than 30% of the leaves on the canopys.
42878491|Flowers of long lived varieties 'Alice', 'Biancaneve', 'Giallo 9442' and 'Champagne 9538' accumulate large amounts of polymethylgalacturonase (PMG); those of the short lived varieties 'Astor', 'Manon' and 'Maya', on the contrary, contain polygalacturonase (PG) and polygalacturonate transeliminase (PGTE). These enzymes were partially purified. The correlations of these enzymes with flowers longevity are briefly discussed. Saggiando gli enzimi pectolitici contenuti nei fiori di cultivars di garofano dotati di notevole resistenza in vaso ('Alice', 'Biancaneve', 'Giallo 9442' e 'Champagne 9538') o di breve durata ('Astor', 'Manon', 'Maya')  stato osservato che le prime accumulano elevati quantitativi di polimetilgatturonasi (PMG) e le seconde di poligalatturonasi (PG) e di poligatturonato trans-eliminasi (PGTE). Gli enzimi sono stati parzialmente purificati. Vengono brevemente discusse le implicazioni di questi enzimi nella durata di vita in vaso dei fiori.
42878492|La ricerca, riguardante l'abscissione naturale dei frutti di melo e le possibili correlazioni esistenti con altri parametri della pianta,  stata condotta su tre popolazioni (a diametro crescente) di gemme a riposo della cultivar "Yellowspur" innestata su MM 106 di 7 anni di et. I risultati mostrano che esiste una stretta correlazione tra le dimensioni delle gemme a riposo e il loro successivo sviluppo, correlazione legata al diverso contenuto in sostanze di riserva. Dalla relazione tra lo sviluppo della femminella e la persistenza dei frutti  emersa una maggiore persistenza quando la femminella raggiunge una lunghezza di 20-40 mm ed  provvista di 6-7 foglie ; valori inferiori o superiori inducono una diminuzione della persistenza. L'andamento dell'abscissione indica che esistono tre ondate di cascola: la I A dal 10/5 al 24/5; la 2 A dal 25/5 al 4/6 e la 3 A dal 5/6 al 20/6; le ultime due sono maggiormente evidenti nella popolazione di gemme a diametro minore. Cambiamenti ciclici nella crescita del frutto e della freccia sono associati con le ondate di cascola (soprattutto con quella di fine maggio-primi di giugno). L riduzione di crescita interessa tutti i frutti, ma solo i pi piccoli entrano in una fase irreversibile che li conduce dopo 8-10 giorni all'abscissione. Le associazioni trovate possono rafforzare l'ipotesi che condizioni cicliche di stress nella pianta, manifestantesi attraverso una riduzione della crescita dei vari organi, possono essere indirettamente responsabili dell'abscissione dei frutti. In this research, apple (Yellowspur grafted on MM 106) fruit abscission was studied in relation to a number of parameters and events concerning the fruit as well as shoots. Results show a close relation between size and storage content of resting buds and their subsequent development (spur growth, size of lateral shoot, number of flowers and size and persistence of fruit). Maximum persistence was associated with lateral shoots of 20-40 mm (6-7 leaves), but not with smaller or larger shoots. Rate of fruit abscission (absolute and relative) show three distinct waves (10/5 -24/5, 25/5 -4/6, 5 -20/6), of which the latter two are maximally expressed in fruit deriving from smaller buds. Recording of individual fruit throughout the season enabled us to separate, by a posteriori analysis, persisting from abscising fruit. In particular, it was observed that each abscission wave closely follows a decrease in rate of growth manifest both in fruit and shoots (leaders). Persisting fruit are affected by growth reductions; this however is maximally expressed in fruit abscising in each specific wave. The associations thus found give strong support to the suggestion that cyclic stress conditions in the plant, manifested through the decreased growth of various organs, may be indirectly responsable for the abscission of young fruit.
42878493|Allo scopo di ottenere piante autoradicate di cultivar di susino  probabilmente a pi basso costo che con l'innesto, si  proceduto ad un saggio di radicazione di 106 cultivar. Su circa un terzo di queste si sono ottenuti risultati di un certo interesse, con maggiori frequenze nell'ambito delle cino-giapponesi. Utilizzando le cultivar che hanno fornito i migliori risultati si  poi saggiata la possibilit di ottenere piante autoradicate con diverse tecniche. La tecnica del riscaldamento basale permette di avere buone percentuali di piante autoradicate; alcune cultivar cino-giapponesi mostrano di non avere necessit di trattamento ormonico. Gli astoni ottenuti con tale metodo, dopo 10 mesi di vegetazione, per diverse cultivar, sono gi commercialmente accettabili. L'uso della pacciamatura ha messo in evidenza che solo la cv Sorriso di Primavera fornisce un numero soddisfacente di piante autoradicate. Con il sacchetto di polietilene si ottiene percentualmente un numero inferiore di piante che con il riscaldamento basale ma con gli stessi sviluppi vegetativi . Ci indica la necessit di una ulteriore messa a punto di questa tecnica per aumetare la capacit rizogena. In order to obtain self-rooted plums more cheaply than by grafting, rooting trials on 106 cultivars were carried out. Results of certain interest were had on roughly a third of these, especially in the ambit of the chino-japanese varieties. Using the cultivars which responded better, different rooting techniques were tried. By the bottom heat method a good percentage of self-rooted plants were obtained, some chino-japanese varieties did not need hormone treatment. The rooted cuttings had by this method, for some cultivars, were already commercially acceptable after 10 months growth. By mulching only from cv Sorriso di Primavera a satisfactory number of self-rooted cuttings, were obtained. Using polyethylene bags an inferior percentage of plants were had than by bottom heat but with the same vegetative development, indicatingthe need of improving this technique to increase rooting.
42878498|Sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO) could be used to elevate the pH of ethephon similarly to NaOH for controlling vegetative growth of grapevine shoots and loosening of olive fruit to facilitate harvesting. The pH stability in the range of pH 6-7 due to sodium bicarbonate was considerably higher than that achieved with sodium hydroxide. Quantitative addition of NaHCO to the ethephon was possible, thereby overcoming the need for accurate pH measurements in the field. The actual concentration of NaHCO needed depending upon ethephon concentration. Ethephon, which is widely used on many fruit species to enhance maturation (5,6,14), control vegetative growth (11), fruit thinning (12) and loosening of ripe fruit attachment (4,7,8), was shown with olives to be more active when its natural acid pH was raised to the neutral pH range (1,3,9). This was originally demonstrated using phosphate buffers (3). Later, positive results were achieved also with sodium hydroxide (1,9). Since the use of buffers in orchard operations is uneconomical, NaOH and KOH have been widely used in spite of the difficulty in adjusting the pH with these bases under field conditions. Ca (OH) and Ca-acetate, which change the pH more moderately (9), were also tried, but due to the calcium effect of reducing the ethephon activity (10) this was not satisfactory. In this study an attempt was made to use sodium bicarbinate, a nontoxic, moderate, basic salt, for the pH neutralization of ethephon. Il bicarbonato di sodio (NaHCO) pu essere usato come l'NaOH per alzare il pH dell'ethephon, nel controllo dell'accrescimento dei vitigni e il distacco delle olive per facilitare la raccolta. La stabilit del pH nell'intervallo 6-7 dovuta al NaHCO  stata maggiore di quella ottenuta con NaOH. L'aggiunta quantitativa di NaHCO all'ethephon pu essere attuata eliminando la necessit di misurazioni accurate del pH in campo. La concentrazione di bicarbonato necessaria dipende dalla concentrazione dell'ethephon. L'ethephon, che  largamente usato per molte specie fruttifere per migliorare la maturazione (5,6,14), il controllo della crescita (11), il diradamento (12) e il distacco del frutto maturo (4,7,8), ha dimostrato di essere pi attivo nell'olivo quando il suo pH naturale viene alzato nell'ambito della neutralit (1,3,9). Ci  stato dimostrato per la prima volta usando soluzioni tampone fosfato (3). Successivamente anche con l'idrossido di sodio (NaOH) furono ottenuti risultati positivi (1,9). Poich l'uso di soluzioni tampone in campo diventa un'operazione costosa sono state largamente usate soluzioni di NaOH e di KOH malgrado la difficolt di aggiustare il pH con queste basi in campo. Furono anche provati Ca(OH) e acetato di calcio, che cambiano il pH pi moderatamente (9) ma data la tendenza del calcio a ridurre l'attivit dell'ethephon (10) il risultato non  stato soddisfacente. Con questo studio  stato usato il bicarbonato di sodio, un sale basico non tossico, moderato, per neutralizzare il pH dell'ethephon.
42878499|Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati di una prova biennale (1979-80) effettuata in Portici (NA) allo scopo di indagare sulla possibilit di ottenere coltivazioni di patata esenti da virosi tramite la piantagione precoce o quella in secondo raccolto. Sono stati assunti quali termini di confronto applicazioni ripetute di olio bianco oppure schermi protettivi di garza. Il piano sperimentale prevedeva in ciascuna annata l'impianto di due coltivazioni, rispettivamente in ciclo vernino-primaverile ed in ciclo estivoautunnale, e l'adozione di quattro cultivar ("Carina", "Ostara", "Resy" e "Sirtema") allevate secondo spaziamenti di cm 60  30. Sia la coltura precoce che quella di secondo raccolto hanno assicurato la sanit delle piante. Quest'ultima ha per fornito produzioni pi modeste perch le basse temperature autunnali hanno impedito alla patata di portare regolarmente a termine il proprio ciclo. I trattamenti con olio bianco e la copertura di garza, oltre a comportare aggravio di spesa, hanno determinato una riduzione delle rese, influendo negativamente sul peso medio dei tuberi. Results are reported on a two year (1979-80) trial carried out in Portici (Naples) in order to obtain potato crops virus-free by early (winter-spring) and 2nd (summer-autumn) plantings. In the same time treatments with white oil and gauze covering were performed. In each growing the behaviour of four cultivars ("Carina", "Ostara", "Resy" and "Sirtema") was examined; spacings of cm 60  30 were realized. All the treatments gave healthy plants; among the two plantings, crop yelded less because of the fall of temperatures in autumn which stopped the cultural cycle. Oil treatments and gauze covering, besides extra costs, produced decreases of yields because of a lower mean weight of the tubers.
42878500|Al fine di fornire un contributo alla conoscenza della potenzialit germinativa del polline di pero,  stato studiato l'effetto indotto dagli ioni boro e calcio e dall'estratto di lievito sulla germinazione "in vitro" di polline delle cultivar "Butirra Precoce Morettini" e "William" sottoposto o meno ad un'adeguata reidratazione prima dell'inseminamento. Il boro (HBO), specialmente alla concentrazione risultata ottimale di 20 ppm, ha favorito la germinazione e lo sviluppo dei tubetti del polline parzialmente reidratato (50% U.R.) e reidratato (100% U.R.) prima dell'inseminamento. L'estratto di lievito, alla concentrazione 0,1%, ha favorito, assieme al boro, la germinazione dei pollini parzialmente reidratati, mentre ha manifestato un effetto inibitorio nel caso del polline reidratato (100% U.R.); viene discussa l'azione di tale sostanza sulla germinazione del polline in rapporto alla modalit di conservazione e di reidratazione dello stesso. Il calcio (Ca(NO)4HO) a tutte le concentrazioni saggiate ha manifestato un effetti inibitorio. Fra i tre metodi di vitalit considerati (Carminio acetico, Nitro BT e MTT) solo il Nitro BT e l'MTT hanno fornito risultati di vitalit simili a quelli di germinazione. Dai risultati  emerso quindi che per ottenere "in vitro" una migliore attendibilit circa la capacit germinativa del polline di pero  necessario sottoporlo, prima dell'inseminamento, alla reidratazione con 100% U.R. per 30' a 26C e adottare un substrato composto da: 15% di saccarosio, 20 ppm di acido borico (HBO), 1% di agar. In order to characterize the pollen viability and germinability by biochemical parameters, an investigation was carried out on pear cultivars "Butirra Precoce Morettini" and "Williams". Partially (50% R.U.) and completely rehydrated (100% R.U.) pollens showed higher germination rates in vitro when treated with Boron: 20 ppm was the best concentration. The addition of yeast extract, at 0,1%, increased the percentage of germination only with the partially rehydrated pollen. Calcium (Ca(NO)4HO) always showed and inhibitory effect on the pollen germination and growth. Viability tests with Nitro BT and MTT gave similar results as the germination trials whilst Acetocarmine did not. The higher percentages of germination and the best tube growth were obtained for both cultivars with the pollen pre-rehydratation at 100% R.U. for 30' at 26C and with the medium: 15% sucrose, 20 ppm HBO, 1% agar.
42878501|Il lavoro descrive la metodologia impiegata per ottenere "in vitro" piantine di melo della cv. Wellspur utilizzando, come espianto di partenza, meristemi apicali (mm 0,3-0,5) prelevati da gemme dormienti. Per la fase di organizzazione delle "rosette" sono stati ottenuti risultati positivi impiegando un substrato contenente, oltre ai macro, macroelementi, fitormoni, saccarosio ed agar, i seguenti costituenti organici: tiamina-HCl (mg/l 0,1), inositolo (mg/l 100), acido nicotinico (mg/l 2), biotina (mg/l 1) acido folico (mg/l 0,01), piridossina-HCl (mg/l 0,5) glicina (mg/l 2), Ca-pantotenato (mg/l 0,5), riboflavina (mg/l 0,1), acido p-aminobenzoico (mg/l 1), L-tirosina (mg/l 0,1) e caseina idrolizzata (mg/l 100). Sub-colture mensili degli espianti hanno fatto registrare, mediamente, un coefficiente di moltlipicazione pari a 10,7 consentendo di ottenere germogli provvisti di 4-6 foglie ed alti, mediamente, cm 4. Per la fase di radicazione sono stati impiegati germogli monoassiali di un'altezza superiore a cm 3. Tra le diverse metodologie saggiate, ha determinato la radicazione dell'86,2% dei germogli, quella che prevedeva la loro permanenza al buio per i primi 8 giorni della fase e l'aggiunta di carbone (2,5 g/l) attivo nel substrato. This work describes the technique to obtain "in vitro" cv. Wellspur apple plantlets using as an initial explant apical meristems (0.3 - 0.5 mm) taken from dormant buds. For the "rosettes" organization positive results were obtained using a medium composed of: M.S. modified macro-micro nutrients, hormones (GA 0,1 mg/l; NAA 0,02 mg/l and BAP 1 mg/l), sucrose, Agar purified and the following organics (mg/l): Thiamine-HCl (0,1), Myo-Inosital (100) Nicotinic acid (2), Biotin (1), Folie acid (0,01), Pyridoxine-HCl (0,5), Glicine (2), Calcium pantothenat (0,5), Riboflavin (0,1), p-aminobenzoic acid (1), L-Tyrosin (0,1) and Casein hydrolisate (100). For multiplication and rooting stages myo-inositol (100 mg/l) and Thiamine-HCl (0,4 mg/l) were the only organic costituents. Monthly subcultures of shoots showed a multiplication rate equal to 10.7 producing shoots with 4-6 leaves and an average height of 4 cm. Single-axial shoots of a 3 cm minimal heigth were used for the rooting stage. Of the different techniques tried, the one which produced the best results (86.2%) of shoots rooted) was that using shoots which were left in the dark for the first 8 days of this stage, and which were growth on activated charcoal (2.5 g/l) whic enriched medium.
42878502|Shoot apices of 2 chimeric clones (16 and 42) and 1 clone "short type" (1991) of the cherry roostock F12/1 originated after irradiation with gamma rays of rooted plants, were cultured in vitro with the main purpose of isolating solid mutants. The shoots were cultured on MS basal medium with 0.2 mg/l IAA, 0.5 mg/l GA, 0.8 mg/l BAP, 0.3 mg/l thiamine-HCl (additional amount), 10 mg/l ascorbic acid, 3% sucrose and 0.7% agar. The PH was adjusted to 5.5 and the cultures mainteined at 25C and 16 hours of light. With these culture conditions the shoots proliferated with a growth rate of about 4.5 in 4 weeks similar for all the cultured clones. The shoots regenerated roots when transferred to a medium containing NAA, the rooted plantlets were easily established in pots. The analysis of the morphological characters of the cloned plants allowed the isolation of 3 mutant types apparently homogeneous, which differed for leaf shape and size. A mutant type was also detected with a modified phyllotaxis. On the contrary an other type appeared still chimeric carrying leaves of different types on the same plant. All these mutants were found among the plants of the clones 16 and 42 while the plants derived from the clone 1991 and from the control appeared homogeneous. The method described seemes suitable for the rapid multiplication of the cherry rootstock F12/1 and of the mutants, and the results on the isolation of solid mutants suggest that the micropropagation can be used to isolate the induced mutation after mutagenic treatment in vegetatively propagated plants. Apici vegetativi di 2 cloni (16 e 42) chimerici del portainnesto di ciliegio F12/1 e del clone "tipo spur" (1991) che non radicava per talea, ottenuti per irraggiamento con raggi gamma di piantine, autoradicate, sono stati coltivati in vitro con il principale obiettivo di isolare mutanti solidi, "tipo spur" (1991) che non radicava per talea, ottenuti per irraggiamento con raggi gamma e di piantine radicate, sono stati coltivati in vitro con il principale obiettivo di isolare mutanti solidi. Gli apici sono stati coltivati sul substrato di Murashige e Skoog contenente 0.2 mg/l di IAA, 0.5 mg/l di GA, 0.8 mg/l di BAP, 0.3 mg/l di tiamina-HC (quantit aggiuntiva), 3% di saccarosio e 0.7% di agar a pH 5.5 a 25 C e 16 ore di luce. In queste condizioni di coltura gli apici hanno proliferato con un tasso di accrescimento di 4.5 dopo 4 settimane di coltura, che  simile per i 3 cloni e simile anche al tasso di moltiplicazione osservato nel controllo. I germogli hanno prodotto numerose radici dopo trasferimento su un substrato contenente NAA. Le piantine radicate sono state tresferite senza particolari problemi in terra dopo un periodo di acclimatazione. L'analisi morfologica delle piantine donate ha dimostrato che non esiste variabilit tra gli individui derivati dal controllo e dal clone 199. Tra le piante derivate dai cloni 16 e 42 sono stati invece isolati tre mutanti apparentemente solidi che differivano per la forma e la dimensione delle foglie. E' stato anche isolato un mutante con fillotassi modificata; un altro tipo appariva invece ancora chimerico avendo foglie di diverso tipo sul medesimo individuo. Il metodo descritto appare idoneo per propagare rapidamente sia il portainnesto di ciliegio F12/1 che i mutanti. Sembra anche interessante la possibilit di utilizzare la micropropagazione per isolare mutanti solidi dopo trattamenti mutageni in piante a propagazione vegetativa.
42878503|Vengono riferiti i risultati di una ricerca sull'efficacia di alcuni prodotti atti a limitare la cascola pre-raccolta nel pompelmo "Marsh seedless". I seguenti formulati sono stati distribuiti in soluzione acquosa alla data del 18 dicembre 1980: - 2,4-D, esteri ottilico ed isottilico, a 10 ppm; - 2,4-D, estere isopropilico, a 10 ppm; - 2,4-DP, a 30 ppm; - Daminozide (B-9), a 2000 ppm. Tutti i prodotti, ad eccezione del B-9, hanno dimostrato propriet anticascola, anche se i migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti con la miscela degli esteri ottilico e isottilico del 2,4-D, seguita dall'estere isopropilico dello stesso 2,4-D, e dal 2,4-DP. Nessuna influenza dei prodotti saggiati  stata rilevata sulle caratteristiche dei frutti, n sul germogliamento e la fioritura successivi al trattamento. The efficiency of some growth regulators have been tested to control pre-harvest fruit drop in "Marsh seedless" grapefruit trees. The following products were sprayed once on december, 18, 1980, in aqueous solution: - octylic and isoctyli esters of 2,4-D, at 10 ppm; - isopropylic ester of 2,4-D, at 10 ppm; - 2,4-DP, at 30 ppm; - B.nine, at 2.000 ppm. All the compounds tested, except B-9, proved to control pre-harvest fruit drop, although the best results were obtained with octylic and isoctylic of 2,4-D, followed by isopropylic ester and by 2,4-DP. No influence of the treatment was observed on the fruit quality, nor on the flush growth and on the flowering in the next season.
42878504|Vengono riferiti i risultati ottenuti dell'irraggiamento gamma del portinnesto F/12/1 e la caratterizzazione di alcuni mutanti. La variabilit indotta in F/12/1  notevole sia per l'habitus vegetativo, i frutti, l'apparato fogliare e l'attitudine dei mutanti ad essere propagati per propaggine per trincea. Alcuni mutanti promettenti assommano un habitus a sviluppo ridotto con buona attitudine ad essere moltiplicati. Altri, di tipo spur, presentano bassa capacit rizogena o sintomi chimerici con pi o meno frequenti ritorni alla normalit. Per ottenere una pi rapida moltiplicazione e per eliminare lo stato chimerico, la ricerca viene sviluppata con la tecnica della coltura in vitro. The results obtained by gamma radiation of F/12/1 rootstock and the characters of some mutants are reported. The induced variability in F/12/1 is considerable for vegetative behaviour fruits, leaves and the aptitude of the mutants to be propagated by layering. Some promising mutants combine a reduced habitus with a good propagation ability. Others, spur-type, show a low rooting capacity or chimeral symptoms with more or less frequent returns to normality. To speed up propagation and eliminate che chimeral state, the research is being developed by tissue culture.
42878507|Half of ninety-six four-year peach trees (cv. Suncrest) grown in container was well supplied of water and hald was subjected to a series drying cycles in which predawn leaf water potentials were -10 bar and -31 bar. During the first cycle field capacity was re-established in 50% of the trees in the morning and 50% at mid-night. In the second cycle (severe water stress condi-tion) the rewatering was made on half trees by means of flooding and in the other half trees by means drip irrigation method. Conditions of water stress were established also in the orchard and the exact time of recovery after day or night irrigation was measured. , leaf conductance, VPG and soil matric potential were measured and the transpiration was calculated by the ratio VPG/rf. During the first cycle, leaf water potential of irrigated trees in the night recovered more slowly than irrigated trees in the morning. In the second cycle the trees recovered from water stress after rewatering at the same time. This occur also in the orchard. In all experiments we noticed thet in well-watered plants there was almost always a correlation between levels of  and VPD, and transpiration and stomatal conductance. A different behaviour was observed during the stage of recovery from the water stress, especially was noticed that the leaf conductance recovered more slowly than leaf water potential. Measurements of predawn leaf water potential indicated when irrigation was required before external signs of stress were apparent. Piante di pesco della cv. 'Suncrest' dell'et di quattro anni allevate in pien'aria in contenitori, mediante un impianto di irrigazione a goccia furono sottoposte ad una serie di cicli di stress durante i quali furono rilevati il potenziale idrico fogliare, la resistenza stomatica alla diffusione, la temperatura della foglia e quella dell'aria e la sua umidit relativa, il gradiente di pressione di vapore e la traspirazione. Nel primo ciclo fu confrontato il comportamento di piante irrigate giornalmente fino alla capacit di campo con piante che prive di irrigazione da sei giorni all'alba avevano un potenziale idrico fogliare di -10 bar. Su tutte le piante furono osservate le variazioni di parametri prima ricordati ed in quelle stressate fu osservata la reazione al ripristino delle condizioni ottimali di idratazione ottenute con irrigazione per sommersione diurna o notturna. Nel secondo ciclo, il recupero dell'idrataziune fu osservato su piante che avevano raggiunto elevate condizioni di stress (-31 bar di f all'alba), sottoposte ad irrigazione per sommersione o a goccia. Successivamente, un terzo ciclo di stress fu effettuato con la tecnica adottata nel primo ciclo. Contemporaneamente, questa reazione alla carenza idrica ed alla successiva reidratazione, fu osservata anche in pieno campo in un pescheto ad alta densit di piantagione (n. 1.666 piante/ettaro). Durante il primo ciclo fu riscontrata una normalizzazione del f pi rapida con l'irrigazione diurna in confronto di quella notturna; nel secondo ciclo i tempi di reidratazione furono equivalenti. Anche nel pescheto furono riscontrati gli stessi tempi di risposta. In tutte le prove fu notato che nelle piante ben irrigate vi era una correlazione tra f VPD, resistenza alla diffusione e traspirazione. Fu osservato, anche, che nella fase di ripristino dell'idrataziune delle foglie la conduttanza stomatica si normalizza pi lentamente del f e che la misurazione di quest'ultimo potenziale effettuata prima del sorgere del sole d una valida indicazione dello stato idrico delle piante prima che compaiano segni esteriori di carenza idrica.
42878508|I forti abbassamenti di temperatura verificatisi nell'inverno 1978-79 ci hanno offerto l'opportunit di studiare la resistenza al freddo di 84 cultivar di pesco di recente introduzione, diffusesi senza il preventivo accertamento della loro suscettibilit alle minime termiche invernali. In particolare le osservazioni sono state compiute su piante di 5 anni allevate a palmetta di 39 cultivar di pesco, 20 di nettarine e 25 di percoche riunite in collezione presso l'Azienda "Mario Neri" a Casola Canina (Bologna). Sono stati valutati i danni da freddo subiti dalle gemme a fiore e da quelle a legno, come pure la capacit delle gemme a fiore superstiti ad allegare. Sulla base di questi tre parametri, congiuntamente considerati,  stata effettuata una classificazione di resistenza al freddo delle cultivar dalla quale  emerso la maggiore resistenza del pesco rispetto sia alle nettarine che alle percoche. Infatti circa il 70% delle cultivar di pesco sono risultate resistenti al freddo, ed alcune anche molto resistenti (ccw. "Fayette", "Fillette", "Glohaven", "Rubired", "Early Redhaven", "Suncresif" e "Sunshine"), contro il 15-16% delle nettarine e delle percoche. Viene infine proposto e discusso il criterio comparativo di classificazione della resistenza al freddo basato sulla indicizzazione dei tre parametri considerati. 1978-79 Winter frosts offered the opportunity to test the hardiness of 84 cultivars recently introduced into Italy. The winter injury was evaluated on the basis both of the flower and of the vegetative buds killed or damaged, and of the fruit set. In general freestone peach cultivars showed a higher winter hardiness (70% of the cultivar examined were cold resistant) in comparison to nectarines and clingstone peaches (15-16% cold resistant). A winter cold hardiness classification has been suggested and discussed.
42878509|The research was carried out on Andross peach trees for evaluating the CEPA thinning effect on trees of different degrees of vigour and fruit-load. The results proved that both the natural and the CEPA induced drop are largely related to the number of fruit/tree and to the size of the crosssectional area of the branch. Moreover, it has been hypothetized that trees of different vigour adjust their susceptibility to the chemical thinning agent on the basis of the amount of natural drop that occured previously. Le ricerche sono state effettuate sulla cv "Andross" per valutare l'effetto di trattamenti diradanti con CEPA su alberi caratterizzati da un differente grado di vigore e di carica di frutti. E' stato innanzitutto messo in evidenza che grado di vigore e carica di frutti sono parametri tra di loro strettamente legati secondo una funzione di tipo sigmoidale, con un tratto lineare corrispondente a valori dell'area delle branche compresi tra 80 e 160 cm e numero di frutti oscillanti tra 1100 e 2000. In tale tratto la cascola naturale  risultata crescente sia in funzione del numero di frutti presenti alla scamiciatura sia in funzione delle dimensioni delle branche. La cascola indotta dal CEPA esaminata in funzione di entrambi i parametri ha manifestato un andamento opposto. Sulla base di tali risultati pu essere avanzata l'ipotesi che alberi di differente vigore presentino dinamiche di caduta dei frutti diverse con picchi di cascola naturale tanto pi anticipati quanto maggiore  il potenziale totale di caduta. Tenendo conto di tale dinamica e che il CEPA amplifca una risposta naturale al momento del trattamento il potenziale residuo di cascola naturale sarebbe stato inversamente proporzionale sia alla carica di frutti sia all'area delle branche.
42878510|Eighteen single-spore isolates of Seiridium cardinale, obtained from different naturally infected hosts were evaluated for toxigenic ability in vitro. All the isolates produced culture filtrates which were phytotoxic to selected herbaceous species, even if marked differences were observed in symptom severity induced by the various isolates. The range of non-natural-host plants which are susceptible to culture filtrates of S. cardinale has been widened. The toxigenic capacity is maintained also after 5 yr storage of the fungus as frozen conidial suspension. Vengono riferiti i risultati di nuove indagini sulla tossigenicit di Seiridium cardinale in vitro. Questa caratteristica  stata verificata in 18 ceppi di diversa origine matricale e provenienza, e persiste anche dopo prolungata conservazione del patogeno sotto forma di sospensioni conidiche congelate. Viene, inoltre, accertata l'attivit tossica dei filtrati colturali su una ulteriore serie di specie vegetali non ospiti naturali del patogeno.
42878511|Nel corso di ricerche sull'impiego dei fitoregolatori per la prevenzione della comparsa di rugginosit nella Golden Delicious  stata rilevata l'influenza di trattamenti con GA e di una miscela commerciale diGA + BA sulla differenziazione delle gemme a fiore. I trattamenti hanno ridotto drasticamente la percentuale di gemme a fiore rispetto ai controlli e tale riduzione  risultata tanto pi elevata quanto pi tardivamente sono stati fatti. La presenza di BA sembra aver mitigato l'effetto negativo della GA nella differenziazione mentre la riduzione della percentuale di gemme a fiore riscontrata nelle branche trattate  risultata costante rispetto alla carica di gemme a flore presente sulle branche non trattate della medesima pianta. L'influenza dei trattamenti di gibberellina nella differenziazione delle gemme oltre che all'epoca in cui i trattamenti stessi vengono eseguiti  legata alla concentrazione della soluzione impiegata. During trials on the use of gibberellins for prevention of russeting of Golden Delicious apples, in 1980, treatments with 50 ppm solution of GA44-yand with a commercial mixture of GA +BA were applied according to an experimental design wich entailed four weekly tretments starting at full bloom and after one, two or three weeks. Beside the effects on russeting, also the influence of treatments on flower buds differentiation were examined. Each of the four modalities of treatment, combined with the two products, has been tried on 6 half-plants chosen at random in two different orchards. In order to avoid the influence of the single tree on the results of the treatments, these have been always applied on half canopy, leaving the other half as an untreated control. Significant reduction of flowering was obtained on treated branches as compared with untreated ones and significant variations have been found with different treatments. Early treatments have halved the blossom while the later ones have reduced it at about one third and in one case to onefourth of the whole blossom. The supply of GA causes a constant reduction of the percentage of flower buds on treated branches compared to the percentage of flower buds of control branches of the same tree. In 1981 the treatments were repeated at lower concentrations (6, 12 and 24 ppm) starting at the beginning of bloom and no reduction of flowering was noted in the following year.
42878512|E' stata condotta una prova di radicazione su talee legnose di "Fertilia I" in riscaldamento basale, trattando le base delle talee con IBA, e bagnando le talee con acqua e con soluzioni di glucosio e permananato di K. Su parte del materiale la bagnatura  stata ripetuta dopo 60 giorni. I migliori risultati di radicazione si sono ottenuti con la bagnatura con acqua o glucosio, seguita dal trattamento con IBA. La migliore sopravvivenza  Stata ottenuta col materiale cha ha subito entrambe le bagnature, con un effetto meno visibile del trattamento con permanganato di K. E' ipotizzato un effetto di dilavamento di sostanze dannose sia per la rizogenesi che per la sopravvivenza delle radici. In many peach varieties, though a good rhizogenesis occurs, the rooted cuttings fail to survive after transplanting. Such behaviour may be due to the lack of certain substances (i. e. carbohydrates) necessary to development, or to the formation of substances that kill the newly formed tissues. In order to overcome such a handicap, a rooting trial was carried out on "Fertilia I" hardwood cuttings in November, 1981. The cuttings, propagated by bottom heat, were treated with a 24 hrs dip in water or in solutions of glucose and potassium permanganate, and/or with auxin (IBA 3000 ppm). An amount of rooted cuttings (IBA treatment and water dip + IBA) underwent a second treatment with the mentioned solution 60 days later. The best rooting results were obtained with the dipping in water or glucose, when followed by IBA treatment. The best survival rate was found in the material that had been dipped twice, though the effect of potassium permanganate was less marked. It appears that the dipping effect favours rhizogenesis in the case of the first application while the second treatment only helps to remove the causes of death. The second dipping treatment alone does not in fact allow any rooted cutting to survive. It is therefore hypothesized that the water treatment (glucose not showing additional effect) eliminates substances that may reduce rhizogenesis as well as totally inhibit the roots' survival.
42878517|It is known that carnation petals fade following pollination and fertilization of the gametophyte. Therefore the relationship between the development of reproductive apparatus and wilting was investigated. Two cultivars 'Astor', short keeping, and 'Alice', long keeping, were thoroughly investigated. It clearly appeared that vase life is longer in the cultivar whose initial stylar development is slower. Once the style has reached maturity, thus protruding stigmatic papillae, the flower wilts within 3.54 days. Per il presente studio sono state impiegate due cultivare di garofano 'Astor' e 'Alice' caratterizzate rispettivamente da breve e lunga durata in vaso. Si  ricercata l'eventuale relazione esistente tra l'avvizzimento del fiore e lo sviluppo dell'apparato riproduttivo, essendo noto che i petali di garofano appassiscono in seguito all'impollinazione e alla fertilizzazione del gametofito. Dai risultati ottenuti  apparso chiaro che la durata del fiore  maggiore nella cultivar il cui sviluppo iniziale dello stilo  pi lento: quando lo stilo ha raggiunto la maturit, il fiore avvizzisce in 3, 5  4 giorni, indipendentemente dalla cultivar.
42878518|To evaluate the behaviour of new genotypes of pea in different environments, six new cultivars and two commercial cultivars were compared for 3 years at two locations. The seed yields showed significant (linear) genotype-environment interactions. The average yields of each cultivar were linearly regressed on the average yield of all cultivars in each environment (environmental index). Regression coefficients ranged from 0.3015 to 2.1748, suggesting there is great variability in genotype-environment interaction between cultivars. A non-linear component of the ganotype-environment interaction was observed in the ISCI 48, ISCI 132, ISCI 30 and Urgenta cultivars. La presente ricerca  stata effettuata per studiare la adattabilit di nuovi genotipi in diversi ambienti di coltivazione e per determinare la natura dell'interazione genotipo-ambiente. Sono state interessate sei cultivar di nuova costituzione e, come confronto, due cultivar commerciali. L'esperimento  durato tre anni, dal 1977 al 1979, e in ciascuna annata  stato ripetuto in due localit: Bologna e Battipaglia. Infatti, di ogni cultivar la regressione della produzione media, ottenuta in ciascun ambiente, sull'indice ambientale (produzione media di tutti i genotipi in quell'ambiente) ha permesso di stimare il relativo coefficiente di regressione. I "b" delle cultivar sono compresi in un "range" di valori che va da 0,3015 (cultivar ISCI 30) a 2, 1748 (cultivar ISCI 48). Per le cultivar ISCI 30 e ISCI 48 i "b" risultano largamente superiori a 1 (rispettivamente 2,0350 e 2,1748) dimostrando che questi genotipi interagiscono molto con l'ambiente e assicurano le migliori produzioni quando si sviluppano in condizioni ottimali. Le restanti cultivar presentano coefficienti di regressione inferiori all'unit. Inoltre, la successiva analisi ha messo in evidenza la significativit statistica delle deviazioni dalla regressione lineare (Pooled deviations $s_d^2$) e questo significa che alcuni genotipi (le cultivar ISCI 48, ISCI 132, ISCI 30 e Urgenta) presentano pure una componente non lineare dell'interazione genotipo-ambiente.
42878519|In California walnut orchards, where trees are planted 8 to 10 meters apart, shading and, associated with it, abscission of pistillate flowers have become a serious problem, especially with the protandrous cultivar, Serr. Shading, aging, and/or low nitrogen status in the buds favor catkin formation. Where 40 to 60% of the pistillate flowers are abscising, catkin removal in winter or application of benzyladenine at 25-50 ppm reduced abscission. Shaded leaves in crowded orchards have less total N than sun leaves. The ratios of NH to NO in water extracts of sun and shade leaves were 8:1 and 1:1.5, respectively. Crowded trees with light crops had higher starch contents in the inner bark than heavy bearing trees. Thus, slow transpiration rates of shaded leaves accumulated less nitrogen and other minerals resulting in low N metabolism. It is proposed that the high carbohydate accumulation and low N status resulted in low cytokinin level in the buds needed for mobilization of food and nutrients for flower set. Flower initiation in cv Chico occurs near the apex of rapidly growing shoots and under fairly low light intensities. In cv Hartley, light favored good return bloom and formation of multiple pistillate flowers. Nei noceti californiani, dove gli alberi sono piantati a distanze di 8 -10 m, l'ombreggiamento e, associata ad esso, l'abscissione dei fiori femminili,  diventato un grave problema, specialmente per la cultivar proterandra "Serr". L'ombreggiamento, l'invecchiamento e/o il basso livello di azoto nelle gemme favoriscono la formazione degli amenti. E' stato trovato che quando si verifica un'abscissione del 40 -60% dei fiori femminili, la rimozione in inverno degli amenti o l'applicazione di benzyladenina a 25 - 50 ppm riducono l'abscissione. Le foglie ombreggiate nelle piantagioni fitte hanno meno azoto delle foglie esposte al sole. I rapporti tra NH e NO degli estratti acquosi di foglie esposte al sole e ombreggiate furono rispettivamente di 8:1 e di 1:1,5. Alberi fitti con scarsa produzione avevano un contenuto di amido pi elevato nella corteccia interna rispetto agli alberi con produzioni abbondanti. Quindi il basso tasso di traspirazione delle foglie ombreggiate fece accumulare meno azoto e altri minerali risultando in un basso metabolismo azotato. E' ipotizzato che un alto accumulo di carboidrati e un basso livello di azoto siano la causa di un basso livello di citochinine delle gemme, necessario per la mobilizzazione dei nutrienti per la fioritura. Nella cv Chico la fioritura inizia vicino all'apice dei germogli che crescono rapidamente e con basse intensit di illumuiazione. Nella cv Hartley la luce favorisce una buona seconda fioritura e la formazione di molteplici fiori femminili.
42878520|In order to evaluate the pollen longevity by storage, an investigation was carried out on apple cultivars "Golden Delicious" and "Starkrimson", after 1,2 and 3 years of storage in a disseccator at  25 C under NaOH pelletes (0  20% r.h.) in comparison with the corresponding fresh pollen. Viability, tested at 2, 4, 8, 20 and 32 hours of incubation (medium= sucrose 10%, HBO 25 ppm, Ca (NO). 4H O 250 ppm, agar 1%, in deionized distilled water: pH 6.5), were preceded by rehydration in the humid air (r.h.  100% ) of a climatic cell both for 30' at + 25 C and 60' at + 25 C. Viability and "in vitro" germination and tube growth of "Golden Delicious" and "Starkrimson" pollens remained high after 3 years of storage. Storage conditions decreased considerably the initial rate (2 hours of incubation) of pollen tube growth, which then regained normal levels. Stored pollens submitted to a long time of rehydration showed a higher viability as compared with pollens submitted to a short period of rehydration. In conclusion "Golden Delicious" and "Starkrimson" pollens, stored for three years proved tobe still viable, capable of attaining a 60% "in vitro" germination rate and thus potentially able to reach the embryo-sac. Al fine di fornire un contributo alla conoscenza dell'effetto della conservazione sulla longevit del polline di melo,  stata condotta un'indagine sul polline delle ccw. "Golden Delicious" e "Starkrimson". La longevit del polline  stata saggiata come vitalit e capacit germinativa dopo 1, 2 e 3 anni di conservatone in un essiccatore a  25 C in presenza di NaOH in pastiglie (R.H. O  20%) in confronto al corrispondente polline appena raccolto. Il polline, prima del saggio di vitalit, effettuato con M.T.T., e di germinazione e sviluppo dei tubetti, rilevati dopo 2, 4, 8, 20 e 32 ore di incubazione a + 25 C (substrato = saccarosio 10%, HBO 25 ppm, Ca(NO) 4H) 250 ppm, agar 1% in acqua deionizzata e distillata: pH = 6,5)  stato sottoposto'a reidratazione (R.H.  100% ) in cella climatica a + 25 C, una parte per 30' e l'altra per 60'. La vitalit, la germinazione "in vitro" e lo sviluppo dei tubetti del polline delle due cultivar sono rimasti alti anche dopo 3 anni di conservazione. Le condizioni di conservazione hanno solo rallentato la velocit iniziale (2 ore di incubazione) di sviluppo dei tubetti, che poi sono risultati normalmente sviluppati. Il polline conservato, sottoposto alla reidratazione per 60' ha presentato una pi elevata vitalit rispetto al corrispondente polline reidratato per 30'. In conclusione, il polline di "Golden Delicious" e di "Starkrimson"  risultato, dopo 3 anni di conservazione, vitale e con una capacit germinativa superiore al 60% , quindi potenzialmente in grado di raggiungere, in vivo, l'embrio-sacco.
42878521|The rapid "in vitro" propagation of four new clon al rootstocks, hybrids of Prunus spp., selected by INRA (France), is reported. Tissue culture of "P 322  S 1058", "S 2729", "S 749  S 1490" and "P 322  P 871" proliferated at a rate of 8 : 1 to 4 : 1 in four weeks when grown on a modified Murashigo and Skoog medium with 2% sucrose, 0,7% agar and (in mg/l) : 100 myo - inositol; 1 thiamine HCl; 2 glycine; 0,5 pyridoxine HCl; 0,5 nicotinic acid; 0,1 gibberellic acid (GA); 0,05 indolebutyric acid (IBA) and 0,5 6-Benzylamino-purine (BAP).Only rooting of "P 322  P 871" was tested. Best results (highest percentage - 100% - and better roots) were obtained with 0,1 or 0,5 mg/1 indolebutyric acid, added to a medium without gibberellic acid and with a half strenght of m/l neral salts. Cytochinin (BAP) didn't affect rooting when added at a low concentration (0,005 mg/l); but markedly reduced it when added at higher levels. Darkness, on the contrary, enhanced rooting.
42878522|Ricerche sono state svolte su talee di un anno di olivo, cv "Maurino", al fine di accertare il ruolo di concentrazioni crescenti di etilene sul processo della rizogenesi. Livelli crescenti di gas sono stati ottenuti mediante trattamenti basali con ACC, un precursore della biosintesi dell'etilene, alle concentrazioni di 1, 3 e 9 mM. Oltre all'ACC sono stati effettuati trattamenti con IBA alle medesime concentrazioni; i due prodotti sono stati provati da soli o in combinazione. Nel corso della radicazione sono stati effettuati rilievi sull'etilene svolto nella porzione basale delle talee e, dopo due mesi di permanenza in nebulizzazione, sono stati rilevati gli effetti dei diversi trattamenti sulla radicazione e sul germogliamento. Dai risultati ottenuti non  emersa una correlazione tra etilene svolto e capacit rizognetica. L'ACC alla concentrazione pi elevata ha un effetto negativo sulla rizogenesi che pu essere attribuito ad alti livelli di etilene. Quando tale composto viene somministrato in combinazione con l'IBA, si ha un mascheramento dell'azione dell'etilene da parte dell'auxina. A research was carried out to investigate the role of ethylene on adventitious roots formation and development in olive cuttings. The bases of one year old stem cuttings (cv "Maurino) were treated with 1-aminocyclopropane 1-carboxylic acid (ACC), a precursor of ethylene biosynthesis, at different concentrations (1, 3 and 9 mM); its effect was compared to that of the same concentrations of indolbutyric acid (IBA), and of both substances given together in different combinations. Rooting and shooting were evaluated 60 days after treatments; ethylene evolution in the basal ends (2-3 cm) was also measured by GC in 5 theses (1, 4, 7, 8 and 10) 0, 1,3,9, 27 and 60 days from the beginning of the trial. From our results does not arise a correlation between ethylene production and rhizogenetic ability. Actually, in the two treatments that gave the highest ethylene production (theses 10 and 7), we had a good (68.3% ) and a poor (15.0% ) rooting percentage, respectively, while the treatment with the best rooting activity (thesis 4, 77.5% ) showed an ethylene production that was only slightly above that of the control. ACC alone appeared inhibitory on rooting at the highest concentration (9 mM), and stimulated shooting at the intermediate concentration (3 mM). Such a behaviour disappeared when IBA was added to the ACC, and the values at the various concentrations were similar. While the negative effect of the ACC treatment at a high concentration can be reasonably attributed to the high ethylene levels, the uniform values obtained by combining ACC and IBA might be due to a masking effect of auxin on ethylene action.
42878847|Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati scaturiti da una prova quadriennale effettuata nella Conca d'Oro di Palermo (Sicilia) allo scopo di valutare gli aspetti bio-agronomici della coltura della fava da mensa per produzione di granella secca. Sono state esaminate nel complesso dei quattro anni: 2 cultivar italiane, 15 cultivar estere, 6 linee in corso di selezione e 19 ecotipi meridionali di fava. Le produzioni nei vari anni sono state condizionate dall'andamento climatico, ma soprattutto dagli attacchi di parassiti: Orobanche crenata, Forsk e Sclerotinia sclerotorium (Lib.) DeBy e Aphis fabae, Scop. Tuttavia, sono state sempre ottenute rese unitarie buone ed anche ottime con le cultivar e popolazioni meglio rispondenti all'ambiente di coltura. Pi produttive sono risultate: "linea F 6/45", "Precocissima d'Aquitania", "Fava S. Pantaleo", "Vermeille", "Fava di Modugno", "Mutchamiel violetta", e "Fava delle Cascine". Dette cultivar e popolazionrin ricerche collaterali sono risultate tra le pi interessanti per l'utilizzazione della granella allo stato fresco. Results of a four-year trial which was carried out in the Conca d'Oro area, (Palermo-Sicily) in order to value the biological-agronomical aspects of the broad bean culture of grain yield, are given. During these four years, 2 Italian cultivar, 15 foreign cultivar, 6 lines during their selection, and 19 southern populations of "Vicia Faba", were tested. During these years the yields were conditioned by the climatic trend, but above all, by the parasitic attacks: Orobanche crenata Forsk, Sclerotinia sclerotorium (Lib.) DeBy., and Aphis fabae Scop. However, good and even best yields are obtained from cultivar and populations better corresponding to the crop environment. It was found that the best ones were: line "F 6/45", "Precocissima d'Aquitania", "Fava S. Pantaleo", "Vermeille", "Fava di Modugno", "Mutchamiel violetta" and "Fava delle Cascine". It was found that these cultivar and populations were among the most interesting for the fresh market.
42878848|Germogli di actinidia della cv Hayward sottoposti per oltre 2 anni a subcolture ripetute mensilmente sono stati confrontati con quelli che ne avevano subito solo 3-4. Dall'indagine  emerso che all'aumentare del numero di subcolture si assiste ad un incremento del coefficiente di moltiplicazione, ad una progressiva riduzione dell'altezza dei germogli e del peso del callo basale mentre rimangono costanti la capacit rizogena dei germogli ed il numero dei cromosomi rilevati negli apici radicali. Infatti al termine della terza subcoltura sono stati rilevati i seguenti valori medi: a) coefficiente di moltiplicazione 3,5; b) altezza dei germogli ottenuti cm 4,5 e e) peso dei calli g 0,50 mentre dopo 28 subcolture si avevano, rispettivamente: 5,8, cm 3,5 e g 0,23. Tale comportamento  emerso anche dopo le successive subcolture (4 e 29) le quali hanno permesso inoltre di escludere l'esistenza di una correlazione fra coefficiente di moltiplicazione ed altezza dei germogli prodotti da quelli posti a proliferare. I germogli ottenuti in seguito al differente numero di subcolture hanno manifestato una capacit rizogenza pressoch uguale ad eccezione del parametro riguardante il numero medio di radici per piantina che  risultato superiore in quelle formate dopo 28 subcolture. L'indagine permette di concludere pertanto che i germogli di actinidia manifestano una buona stabilit genetica e non perdono la loro capacit morfogenetica anche se mantenuti per lungo tempo in fase di proliferazione. Anzi, l'incremento del coefficiente di moltiplicazione e la riduzione del peso dei calli basali rilevati all'aumentare del numero di subcolture denotano una buona adattabilit della cultivar esaminata alle condizioni di coltura "in vitro' Anche la progressiva diminuzione dell'altezza dei germogli  probabile sia la risposta al limitato volume dei vasi di coltura nei quali gli espianti sono ripetutamente "coltivati". Shoots of Actinidia cv Hayward subjected to repeated monthly subculturing for a period of over two years and those subcultured only 3-4 times were compared. Increase in the number of subcultures was accompained by an increase in multiplication rate, progressive decrease in shoot length and callus weight at the base of expiant, while rooting ability of shoots and number of chromosomes found in the root apex remained constant. The following mean values were registered after the third subculture: a. multiplication rate 3.5, b. shoot Ienght4.5 cm. and c. callus weight g 0.50, while after 28 subcultures these were 5.8, cm 3.5 and g 0.23 respectively. The same behaviour was found on expiants subjected to subsequent subcultures (4th and 29th) which showed in addition a no correlation between multiplication rate and shoot lenght. There was no significant difference in rooting ability in shoots obtained at different culture ages, except for the parameter: average number of roots per plantlet, which was higher in plantlets obtained after the 28th subculture. It seems therefore, that shoot of kiwi have good genetic stability and do not lose their morphogenetic capacity, even when kept for a long period of time in proliferation phase. The increase in multiplication rate and decrease in callus weight which accompained an increased number of subcultures show this cultivar's excellent ability in adapting to "in vitro" culturing conditions. The continuous decrease in shoot length is probably the explant's response to the limited space offered by the jars in which the expiants are repeatedly "cultured".
42878849|The degree of polyembryony in progenies of 88 citrus hybrids derived from crosses between monoembryonic 'Clementine' (C. reticulata Blanco) as seed parent, and Poncirus trifoliata Raf., sour orange (C. aurantium L.), and sweet orange cv 'Biondo comune. (C. sinensis (L.) Osbeck), all polyembryonic parents, was examined by embryo counts in 50 mature seeds collected from each tree in at least 2 consecutive years. Among all of the F hybrids from 3 crosses the ratio of poly embryonic (P) to monoembryonic (M) off-spring was nearly 1: 1. Considering also the previous results reported by several authors, a possible genetic basis for the inheritance of polyembryony is discussed. Such results permit the postulation that 3 principal dominant (P) genes control the occurrence of polyembryony, with P individuals being homozygous dominant, or at least heterozygous for all genes. M individuals therefore would carry all recessive homozygous genes, or 1 or 2 dominant heterozygous ones. Finally the results of this study and of some other postulate that 'Clementine' is recessive at all 3 loci. In questo studio  stato rilevato il grado di poliembrionia di 88 ibridi F derivanti da incroci fraclementine (C. reticulata Blanco) - genitore femminile monoembrionico - e Poncirus trifoliata Raf., arancio amaro (C. aurantium L.) e arancio dolce cv "Biondo comune" (C. sinensis (L.) Osbeck), tutti poliembrionici. Il conteggio degli embrioni  stato effettuato per ciascun individuo su 50 semi e per almeno due anni consecutivi. All'interno delle progenie esaminate il rapporto fra individui poliembronici (P) e monoembronici (M)  risultato molto vicino a 1: 1. Sulla base di questi risultati, nonch di quelli ottenuti in precedenza da altri autori, viene discussa una possibile base genetica dell'ereditariet del carattere poliembrionia. I risultati, nel complesso, consentono di ipotizzare che tre geni dominanti controllano la trasmissione ereditaria di tale carattere, per cui gli individui P possono essere dominanti omozigoti, oppure eterozigoti per 1, 2 o 3 geni. Gli individui M, a loro volta, possono essere recessivi omozigoti, oppure eterozigoti per 1 o 2 geni. Infine, sia i risultati di questo studio, che quelli di altri precedenti, fanno ipotizzare che nel clementine (M) i tre geni recessivi siano allo stato omozigote.
42878850|Hardwood cuttings of a new semidwarfing cherry rootstock (Prunus Cerasus L., cv. CAB. 4D), treated with basal heating and IBA, were compared and analysed during rooting. Dry matter, starch and soluble carbohydrate content and metabolism were determined. The dry matter weight decreased in IBA treated cuttings. Independently of the treatment of the cuttings, the total carbohydrate content drastically depleted before callusing, but the trend was stronger in the cuttings induced to root by IBA. The marked losses involved sucrose, glucose and sorbitol. In general, the stimulative effect of IBA in the rooting process seems to work through a resumption of metabolic activity, where water uptake and carbohydrate hydrolysis play a role of primary importance. Talee legnose di un nuovo portinnesto semidebole (Prunus Cerasus L., cv. CAB 4D), di difficile radicazione, poste a radicare in bancale riscaldato, previo trattamento con IBA 4.000 ppm, sono state analizzate durante la rizogenesi e comparate con talee del medesimo portinnesto non trattate con sostanze rizogene, per individuare l'effetto del regolatore auxinico sul metabolismo dei carboidrati. Le analisi chimiche e gas-croma to grafiche dei singoli carboidrati e dei polialcooli, hanno evidenziato che il trattamento con IBA ha determinato un incremento del grado d'idrataziune delle talee; una pi rapida e marcata diminuzione della sostanza secca e del complesso dei carboidrati, specialmente dell'amido e del saccarosio. Entrambi i fenomeni possono trovare riscontro nella accentuazione della attivit biochimica e meristematica che si verifica nelle talee indotte a radicare dal prodotto auxinico. Il confronto tra i risultati analitici delle talee trattate con IBA e quelle soggette a solo riscaldamento basale, evidenzia, nei due casi, un opposto andamento del contenuto di glucosio e di sorbitolo, zucchero alcool tipico di un gran numero di rosacee: il livello del primo  risultato costantemente pi basso, mentre quello del secondo sempre pi alto nelle talee di controllo non radicate. Probabilmente in queste ultime si verifica la conversione del glucosio in sorbitolo quando i tessuti cominciano a diventare senescenti e i processi riduttivi superano quelli ossidativi.
42878851|Sono qui descritte alcune metodiche di sterilizzazione sperimentate in alternativa a quella che prevede l'uso di alcool per il flambaggio dei ferri nei laboratori di micropropagazione. Gli sterilizzanti chimici saggiati (Benzalconio cloruro e Iodofori) non hanno dimostrato sufficiente efficacia, mentre una valida azione sterilizzante si  ottenuta con il solo flambaggio dei ferri. Quest'ultima metodica  da preferire qualora si vogliano eliminare i rischi connessi con l'uso di materiale altamente infiammabile quale  l'alcool, anche se occorre praticarla, nel caso di ferri molto inquinati, per almeno 10 secondi. E' stata attuata anche una verifica della temperatura raggiunta dai ferri quando si pratica il flambaggio, solo o in aggiunta alle altre pratiche di sterilizzazione. Vengono esclusi i rischi di intossicazione per inalazione di alcool etilico non denaturato. Different sterilization methods of the steels used in the micropropagation laboratories have been comparatively examinated with the aim to reduce the risks connected to flaming, alcohol - dripping steels. Two chemical disinfectants have been tested: Benzalkonium chloride 0.2% and Iodophores 0.5%, but their efficiency proved to be unsatisfactory, even when their application was followed by flaming. Flaming alone can be efficiently applied, but when steels highly infected the flaming time must be 10" long. Heating and cooling of flamed steels have been sistematically recorded in order to relate them to the different sterilization effects shown by tissue cultures. Alcohol vapours in the air flow were less than 300 ppm, while the MAC index for ethanol is 1,000 ppm.
42878852|Nella zona della Maremma Toscana sono state condotte prove sperimentali per valutare l'influenza che il CEPA (acido 2-cloroetilfosfonico) pu esercitare sulla biologia fiorale delle cultivar di olivo "Frantoio". Le piante sono state sottoposte nei mesi invernali degli anni 1978/79 e 1979/80 a trattamenti settimanali con CEPA a 200 ppm. I rilievi, effettuati nelle primavere successive ad ogni trattamento, hanno permesso di accertare che il fitoregolatore non ha provocato abscissione delle foglie di un anno e che invece ha esercitato un'azione "diretta" su alcuni aspetti della differenziazione a fiore e sulla allegagione. In particolare  risultato che riduce (di circa il 33%) l'entit di differenziazione a fiore; ritarda remissione delle mignole; riduce (di circa l'11% ) il numero medio di fiori per mignola e ritarda l'inizio della fioritura. Trials were conducted in the Tuscan region of Maremma to evaluate the eventual influence of CEPA (2-chloroethylphosfonic acid) on the flower biology of olive cv "Frantoio". In the winter months of 1978-'79 and '79-'80 the plants were treated weekly with 200 ppm CEPA. The data collected in the springs following the treatments show that the growth regulator has not brought about abscission of the one-year old leaves but carried out a "direct" action on some aspects of flower differentiation and set. Flower differentiation on the whole, in particular, was reduced by 33%; cluster emission delayed; flower distribution on the branch was not influenced; the average number of flower per cluster was reduced by 11%, flowering was delayed.
42878853|Dopo aver evidenziato la necessit di disporre, per il nostro Paese, di pregevoli cultivar di nettarine "costituite in Italia", viene riferito brevemente sui primi favorevoli risultati scaturiti dal programma di miglioramento genetico condotto sulle nettarine per l'ottenimento di nuove cultivar, in atto presso il Centro di studio del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose di Firenze. L'Autore passa poi a descrivere, nei dettagli, le principali caratteristiche agro-biopomologiche, morflologiche e mercantili della sua prima nuova cultivar di nettarina, denominata "Maria Laura", ottenuta a Firenze nel 1971, dalla autofecondazione della Flavortop", e selezionata a Follonica (Grosseto) nel 1976 sotto la sigla "F1-71. 073. 006". La "Maria Laura"  caratterizzata da una elevata e costante produttivit di frutti grossi, molto attraenti, assai serbevoli sia sulla pianta che in magazzino, con polpa gialla, venata di rosso, soda, spicca e di ottimo sapore. Essa matura i frutti nella stessa epoca della "Independence", ci nonostante si  dimostrata assai competitiva e certamente non inferiore alla "Independence", medesima. Per la "Maria Laura" il C.N.R. ha effettuato il deposito della domanda del brevetto d'invenzione. Pertanto questa nuova nettarina  tutelata dalle norme legislative che regolano la protezione delle novit vegetali. After dawing attention to the necessity of disposing appreciable nectarine cultivare "made in Italy", the author briefly outlines the first promising results obtained in the ambit of a breeding program carried out on nectarines by the Centro di studio sulla propagazione delle specie legnose del C.N.R. di Firenze. The main agronomic, pomological and marketing characteristics of a new nectarine cultivar, named "Maria Laura", are then described in detail. This new cultivar was obtained in Florence in 1971 by Bellini E., from self-pollination of "Flavortop" and then selected at FoUonica (Grosseto) in 1976 under the code number "FI-71.073.006". "Maria Laura's" characteristics are a high and constant production of large, very attractive fruits, which keep well on the plant and in storage. The fruits are firm, yellow fleshed, red veined, free stone and exquisitely flavoured. "Maria Laura" ripens at the same time as "Independence" and is very competitive and certainly not inferior to it. Patent is pending for this new nectarine cultivar.
42878536|Experiments were carried out on micropropagation of rose, using Rosa indica major expiants for the multiplication phase, in order to ascertain: a) the effects of different cytokinins, obtaining best results with BAP and Zeatin, although the latter produced a chlorotic appearance and a glassy consistency in the expiants; b) interaction between BAP, at a constant concentration, and IBA + GA, at different concentrations, which gave negative results, as it lowered multiplication rates compared to the BAP-treated control; c) interaction between 1 ppm BAP and ascorbic acid at different concentrations, which increased multiplication rates with ascorbic acid concentration of 4 and 8 ppm. Experiments carried out on the rooting phase were divided in two parts: in the first one, different substrates with IBA added at different levels were considered, using Rosa indica major expiants, obtaining highest rooting percentage (60%) using 0,05 ppm IBA. In the second part, extented also to cv "Lady X", growth regulators-free substrate were used, but treating the shoots at the base with water/alcohol IBA solutions at various concentrations before proceeding with the culture. With this last method the best results were obtained reaching the 85% of rooted expiants both with Rosa indica major and "Lady X". The experiments have placed in evidence the possibility of applying the micropropagation technique both to rootstockand rose cultivars. The technique, suitably adjusted, could help and eventually substitute the traditional one for obtainin rooted cuttings with indisputable technical and economic advantages.
42878537|A brief description of the cutting-graft technique and the histological transformation which occurs during the union of the two parts, were described in the olive tree, using a difficult-to-root scion and easy-to-root selected stock. Healing of the two parts remained attached without support. At 60 days, new vascular tissue appeared in the union zone, o-establishing connection between the two parts. At four months, a schlerenchymatic ring was -established in the union zone. Subsequently, nodules appeared in the healing zone, consisting of a ring of meristematic cells on the outside, suberized cells on the inside and sclerenchymatic cells at the center. The reason why such great two months, as compared with the non-grafted ones, is be cause vascular tissue forms at only about the second month, usually with a characteristic 'S' shape which establishes union between the two parts. Dopo una breve descrizione della tecnica di propagazione per innesto-talea, messa a punto per la moltiplicazione di cultivar di olivo di diffcile radicazione, viene esaminato il processo d'istogenesi d'innesto. La unificazione dei bionti avviene rapidamente: gi dal secondo giorno, soggetto e nesto si saldano. A 60 giorni sono ben evidenti i vasi di connessione fra i due bionti con andamento tipico ad "S", mentre l'anello sclerenchimatico compare, nella zona di saldatura, a 4 mesi circa dall'innesto. Successivamente, nel punto di unione, si evidenziano delle formazioni nodulari allungate, costituite da una zona esterna di cellule meristematiche, da una intermedia di cellule suberificate e da una centrale di cellule sclerenchimatiche. La osservazione sul processo istologico di saldatura dell'innesto, in questa particolare tecnica di propagazione dell'olivo, spiega perch  necessario porre gli innesti-talea in ambiente confinato, durante i primi 60 giorni, fino a quando cio non si  stabilita la connessione vascolare che assicura il regolare passaggio della linfa.
42878538|Sono descritti 9 casi fitopatologici nuovi o poco noti per la Toscana su piante da fiore e ornamentali. In particolare viene segnalato, per la prima volta in Italia, un disseccamento del Lauroceraso indotto da Sphaeropsis malorum e vengono descritti la "Ruggine" della Statice (Uromyces limonii), la "Necrosi dell infiorescenze" di Strelitzia reginae, & Fusarium sp., P" Antracnosi" della Dieffenbachia amoena da Collet o trichum gloeosporioides, la "Necrosi fogliare" su Dracena da Fusarium moniliforme, la "Verticilliosi" dclVAucuba japnica, il "Mal bianco "del Lupinus polyphyllus (Oidium sp.) e quello della Matthiola incana (Oidium matthiolae) e una "Moria" dei semenzali di Pino domestico da Fusarium solani. Nine new or rare phytopathological cases of flower and ornamental plants in Tuscany, Italy, are described. Particularly, it is recorded for the first time in Italy a dieback of cherry laurel caused by Sphaeropsis malorum, and are described the foil owing diseases: rust of Statice sinuata (Uromyces limonii), necrosis of inflorescences of Strelitzia reginae caused by Fusarium sp., anthracnose of Dieffenbachia amoena by Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, foliar necrosis of Dracaena deremensis by Fusarium moniliforme, verticillium wilt of Aucuba japnica, powdery mildew of Lupinus polyphyllus (Oidium sp.) and of Mat thiola incana (Oidium matthiolae), and damping off oiPinus pinea caused by Fusarium solani.
42878539|Vengono descritte le alterazioni causate da tre virus sul peperone: virus del mosaico del cetriolo (CMV), virus del mosaico dell'erba medica (AMV) e virus delPawizzimento della fava (BBWV). L'identificazione dei virus  avvenuta sulla scorta dei dati forniti da caratterizzazione biologica, osservazioni al microscopio elettronico e test sierologici. L'uso di piantetest ha permesso d'identificare tre ceppi di CMV e due di AMV differenziantisi tra loro oltre che per i sintomi prodotti sugli ospiti erbacei anche per quelli indotti sul peperone in pieno campo. Piccole variazioni tra i ceppi dei due virus sono state riscontrate anche nelle propriet in vitro. CMV e AMV sono stati trasmessi da Ai persicae e M. euphorbiae risultati ambedue buoni vettori senza differenze di rilievo. Le indagini epidemiologiche hanno permesso d'individuare il ruolo svolto da specie coltivate e spontanee nella diffusione dei tre virus. In particolare per il CMV sono stati identificati, quali ospiti spontanei, il Cirsium arvense e l'Heliotropium europaeum; per il BBWV il Melilotus neapolitana. E' stato accertato, inoltre, che i ceppi di CMV e AMV hanno una diversa diffusione nelle tre province prese in esame. Si  stabilito, inoltre, che in pieno campo le infezioni miste pi comuni sono quelle provocate da ceppi di CMV e virus Y della patata. Nessuna delle cultivar ed ibridi di peperone saggiati  risultata resistente al CMV; le piante, per, acquisiscono un'apprezzabile resistenza dopo la differenziazione del terzo fiore, in particolare nei confronti di alcuni ceppi. The diseases caused separately by CMV, AMV and BBWV on sweet pepper in Campania are described. The viruses were identified and characterized by test plant reactions, electron microscopical and serological investigations. On the basis of the symptoms and behavior on pepper and several hosts, three strains of CMV and two of AMV were identified. Slight differences were found in the in vitro properties among the strains of each vims CMV and AMV were experimentally transmitted, from pepper to pepper, by M. persicae and Macrosiphum euphorbiae-, both vectors were equally efficient. The epidemiological investigations, carried out in several areas, have shown the presence of some hosts of the viruses among cultivated and wild species; in particular, CMV was isolated from Cirsium arvense and Heliotropium europaeum, while AMV was present in Melilotus neapolitanta. There was also evidence that viral strains spread at different rates in each of the three considered provinces. Mixed infections were frequently found in the field and the most common was CMV plus potato virus Y. No one of the pepper cultivare and hybrids tested was resistant to CMV; however, the plants acquired a satisfactory resistance to the virus infection after the production of the third flower.
42878540|Sono riferiti e discussi i risultati di una prova condotta durante il biennio 1981-82 nella Piana del Sele (SA) con lo scopo di valutare la possibilit di produrre in loco patate da "seme" (cv. "Jaerla") facendo ricorso o meno alla pregermogliazione, ad irrorazioni con olio minerale ed al disseccamento anticipato dei cespi. I "tuberi-seme" riprodotti si sono rivelati virus-esenti. Riduzioni di resa hanno corrisposto ai trattamenti con olio ed alla distruzione dei cespi. La pregermogliazione ha determinato invece un aumento della produzione ed una minore percentuale di scarto. Results are reported on a field test carried out during 1981 and 1982 in the Sele river Plain (Salerno) to evaluate the possibility to obtain virus-free potato tubers (cv. "Jaerla". Effects of prc-sprouting, early haulm destruction and mineral oil sprays were examined. Both the tubers imported from the Netherlands and the tubers deriving from those from one years multiplication gave healthy plants. Yields and tuber size were increased by pre-eprouting; the other two treatments, on the contrary, reduced the yields: reductions of 5,0-15,0% were obtained after haulm destructions performed 10 or 20 days before the end of the cultivation period and of 5,0-11, 0% with oil concentrations of 1,5-3,0% respectively.
42878541|Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati di una prova effettuata durante il biennio 1981-82 nella Piana del Sele (Salerno) con lo scopo di ricavare indicazioni in merito al diserbo del pomodoro da concentrati trapiantato il quale viene localmente diserbato mediante sarchiature la cui esecuzione viene spesso dilazionata a causa della saturazione idrica del suolo. Sono stati posti a confronto, oltre al controllo lasciato inerbire, il diserbo meccanico e quello chimico con metribuzin (0,56 kg ha), attuati in una o due riprese, da soli o in combinazione. Le infestanti prevalenti erano Amaranthus retroflexus L., Portulaca olercea L., Chenopodium album L. e Setaria virtis (L.) Beauv. Tutti i trattamenti hanno contenuto il grado d'infestazione e determinato incrementi produttivi rispetto al controllo ma pi efficaci erano quelli che comportavano il doppio intervento. I migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti con il metribuzin applicato in pre-trapianto e successivamente in post--trapianto. Alcuna influenza ha esercitato il diserbo sulla precocit di maturazione. Results are reported on a field test carried out during 1981 and 1982 in the Sele river Plain (Salerno) to investigate the effects of weed control on transplanted tomatoes for processing; this is locally realized through an inter-row tillage which is very often del ay  cd owing to the rains. Besides unweeded control mechanical and chemical (metribuzin at 0,56 kg ha) weedings applied either once or twice, alone or together, were compared. The most important weeds were Amarantbus retroflexus L., Portulaca olercea L., Chenopodium album L. and Setaria viridis (L.) Beauv. All treatments reduced weed pressure and increased yields compared with control but the best ones were those carried out 30 days after transplanting and the treatments performed twice or together. Good long-term weed control and highest yields were obtained with metribuzin with two applications: the first incorporated before planting and the second post-transplanting. No effect on early ness was observed.
42878544|Dopo aver posto in evidenza la necessit di disporre per il nostro Paese di nuove pregevoli percoche a maturazione pi precoce di quelle esistenti, viene illustrato brevemente il programma di miglioramento genetico sul pesco, per l'ottenimento di nuove cultivar di percoche, in atto presso l'Istituto del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose di Firenze (gi centro di studio). L'Autore passa poi a descrivere dettagliatamente le caratteristiche agro--bio-pomologiche e tecnologiche della sua prima nuova percoca a maturazione precoce, denominata "Maria Serena", ottenuta a Firenze nel 1971 dalla autofecondazione di "Babygold 6" e selezionata a Follonica (GR) nel 1975 sotto la sigla "FI-71.041.054". La "Maria Serena"  caratterizzata essenzialmente dal colore del frutto, che si presenta completamente giallo-dorato, sia nella buccia che nella polpa. La produzione  buona e costante nel tempo; il frutto, di pezzatura media,  molto uniforme ed a maturazione assai contemporanea, consentendo di completare la raccolta in una o due "passate". L'elevata consistenza della polpa e la sua resistenza alle ammaccature, fanno presumere una buona attitudine dei frutti alla raccolta meccanica. Questa nuova percoca matura molto precocemente, cio circa 10-15 giorni prima della "Coronado", consentendo di anticipare di almeno 10 giorni il ciclo di lavorazione industriale delle pesche. Il prodotto sciroppato possiede un aspetto molto attraente, di colore giallo brillante uniforme, assai consistente, di sapore gradevole e caratteristico, mantenendo inalterate le sue pregevoli peculiarit a distanza di anni. La pianta presenta una buona resistenza alle minime termiche invernali ed alle malattie che colpiscono comunemente il pesco. Per la "Maria Serena" il C.N.R. ha effettuato il deposito della domanda del brevetto d'invenzione. Pertanto anche questa nuova cultivar  tutelata dalle norme legislative che regolano la protezione delle novit vegetali ed i diritti dei costitutori. The Author draws attention to the necessity of disposing of appreciable earlier ripening clingstone peach than the cultivars already existing, then briefly illustrates the breeding program being carried out at the "Istituto del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose di Firenze". The agronomie, pomological and technological characters of the first early ripening clingstone peach, named ''Maria Serena" are described in detail. This new cultivar was obtained in Florence by Bellini E., from self-fecundation of "Babygold 6" and later selected in Follonica (GR) in 1975 under the code number of "FI-71.041.054". " Maria Serena's" chief characteristic is a completely yellow golden colour of both skin and flesh. The production is good and constant in time, the fruits are medium sized, uniform, and ripen simultaneously allowing complete harvesting in two "rounds". The high consistency of the flesh and its resistance to brusing presumably qualify the fruit suitable for mechanical harvesting. This new clingstone peach ripens very early, that is, roughly 10-15 days earlier than "Colorado" forwarding by 10 days the industrial processing cycle. The processed fruit has a very attractive appearance, a brilliant yellow uniform colour, a good consistency an exquisite characteristic flavour which remains unaltered for many years. The plant shows winter hardiness and is not particularly susceptible to the usual peach diseases. For this new cultivar a patent is pending.
42878545|Studies were conducted to induce rooting in the stem cuttings of Poinciana rgia Boj., a difficult to root plant with the aid of growth substance and girdling of mother shoots. Growth substances or girdling alone failed to produce any root in the cuttings. Application of IBA 10,000 ppm in lanolin paste in the girdled mother shoots, and pre-planting treatment of these cuttings with IBA 6000 and 10,000 ppm three weeks after girdling, resulted in 60.0 to 66.6 per cent rooting in cuttings, and cent per cent survival of the rooted cuttings. Sono stati condotti studi con l'ausilio di fitoregolatori e della decorticazione anulare dei rami delle piante madri per stimolare la radicazione in talee di ramo di Poinciana rgia Boj. I fitoregolatori e la decorticazione anulare da soli non sono riusciti a promuovere la radicazione delle talee. Con l'applicazione di IBA a 10.000 ppm in pasta di lanolina nella zona della decorticazione anulare ed il trattamento delle talee con IBA a 6.000 e 10.000 ppm, tre settimane dopo la decorticazione,  stato ottenuto il 60 -66% di talee radicate con una sopravvivenza del 100%.
42878546|Estimation of multiple regression coefficients by ridge regression was developed to untangling the multicollinearity among variables in wine grapes. The resulting standard partial regression coefficients B (K) can be plotted against K in a graph called a ridge trace. The ridge trace depicts the instability of variables in wine grapes. The results suggest that B  pH, pH and B are stable characters and might be considered as quality factors of wine grapes in warm area. I coefficienti di regressione multipla calcolati col metodo della regressione "Ridge", sono stati impiegati per spiegare la multicollinearit tra 5 caratteri in 10 cultivars di uve da vino con bassa ed elevata produzione. I coefficienti (B (K)) parziali standardizzati di regressione, calcolati per i diversi caratteri, sono stati riportati in un diagramma (Ridge Trace), che configura la stabilit o instabilit dei caratteri considerati. I risultati ottenuti suggeriscono che B  pH, pH, e il grado rifrattometrico (B) sono caratteri stabili e potrebbero essere considerati come fattori di qualit delle uve da vino in ambienti caldi.
42878547|Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati di una sperimentazione biennale effettuata in provincia di Salerno al fine di accertare la densit di investimento e la tecnica di cimatura pi idonea per la coltivazione del pomodoro in serra. Sono state confrontate due modalit di cimatura (al di sopra della terza o della sesta infiorescenza) e tre densit di investimento (2,8-4,2 e 8,3 piante per m) ottenute lasciando invariate la distanza fra le file (80 cm) e distanziando opportunamente le piante sulla fila (45-30 e 15 cm). L'aumento della densit d'investimento ha determinato incrementi significativi delle rese nonostante la diminuzione del numero di bacche per pianta e del peso medio delle stesse. La cimatura alla terza infiorescenza, invece, pur avendo determinato una riduzione delle rese, ha influito favorevolmente sulla precocit della produzione e sul peso medio delle bacche. In order to obtain information on planting distances and pruning methods for early tomatoes grown in polyethylene house two years' trials were carried out in Southern Italy. Three spacing (2,8-4,2 and 8,3 plants per sq. m) combined with two degrees of pruning (3 o 6 trusses per plant) were compared on the tomato variety Blazer. No marked interaction was apparent between effects of spacing and pruning. A wider spacing of 80  45 cm gave a greater number of fruits per plant and mean weight per individual fruit than 80  30 and 80  15 cm spacing but total and marketable yield per unit area were increased by closer spacing. Plants stopped after 6th truss produced greater yields than those stopped after the 3th. Howewer earlier yields were produced by plants with reduced number of trusses per plants. In order to obtain high early yields a close planting of 80  15 cm and a pruning after 3th truss in reccommended.
42878548|In questa indagine si  valutata la possibilit di esaltare la potenzialit rizogena delle talee delle cvs "Hayward" e "Bruno" e di un biotipo staminifero anonimo, mediante riscaldamento basale (22-24 C) ed applicazione di fitoregolatori (IBA e NAA) a differenti concentrazioni. Per l'impollinatore i trattamenti con IBA e NAA a 2.000 ppm sono stati gi sufficienti a indurre una soddisfacente percentuale di radicazione (70%) e la formazione di un apparato radicale abbondante e ben sviluppato, mentre sono state necessarie concentrazioni pi elevate per la cv "Hayward" (75% di radicazione con IBA a 6.000 ppm e 95% con NAA a 4.000 e 6.000 ppm) e per la cultivar "Bruno" (60% di radicazione con IBA a 4.000 e 6.000 ppm e 75-85% con NAA a 4.000 e a 6.000 ppm). Significativa si  dimostrata anche l'influenza del calibro delle talee sull'attivit rizogena: infatti le talee con diametro compreso tra 5 e 8 mm hanno fornito i migliori risultati, mentre quelle con calibro superiore a 12 mm non hanno assolutamente radicato. Possibility to improve the hardwood cuttings rooting ability has been investigated in the cvs. "Hayward" and "Bruno" and in an unnamed staminate clone by planting these cuttings in a heated bed (22-24 C) and by treating them with growth regulators (IBA and NAA) at different concentrations. IBA and NAA at 2,000 ppm increased up to a satisfactory level (70%) the rooting percentage of the pollinator clone planting also the formation of well develop root system. Higher concentrations have been necessary to reach similar results in cv "Hayward" (75% with IBA at 6,000 ppm and 95% with NAA at 4,000 and 6,000 ppm) and in cv "Bruno" (60% with IBA at 4,000 and 6,000 ppm and 75-85% with NAA at 4,000 and 6,000 ppm). The cuttings width has shown a significant influence on the rooting: in cv "Hayward" the thinnest cuttings (5-8 mm diameter) gave the best results, while thickest ones (more than 12 mm in diameter) did not root at all.
42878549|Si  effettuata la coltura degli ovuli in due specie di agrumi (C. sinensis e C. deliciosa) procedendo ad una semina scalare dalla pre-antesi a circa 60 giorni dalla piena fioritura. Ad ogni semina si sono fatte inoltre, le osservazioni microscopiche su una aliquota di ovuli per accertare lo stadio di sviluppo raggiunto dagli stessi in quel periodo. Da ogni prelievo sono stati ottenuti callo, embrioni e piantine, ma, i migliori risultati sono da ascriversi ad un periodo di tempo compreso tra i 40 e i 60 giorni dalPantesi. C. sinensis and C. deliciosa ovules, at different stages of development, were cultured on sterile Murashige and Tuker medium supplied with lmg/l of malt extract and 1% of Agar. Friable embryogenetic calli obtained from the cultured ovules after different time correlated with the stage of ovules. The embryogenetic calli were trasplanted in sterile M-T medium supplemented with IAA lmg/l and kinetine O. lmg/l. Also, in order to study the development stage, ovules were fixed in cromopropionic-phormaldeid, embedded in paraplast following the method of Johansen (1940) and stained with Heidenain hematoxiline. Several embryos were obtained from subcultured friable calli and several seedlings from embryos, but a larger quantity of embryos have been obtained from ovules cultured at 40-60 days from an thesis.
42878550|Ten almond (" Prunus Amygdalus L. Batsch") cultivars growing in the Tuscan coastal area of Italy were treated with Ethrel and/or shaken mechanically. Mechanical shaking gave the best percentage increase of nut removal only on cultivars where the main production was on one year shoots. Total fruit removal was induced only on 'Peerless' and 'Ne Plus Ultra', and only by mechanical shaking. Total removal was obtained by hand picking, but it required more time (9 to 60% ) than mechanical shaking. Chemical treatment alone on 'Ne Plus Ultra', 'Davey' and 'Yaltano' produced 16 to 20% removal. However, if followed by mechanical shaking, fruit removal was increased from 80 to 100%. Prove di raccolta meccanica e chimica sono state effettuate su 10 cultivar di mandorlo, coltivate in Maremma toscana. Dai risultati esposti emerge come la raccolta meccanica permetta di incrementare in generale le rese di raccolta su quelle cultivar caratterizzate dal fruttificare principalmente sui rami di un anno; solo sulla 'Ne Plus Ultra' e 'Peerless'  stata raccolta meccanicamente la totalit del prodotto. Con la raccolta chimica, effettuata, con Ethrel, sono state ottenute rese di raccolta molto basse (da 16% a 20%); solo la sua associazione alla raccolta meccanica ha permesso di incrementare le rese di raccolta passando d ali' 80% al 100% di frutti cascolati.
42878551|E' stata saggiata in vaso la reazione di 14 cloni ibridi F di Prunus davidiana  Prunus persica ad una popolazione del nematode galligeno Meloidogyne incognita (Kofoid et White) Chitw. Tutti i cloni sono risultati immuni all'attacco del nematode. L'analisi genetica del clone 420/3, condotta sulla progenie F, ottenuta per autofecondazione, ha confermato che la resistenza & Meloidogyne incognita  monofattoriale dominante. The reaction of 14 F hybrids of Prunus davidiana  Prunus persica to a nematode population of Meloidogyne incognita (Kofoid et White) was evaluated. All the clones, were immune to the nematode attack. The genetic analysis of 420/3 clone carried out on the F progeny, obtained by self fertilization, has confirmed the Meloidogyne incognita resistance to be monofactorial dominant.
42878615|Viene riferito brevemente sui primi risultati scaturiti dal programma di miglioramento genetico del pesco, per l'ottenimento di nuove cultivar pregevoli, in atto presso il centro di studio del C.N.R. (ora Istituto) sulla propagazione delle specie legnose di Firenze. Dopo aver ricordato la recente diffusione delle quattro nuove cultivar: "Maria Bianca" (pesca a polpa bianca), "Maria Luisa" (pesca a polpa gialla), "Maria Laura" (nettarina a polpa gialla) e "Maria Serena" (pesca da industria); l'Autore passa a descrivere dettagliatamente la sua seconda cultivar di nettarina denominata "Maria Emilia", ottenuta a Firenze nel 1973 dall'autoincrocio di "May Grand", isolata a Firenze nel 1978 con la sigla "FI-73.199.001" e valutata nei campi di orientamento di Follonica (GR) e di Faenza (RA). La "Maria Emilia" emerge sulla "May Grand" per una pi regolare ed elevata produttivit di pregevoli frutti, uniformemente distribuiti sui diversi tipi di rami a frutto. L'elevata resistenza dei frutti sulla pianta, la contemporaneit della maturazione, l'aspetto molto attraente della buccia, la particolare compattezza della polpa gialla (che matura nella stessa epoca della "May Grand") e l'elevato contenuto organolettico, rendono questa nuova cultivar meritevole di essere "provata" negli ambienti peschicoli in cui  stasta valutata ed in quelli di coltura della sua genitrice "May Grand". Anche per la "Maria Emilia"  stato effettuato dal C.N.R. il deposito della domanda del brevetto d'invenzione. Per cui questa nuova nettarina  tutelata dalle vigenti norme legislative che regolano la protezione delle novit vegetali. The first results obtained by the experiments carried out at the Centro di Studio del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose di Firenze in the ambit of a peach breeding program are briefly described. The Author mentions the four new cultivars recently diffused: "Maria Bianca" (white flesh peach), "Maria Luisa" (yellow flesh peach), "Maria Laura" (yellow flesh nectarine) and "Maria Serena" (peach for processing) then goes on describing in detail his second nectarine cultivar named "Maria Emilia", obtained in Florence in 1973 from self-crossing of "May Grand", isolated in Florence in 1978 under the code n. FI-73.199.001 and tested in the trial fields in Follonica (GR) and Faenza (RA). "Maria Emilia" surpasses "May Grand" with a better and more regular productivity of high quality fruits uniformly distributed on the different types of fruit branches. The high resistance of the fruits on the plant, the simultaneous ripening, the very attractive appearance of the skin, the particularly compact texture of its yellow flesh (which ripens at the same time as May Grand) and the high organoleptic contents make this new cultivar well-worth "trying" by peach growers in the zones where it has been tested and where "May Grand" is being grown. A patent is pending for this new nectarine cultivar.
42878616|Investigations on the effect of temperature and light regimes on the course of the germination process and the germination energy of seeds were carried out using 11 medicinal and spices plants. The laboratory germinative characteristics of the seed of this group have not been given much study in the past by seed analysts. Although the sale of medicinal and spices plants is regulated under special laws, there are no germination standards to follow for these specificic crops. Furthermore no officinal rules for testing seed exists; however I.S.T.A. has recently proposed for several of them non-prescriptive recommendations for substratum, temperature, duration of test and additional direction. This research was carried out in order to determine the ideal or optimum germinative conditions for these species.
42878617|Sono riferiti e discussi i risultati di un'indagine condotta durante il biennio 1981-82 nella Piana del Sele (Salerno) con l'obiettivo di valutare, tramite scerbature periodiche, i rapporti di competitivit che vengono ad instaurarsi tra malerbe e pomodoro da industria nel corso di quattro cicli colturali realizzati mediante semine effettuate ad intervalli quindicinali (1/4, 15/4, 1/5, 15/5). I rendimenti per ettaro sono diminuiti a misura veniva ritardata l'epoca di semina ed in conseguenza dell'azione competitiva esercitata dalle infestanti. Quest'ultima diveniva particolarmente marcata tra i 30 ed i 45 giorni successivi alla semina. Results are reported about a test carried out during 1981 and 1982 in the Sele river Plain to estimate, through periodical handweedings, competition between weeds and processing tomatoes during four cultural cycles realized by means of sowings executed at fortnight's intervals (1/4, 15/4, 1/5 and 15/5). Yields were reduced as the sowing was delayed and according to the interference of the weeds. Weed competition became particularly noxious between 30 and 45 days after the sowing.
42878618|Aged cell suspension cultures of carrot may lose theire embryogenic capability. In order to recover this potentiality, a non-embryogenic carrot suspension culture was cloned by protoplast isolation and plating, and selection for colour and friability performed on the regenerating colonies. Some of them originated friable suspension cultures which, in appropriate conditions, recovered embryogenic capability. In these cultures a concomitant increase of the content in diploid cells was observed. Methodology and singificance of this approach to, in some extent, a "cell renewal", are hereby reported. Spesso colture in sospensione di carota iniziate da molto tempo, perdono la loro capacit embriogenica. Per recuperare questa caratteristica, una coltura in sospensione di Daucus carota iniziata nel 1977  stata clonata mediante isolamento di protoplasti e selezione per friabilit e colore delle colonie rigenerate derivate da singola cellula. Fra i cloni isolati, alcuni hanno dato origine a nuove colture in sospensione caratterizzate da alta friabilit e da un brillante colore giallo. Queste colture, in condizioni appropriate, hanno dimostrato una recuperata capacit embriogenica. A questa caratteristica era inoltre associata una aumentata percentuale di cellule diploidi nella coltura. Di quattro cloni scelti per l'omogeneit delle unit cellulari costituenti, il clone 7  stato usato come fonte per l'isolamento di protoplasti. In questo caso l'efficienza di piastramento avuta raggiungeva il 70% e nelle colture in sospensione originate dalle colonie riselezionate per gli stessi caratteri, la frequenza delle cellule diploidi raggiungeva il 90%. A questo era associata una pi alta capacit embriogenica.
42878619|Gli autori riportano esperienze sulla induzione "in vitro" di piante di Ipomoea batatas da colture di apici. La specie  perennante e "in vivo" sviluppa dal tubero molte radici e germogli non ramificati; le gemme ascellari dei germogli, infatti, si sviluppano solo se  rimossa la gemma apicale. La induzione di piante da gemme ascellari e apicali  stata ottenuta da colture su mezzo minerale agarizzato addizionato di particolari combinazioni di ormoni (AIA + Kin o NAA + Kin) con luce ad intensit di 1200 lux e con fotoperiodo di 14h di luce + 10h di buio. Dopo 3-4 settimane, il 90-95% degli apici produce un piccolo callo, molte radici ed un unico germoglio per ogni apice. Con successivo trapianto su MS con IBA per ca. 60 gg. i germogli radicati aumentano in lunghezza e sviluppo e sono pronti per essere trasferiti in terreno. Microscopicamente sono osservabili, alla base del germoglio preferenziale, gemme avventizie neoformate che non si sviluppano, probabilmente inibite dalla dominanza apicale. In coltura non  stato possibile rimuovere tale inibizione con i diversi componenti saggiati e quindi ottenere pi piantine da ciascun meristema. The objective of this study was the induction "in vitro" of Ipomoea batatas plants from meristem tips. The species is perennial and "in vivo" develops many roots and unbranched shoots from the tuber, axillary buds developing only if the apical bud is removed. The induction of plants from axillary and apical meristem tips is obtained on Murash. and Skoog agar medium supplemented with particular hormonal components (IAA + Kin or NAA + Kin) in the light (1200 lux). After 4 weeks, 90-95% of tips develop a small callus, one shoot and many roots. With a following transplantation on the M.S. medium with IBA during 60 days, the plants grow in length and are ready to be planted into the ground. But adventious buds which in culture are mycroscopically observed at the base of the preferential shoot, are probably prevented from developing by the apical dominance. It was impossible as regards our observations to remove this inhibition and obtain more plants from each meristem tip.
42878622|Viene evidenziata la carenza nell'attuale assortimento varietale italiano di idonee cultivar di nettarine a maturazione tardiva, e le possibilit offerte a questo riguardo dall'attuazione del programma sul miglioramento genetico del pesco, in atto presso il gi Centro di studio del C.N.R.(ora Istituto) sulla propagazione delle specie legnose di Firenze. Dopo aver richiamato la recente diffusione delle cinque nuove cultivar ottenute a Firenze e cio: "Maria Bianca" (pesca a polpa bianca), "Maria Luisa" (pesca a polpa gialla), "Maria Laura" (nettarina a polpa gialla), "Maria Serena" (pesca da industria), "Maria Emilia" (nettarina a polpa gialla), l'Autore si accinge a descrivere dettagliatamente la sua terza cultivar di nettarina denominata "Maria Aurelia". Questa nuova nettarina  stata ottenuta a Firenze nel 1973 dall'auto incrocio di "Stark RedGold", isolata a Firenze nel 1978 con la sigla "F1-73. O75. OO3" e valutata comparativamente nei campi di orientamento varietali di Follonica (GR) e di Faenza (RA). La "Maria Aurelia"  caratterizzata da un vigore medio e di tipo compatto; da una elevata produzione di frutti grossi, sferoidali, di colore rossodorato molto attraente, con polpa gialla assai resistente, di squisito sapore e spicca. I frutti della "Maria Aurelia" sono altres caratterizzati: dalla maturazione contemporanea, la cui raccolta pu completarsi anche in due sole "passate"; dalla elevata "tenuta" e resistenza, sia sulla pianta che nel magazzino di cernita e lavorazione; dalla spiccata serbevolezza nella frigoconservazione.La tardiva epoca di maturazione dei frutti, che si raccolgono una settimana dopo quelli della "Fantasia", e la loro spiccata serbevolezza sia sulla pianta che in frigorifero, conferiscono alla "Maria Aurelia" pregevoli doti e una maggiore garanzia nella favorevole commercializzazione del prodotto. Come per le precedenti nuove nettarine, anche per la "Maria Aurelia" il C.N.R. ha effettuato il deposito della domanda del brevetto d'invenzione. Pertanto questa nuova cultivar  tutelata dalle vigenti leggi che regolano la protezione delle novit vegetali. The lack in the actual Italian varietal assortment of suitable late nectarine cultivars is placed in evidence and the outcome of the peach breeding program being carried out by the Centro di Studio del C.N.R. (now Institute) sulla propagazione delle specie legnose is outlined. The author recalls the recent diffusion of this five new cultivars obtained in Florence namely: "Maria Bianca" (white flesh peach); "Maria Luisa" (yellow flesh peach); "Maria Laura" (yellow flesh nectarine); "Maria Serena" (canning peach) an "Maria Emilia" (yellow flesh nectarine) and proceeds to describe his third nectarine cultivar named "Maria Aurelia". This new cultivar was obtained in Florence in 1973 from self-cross of "Stark RedGold", isolated in Florence under the code number of " FI-73.075.003" and comparatively evaluated in the trial fields of Follonica (GR) and Faenza (RA). "Maria Aurelia" is characterised by a compact-type medium vigour, high production of large spheroid fruits, of an attractive golden red colour, with a resistant exquisitely flavoured, yellow flesh, and free stone. Other characteristics are: simultaneous ripening, which enables harvesting in just two "runs", a good "hold" and resistance, both on the plant and in selection storage and a remarkable keeping quality in cold-cell storage. The late ripening fruits, which are harvested a week later than "Fantasia" and their remarkable keeping quality both on the plant and in the refrigerator are "Maria Aurelia's" assets and a guarantee of a favourable commercialisation of the product. A patent is pending for this new cultivar.
42878623|A method to inoculate with Monilia laxa peach, nectarines, plum and apricot flowers is described. The infection has been established by spraying a water suspension of conidia to opened flowers of cut branches; these have been then kept in controlled environmental conditions. The earliest peach blooming cultivars"Camden","Favorita Morettini III", "Springtime" showed the highest susceptibility, as well as the Japanese plums "Beauty" and "Ozark Premier". The european plum "Siemilianika", characterized by a late blooming, was not susceptible. The nectarine "Nectared 3" seemed to be the most resista. Among the apricots only "Canino" and "Gabrielle Bergeron" showed symptoms due to the artificial infection. E' descrtto un metodo di infezione artificiale dei fiori di alcune cultivar di pesco, nettar in a, susino e albicocco, che consiste nell'inoculazione, mediante nebulizzazione di una sospensione acquosa di conidi, di fiori aperti su talee di rami tenuti in condizioni controHate. Le cultivar di pesco pi precoci ("Camden","Favorita Morettini. III",'Springtime') sono risultate pi suscettibili. Anche i susini di tipo giapponese sono risultati meno resistenti di "Siemilianika", di tipo europeo, a fioritura tardiva. "Nectared 3"  stata la pi resistente tra le nettarine saggiate. Sulle cultivar di albicocco "Canino" e "Gabrielle Bergeron" si  sviluppato solo il ceppo proveniente dalla stessa matrice.
42878624|Si  accertato che la repressivit di alcuni terreni liguri'nei confronti della tracheofusariosi del garofano, causata da Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi,  di origine microbiologica essendo distrutta dalla disinfezione a vapore. La miscela di percentuali ridotte (2-10% ) di tali terreni con terreni "permissivi" innesca la repressivit in questi ultimi: questo fenomeno tende ad accentuarsi con il tempo. Viene discussa la possibile applicazione pratica di tali risultati nell'ambito di un sistema di lotta integrata contro questa grave malattia del garofano. The mechanism of suppression to Fusarum oxysporum f. sp. dianthi of soils collected in Liguria (Northen Italy) was demonstrated to be biological control. The addition of small (2-10%) percentages of these suppressive to conducive soils induced significant decreases in the incidente of carnation wilt. Over a 2-year period reduction in disease incidence was increased by repeated plantings of carnation rooted cuttings in these mixtures of conducive and suppressive soils. These results suggest that suppressiveness is induced through mechanisms associated with biological control, i. e. they suggest that the active factor multiplied in soil in time and thus conferred suppressiveness to a previously conducive soil. The possibility of application of these suppressive soils as a mean of integrated control of Fusarium-wilt of carnation is discussed.
42878625|Vengono riportati i risultati conseguiti nel corso di una serie di prove condotte dal 1979 al 1982 allo scopo di saggiare la resistenza di 112 cultivar di garofano nei confronti di otto patotipi di Fusarium oxysporum f. sp.dianthi ritrovati in Italia. E' stata messa in evidenza l'estrema uniformit di comportamento delle cultivar appartenenti all'ecotipo americano, e la notevole variabilit di suscettibilit nell'ambito dell'ecotipo mediterraneo, dei "miniatures" e dei "midi" e "mini" a fiore unico. Una sola cultivar ("Duca")  risultata completamente resistente verso tutti i patotipi, mentre un numero soddisfacente di cultivar ha presentato resistenza verso 6 o 7 degli otto patotipi. Numerose sono risultate anche le variet dotate di resistenza parziale: viene discussa la possibilit di utilizzare tale materiale come uno dei sistemi da adottare nell'ambito della lotta integrata contro la tracheofusariosi. The results of several experimental trials aimed to test the resistance of 112 carnation varieties to 8 pathotypes of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi are referred. The american varieties showed a strong uniformity of behaviour; while mediterranean, miniatures adn "midi" varieties showed a large variability in resistance. Only one variety (" Duca") was resistant to all pathotypes, and a large number showed resistance to 6 or 7 pathotypes. Many varieties showed partial resistance to many pathotypes: the possibility of using these varieties as a mean of integrated control is discussed.
42878626|Gli Autori presentano una serie di dati-base relativi ai residui di potatura dei frutteti e dei vigneti in rapporto alle prospettive di un loro utilizzo per sostituire il gasolio o il metano nelle utenze agricole e, in particolare, nel riscaldamento delle abitazioni rurali. Sulla base di rilievi condotti in frutteti e vigneti dell'Emilia-Romagna viene quantificata la "produzione" media annua di biomassa legnosa dell'albicocco, del melo, del pero, del pesco, del susino e della vite. Per ciascuna specie viene indicato il valore calorico ed il contenuto in macroelementi del legno di potatura. Elaborando i dati si prospettano quindi i risparmi energetici consenguibili utilizzando i residui di potatura per l'alimentazione di impianti termoidraulici. Vengono infine indicate le superfici a frutteto ed a vigneto occorrenti per soddisfare in modo autonomo l'alimentazione di centrali termiche di differente potenzialit. On the basis of the data recorded in sixty orchards and vineyards of Emilia Romagna, the woody biomass yearly "produced" by pruning has been determined; it ranges from 2 t/ha (grapevines) up to 5,7 t/ha (pears.) The average water content of this biomass is 50% at the gathering and 30% after 1 month of air drying. By using pruned wood to feed boilers 20,000 50,000 kcal/h for 2,100 hours/year, 5.2 up to 13 tep could be saved; however 6 to 60 hectares of fruit trees or vines are required to supply the pruned wood necessary to replace, in these conditions, the fossil fuel.
42878627|Con la presente ricerca si  inteso verificare la possibilit di ottenere lo sviluppo "in vitro" di embrioni privati dei cotiledoni di J. regia, confrontando, nel medesimo tempo, l'effetto di 7 differenti combinazioni di sali minerali (impiegate sia a concentrazione standard che dimezzata) sulla crescita degli espianti. Una efficace sterilizzazione (inquinamento pari allo 0,27% )  stata ottenuta immergendo per 10 minuti gli embrioni senza cotiledoni in una soluzione di NaClO allo 0,6% di CI attivo. In nessuna coltura si  osservata l'emissione nel substrato di composti fenolici. Nei riguardi dello sviluppo della parte epigea, i risultati migliori si sono ottenuti con il substrato MS (contenente i sali minerali di Murashige e Skoog, 1962); per la parte ipogea il substrato pi efficace si  invece dimostrato quello contenente i sali minerali del substrato B5 di Gamborg et al. (1968). La BAP, impiegata in aggiunta al substrato MS, non ha prodotto nelle colture alcuna proliferazione di germogli, ha anzi inibito la crescita degli embrioni. Sulla base delle prime risultanze ottenute, la coltura asettica di embrioni privati dei cotiledoni di J. regia appare quindi di utile applicazione per l'approfondimento delle conoscenze relative al comportamento "in vitto" della specie in questione. Juglans regia L. excised embryos have been sterilized with a solution of NaCIO (0,6 active Cl) for 10 minutes and rinsed twice in sterile distilled water. Expiants have been placed on agar media in 150  16 mm tubes. All media contained (mg/1): biotine 0,1 ; Ca pantothenate 1; pyridoxine 1; th iam ine 1; nicotinic acid 1 ; myo-inositol 200; sucrose 20,000; agar 6,000; pH was adjusted to 5.5 before autoclaving. Seven different mineral salts solutions (both full and half strenght concentration) have been compared. Only 0.27% of cultures were contaminated; embryos germinability was 100% ; no phenolic compounds have been detected in the media. The best results in terms of plantlets growth have been obtained with media MS, B5, BE and KN (for symbols see table 1), containing respectively mineral salts of Murashige and Skoog (1962), Gamborg et al. (1968), Bellarosa (1982) and Knop solution at the full concentration. Unfavourable effects on plant growth have been observed when BAP was added to the media.
42878628|Si riferiscono i risultati di prove di radicamento, condotte su talee di Ficus elastica. Le talee erano costituite da una foglia con gemma ascellare, inserita su una porzione di legno della lunghezza di 3.0 cm (0.5 cm sopra l'inserzione della foglia e 2.5 cm sotto). Percentuali di radicazione elevate sono state ottenute con materiale prelevato dalla parte pi giovane dei rami, ad eccezione delle talee di apice. Con materiale prelevato verso la parte pi prossimale dei rami i risultati sono apparsi via via pi modesti. L'impiego dell'NAA ha permesso di aumentare la percentuale di radicazione, soprattutto nelle talee dotate di minore potenziale rizogenetico endogeno. I migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti con trattamenti a 1000 ppm. Oltre tali dosi, l'auxina ha mostrato un'ulteriore apprezzabile attivit nello stimolare la radicazione, ma un concomitante effetto negativo sull'accrescimento del germoglio. Tra i materiali costituenti i substrati sperimentali, torba, sabbia e torba + sabbia in uguale rapporto volumetrico hanno fornito i risultati migliori; per contro, la vermiculite  apparsa il prodotto meno idoneo. The cuttings (leaf, bud and 3.0 cm of stem) were rooted in a greenhouse under an intermittent mist system; the substrate had a temperature of 20  2C and the air of about 20C during the cold season; in the warm season no cooling system was available. In the first experiment, which started on November 1977, were compared the effects of leaf age (cuttings were drawn progressively farther off the apexes), 3 levels of NAA (-naphthalenacetic acid) (o - 2000 - 4000 ppm) and 4 substrates (sand, peat, sand + peat 1:1 v/v, vermiculite) factorially combined. The results pointed out that only distal cuttings, except the apexes, were able to root easily.NAA at 1000 ppm increased rooting percentage mostly in the cuttings with low endogenous ability.The highest levels of NAA showed a lower effect. Sand gave the best results in rooting percentage, root number, shoot length, but not for root length; the worst results were recorded with the vermiculite. The second experiment started on June 1978. In order to establish optimum NAA concentration required for rooting, 0 - 50 - 100 - 200 - 300 - 400 - 500 - 1000 -2000 ppm levels of NAA were compared. Root number increased with the doses of NAA as well as shoot length; however, in the first period, at 2000 ppm level, shoot elongation was delayed. In the third experiment, cuttings were collected in July 1981; they were distinguished as to the drawing zone in the stem and treated with increasing doses of NAA (0 - 1000 - 2000 - 3000 - 4000 ppm). According to the results of the first trial, rooting percentage raised from apexes to the leaves immediately belw and descreased slowly up to the 24th leaf. Root number showed the same trend. Good results were obtained with NAA up to 3000 ppm, while the last dose appeared slightly phytotoxic. For achievement in nursery, the Authors suggest applications of NAA about 1000 ppm, with graduatili of doses in relation to the age of leaf-bud cutting.
42878631|Vengono riportate le variazioni del potenziale idrico fogliare registrate nella cultivar." Ascolana tenera" di olivo in relazione all'apporto di volumi idrici differenti. In particolare il piano sperimentale prevedeva:  restituzione del 100% dell'ETM (calcolata con vasca evaporimetrica di classe A e kc di 0,42);  restituzione del 60% dell'ETM;  restituzione del 30% dell'ETM;  controllo non irrigato. I potenziali idrici fogliari (rilevati a fine turno e prima del sorgere del sole) si sono differenziati in misura rilevante e hanno oscillato entro i seguenti intervalli:  100% ETM: tra -2,5 e -4,5 bar;  60% ETM: tra -3,0 e -6,0 bar;  30% ETM: tra -3,0 e -7,0 bar;  controllo: tra -3,5 e -9,5 bar. Le piante che hanno ricevuto solo il 30% dell'ETM e quelle del controllo hanno mostrato di accrescersi in misura inferiore e di produrre drupe con caratteristiche morfo-qualitative di minore pregio (dimensioni ridotte, meno favorevole rapporto polpa/nocciolo e maggiore percentuale di sostanza secca). Nelle condizioni ambientali in cui si  svolta l'esperienza, lo stato idrico ottimale delle piante corrispondeva a valori di potenziale idrico fogliare non inferiori a -5 bar, mentre -7, -9 bar indicavano un'insufficiente disponibilit di acqua nel terreno e la presenza di uno stato di stress. The changes of leaf water potential in "Ascolana tenera" olive variety were compared in relation to different seasonal water volumes. The following irrigation volumes were tested:  100% ETM as measured by Class A evaporative pan and kc of 0,42;  60% ETM, as above;  30% ETM, as above;  non irrigated control. Water leaf potential measured at the end of scheduled irrigation time before sunrise varied within the following values:  100% ETM: between -2,5 and -4,5 bar;  60% ETM: between -3,0 and -6,0 bar;  30% ETM: between -3,0 and -7.0 bar;  control: between -3,5 and -9,5 bar. The trees which received only 30% of ETM and those of the control proved to grow less and to produce fruits with morpho-qualitative characteristics of minor value (reduced size, less favourable pulp/stone ratio and higher percentage of dry matter). In the experimental conditions, the optimal' water status of the trees would seem to be included within values of leaf water potential between -3 and -5 bar.
42878632|The effect fo 3 different rootstocks on water consumption of peach were monitored over three years at different depths and at several distances from the trunk of non-irrigated peach trees with a neutron probe. Leaf water potential and diffusive resistance were measured at 15-20 day intervals from July to September and diurnal were also taken at intervals from sunrise to sunset. Root length was measured in soil samples from three depths and 11 different distances from the trunk of the trees. Pre-dawn leaf water potentials were between -4 and -7 bars and were related to the available soil water. Leaf water potential from scions grafted on peach seedlings (P.S.A. 6) showed less negative values than those grafted on 5. Julien G. F. 655/2 or hybrid rootstock (P. persica  P. besseyi 299). Mid-day leaf water potential values did not parallele soil moisture content. Trees grafted on S. Julien had a higher transpiration rate and the more negative leaf water potential than those from trees grafted on the other rootstocks. Leaf area, leaf area index and water use efficiency were higher in trees grafted on hybrid rootstock than those grafted on S. Julien G.F. 655/2 or peach seedlings (P.S.A. 6). Su piante di pesco della cv. 'Cresthaven', poste in coltura asciutta e innestate su tre diversi portainnesti,  stato determinato il consumo idrico mediante la misurazione della umidit del terreno con la sonda a neutroni a 8 diverse distanze dal tronco ed a cinque profondit. I potenziali idrici fogliari e la resistenza alla diffusione furono rilevati ad intervalli di 15-20 giorni da luglio a settembre e, per alcuni giorni, l'andamento di questi valori fu seguito dall'alba al tramonto. Lo sviluppo radi cale  stato stimato prelevando campioni di terra a tre profondit e ad undici differenti distanze dal tronco. Le piante bimembri erano: 'Cresthavcn'/P.S.A. 6, 'Cresthaven'/S. Giuliano 655/2 e 'Cresthaven'/P. besseyi  P. persica 299. I potenziali idrici fogliari rilevati prima del sorgere del sole hanno oscillato fra -4 e -7 bar e sono risultati correlati con la quantit di acqua disponibile nel terreno. Inoltre i potenziali idrici fogliari rilevati sulla pianta bimembre 'Cresthaven'/P.S.A. 6 sono risultati meno negativi di quelli osservati su 'Cresthaven'/S. Giuliano 655/2 e 'Cresthaven'/P. besseyi  P. persica 299. Sulle piante innestate su S. Giuliano G.F. 655/2  stata notata la pi alta traspirazine ed il potenziale idrico fogliare pi negativo che nelle altre combinazioni di innesto. Lo sviluppo fogliare, il LAI e l'efficienza dell'acqua disponibile fu pi elevata nelle piante innestate su P. besseyi  P. persica 299.
42878633|Strains of Sclerotium cepivorum Berk, resistant to dicarbpximides (iprodione, procymidone, vinclozolin) were easily obtained in vitro; resistant strains showed a high level of resistance (M.I.C. > 100 g/ml) and were cross resistant to dicloran and PCNB. Dicarboximide resistant strains of S. cepivorum tested were very sensitive to benomyl and sensitive to captafol. Dicarboximide-resistant strains of S. cepivorum generally grew, on different media, as the sensitive ones; only in the case of one resistant strain the growth rate was highly reduced. All the tested resistant strains showed a highly reduce virulence or were completely avirulent, when inoculated on garlic cormels. Sono stati facilmente selezionati in vitro ceppi di Sclerotium cepivorum Berk, resistenti nei confronti dei fungicidi dicarbossimidici (iprodione, procymidone, vinclozolin). I ceppi resistenti ottenuti in laboratorio manifestano un livello di resistenza notevolmente elevato (concentrazione minima inibitoria superiore a 100 g/ml) e presentano inoltre resistenza incrociata nei confronti di dicloran e PCNB. Tutti i ceppi saggiati sono risultati molto sensibili nei confronti del benomyl e sensibili nei confronti del captafol. Coltivati su 6 substrati colturali diversi, i ceppi resistenti e quelli sensibili di S. cepivorum non presentano differenze significative nella velocit di accrescimento. I ceppi resistenti inoculati su aglio hanno manifestato una virulenza assai ridotta rispetto ai ceppi sensibili.
42878634|Micropropagation has been investigated with the Japanese Plum, cv. "S. Rosa", using different agar media. The cultures originated from dormant buds aseptically dissected, showed a good proliferation rate (8:1 to 13:1) when grown in a modified Murashige e Skoog medium with 2% sucrose, 0.7% agar (Bacto-Difco) and (in mg/1): 150 myo-Inositol; 1.5 Thiamine. HC1; 2 Glycine: 0.5 Pyridoxinc. HC1; 0,5 Nicotinic add; 0,1 Gibberellic acid (GA); 0.1 Indole -3-butyric acid (IBA) of 0.05 1-Napthaieneacetic acid (NAA) and 1-2 6-Bcnzylaminopurine (BAP). When cultured shoots where transferred to a medium containing N - ( - Isopentenyl) adenine (2iP), at 5 or 10 mg/1, instead of BAP, the proliferation rate decreased but higher shoot elongation occurred. A 5 mMol/1 phosphorus concentration significantly enhanced the proliferation; on the contrary, at higher P levels some yellow leaves were observed. Satisfactory rooting results (highest percentage, 80-100% , and better roots) were obtained with IBA 0.2-0.5 mg/1 or NAA 0.2 mg/1, added to a medium with a half strength of mineral salts; when potassium, nitrogen, iron and phosphorus were increased in the IBA media, plants grew stronger. Rooted plants were successfully transferred to the soil.
42878635|Osservazioni condotte sull'apparato radicale di peschi "franchi di piede" cv "Sunred" impiantati con sesti di 1,20  0,90 m, hanno consentito di mettere in evidenza che le radici si dirigono in modo predominante nelle zone pi mpie degli interfilari e che lo sviluppo, apparso abbastanza superficiale,  stato limitato dalla presenza delle radici delle piante contigue per l'evidente azione di antagonismo radicale, peraltro gi da tempo segnalato nei pescheti "tradizionali". Observations on rooting of self-rooted "Sunred" nectarines planted in 1,20  0,90 m layout, have placed in evidence the predominant tendency of the roots to grow in the wide mid-row areas, and the limitation of the quite superficial development by the evidente antagonistic action of near-by plant roots, as already registered previously in "tradizional" orchards.
42878636|Vengono analizzati i risultati di prove di potatura condotte su piante di olivo (cv. "Frantoio") nella Maremma Toscana, miranti a ristrutturare nel corso di un quinquennio, la chioma per rendere pi semplice e meno onerosa la raccolta meccanica delle drupe, aumentandone l'efficienza. Le prove effettuate nell'oliveto dell'Azienda Sperimentale S. Paolina (GR), hanno preso in considerazione le seguenti tesi: a) potatura tradizionale; b) potatura leggera, consistente nel ridurre di circa il 40% le branchette fruttifere procombenti; e) potatura energica, consistente nell'eliminazione di circa 1'80% delle branchette procombenti e nell'accorciamento della maggior parte delle branche di 2 e 3 ordine. La raccolta delle olive  stata effettuata completamente a macchina impiegando la scuotiraccoglitrice SR 12. I risultati conseguiti hanno permesso di evidenziare come le piante potate pi o meno energicamente abbiano prodotto in media nel quinquennio, quasi sempre pi del controllo. Per quanto riguarda la quantit di prodotto raccolto meccanicamente, sono sempre state ottenute rese superiori al 60%, in particolare nel quinquennio,  stato ottenuta una media del 68% sulle piante potate tradizionalmente, del 76% su quelle potate pi energicamente ed, infine del 78% su quelle potate meno energicamente. Inoltre la produttivit della scuotiraccoglitrice, espressa sia in piante che in kg./ora/operaio,  risultata sempre maggiore nelle piante potate meno energicamente. To stimulate the output of the mechanical shakers on old traditional big trees, three groupsof 40 "Frantoio" trees of about 60-70 years old were pruned differently every years, for five years, starting in 1977 winter time as follow: 1) Light pruning: only removal of about 40% of droping shoots. 2) Heavy pruning: removal of 80% of drooping shoots and shortening of most of the 2nd and 3rd order branches to stimulate the formation of new growing up shoots and trying to have the new fruiting shoots next to the main branches. 3) Tradizional pruning: as policonic vase system with three main branches. At harvest time, year by year, the production was mechanically harvested with the SR 12, a branch shaker: the unharvested olives were picked by hand. The three different pruning systems during 5 years experiments changed not only the volume of the canopy and the productive characteristics of trees but also the output (kg. and trees per hour and per person) of the shaker and the time needed (trees and kilogrammes per hour and per person) the harvest At beginning of these esperiments the canopy volume of the tradizional pruned trees was 125 m and at the end has been observed an increment of 8%, while reductions of volume were showed by heavy pruning (6,4% ) and light pruning (20,8%). In any case no proportional production loss were found. Only after the first year pruning, the crop has been lowered proportionally by the severity of pruning intervents, while from the second year to the fifth the production of the light and the heavy pruned trees was increased from 6 kg./trce to 21 kg./tree. From the second year the different pruning intervents influenced positively the output of mechanical harvesting; in fve years, with light pruning intervents, the percentage of mechanical harvested fruits was 10% more than that of the fruits harvested on traditional pruned trees, while the percentage of mechanical harvested fruit on heavy pruned trees was 22% more than on the light pruned trees. Concerning the time to harvest mechanically, it has been always proportional to canopy volume. The light pruning needed, in fve years, also the least time (4' 55" per tree).
42878637|La nota riporta i dati acquisiti in 5 anni di lavoro condotto al fine di verificare lo stato sanitario dei principali portinnesti clonali del melo e del pero, presenti in campi di piante madri dell'Italia settentrionale. La tecnica di saggio  stata, generalmente, il doppio innesto, operando su semenzali di melo e di pero e talee radicate di cotogno, in parcelle di campo. I cloni di M111 e M2 sono risultati virus-esenti e, praticamente, anche M26. M9  risultato affetto con frequenza da vari virus latenti ed inoltre in 27 cloni su 1.081  stato riscontrato l'agente del mal del caucci del melo (RW) ed in due cloni il virus del mosaico del melo (ApMV). Infezioni di RW sono state riscontrate anche in 3/137 cloni di M106 ed infezioni di ApMV in un clone su 229 di M7. L'incidenza dei virus latenti nei portinnesti M7, M11, M27 e M106  variata molto in funzione della provenienza. In nessun caso sono risultati presenti gli agenti virali che inducono sintomi sui frutti. Per tutti i tipi di portinnesti di questa serie sono stati individuati cloni virus-esenti. I portinnesti P1, P2, P16 e P22 ed i 16 campioni di portinnesti clonali del pero sono risultati esenti da infezioni virali, mentre per P18, MAC 1 e MAC 9 sono state riscontrate infezioni di virus latenti. Results acquired in field indexing to detect and identify fruit tree viruses in apple and pear donai rootstocks are given. Sampling of donor trees was made from stool layering plants, in fields located in different areas of Northern Italy. Tests were carried out, according to the double budding technique, using healthy apple and pear seedlings as well as quince C7/1 rooted cuttings. In order to achieve an average situation of each field of stool layerings, sampling was made by chance, according to a schedule previously defined. In a 5-year-period, tests were extented to: 574 clones of apple rootstocks, complete indexing on six Matos and two Pirus indicators; 1.643 clones of apple rootstock, limited to the "Lord Lambourne" indicator; 16 clones of pear rootstocks, complete indexing on six Pirus and two Malus indicators. Data obtained from rootstocks. of the "M" series allow to conclude that 13 clones of M 111 and the clone of M 2 tested are virus-free; the same is practically true for M 26, 1 clone of which (out of the 400 tested) is affected by apple chlorotic leaf spot virus (CLSV) ana 7 clones by mild strains of stem pitting virus (SPV). Many clones of M 9 result to be affected by latent viruses and, moreover, 27 clones out of 1.081 have induced on the specific indicators rubbery wood (RW) symptoms and 2 of them also apple mosaic virus (ApMV) symptoms. RW and ApMV infections have been detected also, respectively, in 3 out of 137 clones of Ml06, and in 1 out of 229 clones of M7. Incidence of latent viruses in M7, M11, M27 and M106 rootstocks results to be rather variable, mainly according to the provenience. Up to now, no one of the specific indicators inoculated has shown infections referable to virus agents that induce fruit symptoms. Virus-free clones have been detected for all the "M" rootstocks. In the limited number of clones tested, the rootstocks P1, P2, P16 and P22 appear virus-free; P18, MAC 1 and MAC 9 are affected, on the contrary, by latent viruses. All the 16 clones of pear rootstocks checked have not induced on the indicators virus symptoms. Virus-free clones have been detected for all the "M" rootstocks.
42878640|Since 1979 the research of local varieties of sweet pepper has been started, in order to store them as germplasm useful for future breeding work. The seed samples are evaluated mainly in relation to the following features: moisture, weight of 1.000 seeds, germinability, percentage of fresh ungerminated seeds. Then it is possible to proceed to a long term storage of the seeds of the gathered material (kept at temperatures of -25 C and in air tight glasscontainers). In the meantime the collected material is characterized through the cultivation of some plants and accurate surveys of the morphological features (growth habit, shape, colour, dimension of leaves, flowers and fruits), of the genetic features (self-incompatibility and male-sterility), agronomical aspects (yield, earliness), important elements as far as industrial processing is concerned (thickness of the pericarp and pungency of the berries), sanitary features (resistance to the principal diseases). A similar work is carried out as far as the commercial material which can be found in Italy is concerned, both in Italian and foreign firms. La coltura del peperone, un tempo largamente presente anche in Piemonte, si sta ora diffondendo soprattutto nelle regioni del centro e del sud, ove esistono minori problemi di reperimento della manodopera. Il panorama varietale si sta comunque rapidamente spostando da variet ed ecotipi locali, i cui semi venivano prodotti direttamente dagli agricoltori, verso cultivar di origine commerciale, di produzione sia italiana che straniera. Questo fenomeno , in particolare, evidente in Piemonte, ove pare inoltre destinato ad assumere importanza sempre maggiore. Sulla base delle indicazioni dell'IBPGR e delle conclusioni tratte in occassione dell'incontro sulle risorse genetiche del peperone, che si tenne a Wageningen nel 1980, il nostro Istituto diede l'avvio, nel 1981, ad un programma di ricerca, raccolta e conservazione del germoplasma di peperone. Una tra le pi delicate fasi del lavoro  risultata essere quella della caratterizzazione del materiale raccolto, necessaria sia per individuare l'esistenza o meno di differenze tra le popolazioni, sia per fornire precise indicazioni in vista della possibile utilizzazione del materiale. La caratterizzazione  avvenuta, nel 1982, presso un campo sperimentale appositamente allestito; per quanto riguarda la rilevazione dei dati, ci si  basati sulle indicazioni fornite dalla dott. ssa Pickersgill. L'intera metodologia di analisi  comunque tutt'ora in fase di valutazione e studio. Le osservazioni effettuate hanno evidenziato come la variabilit tra popolazioni sia piuttosto modesta (d'altra parte la collezione  concentrata solo sulla specie Capsicum annuum L., e prevalentemente sulla var. grossum); al contrario  spesso risultata elevata la variabilit entro popolazioni, a conferma del ridotto livello di selezione cui esse sono state spinte. Quindi, a fronte di alcuni caratteri per i quali  stata riscontrata variabilit tra popolazioni (tabelle 3 e 4), ve ne sono molti altri che non si sono differenziati in alcun caso (tabella 5). A fianco della caratterizzazione del materiale raccolto avviene la conservazione per lungo perio-do dei relativi semi: dopo le analisi di laboratorio tendenti a evidenziarne le caratteristiche morfofisiologiche, i semi vengono posti, in recipienti a tenuta e a umidit controllata, in frigoriferi a -25 C. A tutt'oggi la collezione comprende 79 accessioni: di queste 25 sono popolazioni locali, mentre 54 sono cultivar commerciali. I semi di queste ultime, forniti direttamente dalle ditte produttrici hanno presentato, in alcuni casi, caratteristiche germinative piuttosto modeste, in particolare per quanto riguarda il potere germinativo ed il tempo medio di germinazione (tabella 6).
42878641|Con una serie di prove  stata verificata la possibilit di programmare la fioritura dell'Euphorbia fulgens mediante il fotoperiodo od i differenti regimi termici. Con temperature minime da 7 a 13C si sono ottenute fioriture autunno-invernali in serra differenziate nel tempo di 30-40 giorni. Possibilit pi ampie si sono avute con l'applicazione del fotoperiodo. Mediante la tecnica di oscuramento per la realizzazione del giorno corto  stato possibile coprire un arco produttivo autunno-invernale di 90-100 giorni con temperature minime in serra di 12C. Per mezzo di oscuramento ed illuminazione per la realizzazione del "giorno lungo"  stata ottenuta dalle piante una produzione autunnale precoce ed una primaverile; le indicazioni sono risultate nel complesso sufficienti per la realizzazione di due raccolte/anno. Piante di diversa et si sono dimostrate ugualmente reattive al fotoperiodo mentre la produttivit (numero di steli/pianta)  aumentata con l'et della stessa pianta. Sono state controllate le principali caratteristiche commerciali dello stelo fiorito ottenuto con i diversi trattamenti nelle varie prove. A two-year investigation has been carried out on the possibility of timing Euphorbia fulgens flowering by photoperiodic treatments or different temperatures. Euphorbia flowered at the end of January with minimum temperature of 7C; plants flowered on 15th - 30th December with minimum temperature of 13C. With blackcloth shading in order to realize S.D. conditions plants flowered from 19th October (S.D. treatment started 1st August) to the end of January (S.D. treatment started 1st October) with a minimum temperature of 12C. An early autunnal flowering and a subsequent spring flowering has been obtained by blackcloth shading and a following lighting in order to realize L.D. conditions (night-break from 22.00 to 03.00; incandescent lamps; specific loading: 40 W/m). It seems possible to get two crops/year in practice. Plants of different age are equally reactive to photoperiodic treatments but old plants are more productive than the young ones. The main commercial characteristics of the flowering stems as a consequence of the different treatments have been examined.
42878642|Al fine di valutare il comportamento biologico e produttivo del pomodoro da industria al crescere della densit di investimento con raccolta unica del prodotto,  stata condotta una ricerca volta a stimare con correlazione matematica le variazioni della produzione e di altri caratteri biologici all'aumentare della popolazione da 10.000 a 1.000.000 piante per ettaro. Dai risultati conseguiti  emerso un effetto favorevole della elevata densit d'investimento sulla precocit e sulla contemporaneit di maturazione delle bacche ed un aumento della produzione commerciabile fino alla densi-t massima sperimentata. Considerati l'onerosit e la difficolt di realizzare siffatto investimento con le colture trapiantate in file semplici, si ravvisa tuttavia l'opportunit di verificare nella realt operativa l'investimento pi conveniente. In order to further clarify yield-density relationship for process tomato for once-over harvest, a wide range of spacing from 10.000 to 1.000.000 plants/ha were tested in a modification of one of systematic design proposed by Nelder. Most of data were fitted to Bleasdale and Nelder equation W a +bp; excepted plant height and mean weight of individual fruits which were better fitted to modified equation of Shinozaki and Kira: y= K + l/(a + bp) The value of  1 indicating as population increased, total top yield and total fruit weight per unit area asymptotically approached a theoretical maximum yield, while <1 for marketable yield and cull fruit showed that these characteristics were conformed to parabolic relationship. Density strongly influences plant habitus. Total yield without fruit, number of leaves, branches and clusters per plants indicated that no maximum value will be obtained by increase in density. The proportion of ripe fruit to total fruit increased as population increased and the need for field storage of ripe fruit is minimized as all the crop tends to mature at the same time. Row pattern outyielded square pattern because of an "edge effect" brought about by continuous growth of vines into the row middles.
42878643|In questa nota si  cercato di mettere a punto la tecnica di micropropagazione "in vitro" della cicoria 'Catalogna', cultivar assai diffusa negli ambienti meridionali. Partendo da apici vegetativi prelevati da piante fenotipicamente interessanti, isolate in campo,  stato possibile ottenere in media circa 7 piantine di cicoria per ogni apice vegetativo. I migliori risultati sono stati conseguiti con i trattamenti che prevedevano l'aggiunta al substrato base degli ormoni 2iP, IAA e GA, rispettivamente nelle dosi di 2 - 0,1 e 0,1 ppm, nella fase di moltiplicazione degli apici e l'aggiunta del solo IAA a concentrazione di 2 ppm nella fase di radicazione. L'analisi cariologica sulle piantine ottenute in vitro ha confermato il numero cromosomico della specie (2n = 18). Il materiale, dopo aver trascorso un periodo di acclimatazione in ambiente controllato (umidit relativa 100%, temperatura 22C  1C),  stato trapiantato in campo; i risultati agronomici saranno oggetto di successive note. Vegetative buds of Cichonum intybus L. have been planted "in vitro" in order to study the agamic propagation. The culture medium has been supplemented with the following stimulating substances: - . dimethyl-amino purine (2iP), indolylacetic acid (IAA), gibberellic acid (GA) for vegetative growth and proliferation; - indolylacetic acid for rooting. The best results are obtained with 2iP (2 ppm), IAA and GA (0,1 ppm) for proliferation and IAA (2 ppm) for rooting. Then, after a period of growth under standard conditions (humidity 100%, temperature 22C  1C), the plants have been transplanted in field. The cariological analysis of the young plant confirms the cromosomic number of the species (2n= 18). Thus we can suppose that it is possible to multiply plants by agamic propagation.
42878644|Nella prospettiva di utilizzare i protoplasti per il miglioramento genetico dell'Actinidia chinensis, sono state svolte alcune indagini preliminari al fine di mettere a punto una valida tecnica di isolamento e di coltura, utilizzando foglie provenienti da moltiplicazione "in vitro". L'isolamento e la purificazione dei protoplasti sono stati ottenuti mediante digestione enzimatica, sospensione su soluzione densa, filtrazione e centrifugazione. Una fase di pre-condizionamento dei germogli, mediante l'impiego di substrati poveri di saccarosio (5-10 g/1) e di un periodo di buio (7 giorni) antecedente l'isolamento, ha influenzato sensibilmente ed in senso positivo l'efficienza di estrazione (6-7,5.10 protoplasti/g di foglia). L'impiego di foglie giovani ha ulteriormente migliorato tale valore (1,2.10 protoplasti/g di foglia). Sulla base di questi risultati sono state impostate ulteriori ricerche per cercare di indurre la mitosi e successivamente la rigenerazione di piante. A method for the isolation and the culture of Actinidia chinensis protoplasts is described. Owing to their characters, the protoplasts could be profitably used for the genetic improvement of this species. The protoplast have been isolate from hand-brushed (by carborundum powder, grade 800) leaves of "in vitro" grown plants. The "one step" enzymatic method (1.5% cellulase "Onozuka" R-10 and 0.3% Macerozyme R-10, in a 0.5 M mannitol solution within 18h) and the "two steps" centrifuged density gradient enabled a satisfactory isolation of protoplats when the plants were preconditioned during their "in vitro" culture. Very good results (6-7.5  10 protoplats/g leaf fresh weight) were obtained by using leaves collected from plants cultivated on low sucrose level media (5-10 g/1), after 7 days of complete dark. In these conditions young leaves released a higher number of protoplats (1.2  10 protoplasts/g leaf fresh weight). On the basis of these results further researches have been carried on in order to induce mytosis and subsequently plant regeneration.
42878645|Sono state valutate le condizioni e i limiti entro i quali  possibile convertire reciprocamente i valori dell'illuminamento (Ev) e della densit del flusso fotonico fotosinteticamente attivo (PPFD) nel caso di studi relativi alla fotosintesi. Letture simultanee di due sensori rispettivamente tarati per dette misure, effettuate in diverse condizioni di irraggiamento solare e di esposizione a sorgenti artificiali di energia radiante, hanno fornito indicazioni molto variabili. Nel caso dell'irraggiamento solare il rapporto (R) tra PPFD e Ev  risultato invece costante e, in media, uguale a 18,5 anche sotto reti o materiali di copertura per serre; molto diverso e coerente con lo specifico spettro di ogni lampada, nel caso delle sorgenti artificiali di luce. Nelle zone illuminate della chioma (superficie esterna e "finestre"), R ha presentato i valori propri del diretto irraggiamento solare, ma i livelli di PPFD e di Ev sono risultati pi bassi. Nelle zone ombreggiate della chioma R  risultato invece assai variabile in rapporto alle imprevedibili interferenze esercitate sui valori di PPFD e di Ev da parte delle masse fogliari pi o meno dense e compatte. The conversion of illuminance (Ev) and photosynthetic photon flux density (PPFD) units has been experimentally investigated using two LI-COR sensors specially calibrated to evaluate the radiant energy in terms of lux and  Einstein ms. The PPFD/Ev ratio (R) proved to be constant (average value = 18.5) when readouts of PPFD and Ev were done in daylight conditions. With artificial illumination (incandescent or fluorescent lamps), R values have shown an obvious variability, according to the specific spectra of these light sources. Inside the tree canopy PPFD and Ev have been found lower than outside even when readouts were done in lighted zones of the foliage; however R remained the same. In the shaded zones of the canopy the lowest values of PPFD and Ev have been recorded, and R differed from its outside measure as a consequence of the mutable and differentiated effect of the foliage on PPFD and Ev.
42878649|The test had the aim to analyse in detail the yield factors (vegetative development, flowering pattern, flower setting, abscission of flowers and pods, growth of the seeds) in kidney beans plants, grown in percolation lysimeters with relation to different actual evapotranspiration regimens. Seven watering regimens ranging from no irrigation after sowing to continuous high soil moisture content (higher than  05 MPa), were tested. Vegetative growth appeared linearly related to actual evapotranspiration whereas grain yield was curvilinearly related with a good fitting to Mitcherlich equation. The grain yield was regulated mainly by the number of set pods and by the abscission percentage; the number of seeds per pod and the average weight of the seeds appear to be less important traits. La ricerca ha avuto lo scopo di analizzare in dettaglio i fattori della resa (sviluppo vegetativo, andamento della fioritura, allegagione, abscissione dei fiori e dei baccelli, sviluppo dei semi) in piante di fagiolo, allevate in lisimetri a percolazione, assoggettate a 7 regimi idrici diversi per frequenza di intervento. I risultati hanno messo in rilievo come la produzione di sostanza secca totale sia linearmente correlata con l'evapotraspirazione effettiva mentre la resa di granella  governata sia d all'ET a che dalla abscissione dei fiori e dei baccelli che in percentuale  stata massima nel trattamento pi "umido".
42878650|L'Autore, dopo aver brevemente illustrato le ipotesi formulate nel tempo per spiegare il processo di tuberificazione della patata, passa in rassegna i gruppi di fitoregolatori oggi conosciuti (auxine, gibberelline, inibitori di crescita, citochinine ed etilene) ai quali  oggi riconosciuto un ruolo nei meccanismi di induzione e di accrescimento del tubero. Alla luce dei risultati finora ottenuti, l'Autore conclude ipotizzando che il processo di tuberificazione della patata possa essere, attraverso un opportuno controllo del complesso ormonale della pianta, in tutto o in parte, sottratto alla influenza dei fattori ambientali non altrettanto agevolmente controllabili. The Author, after briefly surveying the various hypotheses formulated in the past to explain the tuberificazion process in the potato, examines the groups of plant growth substances known (auxins, gibberellins, inhibitors, cytokinins and ethyl ene) which in some way influence the initiation and development mechanisms of the tuber. Considering the results obtained, on this subject, the Author concludes, stating that the tuberification process of the potato, may be removed from the environmental influences by hormonal control.
42878651|From roots of European vine undamaged and damaged by Phylloxera samples were taken in different Italian and Greek localities. More fungi were isolated frotn roots infested by Phylloxera than from healthy ones. Artificial inoculations, carried out with some isolates on wounded and unwounded roots of 2-year old Sangiovese canes, did not give disease sumptoms after 11 months, but more reisolaments were made from wounded that from unwounded roots. Le ricerche relative alla individuazione del ruolo svolto dalla microflora nel disfacimento delle radici di vite europea attaccate da fillossera sono in corso secondo due principali linee: 1) indagine conoscitiva della microflora di campioni di radici fillosserate provenienti da diverse localit italiane e greche; 2) verifica della patogenicit di miceti, isolati nel corso dell'indagine precedente, su radici ferite e non. I risultati hanno messo in evidenza che la microflora  quantitativamente pi abbondante e qualitativamente pi varia su radici fillosserate, in particolare in corrispondenza delle galle, che su radici sane. Le piante inoculate artificialmente, dopo circa 11 mesi, non hanno mostrato sintomi; tuttavia dalle radici ferite  stato effettuato un maggior numero di reisolamenti.
42878652|Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati di una prova biennale (1981/82-1982/83) condotta nella piana del Sele (Salerno) allo scopo di esaminare il comportamento dell'aglio al variare del peso del "seme" (> 2  5, > 5  8, > 8 g) e della distanza tra le file (20, 30, 40, 60 cm). Le produzioni pi elevate sono state conseguite utilizzando bulbilli > 8 g ed adottando la distanza di 20 cm tra le file; quest'ultima ha per indotto una riduzione sensibile nel peso medio dei bulbi. Pertanto, le indicazioni fornite dalla prova possono trovare una limitazione nel costo del "seme" e nell'inadeguata dimensione dei bulbi prodotti. Data are reported on a two year research (1981/82-1982/83) carried out in the Sele river Plain (Salerno) for testing garlic performance by varying clove weight (> 2  5, > 5  8, > 8 g) and distance between the rows (20, 30, 40, 60 cm). Increase of both clove weight and plant density resulted in higher yields, but bulb size was reduced at the narrowest spacings; no effect on earlyness was observed. It is necessary to point out that by the use of these results net returns can be lowered by the greater cost of the cloves and by the smaller size of produced bulbs.
42878653|Sono state esaminate le produzioni cumulate di numerose accessioni di fava da orto provate in un triennio di sperimentazione in agro di Polignano a Mare (Bari). Ai risultati ottenuti per ciascuna accessione nelle diverse annate  stata adattata una funzione matematica studiata per descrivere fenomeni biologici di tale natura. E' stato effettuato pure il confronto fra gli adattamenti ottenuti e sono state osservate come variabili indipendenti, una volta il numero dei giorni dall'inizio teorico della fase di raccolta, ed un'altra la somma termica, calcolata sempre a partire dall'inzio della fase di raccolta. Tenuto conto della variabilit delle ore di insolazione e delle temperature nel periodo interessato alle raccolte e dell'influenza che esse hanno sulla maturazione dei baccelli, il secondo adattamento  risultato nettamente migliore; pertanto sono stati discussi solo i risultati ottenuti per questa via. I valori dei parametri sono risultati sempre aderenti col significato biologico loro assegnato e gli scostamenti dai valori sperimentali delle curve adattanti sono stati in genere sempre modesti. Nel confronto dei valori assunti dai parametri nei diversi adattamenti,  stato anche possibile avere utili informazioni circa la concentrazione di maturazione, il diverso comportamento delle accessioni al variare delle condizioni climatiche e la determinazione del momento di massimo incremento delle produzioni. Several cultivars and local selected types of Vicia faba L. var. major Hartz., for fresh market were tested for 3 years (1977-1979) in the Southern Italy. Pods were harvested several time; at each picking the number, weight and quality of pods were determined. In this way earliness and the pattern of pod maturation were observed with the aim to fix, for each accession, the best moment for once - over harvest or the time interval between two pickings, the length of harvesting period and the residual pods left on the plant after last picking. To do this at the curve of cumulative yield of each accession and for each year a mathematical function with 3 parameters (each one with a biological meaning that showed particularly useful to describe plant growth) was adapted a= max. yield that can be obtained; b= abscissa of the inflection point referred at the harvesting period $\frac{1}{c} = $ number of days, from the beginning of the theoretical date of harvest, necessary to cumulate the 99% of a). Results shows that the local types, well adapted to the climatic conditions in the site were the trials were carried out, were not affected by a late spring frost that occurred in 1978. During this year for the local types the inflection point of the cumulative curve of yield, both as percentage and date of picking, showed very little deviation. In contrast the improved cultivars, while were highly productive with a favorable climate (1977 and 1979) showed a remarkable yield reduction during 1978 in connection with cold spring. The concentration of pods maturity was influenced more by dimatic conditions than genotypes. The biological meaning assigned to the parameters of the function utilized, appeared always reliable, especially when number of days were replaced by the heat unit values. Useful indication are given on the variability of the parameters of the fitting function for researches related to genotypes  environment interaction.
42878654|E' stato condotto uno studio su talee di actinidia (Actinidia chinensis Pl.), poste a radicare previo trattamento con NAA a 1000 ppm allo scopo di osservare il processo di formazione delle radici avventizie. Dai reperti anatomici risulta che i primordi radicali prendono origine dalla regione del cambio cribro-legnoso, presumibilmente da cellule del cambio stesso o da cellule madri del floema. Il callo cicatriziale prende origine in parte dal cambio cribro-legnoso e in parte dal fellogeno, che nell'actinidia ha origine in profondit, all'interno dello strato di fibre sclerenchimatiche, che circonda il floema. Una terza zona di attivit meristematica  stata osservata a livello delle lenticelle, promossa dal fellogeno delle lenticelle stesse. Hardwood cuttings of Idwifruit (Actinidia chinensis Pl.) were rooted in December with bottom heat technique, after a basal treatment with 1000 ppm NAA. The anatomical study of the basal portions of the cuttings collected until the root formation gave the following results:  root primordia rise from the cambium region, probably from cambium cells or phloem mother cells;  callus proliferation is due to the contemporary activity of the cambium and phellogen, which in actinidia takes origin inside the sclerenchyma surrounding the phloem;  a third zone of meristematic activity under the lenticels was observed, promoted by the lenticels phellogen.
42878655|Trials were carried out to clarify some aspects of the floral biology such as the flowering, pollination and fruit set in "Frantoio" and "Moraiolo" olive cultivars. Flowering time was rather scalar, especially in cv "Frantoio" depending on numerous intrinsic and extrinsic factors, such as plant position, exposure, actual disposition of the flowering clusters on the branches, and of the single flowers on the clusters etc.. Weather conditions seem to influence particularly anthesis time and to a minor degree the course of flower opening which seems to be more dependent on intrinsic plant characteristics. As so to length of useful pollination period, it was noticed that a high fruit set took place in the first days after flowering, diminishing more or less rapidly according to the cultivar. Differences between the two cultivars were probably due to the fact that "Frantoio" has a more scalar flowering and was also emasculated. Fruit-set in the "Moraiolo" flowers used for the receptivity tests, was greater than in the control, left to free pollination, showing "Frantoio" to be a good pollinator, and presumably also an existence of synergism between the two pollens. On observing the pistils of the flowers which underwent scalar pollination, under the microscope in fluorescent light it was noticed that the pollen tubes reach the style region as early as two days after pollination. In self-pollinated "Moraiolo" pistils only a few germinated granules, which did not pass the stygma area, were noticed, confirming the existence of gametophytic incompatibility. From the observations on the female gametophyte development to establish the probable correlation between flower stage and embryo-sac ripening, it has emerged that in the tested cultivars at the start of anthesis the gametophytes are nearly all mature and the embryo sacs last sufficiently to allow a good fruit set if the conditions necessary for an apt pollination exist. The author concludes that from the obtained data it seems necessary to provide all the necessary cultural practices to keep the plants in good nutritional condition and an efficient defence against climatic adversities and parassite attacks, and most important, to ensure the presence of suitable pollinators.
42878660|In summer 1983 indicator plants (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Bel-W3) were severely damaged by ozone in Tuscany, central Italy. Visible foliar ozone injury was also observed on plants of grape (Vitis spp.), bean (Phaseolus vulgaris), soybean (Glycine max) and tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum). This is the first time that phytotoxic effects of zone are recorded in Italy. Nell'estate 1983 in Toscana sono stati rilevati severi sintomi indotti da ozono su piante indicatrici (Nicotiana tabacum cv. Bel-W3). Indagini su diverse specie coltivate hanno consentito di accertare la presenza di tipiche sintomatologie riferibili a concentrazioni fitotossiche di ozono su vite (Vitis spp.), fagiolo (Phaseolus vulgaris), soia (Glycine max), pomodoro (Lycopersicon esculentum). Questa rappresenta la prima segnalazione di effetti fitotossici da ozono in Italia.
42878661|L'indagine ha permesso di vagliare il comportamento vegetativo e produttivo di tre tipi di ramo (assurgenti, orizzontali e pendenti) presenti in olivi, cv. "Dritta di Moscufo", di 9 anni di et ed allevati a monocono. Le differenti produzioni fruttifere hanno manifestato una attivit vegetativa pressoch uguale facendo rilevare eguali accrescimenti medi complessivi apicali e/o ascellari. Per quanto concerne invece quella produttiva  stato evidenziato che: 1) i rami pendenti erano provvisti, mediamente, di un maggior numero di fiori (n. 282, 2 per rametto); 2) la percentuale di allegagione  stata pressoch uguale nei tre tipi di ramo oscillando da 4,65% negli assurgenti a 5,71% in quelli orizzontali; 3) il differente orientamento delle produzioni fruttifere non ha comportato differenze apprezzabili sull'entit della cascola; 4) alla raccolta, i rami assurgenti hanno mediamente prodotto rispetto ai pendenti, un minor numero di drupe che hanno tuttavia evidenziato un maggior peso ed un contenuto in olio pi elevato; 5) i rami orizzontali hanno prodotto una quantit di drupe pari ai pendenti caratterizzate per da parametri qualitativi esaminati uguali a quelle raccolte dagli assurgenti ; 6) conseguentemente, i rami assurgenti e pendenti hanno mediamente prodotto quantit di olio pressoch uguali fra loro ma leggermente inferiori a quella ottenuta dai rami orizzontali; ci potrebbe essere attribuito al miglior equilibrio tra attivit vegetativa e produttiva che questi ultimi sono in grado di conseguire. The research has allowed to ascertain the vegetative and reproductive behaviour of three kinds of shoots (downward, horizontal, and upward) which were in "Dritta di Moscufo" olive trees. The orchard was nine years old and it was trained into a cone system. The three different kinds of shoots showed the same vegetative activity with an equal growth of apical and/or lateral shoots. The reproductive activity showed: 1) downward shoots had the biggest number of flowers (282,2 for each shoot); 2) The percentage of fruit set was the same in the three kinds of shoots; and it fluctuated between 4,65 (downward shoots) and 5,71 (the horizontal shoots); 3) The different position of the shoots wasn't important in the fruit percentage; 4) From upward shoots were harvested a smaller numer of drupa than from downward shoots. Therefore drupa of upward shoots showed a greater weight and a bigger percentage of oil; 5) Horizontal shoots bore a medium quantity of drupa with a medium distinctive features. Upward and downward shoots bore the same quantity, but less than horizontal shoots. It could be explained, because horizontal shoots, had the best balance between vegetative and reproductive activity.
42878662|Softwood shoots of the "Bartlett" pear were collected, during the winter, from twigs forced to sprout in a growth chamber. The "in vitro" culture of such shoots, without tips, showed a good proliferation rate (10-12:1) when grown on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium, with 3% sucrose, 0.7% agar (Bacto-Difco) and (in mg/1): BAP 1-1.5; IBA or NAA 0-0.1. A complete dark period (10 days) at the beginning of the rooting phase improved the root formation. The highest rooting percentage (90-100% ) and the best quality of the roots (root number 4-5 and lcnght 9-10 mm) were obtained on media with IBA and NAA at the same concentrations of 0.2-0.5 mg/l. The rooted plantlets had a high survival percentage (90-100% ) in the open air; their growth was improved by periodical (every 4-5 days) foliar sprays with GA at 100-200 ppm.
42878663|With the aim of obtaining a standardized method of plantlet production from tissue culture in the mediterranean carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus L.) an integrated study was carried out on the effects of genotype, hormone concentrations in the culture medium and source of the primary explant. Explants from young leaves, internode pith and young petals from 5 cultivars were cultured on 6 media differing only in hormone concentrations. Marked differences between treatments and growth regulators ratios in callus formation and plant regeneration were seen. Best results were obtained with petal explants from the cultivars "Rubino", "Lisa" and "Sandra" cultured on a modified Murashige and Skoog medium containing 2 mg/l NAA and 0.5 mg/l BAP. Because a high percentage of the regenerated plants were nonglaucous (vitrified) and eventually died and/or flowered in vitro, being thus unsuitable for cultivation, further investigations were carried out. Petals of the best regenerating variety ("Rubino") were grown on media differing in nitrogen, calcium, potassium concentrations for two or four months before transferring onto a rooting medium. Cultures were kept under either short of long-day conditions. The experiments showed that the yield in normal plantlets was increased by longer cultures on inducing media, lowering nitrogen and increasing Ca and K, while floral induction in vitro was drastically reduced by short day conditions. The data are discussed in view of selection work for improved plant propagation from tissue cultures and its use for breeding purpose. E' stato condotto uno studio integrato sugli effetti del genotipo, della concentrazione ormonale nel mezzo di coltura e dell'origine dell'espianto con l'obbiettivo di mettere a punto un metodo di produzione di piante mediante coltura di tessuti in garofano (Dianthus caryophyllus L.). Foglie giovani, midollo e giovani petali sono stati messi in coltura su 6 mezzi diversi solo per quanto riguarda la concentrazione ed i rapporti fra gli ormoni usati. Sono state osservate notevoli differenze tra i diversi trattamenti per quanto riguarda la formazione di callo e la rigenerazione di piante. I migliori risultati si sono avuti da petali delle cultivars "Rubino", "Lisa" e "Sandra" coltivati su un mezzo di Murashige e Skoog modificato contenente NAA 2 mg/l e 0,5 mg/l BAP. Poich un'alta percentuale di piante rigenerate erano vitrescenti (non cerose) e non sopravvivevano al trasferimento in vivo e/o presentavano induzione fiorale precoce, risultando cos inutilizzabili, furono condotte ulteriori prove. Petali della cv "Rubino" sono stati messi in coltura su mezzi che differivano nella concentrazione di azoto, calcio e potassio e quindi tenuti su di questi per 2 o 4 mesi prima del trasferimento su mezzo radicante. In camera di coltura sono state provate sia condizioni di giorno lungo che breve. Queste prove hanno mostrato che la produzione di piante normali  incrementata allungando il periodo di coltura su mezzo inducente, riducendo nel mezzo di cultura il livello di azoto e parimenti aumentando quello di calcio e potassio. L'induzione fiorale in vitro  fortemente ridotta in condizioni di giorno corto. I dati sono discussi in visu di un utilizzo della coltura di tessuti per il miglioramento genetico del garofano.
42878664|A completamento di 14 anni di osservazioni sul comportamento agronomico di 19 presunti cloni di "William", provenienti da differenti aree di coltivazione, sono stati effettuati una serie di rilievi biometrici e tassonomici, allo scopo di individuare cloni a diverse caratteristiche rispetto allo standard varietale. E' stato rilevato come le condizioni pedoclimatiche in cui  stata condotta la prova hanno in generale modificato in misura molto uniforme le principali caratteristiche morfologiche dei frutti, determinandone prevalentemente una riduzione della lunghezza ed una forma irregolare, fortemente variabile tra gli anni, indipendentemente dalla zona di provenienza dei presunti cloni. Soltanto il clone proveniente da Davis ("Bartlett Improved I") ha mantenuto una forma dei frutti pi allungata, palesemente e costantemente distinguibile dagli altri. In conclusione i cloni meritevoli di essere sempre presi in considerazione per i loro aspetti produttivi negli ambienti simili alla Maremma toscana, dove si  svolta la prova, sono risultati : 1) "Verona 25" per l'elevata efficienza produttiva; 2) "Ferrara" per la buona produzione, efficienza produttiva e pezzatura dei frutti. 3) "Ravenna" per l'elevata produzione, la vigoria e la pezzatura media dei frutti. Ninetheen apparent clones of "William" pear trees were collected from different Italian and foreign fruit areas, in order to compare the yield performance, fruit size and some other physical and morphological characteristics. During 8 years of cropping it was observed that the environmental conditions affected in the same manner the fruit shape, without regard of the apparent clones provenience. The fruit length was strongly reduced and the shape was generally squat, irregular and extremely variable throught the years. Only the clone coming from Davis (" Bartlett Improved I") showed to be very different from the others, mainly for the higher fruit length and the shape more regular and smooth. The following clones were considered interesting for diffusion in areas like Tuscany: 1) "Verona 25" for high yield efficiency; 2) "Ferrara" for good yield, yield efficiency and fruit size; 3) "Ravenna" for high yield and good fruit size.
42878665|Si riferisce sui dati relativi alle variazioni dei potenziali idrici fogliari (totale, osmotico e di turgore) e della resistenza stomatica, valutati alle ore 12 solari, durante la stagione vegetativa dell'albicocco (cv "Cafona") e dell'arancio (cv "Valencia late"). Le piante di albicocco, innestate su pesco, erano al secondo anno di impianto, mentre quelle di arancio erano all'undicesimo. Le piante sono state sottoposte a diversi regimi idrici. Per l'albicocco sono stati confrontati due metodi irrigui: goccia e aspersione. A "goccia" sono stati erogati 3 volumi giornalieri, 100, 66, 33% ET. Era pure presente un testimone non irrigato. Nell'arancio sono stati confrontati tre volumi irrigui distribuiti a goccia, 2, 1, 0,5 ET e un testimone non irrigato. I potenziali idrici fogliari sono stati misurati con psicrometro e termocoppia, del tipo B, secondo le modifiche di Barrs e Slaty er, a 29C, usando il metodo isopiestico, con la tecnica di Boyer e Knipling. La resistenza stomatica  stata misurata, sulle stesse foglie, con porometro LI-65 -Autoporometer. L'andamento del potenziale totale e di quello osmotico  stato diverso nelle due specie. In tutte e due le specie il testimone non irrigato ha presentato, in generale, valori di potenziale totale pi bassi che nell'irriguo. Queste differenze comunque, non sono state continue nel corso della stagione. Tra l'asciutto e l'irriguo le differenze sono apparse pi evidenti sulla pressione di turgore, sia nell'albicocco che nell'arancio. Ci in conseguenza delle variazioni del potenziale osmotico. Tra i volumi irrigui sperimentati solo quelli pi bassi (33% ET nell'albicocco, 0.5 ET nell'arancio) hanno presentato diversificazioni rispetto agli altri. Non sono state osservate differenze relative al metodo irriguo nell'albicocco. In questa stessa specie non sono state osservate differenze sulla resistenza stomatica ad opera sia dei regimi idrici che del metodo irriguo. Nell'arancio, invece,  stata osservata una notevole influenza dello "stress idrico" sulla resistenza stomatica. I valori di potenziale totale a cui, nel complesso, gli stomi hanno reagito  risultato compreso fra  18 e  20 bar. Data of leaf water potentials (total, osmotic and turgor pressure) and stomatal resistence, for apricot (cv "Cafona") and orange (cv "Valencia late"), are reported. Water potential and stomatal resistence were measured at noot, through the season from avril to november. Trees had different irrigation regimen. In the apricot we had two irrigation method: drip and sprinkler. With drip irrigation three daily water volumes are been erogated, 100, 66, 33% ET. Orange trees were irrigated only by dripper with three different, daily, volumes of water: 2, 1, 0.5 ET. For both species a non-irrigated plot was also comparated. Leaf water potential was measured with thermocouple psychrometer type B, with Barrs and Slatyer modifications, at 29C, using the isopiestic method, by Boyer's and Knipling's tecnique. Stomatal resistence was measured for the same leaves, by LI-65-Autoporometer. Total water potential during the season was different for the two species. For both species non-irrigated plot had generally a lower total water potential than in the irrigated plots, but in the same time total leaf water potential was almost, the same. More evident differences are shown on turgor pressure for apricot and orange too, this is given by changes on osmotical potential. On both species turgor pressure was lower in the plot watered with the lowest volume (33% ET, for apricot and 0.5 ET for orange tree), then in the other plots (66, 100% ET and sprinkle on apricot, 1.0 and 2.00 ET on orange). This differences are been, only, during august and September. Stomatal resistence was not influenced by water stress of -23 bar on apricot. On orange tree, on the contrary, water stress of -18 -20 bar gave an high increse of stomatal resistence in the dry plot.
42878666|Il numero di rudimenti fogliari formati nella gemma prima dell'induzione  stato determinato in gemme di alcune cultivar di melo e pero. I dati rilevati confermano quelli della bibliografia. Un certo sviluppo della gemma sembra necessario per raggiungere l'induzione; infatti, i dati suggeriscono che l'entit di questo sviluppo pu variare in funzione della cultivar, della posizione della gemma e delle condizioni colturali. Concordamente con i dati forniti dalla bibliografia, si  osservato che le gemme dei meli trattati con gibberelline, sotto l'effetto della sostanza ormonale non raggiungono l'induzione, anche quando hanno formato un numero di rudimenti superiore a quello normale. Il conteggio dei rudimenti fogliari, insieme alla determinazione della lunghezza del plastocrono risulta quindi un mezzo utile nelle ricerche sull'induzione. The number of leaf primordia formed in the bud before induction was counted in the buds of some apple and pear varieties, lhe results obtained confirmed those obtained by other authors in previous researches. A certain amount of internal growth seems necessary in the bud in order to reach induction. Observations suggest that growth might change with factors such as variety, bud position and cultural conditions. Apple trees treated with GA(4 + 7) did not reach induction even after having formed a number of leaf primordia higher than normal ones. This result seems in accordance with those reported by literature. A minimum degree of internal growth (expressed as number of leaf primordia) is to be reached by the bud in order to become able to differentiate. In our work we come to the conclusion that lateral buds belonging to lateral branch usually reach induction with a lower amount of leaf primordia than apical buds and short shoot. Reckoning leaf primordia and measuring plastochrone lenght resulted therefore very useful tools for induction investigation.
42878667|Nel triennio 1977-1979  stata condotta una ricerca per studiare l'influenza dell'eccesso e della carenza di azoto sull'accrescimento di giovani piante di olivo cv "Frangivento". Tali piante sono state allevate in idroponica utilizzando, come base, la soluzione Hoagland, determinando periodicamente i parametri di crescita e la composizione chimica delle foglie. Dosi doppie di N esaltano, in una prima fase, la crescita delle piante, successivamente (1978) per un accumulo di questo elemento si manifestano i primi sintomi di tossicit con conseguente riduzione dell'accrescimento Con ulteriori apporti di dosi elevate di N, ed in modo squilibrato con gli altri elementi, le piante finiscono per morire. L'assenza di N nella soluzione nutritiva ha portato ad una drastica riduzione della crescita delle piante, queste per hanno migliorato il loro stato vegetativo e nutrizionale quando, nel 1978,  stata loro somministrata una piccola dose di questo elemento (1,5 meq). L'analisi fogliare ha messo in evidenza una carenza di N solo quando la pianta veniva allevata in completa assenza di questo elemento. From 1977 to 1979 a research was carried out to study the influence of both excess and lack of nitrogen on the growth of young olive plants (cv. "Frantoio"). The plants were grown in hydroponics, by utilizing, as basic medium, the Hoagland solution; growth parameters and chemical composition of leaves were periodically determined. Double quantities of N enhance, in a first phase (1977), plants growth; the eventual accumulation of this element causes later on (1978) the appearance of toxicity symptoms as well as a reduction of growth. Further supplies of high doses of N, and the consequent unbalanced ratio towards all other elements, cause plants death. The absence of N in the nutrient solution caused a marked reduction of growth; an improvement in plants vegetative and nutritional conditions occurred when, in 1978, they were supplied with a small quantity of N (1.5 meq). Foliar analysis pointed out the occurrence of lack of N when plants were grown in a medium completely lacking of this element.
42878671|Vengono riportati i dati dell'analisi della densit radicale dell'arancio cv. "Valencia late", al decimo e all'undicesimo anno. Le piante sono state sottoposte sin dall'impianto a quattro regimi irrigui: non irrigato, irrigato al 50% al 100% e al 200% ET. L'irrigazione  stata giornaliera con gocciolatori "Labirint' da 4 l/h a goccia. L'ET  stata calcolata moltiplicando l'evaporazione da vasca di classe A per un coefficiente di vasca di 0.64 e uno di copertura di 0.55. L'analisi della densit radicale ha riguardato il profilo del terreno da 0 a 165 cm di profondit, con sei strati (0-15; 15-45; 45-75; 75-105; 105-135; 135-165 cm). Nello spazio la densit radicale  stata misurata a tre distanze dal tronco: 85, 170, 250 cm. Il sesto d'impianto  di 5  5 m. Il metodo di analisi della densit radicale  stato quello di Newmann. Il prelievo dei campioni di terreno  avvenuto a fine agosto. Nei due anni la densit radicale  stata misurata simile. Nel profilo, circa il 75% delle radici  stato osservato nello strato 0-45 cm di profondit. Anche a 165 cm di profondit sono stati misurati apprezzabili valori della densit radicale. Fra le tesi irrigue, in generale, si  osservata una riduzione della densit radicale con l'irrigazione e con l'aumento dei volumi irrigui. Nello spazio ogni tesi irrigua ha presentato una diversa disposizione delle radici. In generale l'asciutto e la tesi irrigata con il volume pi basso hanno mostrato un maggiore sviluppo in profondit e nelle porzioni pi esterne del sesto d'impianto, rispetto alle altre tesi. Root density of orange trees, cv "Valencia late", with an age from ten to eleven years, was evaluated in 1981 and 1982. The plants were subject, from transplanting, at four irrigation regimen: non-irrigated, irrigated at 50%, at 100% and at 200% E.T. Irrigation was daily with dripper of 4 l/h (Labirint). E.T. was evaluated multiplying "A" pan evaporation for a crop coefficient of 0.64 and one of ground cover of 0.55. The measure of root density has regarded the soil profile from 0 to 165 cm deepth, with six different layers (0-15, 15-45, 45-75, 75-105, 105-135, 135-165 cm). Root density was evaluated at three different distances from the trunk: 85, 170, 250 cm. Root density was evaluated with the "Newmann's" method. Sampling was done at the end of August. For the two year root density had, almost, the same value. In the soil profile, about 75% of the root was observed in the 0-45 cm layer. Also at 165 cm depth root density was appreciable. Root density decreased with irrigation and decreased with irrigation volumes. Every irrigation regime had a different root distribution. Non-irrigated plot and 50% E.T. irrigated plot had more roots in the deepest layers and in the outskirts of the set of installation, than the other plots.
42878672|Al fine di accertare la densit d'investimento e la concimazione azotata pi appropriata per la coltivazione del gladiolo in coltura estiva-autunnale, sono state condotte esperienze in serra con la cv. "Peter Pears" confrontando quattro densit d'investimento (44,4; 53,3; 66,6 e 88,8 bulbi per m) e quattro dosi di N (0,10; 20 e 30 g/m) in combinazione fattoriale. L'aumento della densit d'investimento ha determinato sensibili incrementi delle produzioni di fiori, fulbi e bulbetti ma l'altezza degli steli fiorali, la lunghezza della spiga e le dimensioni dei bulbi e dei bulbetti hanno subito significative riduzioni. Tenuto conto, tuttavia, degli effetti favorevoli esplicati dalla concimazione azotata su tutti i caratteri esaminati  emersa la possibilit di limitare lo scadimento delle caratteristiche qualitative delle produzioni connesse all'adozione degli investimenti pi fitti, mediante l'impiego delle dosi pi elevate di azoto. In order to obtain information on plant density and nitrogen fertilization for gladiolus grown during summery-autumnal period, experiments were conducted in unheated glasshouse in southern Italy. Four plant densities (44,4; 53,3; 66,6 and 88,8 corms/m) combined with four levels of N (0, 10, 20 and 30 g/m) were compared on the "Peters Pears" cv. High planting density increased yields of flowers, corms and cormels but reduced the percentage of flowering, delayed flowering and decreased plant height, spike lenght, number of florets per spike, the average weights of corms and cormels. Increasing the levels of N from 0 to 30 g/m, on the contrary, increased the number of flowering shoots, corms, cormels and all qualitative characteristics. Higher rates of N were required to control the decay of flower spike quality and size grade of corm and cormels connected with close spacing.
42878673|Gli autori riportano alcune esperienze sulla moltiplicazione "in vitro", partendo da colture di apici, di Syngonium podophyllum var. xanthophyllum "green gold" e Syngonium erythrophyllum, specie ornamentali pregiate della famiglia delle Araceae. Esse sono perennanti, sempreverdi, fornite di getti non ramificati per la presenza di una forte dominanza apicale. Le gemme ascellari sono infatti sempre quiescienti e si sviluppano solo se viene rimossa la gemma apicale. La induzione di piante per ambedue le specie  stata ottenuta utilizzando, come espianti, gemme ascellari e apicali coltivate su mezzo di Murashige e Skoog addizionato di varie combinazioni di ormoni (auxine e citochinine), con luce ad intensit di 1200 lux, fotoperiodo di 14h di luce e 10h di buio e temperatura di 25  1C. Con MS + IAA + Kin, dal 60% degli espianti si ottiene lo sviluppo di un unico germoglio preceduto da formazione di un piccolo callo e di radici gi dopo 35-40 gg. Con le altre combinazioni usate (MS + IAA + BAP ed MS + NAA + BAP) si ottiene un callo pi abbondante dal quale si sviluppano nel 50-60% degli espianti numerosi germogli, dopo 30-40 gg.: viene quindi indotta la ramificazione della gemma iniziale. Nel caso di MS + IAA + BAP alla fase di moltiplicazione intensa della gemma segue dopo alcuni giorni la formazione di numerose radici. E' possibile poi dissociare tutto il complesso in piccoli gruppi di gemme che vengono direttamente posti in terreno. Su MS + NAA + BAP non si ottengono radici successive alla formazione dei germogli; questi, dissociati, vengono trasferiti su MS + IBA in assenza di citochinine per la radicazione. Il trapianto in terreno in tutti i casi  molto facile ed ha fornito piantine uniche o accestite, molto vigorose. I risultati delle colture di apici delle due specie dimostrano chiaramente: 1) la induzione "in vitro" della moltiplicazione delle gemme iniziali in specie di Monocotiledoni mostranti una forte dominanza apicale; 2) la potenzialit di organogenesi "in vitro" delle due specie esaminate con la rigenerazione di piante complete da gemme excise e la possibilit di applicazione pratica dei risultati ottenuti. The authors describe "in vitro" multiplication of axillary and apical buds in Syngonium podophyllum var. xanthophyllum "green gold" and Syngonium erythrophyllum, ornamental species of Araceae family. They are perennial, evergreen plants, supplied with unbranched shoots, axillary buds developing only if the apical bud is removed. The induction of plants from axillary and apical meristem tips is obtained on Murashige and Skoog agar medium supplemented with particular hormonal components under discontinuous light (14hrs of light and 10hrs of darkness), at an intensity of 1200 lux and at a temperature of 25  1C. With a) combination (MS + IAA + Kin) 50-60% of buds develop, after 30-35 days, a small callus, many roots and one shoot. With b) combination (MS + IAA + BAP) and c) combination (MS + NAA + BAP) 50% of buds develop a moderate callus with many shoots, namely, the multiplication of iniziai buds is induced. Root formation will follow bud multiplication on MS + IAA + BAP with possible subdivision into small groups. On MS + NAA + BAP root formation does not occur, but takes place later on MS + IBA, without cytochinine. Transplantation to soil, in every case, successfully produces single or multiple vigorous plantlets. The results of bud cultures of Syngonium podophyllum var. xanthophyllum and Syngonium erythrophyllum clarly demonstrate: 1) the promotion of "in vitro" branching of initial buds in Monocotyledons species showing apical dominance; 2) the potentiality of "in vitro" organognesis of the two species examinated and the possibility to obtain whole plant regeneration from excised buds, which shows practical application of the results obtained.
42878674|Si riferisce su una prova condotta per facilitare la raccolta delle nocciuole (cultivar "San Giovanni" e "Tonda gentile romana") mediante trattamenti con CEPA (0; 200; 400 e 600 ppm) e canne scuotitrici. Il fitoregolatore, in entrambe le cultivar, ha indotto una cascola pre-scrollatura proporzionale alla concentrazione. La scrollatura ha determinato un ulteriore cascola, per cui relativamente alle piante trattate, indipendentemente dalla concentrazione, nel giro di venti giorni si  raccolto circa il 96% della produzione totale, contro il 70% circa delle piante testimoni. I trattamenti con CEPA non hanno aumentato la filloptosi in misura preoccupante e non hanno influito sull'entit e sul decorso della fioritura. A test carried out to simplfy the harvest of hazelnuts (cv "San Giovanni" and "Tonda gentile romana") took place with CEPA treatments at concentrations ranging from 0; 200; 400 to 600 ppm and with shakers. The growth-regulator in both cultivars induced an early nut drop in pre-shaking, proportional to the used concentrations. Shaking induced a further nut drop and best results were shown by sprayed trees, and independently from used concentrations. After about 20 days harvest took place, (96%) in treated trees compared to the (70%) of the check trees. Trees sprayed with CEPA have not increased leaf abscission in concenrning amounts, nor influenced quantity or course of bloom stage.
42878675|Campanula rapunculus L.  una specie erbacea di solito annuale a ciclo autunno-vernino, pi di rado biennale o perenne. L'emergenza si verifica subito dopo le piogge di fine estate; durante l'autunno e l'inizio dell'inverno vengono prodotti una rosetta di foglie ed un fittone tuberizzato che costituiscono la parte edule della pianta. La fioritura e la fruttificazione avvengono in giugno e in luglio. Le osservazioni anatomiche evidenziano che il tubero  in parte radicale ed in parte caulinare. E' una specie capace di valorizzare i terreni pi poveri di collina e bassa montagna, ma risulta particolarmente esigente durante le fasi di emergenza e di sviluppo delle giovani plantule. Gli autori concludono auspicando studi agronomici che consentano di mettere a punto la tecnica di coltivazione. Campanula rapunculus L. is an annual herbaceous species which is usually characterized by an autumn-winter cycle. Emergence occurs following late summer rainfall; the rosette-forming leaves and a tuberized taproot, which is the edible part of the plant, are produced in atumn and at the beginning of winter. Anthesis, fructification, and death of the plants take place in June-July. In some cases it has been found that emergence takes place in spring giving rise to a biennal cycle ; the plants shed their rosette-forming leaves in summer, which grow again in autumn, and die the following year. If anthesis if prevented, for example when the rosettes have been picked, the plant may survive even up to 3 years. Anatomical studies show that the tuber consist of a radical section and a cauline section. The species is capable of making barren land in hills and low mountain areas exploitable, though it is particularly demanding during the emergence phase and the development of the new seedlings. The authors are expecting that thorough agronomical studies will enable a precise definition of cultivation techniques and studies on genetic improvement.
42878676|Pollen grains of Malus domestica Borkh, cultivar "Golden Delicious", were irradiated at 150 and 300 krad. Control and the two irradiated samples were autoradiographes after feeding with H-thymidine and H-uridine. Data show: 1) a high frequency of H-thymidine labelled vegetative cells is detectable in all three samples. The cytoplasmic labelling represents an actual incorporation of the precursors into the cytoplasmic DNA molecules as demostrated by the results of the DNAase digestion; 2) as the frequency of labelled nuclei is extremely low, the labelled cytoplasmic DNA is not of nuclear derivation. This conclusion is supported by the results of electron microscopy autoradiography where mitochondria as well as plastids are labelled by H-thymidine; (Bellani and Bell, 1984) - 3) the highest percentage of H-thymidine labelled vegetative cells is detectable in 150 krad irradiated sample. The possibility that a repair mechanism is responsible is discussed; 4) 150 and 300 krad induce severe damage when this is expressed as percentage of germinating pollen grains and as mean tube length (Sansavini et al. 1979), but the incorporation of nucleic acid precursors does not show a similar pattern. The authors conclude that the observed nucleic acid metabolism might be not sufficient to induce pollen grain germination. Granuli di polline di. Mal us domestica Borkh cultivar "Golden Delicious", furono irradiati con radiazioni gamma (150 e 300 krad). Un campione di controllo e due campioni irradiati furono autoradiografati dopo trattamento con H-timidina e H-uridina. I risultati ottenuti hanno evidenziato che: 1) un'altra frequenza di cellule vegetative marcate  rilevabile in tutti e tre i campioni. La marcatura citoplasmatica rappresenta una attuale incorporazione del precursore nel DNA citoplasmatico come dimostrato dai risultati ottenuti tramite digestione con DNAasi; 2) siccome la frequenza dei nuclei  estremamente bassa, la marcatura citoplasmatica non  di derivazione nucleare. Tale conclusione  sopportata dalla evidenza autoradiografica al M.E. che mostra marcatura da H-timidina su mitocondri e plastidi; 3) la pi alta percentuale di cellule vegetative marcate da H-timidina  rilevabile in campioni irradiati alla dose di 150 krad. Viene discussa la possibilit che di tale marcatura sia responsabile un meccanismo di riparo del DNA; 4) le dosi 150 krad e 300 krad inducono un forte danneggia [] to valutato come percentuale di granuli pollinici capaci di germinare e come lunghezza media del tubetto pollinico; l'incorporazione dei precursori degli acidi nucleici in polline irradiato alla dose di 150 krad, indica, tuttavia, una replicazione ed una trascrizione pi elevate che nel controllo. Gli autori concludono che l'osservato metabolismo degli acidi ncleici possa non essere sufficiente ad indurre la germinazione del granulo pollinico.
42878677|The absorption of $NO_3^ - $ by olive plants (Olea europaea L.) was determined by measuring the disappearance of $NO_3^ - $ from the nutrient solutions. The following factors were investigated: $NO_3^ - $, Ca  and $NH_4^ + $ concentrations, metabolic inhibitors, pH, temperature and various counterions. The absorption rate was a function of external $NO_3^ - $ concentration from 0.05 to 0.4 mM $NO_3^ - $, remained constant from 0.4 to 1.0 mM $NO_3^ - $ and increased again at 2.0 mM external $NO_3^ - $. The maximum velocity of $NO_3^ - $ uptake at $NO_3^ - $ concentration up to 1.0 mM was 0.7 moles/g/h. $NO_3^ - $ absorption was inhibited by $NH_4^ + $ and reduced by metabolic inhibitors. The nitrate uptake rate reduced, when pH of the nutrient solution increased, or the temperature decreased and was not influenced at all by most of the tested counterions, except $NH_4^ + $. E' stato studiato l'effetto di diverse concentrazioni di $NO_3^ - $, Ca  e $NH_4^ + $, di inibitori metabolici, del pH, delle temperature e di vari coanioni, sull'assorbimento del NOr in piante di olivo (Olea europea L.). La velocit di assorbimento era direttamente correlata alla concentrazione del $NO_3^ - $ della soluzione nutritiva quando essa passava da 0,05 a 0,43 m M $NO_3^ - $; rimaneva costante da 0,4 a 1,0 mM $NO_3^ - $ e aumentava di nuovo quando la concentrazione raggiungeva il valore di 2,0 mM $NO_3^ - $. La massima velocit di assorbimento di $NO_3^ - $, quando la concentrazione della soluzione esterna era superiore a 1,0 mM, era di 0,7 moles/g/h. L assorbimento di $NO_3^ - $ veniva bloccato dalla presenza del $NH_4^ + $ e rallentato dagli inibitori metabolici. Quando il pH della soluzione nutritiva aumentava l'assorbimento dei nitrati diminuiva ed altrettanto accadeva con le basse temperature. La maggior parte dei coanioni saggiati, ad eccezione del $NH_4^ + $ non n a manifestato nessun effetto sull'assorbimento.
42878681|Vengono riferiti i risultati relativi a un biennio (1981-82) di rilievi, sulla resistenza stomatica e sul potenziale xilematico dell'arancio (cv."Valencia late") sottoposto a regimi idrici diversi. L'esperienza si  svolta nella pianta di G. Tauro (RC), da marzo a settembre ogni due settimane eseguendo i rilivi a diverse ore del giorno. Le piante, al decimo e all'undicesimo anno d'impianto, sono state irrigate sin dall'inizio a "goccia" con volumi irrigui giornalieri pari a 0.5, 1 e 2 ET. L'E. T.  stata calcolata moltiplicando l'evaporato di classe A per 0.64 e per 0.55. Oltre queste tesi irrigue era presente un testimone non irrigato. La resistenza stomatica  stata misurata, con porometro del tipo LI-65-Autoporometer un'ora dopo l'alba, alle 10 del mattino, alle 12, die 15,30 e poco prima del tramonto. Il potenziale xilematico  stato misurato, con "camera a pressione", un'ora prima dell'alba, alle 12 e un'ora dopo il tramonto. Sino a luglio non si  notata alcuna influenza dei regimi idrici sul potenziale xilematico. Durante luglio, agosto e settembre la tesi non irrigata e, in minor misura, quella irrigata a 0.5 ET hanno fatto registrare potenziali xilematici pi bassi di quelle irrigate a 1 e 2 ET. Fra que ste due ultime tesi non sono state osservate differenze. La resistenza stomatica nel 1981 non  variata per effetti dei regimi idrici, mentre nel 1982 c' stata una notevole influenza sul meccanismo stomatico ad opera dello "stress idrico" e ci per una diversa piovosit nel corso delle due stagioni. Nella giornata la resistenza stomatica  stata trovata decrescente sino alle 10, crescente, poi, nel seguito della giornata. Durante la stagione il minimo si  osservato in maggio e giugno, il massimo in settembre. L'irrigazione, in generale, ha determinato un abbassamento della resistenza stomatica rispetto all'asciutto, ma non in modo uniforme durante la stagione e il giorno. Nel corso della stagione queste differenze sono state osservate da met luglio in poi. Anche la tesi irrigata con il minimo volume giornaliero (0.5 ET) ha fatto osservare dei valori pi bassi di resistenza stomatica rispetto a quelle irrigate a 1 e 2 ET, per alcuni periodi e per alcune ore del giorno. Non sono state trovate differenze apprezzabili tra la tesi irrigata a l e quella irrigata a 2 ET. Stomatal resistence and total water potential were measured for two years (1981-82) on orange trees (cv "Valencia late"), for differents times during the day, from March to November, every two weeks. Orange trees were ten and eleven years old, irrigated by 'drip irrigation', with tree daily volumes of water: 0.5, 1 and 2 ET. ET was calculated mul tipi ing A pan evaporation for 0.64 and 0.55. One un-irrigated plot was, also, comparated. Stomatal resistence was measured by LI-65-Autoporometer, one hour after dawn, at 10 in the morning, at noon, at 15.30 and before the sunset. Total water potential was evaluated by pressure chamber, one hour before dawn, at noon, and one hour after sunset. Until July total water potential was, almost, the same in every plots. During July, August and September, non-irrigated and 0.5 ET plots had a lower potential than 1 and 2 ET plots. This was valuable before dawn, but more differences were at noon and an hour after sunset. During 1981 stomatal resistence was almost the same in every plots, while during 1982 a considerable influence on stomatal resistence was observed by water stress, so for a different rain-course during the two seasons. During the day stomatal resistence was decrising until 10 and after increasing. In the season the lowest values are been found during May and June, the highest during September. In the irrigated plots stomatal resistence has been found lowest than in the non-irrigated plot, but not for all the day. A high stomatal resistence was measured, in the non-irrigated plot, at noon and in the evening, during September. Also during August in the 0.5 ET irrigated plot was noticed an higher stomatal resistence that in 1 and 2 ET irrigated plot. No differences are been noticed between 1 and 2 ET irrigated plots.
42878682|A method to define the dormancy in stone fruit trees has been studied in 1979-80 and 1980-81 on the following species and cultivars: Apricot: "Boccuccia" "Cafona", "San Castrese", "Reale D'Imola", "Zeppa di "Siseo". Peach: "Babygold 9", "Elberta", "Golden Jubilee", "Vivian". Plum: "Imperial California", "Pruneau D'Ente". Samples of 30 twigs for each cv have been collected every 5 days and put in water, in forcing conditions (25C  1 C, 16 h photoperiod, 3000 Lux) the phenological stage of flowers buds has been recorded every five days. The results have been analyzed with the use of a function K=T/M having two limits: 0, as dormacy surely ended, and  deep dormancy. It was possible to observe, but for late blooming cultivars only, the predeep-and post-Dormancy; for ealy blooming cvs only the deep-and post-Dormancy. The chilling hours number grave a good confirmation of the esperimental results. E'stata avviata un'ampia indagine per definire il periodo di vera dormienza delle piante da frutto, i risultati esposti riguardano gli anni 1979-80 e 1980-81 per le seguenti specie e cultivar: Albicocco: "Boccuccia", "Cafona", "San Castrese", "Reale d'Imola", "Zeppa di Siseo"; Pesco. "Babygold 9". "Elberta". "Golden Jubilee", "Vivian"; Susino: "Imperial California". "Pruneau D'Ente". Ogni 5 giorni sono stati prelevati 30 rami di un anno per ciascuna cultivar e posti in cella climatica, in acqua; le condizioni erano: 25C  1C, 3000 Lux, 16 h di fotoperiodo. Dal momento del prelievo, ogni 5 giorni, sono stati effettuati rilievi sulla evoluzione delle gemme a fiore dei singoli rami. I risultati sono stati analizzati con l'ausilio di una funzione K = T/M in cui T rappresenta il periodo di tempo necessario, per ciascun prelievo, a raggiungere la piena fioritura in condizioni di forzatura. Questa funzione presenta due limiti: "0", interpretato come indice di dormienza sicuramente superata, e "" come indice di dormienza profonda. Le condizioni cui si  giunti sono le seguenti: per le cv medio-tardive  possibile ipotizzare tre fasi: pre-dormienza, dormienza vera, post-dormienza; per le cv pi precoci  possibile solo definire il momento in cui la dormienza era sicuramente superata. I dati sperimentali hanno avuto una soddisfacente conferma dall'analisi delle ore di freddo accumulate.
42878683|Sono state condotte prove di lotta con principi attivi diversi contro Otiorrbynchus sulcatus su una coltura di Ruscus nella zona di Lucca, dove gli adulti compaiono alla fine di maggio. La somministrazione di Acephate (Orthene 150 g/h1) e Chlorpyrifos (Terial 300 g/h1) effettuata 5 volte mediante irrorazione sulla parte aerea, ha dato risultati paragonabili a quelli ottenuti con Azinphos-metile attualmente impiegato nella lotta contro il Curculionide. Altri principi attivi (Cypermethrin, Tetraclorvinfos e Chlorfenvinfos) hanno dato esito negativo. Da un punto di vista igienico per gli operatori si ritiene che su Ruscus, data la necessit di presenza continua per le operazioni di raccolta e scerbatura, i migliori interventi siano quelli con Acephate e Chlorpyrifos, ogni due settimane dalla comparsa delle prime erosioni. Control trials with different chemicals have been performed against Otiorrbyncus sulcatus in a Ruscus cultivation near Lucca (Tuscany), where adults appear at the end of May. Acephate (Orthene 150 g/h1) and Chlorpyriphos (Terial 300 g/h1) were sprayed on the aerial portion 5 times and gave results quite comparable with the ones obtained with Azinphos-methyl, which at the present is employed against the black vine weevil. Other chemicals such as Cypermethrin, Tetrachlorvinphos and Chlorfenviphos gave on the contrary a negative response. As for the hygienic stand point, we believe that, because of the continuous presence of the operators, which is necessary for gathering and weeding out, the best procedure concerning Ruscus is constituted by a treatment with Acephate and Chlorpyriphos every two weeks since the appearance of the first erosions.
42878684|Il trattamento per irrorazione con soluzione di 6 BA a 50 p.p.m. a talee di garofano mediterraneo in fase di radicazione al momento della formazione del callo provoca un aumento del numero di fiori prodotti dalla pianta; ci si verifica sia nel caso venga effettuata una successiva operazione di cimatura della pianta, sia nel caso che tale operazione venga omessa. L'accestimento della pianta indotto unicamente dall'intervento chimico tuttavia da origine ad uno slittamento e sdoppiamento dei normali flussi di fioritura, nonch ad un sensibile scadimento di qualit del prodotto. Sono stati discussi alcuni aspetti qualitativi e quantitativi della produzione ottenuta a seguito dei vari trattamenti anche in vista della necessit di programmare la fioritura ed in funzione della P.L.V. conseguibile. Foliar sprays of N-6-benzyladenine 50 p.p.m. on Mediterranean carnation cuttings during mist propagation at callus formation increased flower production over an entire cultural cycle independently of omission (+ 16% cv. "Sandra rosa"; + 10% cv. "Poker") or execution (+ 4% cv. "Sandra rosa"; + 5% cv. "Poker") of pinching of the established plants. From 16th October to the end of February the increase of yield was 14% (cv. "Sandra rosa") or 13%(cv. "Poker") in the case of the chemical treatment followed by pinching. Chemically induced branching without pinching caused sliding and splitting of the "normal" production flush and a serious decay of quality. Some aspects regarding quantity and quality of production obtained form the different treatments have been discussed considering the necessity of timing of flowering for winter production and the obtainable gross saleable production. The results indicate that cytokinin treatment during the rooting of the cuttings followed by pinching of the established plants may be of practical value in commercial flower production of Mediterranean carnation.
42878685|La ricerca  stata condotta per due anni consecutivi (1981, 1982) su aglio "Bianco Piacentino" conservato a 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30C per 160 gg. e 100 gg. La conservazione a temperature di 0 e 30C, hanno favorito il mantenimento dello stato di dormienza, mentre valori termici intermedi ne hanno provocato una precoce interruzione, in particolare a 15C. Meno determinante  risultata l'influenza della temperatura sulla incidenza delle infezioni parassitarie, con percentuali minime a 0C e massime a 25  30C. I patogeni maggiormente responsabili, sono stati identificati come appartenenti ai generi Aspergillus sp., Fusarium sp., Penicillium sp. This trial was conducted in two consecutive years, 1981 end 1982, on "White Piacentine" garlic. The garlic was stored at 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30C for 160 and 100 days respectively. Storage temperatures at 0C and 30C were found to maintain dormancy. The intermediate thermal values, howerer. from 5C to 20C, with peak at 15C, were found to stimulate early interruption. Storage temperatures were also found to slightly influence susceptibility to fungus infection. The degree of this disease was minimum at 0C, increasing progressively with temperatures at 25C to 30C. Aspergillus sp., Fusarium sp. and Penicillium sp. were the main agents of infection.
42878686|The research had the aim to analyse in detail the yield factors (flowering pattern, flower setting, abscission of flowers and fruits, number and average weight of fruits per plant) in pepper plants, grown in drainage lysimeters with relation to different actual evapotranspiration regimes. Seven irrigation treatments ranging from no irrigation after planting to continuous high soil moisture content (higher than -0.05 MPa) were tested. The yield, in all soil moisture regimes, was regulated by both number of fruits per plant and their average weight. The number of flowers produced seems to be less important, as abscission of flowers and fruits is always high. The pepper plant is very sensitive also to moderate water shortage. Lo studio ha avuto lo scopo di analizzare in dettaglio i fattori della resa (andamento della fioritura, allegagione, abscissione dei fiori e dei frutti, numero e peso medio dei frutti raccolti) in piante di peperone, allevate in lisimetri a percolazione, sottoposte a 7 regimi idrici diversi per frequenza di intervento. I risultati hanno messo in rilievo come la resa, in tutte le condizioni di alimentazione idrica, sia regolau sia dal numero di frutti che dal loro peso medio. Minore importanza va attribuita al numero di fiori prodotto, dato che l'abscissione dei fiori e dei frutti  sempre elevata. La pianta  comunque molto sensibile anche a deficit di modesta entit.
42878687|Viene evidenziata la necessit di disporre per il nostro Paese di nuove cultivar di pesco a polpa bianca e viene riferito brevemente sul programma di miglioramento genetico e varietale del pesco in corso presso l'Istituto di coltivazioni arboree dell'Universit e l'Istituto del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose di Firenze. L'Autore descrive dettagliatamente le caratteristiche morfo-pomologiche e bio-agronomiche della sua nuova cultivar di pesco a polpa bianca a maturazione precoce, denominata "Maria Grazia", ottenuta a Firenze nel 1971 dall'autofecondazione della selezione "FI-10/V/23" ("Morettini 146"  "Morettini 1"), isolata a Follonica (GR) nel 1975 con la sigla "FI-71.038.010". La "Maria Grazia"  caratterizzata essenzialmente dall'albero di elevato vigore, molto produttivo, rustico e resistente alle minime termiche. Il frutto  di media pezzatura e di forma arrotondata, con buccia molto attraente largamente coperta di rosso-vivo. La polpa  bianca, mediamente consistente, assai profumata ed aromatica, di buon sapore, semispicca. Matura insieme a "Redwing", 4-6 giorni prima di "Redhaven" e 10-12 prima di "Maria Bianca". Questa nuova cultivar viene diffusa libera da ogni vincolo contrattuale e di brevetto d'invenzione. The necessity of available new white-flesh peach cultivars in Italy is stressed by the author and the peach author and the peach breeding program being carried out at the Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree dell'Universit and the Istituto sulla propagazione delle specie legnose del C.N.R. di Firenze, are briefly refered to. The Autor then describes in detail the morpho-pomological and bio-agronomic characteristics of his new white-flesh, early peach cultivar, named "Maria Grazia", obtained in Firenze in 1971 from self pollination of the "FI-10/V/23" selection ("Morettini 146"  "Morettini 1") isolated in Follonica (GR) in 1975 under the test nr. "FI -71.038.010". "Maria Grazia" is essentially characterised by vigours, highly productive tree rustic and resistan to low temperatures. The fruit is medium sized, rounded, with a very attractive mainly redcoloured skin. The flesh is white, medium consistant, highly perfumed aromatic, good flavoured, and semi-freestone. It ripens simultaneosly with "Redwing", 4-6 days before "Redhaven" and 10-12 days before "Maria Bianca". This new cultivar is not patented and can be freely diffused.
42878691|Vengono riportati i dati dell'analisi della densit radicale, usando il metodo Newmann, fatte su una coltura di pesco franco nel primo anno (1980) e nei due anni successivi (1981 e 1982) innestato con albicocco, cv. "Cafona". Nel primo anno tutto l'appezzamento  stato irrigato per infiltrazione laterale da solchi, ad un metro dalla pianta. Negli anni successivi una parte  stata mantenuta asciutta e nel resto si  irrigato con due metodi irrigui: goccia e aspersione. Con il metodo a goccia sono stati distribuiti tre volumi irrigui giornalieri, con gocciolatori posti a 85 cm dal tronco. I volumi irrigui giornalieri sono stati: 100% , 66%, 33% ET. L' ET  stata calcolata moltiplicando l'evaporato da classe A, per un coefficiente di vasca di 0.60 e uno di copertura di 0.20 nel 1981 ; di 0.30 nel 1982. Per aspersione si  distribuito a turno fisso, 2 settimane circa, un volume d'acqua pari al valore dell'evaporato da classe A cumulato per il turno, moltiplicando per il solo coefficiente di vasco di 0.60. L'analisi della densit radicale ha riguardato il profilo del terreno da 0 a 105 cm di profondit, diviso per 4 strati: 0-15, 15-45, 45-75, 75-105 cm. Nello spazio lo sviluppo radicale,  stato osservato a diverse distanze dal tronco, ogni 85 cm, per 1/4 del sesto d'impianto, di 5  5 m. La densit radicale  stata osservata crescente negli anni di pi fra il primo e il secondo anno, mentre fra il secondo e il terzo lo sviluppo  stato lento. Fra il primo e il secondo anno l'aumento ha riguardato, principalmente, lo strato 0-45 cm di profondit, mentre fra il secondo ed il terzo ha riguardato di pi, gli strati fra 45 e 105 cm di profondit, e le zone pi periferiche del sesto d'impianto. I regimi e i metodi irrigui hanno influenzato lo sviluppo e la distribuzione delle radici. Nell'asciutto si  osservata una tendenza della pianta all'aumento della densit radicale in periferia e in profondit, mentre con l'irrigazione e con l'aumento dei volumi irrigui giornalieri si  notata una maggiore concentrazione delle radici vicino al fusto. Con l'aspersione la concentrazione delle radici intorno al fusto  stata maggiore che nelle altre tesi. Si suppone che ci sia dovuto pi all'effetto del volume irriguo che al metodo di distribuzione dell'acqua. In generale si  osservata una buona correlazione tra estrazioni dalla riserva idrica del suolo e densit radicale. For apricot, grafted on peach, in the second (1981) and third year (1980), and for peach in the first year (1980), data of root density are reported. Root density was measured by Newmann's method. In the first year all the plants were irrigated every two weeks by furrow, one meter from the plant. In the second (1981) and third year the plants were irrigated by two irrigation systems: drip and sprinkle, one plot was non irrigated. With drip irrigation were given three daily volumes by dripper (4 l/h) at 85 cm from the trunk. Daily volumes were: 100, 66 and 33% E.T.; E.T. was calculated multiplying "A" class pan for a crop coefficient of 0.6 and one of plant cover of 0.2 in 1982 and 0.3 in 1982. The plot irrigated by sprinkler, every other week, had a volume calculated from cumulated A pan evaporation, multiplied only for the crop coefficient, 0.6. Root density was measured for the soil profile from 0-105 cm depth, for four steps: 0-15, 15-45, 45-75, 75-105 cm. In the set, root density was evaluated at different distances from the trunk, every 85 cm. Root density was observed increasing for the years, more beetwen the first and the second year, than beetwen the second and the third. The increase beetwen the first and the second year was, mostly, in surface (0-45 cm depth), while in the third year root density, was observed, increasing in the deeper layers (45-105 cm), and in the outskirts of the set. Irrigation regimen and irrigation method influenced root density and root distribution. In the non-irrigated and drip irrigated plot at 33% E.T. root density was higher in the outskirts of the set and in the deeper layers, than in other plots. With volumes more than 33% E.T., was observed a higher concentration of the roots near the trunk and dripper.
42878692|Sono state effettuate alcune prove in vitro al fine di saggiare l'azione fungitossica degli olii essenziali estratti da piante aromatiche nei confronti di Penicillium italicum, P. digitatum, Alternaria citri e Botrytis cinerea. I risultati hanno posto in evidenza un'elevata attivit antifungina negli estratti di Thymus capitatus, T. serpyllum, Origanum vulgare e Eugenia caryophyllata che hanno inibito lo sviluppo dei quattro funghi anche alla dose di 200 ppm. Numerose altre essenze hanno ridotto, in varia misura, la crescita dei funghi test, ma con dosaggi pi elevati (600 e 1200 ppm). "In vitro" tests have been carried out aiming to detect antifungal activity of essential oils extracted from plants against Pennicillium italicum, P. digitatum, Alternaria citri and Botrytis cinerea. The results have pointed out a high antifungal activity of extracts obtained from Thymus capitatus, T. serpyllum, Origanum vulgare and Eugenia caryophyllata,all of them have prevented the growthof the above mentioned fungi at 200 ppm concentration. The growth of the fungi have been reduced by other essences, but at higher concentration (600 and 1200 ppm).
42878693|43 cultivars of mediterranean carnation were self-fertilized with the aim of scoring the amount of heterozygosity and gaining a first insight in to the genetic control of flower colour comparable to what has been obtained on the american ecotype by Mehlquist's classical work. Progeny analysis showed heterozygosity at least for one character (colour, dwarf, simple flower) in 41 out of the 43 cultivars. The genetic control of flower colour seemed to differ from what is know in the Sim ecotype both for the wider colour range and for the presence, in the mediterranean carnation, of epistasis for variegation and several cases of gene interactions. 43 cultivar di garofano mediterraneo sono state autofecondate con lo scopo di valutare il livello di eterozigosi e ottenere delle informazioni preliminari sul controllo genetico del colore del fiore paragonabili a quelle ottenute da Mehlquist nel suo classico lavoro sull'ecotipo americano (Sim). L'analisi delle progenie ha messo in evidenza l'esistenza di eterozigosi per almeno un carattere (colore, nanismo, struttura del fiore) in 41 della 43 cultivar. Il controllo genetico del colore del fiore sembra essere differente da quello noto nell'ecotipo americano (Sim), sia per l'ampia gamma di colori, sia per la presenza, nel garofano mediterraneo, di epistasi per la variegatura e diversi altri casi di interazioni geniche.
42878694|L'indagine  stata condotta allo scopo di definire, in termini comparavi e sotto il profilo isto-anatomico, le correlazioni che sussistono tra organi vegetativi e riproduttivi nelle piante da frutto. Quale materiale di studio sono state scelte due specie di ciliegio, Prunus avium L. cv. "Durone della Marca" e Prunus japnica var. "Hukon", in considerazione del fatto che, in quest'ultima forma ornamentale, i fiori presentano alcune anomalie (petaloidia, pistilli fogliacei ed antere in parte trasformate in petali) utili per un confronto comparato con i corrispondenti normali organi riproduttivi e vegetativi della prima. Sono stati, quindi, esaminati sistematicamente i preparati microscopici allestiti con i vari organi (gemme, foglie, sepali, petali, stami, pistilli, assi dei germogli, peduncoli, ricettacoli, nettarii e ghiandole fogliari) prelevati in diverse epoche, nell'arco di un anno, da piante adulte delle predette specie. Dalle osservazioni dei preparati microscopici  emersa l'esistenza di diverse omologie morfologiche e, soprattutto, isto-anatomiche fra i due tipi di organi, pi precisamente fra: asse del germoglio e peduncolo del fiore e del frutto, ricettacolo; foglie e appendici sterili (sepali e petali) e fertili (stami e pistilli); piccilo fogliare e filamento staminale; ghiandole fogliari e nettarii e, seppure particolarmente sotto l'aspetto funzionale, fra apice vegetativo e gametofito femminile e, soprattutto, zigote ed embrione del seme da questo derivato. Gli organi vegetativi e riproduttivi, quindi, a parte le differenze morfologiche e fisiologiche determinate dalla loro elevata specializzazione, presentano una sostanziale omologia strutturale, tissutale e, in parte, fisiologica. The morphological and histo-anatomical correlations between vegetative and reproductive organs of fruiting plants have been examined by using two cherry species, Prunus avium L. cv. "Durone della Marca" and Prunus japonica v. "Hukon", because the ornamental form produces flowers affected by certain anomalies (petaloidy, leafly pistil and petaloid stamens) useful in comparing the vegetative and the reproductive organs of the normal cherry plants. Specimens of the various organs (buds, leaves, sepals, petals, stamens, pistils, shoot axes, peduncles, receptacles, flower nectaries and leaf glands) have been sistematically examined, and the histo-anatomical homologies between the corrisponding organs have been described: vegetative shoot axes and flower-fruit peduncles, receptacles; leaves and sepals, petals, stamens, pistils; leaf glands and flower nectaries and, especially from the functional point of view, between vegetative shoot apex and female gametophyte and, particularly, zygote and embryo. The vegetative and reproductive organs, apart from morphological and physiological differences determined by their high specialization, show an essential structural, anatomical, histological and, partly, physiological homology.
42878695|Dopo aver richiamato l'attenzione sul lavoro di miglioramento genetico e varietale del pesco in corso a Firenze presso l'Istituto del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose e l'Istituto di coltivazioni arboree dell'Universit, l'Autore passa ad illustrare nei dettagli le caratteristiche della sua nuova cultivar di pesco a polpa bianca a maturazione intermedia, denominata "Maria Rosa". Questa nuova cultivar  stata ottenuta a Firenze nel 1971, dall'autofecondazione della selezione "FI-1O/V/23" ("Morettini 146"  "Morettini 1"), isolata a Follonica(GR) nel 1975 conia sigla" FI-71.038.007". La "Maria Rosa"  caratterizzata sostanzialmente dall'elevato vigore dell'albero che produce costantemente abbondanti frutti di pezzatura medio-grossa, rotondi e molto regolari. La buccia assume una colorazione molto attraente, con sovracolore rosso-vivo tenue, largamente esteso. La polpa bianca  ottima, con aroma e profumo che ricordano molto le ' vecchie pesche bianche", decisamente spicca. Matura 10-12 giorni dopo "Maria Bianca", 18-20 prima di "Michelini" e praticamente insieme a "Suncrest". Anche questa nuova cultivar a polpa bianca, come le due precedenti "Maria Bianca" e "Maria Grazia", viene diffusa libera da ogni vincolo contrattuale e di brevetto d'invenzione. After having called attention to the work on peach genetic and varietal improvement, in progress in Florence at the Istituto del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose and Istituto di coltivazioni arboree dell'Universit, the Author goes on to illustrate in detail the characteristics of his new intermediate-ripening white flesh peach cultivar, named "Maria Rosa". This new cultivar was obtained in Florence in 1971 from the self-pollination of the selection "FI-10/V/23"("Morettini 146"  "Morettini 1"), selected at Follonica (Grosseto) in 1975 with the test number "FI-71.038.007". The "Maria Rosa" is distinguished mostly by the high vigour of the tree that constantly produces abundant medium-large size, round and very regular fruits. The skin has very attractive colour, with widespread over colour of soft red. The white flesh is very hard and preserveable, even at outdoor temperatures, the taste is excellent, with an aroma and scent that recall "old white peaches", definitively freestone. It ripens 10-12 days after "Maria Bianca", 18-20 before "Michelini" and virtually at the same time as "Suncrest". Also this new white flesh cultivar, like the two previous ones, "Maria Bianca" and "Maria Grazia", is distributed free from any contractual tie or patent.
42878696|Una prova di concimazione eseguita con azoto marcato al melo, su un terreno che per reazione e granulometria poteva esaltare al massimo le perdite di fertilizzante, ha mostrato che la pianta ha assorbito una quantit di azoto pari a circa il 10% del totale somministrato. Circa il 25% dell'azoto  stato incorporato nella sostanza organica. I dati, pur mostrando scarsa efficienza della concimazione nel caso specifico, permettono di suggerire che la quasi totalit dell'azoto assorbito dalla pianta deriva dal fertilizzante. The uptake of nitrogen from May to September by an apple tree and its distribution in the plant was evaluated after application in field of N-labelled urea. Only about 10% of fertilizer nitrogen was absorbed by the tree. It seems reasonable to assume that soil properties, like pH and particle-size composition, may have well favoured losses due to leaching, after nitrification, and particularly due to ammonia volatilization. About 25% of labelled nitrogen was incorporated in soil organic matter, and from one to two thirds of this amount was recovered in soil biomass. Although data show a comparatively low efficiency of fertilization, it is possible to infer that nitrogen absorbed by the apple tree was essentially that applied as labelled urea.
42878697|Vengono riportati i risultati ottenuti durante la proliferazione e la radicazione in vitro dell'ibrido pesco  mandorlo GF 677 su substrati contenenti i sali minerali di Murashige e Skoog con aggiunta di IAA, NAA, IBA e 2,4D a diverse concentrazioni. In proliferazione sono da preferire basse concentrazioni di auxina; l'IAA ha permesso di ottenere i risultati pi positivi (tasso di proliferazione 7,3 con 0.01 mg/l);  stata necessaria la contemporanea presenza, nel substrato, di GA (0,01 mg/l) e di BAP (0,5  1 mg/l). Concentrazioni di questi due fitoregolatori superiori a quelle indicate, oppure la loro assenza, hanno infatti ridotto il tasso di proliferazione. In tre settimane si  raggiunta la radicazione di tutte le talee con 1 mg/l di auxina, tranne che con il 2,4D con il quale si sono ottenuti risultati negativi ; l'NAA ha indotto una radicazione pi precoce rispetto alle altre auxine. Results obtained during the proliferation and rooting m vitro of the peach  almond GF 677 hybrid on media with Murashige & Skoog mineral salts comparing different concentrations of IAA, NAA, IBA and 2.4D are reported. The best proliferation was reached with low concentrations of auxins; IAA gave better results (proliferation rate was 7.3 with 0.01 mg/l) than the other compounds under test. The addition of GA (0.01 mg/l) and of BAP (0.5  1 mg/l) to the media was necessary. Both a higher concentration of these two growth regulators and their absence reduced the rate of proliferation. 100% of rooting was reached in 3 weeks with 1mg/l of auxin; 2,4D produced negative results, while faster rooting was induced by NAA.
42878698|Vengono riferiti i risultati di una serie di ricerche svolte in provincia di Verona dal 1976 al 1983, sulle cultivar "Suncrest" e "Stark Redgold", allevate a fusetto e poste alle distanze di m 4  1 - 1,5 - 2,0, corrispondenti alle densit di 2.500 - 1.665 e 1.250 piante/ha. Le piante hanno iniziato a fruttificare alla seconda foglia, sebbene una grave gelata abbia danneggiato quasi completamente i frutticini subito dopo l'allegagione. Pertanto la prima produzione si  avuta alla 3 foglia, seppure con quantit diverse nelle due cultivar e nelle differenti densit di piantagione. piante alla distanza di m 4  1 (2.500 piante/ha). Tuttavia, rispetto alla distanza di m 4,00  1,50 (1.665 piante/ha) le differenze, soprattutto nella "Stark Redgold" non sono state rilevanti. E' anche emerso che la distanza di m 4 tra le file  insufficiente per consentire una agevole transitabilit delle macchine per le varie operazioni colturali. In definitiva, nell'ambiente considerato non sembra opportuno adottare distanze inferiori a m 4,5  1,5, tenuto conto che densit maggiori comportano difficolt per mantenere gli alberi in equilibrio, nonch maggiori costi per l'impianto e la potatura. Le caratteristiche qualitative dei frutti (pezzatura, colorazione, solidi solubili) sono risultate soddisfacenti e nessuna sostanziale differenza  emersa tra le diverse distanze. Research began in 1976, in an orchard established in the province of Verona with "Suncrest" (peach) and "Stark Redgold" (nectarine), budded on seedling and planted at distances of 4 m between the rows and 1.0, 1.5 and 2.0 m along the row, corresponding to 2,500, 1,665 and 1,250 trees/ha respectively. Trees were trained as free spindles. The following results emerged from the observations:  Growth (as trunk cross sectional area) was lowest in the trees grown at the highest density (2,500 trees/ha). The time required for pruning was noticeably less than that commonly necessary with the traditional planting systems;  The highest cumulative yield by the eighth leaf was reached with trees spaced at 4.0  1.0 m (2,500 trees/ha); however, the difference between the distances 4.0  1.0 m (2,500 trees/ha) and 4,0  1.50 m (1.665 trees/ha) was quite small, especially with "Stark Redgold". Therefore, considering the higher cost of establishment, the higher input of labour for pruning, and the difficulties in maintaining a balanced growth pattern in the canopy of trees planted at the highest density, distances of less than 1.5 m along the row do not appear suitable. It is also advisable to adopt a greater distance (4.5 m) between the rows in order to facilitate the cultural operations;  In general, the fruit quality (size, skin colour and soluble solid content) was quite satisfactory and no consistent differences were observed between the three densities.
42878704|The effect of girdling is a well-known horticultural practice to affect flower initiation, fruit set and fruit size, and to enhance ripening. However, very few people studied repetitive girdlings on the same trees and the same scaffolds for several years. Repetitive girdling on olive trees was studied in order to increase and stabilize yield fluctuations from one year to the next. Alternate girdlings have been performed every year on the other half of the scaffolds of olive trees during four consecutive years. Altough girdlings did not increase the average yield of girdled trees, it had reduced yield fluctuations from one year to the next. No negative effects on growth, bloom or yields of the alternate girdled trees were detected, as long as the wound healed properly. However, when the same half of the scaffolds of a tree were repeatedly girdled, inhibited growth and development of those scaffolds was observed and resulted in retardation of the girdled scaffolds and the development of an unbalanced tree, without the advantages presumed to be contributed by the girdling technique. Furthermore, yield fluctuations from one year to the next were not reduced as compared with control trees. Alternate girdlings of half of the scaffolds on a tree resulted in shifting flowers and fruit production to the girdled scaffolds, allowing proper vegetative growth of ungirdled scaffolds of the tree. The alternate girdling technique, when executed properly, could be added to other horticultural practices aimed at reducing biennial bearing of fruits. La decorticazione anulare  una pratica colturale conosciuta da lungo tempo, capace di influire sulla differenzazione a fiore, sull'allegagione, sulla dimensione dei frutti e sulla maturazione, Questa pratica non  stata finora oggetto di ricerche basate sulla applicazione per vari anni e sulle stesse branche principali. Ricerche pluriennali sono state condotte su olivi sottoposti a decorticazione anulare per accertare gli effetti esercitati da tale intervento sulla produzione degli alberi. La pratica  stata eseguita su met delle branche di olivi per quattro anni consecutivi. Bench negli alberi sottoposti a decorticazione la produzione non sia aumentata, l'alternanza di produzione  diminuita. La decorticazione non ha influito negativamente n sull'accrescimento, n sull'entit della fioritura o della produzione qualora le ferite sono cicatrizzate in modo regolare. Quando la decorticazione  stata effettuata sempre sulla stessa met delle branche, sono stati osservati effetti negativi sul loro accrescimento, con un conseguente squilibrato sviluppo della chioma dell'albero. In tal caso non  stato ottenuto alcun vantaggio della decorticazione. L'alternanza di produzione non  risultata ridotta rispetto al controllo. La decorticazione anulare eseguita su met della chioma di un albero ha favorito la fioritura e la fruttificazione delle branche decorticate, stimolando contemporaneamente una attivit vegetativa delle branche non decorticate. In definitiva la decorticazione anulare effettuata alternativamente su met della chioma ed eseguita con modalit appropriate potrebbe essere inclusa tra le pratiche colturali che consentono di ridurre l'alternanza.
42878705|Viene evidenziata l'importanza che riveste la peschicoltura tardiva in Italia e la necessit di disporre di valide cultivar, con particolare riguardo a quelle con frutti attraenti ed a polpa bianca. L'Autore ricorda il programma di miglioramento genetico del pesco per l'ottenimento di nuove cultivar in corso presso l'Istituto del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose e l'Istituto di coltivazioni arboree dell'Universit di Firenze e passa ad illustrare dettagliatamente le caratteristiche della sua nuova cultivar di pesco a polpa bianca a maturazione tardiva, denominata "Maria Delizia". Questa nuova cultivar  stata ottenuta a Firenze nel 1971 dall'autofecondazione di "Cesarmi", isolata a Follonica (GR) nel 1975 con la sigla "FI-71.043.019". La "Maria Delizia"  caratterizzata da un medio vigore dell'albero che produce costantemente una elevata quantit di grossi frutti, sferoidali, molto regolari. La buccia assume una elegante colorazione bianco-crema, con larghe sfumature rosse su buona parte della superficie. La polpa  bianca, venata di rosso al nocciolo, assai zuccherina, profumata ed aromatica sul tipo delle "vecchie pesche bianche delle vigne", decisamente spicca. Matura 6-8 giorni dopo "Fayette", 3-5 dopo "Michelini", praticamente insieme a "K 2" e 22-25 giorni prima di "Fairtime". Come le tre precedenti cultivar a polpa bianca ("Maria Bianca", "Maria Grazia" e "Maria Rosa") anche questa nuova cultivar viene diffusta libera da ogni vincolo contrattuale e di brevetto d'invenzione. Lare peach-growing in Italy and the necessity of valid cultivars, particularly those with attractive white flesh fruits, is proved to be a matter of great importance. The Autor recollects the programme of peach genetic improvement for the obtention of new cultivars under way at the Istituto del C.N.R. sulla propagazione delle specie legnose and Istituto di coltivazioni arboree dell'Universit di Firenze and goes on to illustrate in great detail the characteristics of his new late -ripening white flesh peach cultivar, named "Maria Delizia". This new cultivar was obtained in Florence in 1971 from the self-pollination of "Cesarini", selected at Follonica (Grosseto) in 1975 with the abbreviation "FI-71. 043. 019". "Maria Delizia" is distinguished by a tree of average vigour that constantly produces a high quantity of large round shaped, very regular fruits. The skin shows a very elegant white-cream colour, with wide red tones on a large part of the surface. The flesh is white, streaked with red around the stone, very hard and preserveable both in fruit-cellar and in refrigerator, the taste is exquisite, very sweet, scented and aromatic like the "old white peaches of the vineyards", definitively freestone.It ripens 6-8 days after "Fayette", 3-5 after "Michelini", virtually at the same time as "K2" and 22-25 days before "Fairtime". Like the three previous white-flesh cultivars ("Maria Bianca", "Maria Grazia" and "Maria Rosa) also this new cultivars is distributed free from any contractual tie or patent.
42878706|Sono state provate per un biennio su suoli rossi mediterranei della Sicilia cultivar di fava italiana, del Nord-Europa (Olanda) e alcune popolazioni locali in via di selezione, allo scopo di evidenziarne l'attitudine bioagronomica alla produzione di semi per l'industria della surgelazione. La produzione  stata influenzata significativamente dall'andamento climatico, tanto che nella seconda annata, la coltura  stata danneggiata da un ritorno di freddi nel periodo di fioritura, e di conseguenza  stata osservata una bassa produzione unitaria dei semi. Fra i tipi di fava provati sono apparsi pi idonei alle condizioni pedoclimatiche in cui si  svolta la prova, il gruppo di popolazioni contrassegnato da "MG", la popolazione "Locale di Putignano" (Bari) e la cv. "Gemini 1". Le cultivar olandesi si adattano poco o nulla all'ambiente siciliano. One cultivar of Italian broad bean, three cultivars from North Europe and seven land races under selection were tested for two years on "Red Mediterranean Soils" of Sicily, in order to evaluate the bio-agronomica aptitude of fresch seeds for deep-freezing. The yield was significantly influenced by climatic conditions so much that in the second year a cold spell during the flowering period, damaged the crop in such a way that seed yield was lowered.Results showed that the "MG" group, the land race "Locale di Putignano" (Bari) and the cultivar "Gemini 1", seemed more suitable to the pedoclimatic conditions. The Dutch cultivare produced little or nothing in Sicily.
42878707|Sono state condotte delle prove per controllare l'andamento nel tempo del pH del substrato su colture in vitro di melo. Sono stati utilizzati espianti della cv "Golden Delicious" gi condizionati in vitro e sono state rilevate le variazioni del pH su substrati a diversa composizione minerale (PM, MS normale e MS addizionato con sostanza tampone) in presenza di un numero diverso di espianti (0-2-4) per contenitore. I rilievi sono stati effettuati settimanalmente per tutto il tempo di una coltura (6 settimane). Sono state evidenziate ampie oscillazioni del valore del pH con discesa nella 1 e 2 settimana e successiva risalita alla 5 settimana.Tali variazioni sono indotte in piccola misura direttamente dalla sterilizzazione, diventano pi consistenti in presenza di espianti in crescita.Le oscillazioni si sono diversificate a seconda del substrato e del numero di espianti per vaso di coltura. Contenitori senza materiale vegetale hanno egualmente mostrato una leggera variazione del pH nel tempo. Vengono avanzate alcune ipotesi su le cause del fenomeno. Si suppone una prima fase di attiva respirazione con accumulo di acido carbonico ed una seconda di assorbimento preferenziale di anioni. Previously in vitro conditioned "Golden Delicious" explants were used, and pH variations were detected on substrates with a different mineral composition (PM, normal MS and MS added with a buffer substance), in the presence of varying numbers of explants (0-2-4) per container. The measurements were made each week, in the total course of culture duration (6 weeks). Wide fluctuations of the pH values were detected, with a reduction in the first and second week, followed by a recovery in the fifth week. Such fluctuations are to a small extent caused by sterilization, and become more marked in the presence of growing explants. The fluctuations differ according to the substrate and to the number of explants per container. Containers with no vegetal material have likewise shown in the time a slight pH variation. Some hypotheses are made concerning the causes of the phenomenon. A first phase of active respiration with accumulation of carbonic acid would be followed by a second phase, of a preferential anions absorption.
42878708|Semi di Lycopersicon esculentum sono stati trattati con Vinclozolin (3-(3,5-Dichlorophenyl)-5-methyl-5-vinyl-1,3-oxazolidine-2,4-dione) per periodi di tempo differenti. L'analisi citologica, effettuata sui meristemi radicali, mostra due tipi di disturbi mitotici: a) inibizione della formazione del fuso mitotico (C-metafasi); b) inibizione della divisione cellulare (formazione di cellule multinucleate). I semi trattati con Vinclozolin per periodi brevi sono capaci di riprendere una normale attivit mitotica dopo un periodo di ripresa in acqua. Il danno risulta, invece, irreversibile dopo un lungo periodo di trattamento con l'anticrittogamico. Seeds of Lycopersicon esculentum are treated with Vinclozolin (3-(3,5-Dichlorophenyl)-5-methyl-5-vinyl-1,3-oxazolidine-2,4-dione) for different periods. Cytological analysis, accomplished on radical meristems, shows two types of mitotic disturbances a) inibition of mitotic spindle formation (C-methaphases): b) inibition of cell division (formation of multimicleate cells). Seeds trated with Vinclozolin for a short period resume a normal mitotic activity after a water recovery period. The damage is, instead, not reversible after a long period of treatment with the anticryptogam.
42878709|Trenta campioni di seme di fagiolino nano sono stati sottoposti a prove di laboratorio e di campo al fine di individuare il metodo pi idoneo per la valutazione del vigore del seme di questa specie. In laboratorio sono stati valutati la germinabilit, il tempo medio di germinazione, il peso di 1000 semi, e sono state effettuate prove di conducibilit elettrica con gli apparecchi P 310 ed ASA 610. Le prove di emergenza in campo sono state eseguite in due epoche di semina (anticipata e normale). Le condizioni climatiche durante l'emergenza non sono risultate particolarmente sfavorevoli nemmeno per la 1 epoca di semina. In tale situazione, considerando tutti i 30 campioni di seme, la prova di germinabilit ha fornito la migliore correlazione con l'emergenza in campo, per entrambe le epoche di semina. Considerando invece i soli campioni di seme commerciabile (germinabilit  75%), la migliore stima dell'emergenza in campo si  ottenuta combinando i valori di germinabilit con quelli delle "letture" sull'ASA 610 eseguite in corrispondenza dei limiti di PI + 70 e PI + 75 , rispettivamente per la 1 e per la 2 epoca di semina. I risultati ottenuti hanno inoltre indicato che le prove di vigore assumono maggiore interesse per i campioni di seme di elevata germinabilit ed hanno dimostrato che il vigore assume una importanza tanto maggiore quanto pi sfavorevoli sono le condizioni ambientali durante il periodo dell'emergenza in campo. Vengono infine fornite indicazioni pratiche per la previsione dell'emergenza in campo del seme di fagiolino nano di buona germinabilit abbinando la prova di germinabilit con la lettura sull' ASA 610. Thirty seed samples were analysed both in laboratory and in field trials to determine the method most suitable for bush bean seed vigour evaluation. Germination, mean germination time and 1000 seeds weight were determined in laboratory. Electrical conductivity tests were also carried out using P 310 and ASA 610 instruments. Field emergence trials were conducted on two sowing dates (early and standard). Climatic conditions were not unfavourable during emergence, even for first sowing. In these conditions, the germination test provided the best correlation with field emergence for all 30 samples on both sowing dates. On the other hand, a combination of germination with ASA 610 readings, taken at PI 70  and at PI + 75 , for first and second sowings respectively, provided the best estimation of field emergence for the 22 out of 30 commercial samples (germination  75%). Experimental results showed that vigour tests can assume an important role especially for high germination seed samples, and demonstrated that seed vigour has a greater influence on field emergence in unfavourable climatic conditions. Suggestion are also formulated concerning the prediction for high germination bush bean seed field emergence by combining germination tests with ASA 610 readings.
42878710|The light requirement for germination of Atropa belladonna seeds was fully sastisfied by continuous red light or 10 min daily red pulses. Continuous irradiation of seeds whit blue light produced a very low germination (4%). Continuous irradiation with far red light was ineffective. Seed germination induced by daily 10 min red light was completely reversed by following 10 min 758 nm irradiation, indicating phytochrome involvement. La germinazione dei semi di Atropa belladonna L.  stimolata da irradiazioni continue con luce rossa, bianca e blu in ordine descrescente di efficacia. La germinazione non avviene al buio e con irradiazioni continue nella banda rosso-lontana dello spettro luminoso. Brevi trattamenti giornalieri (10 min giorno) con luce rossa presentavano la stessa efficacia dei trattamenti continui con la medesima luce rossa. L'effetto positivo di trattamenti giornalieri con luce monocromatica  stato studiato nelle bande rossa e rosso-lontana. Il risultante spettro d'azione mostra un picco compreso fra 648 e 676 nm. La germinazione dei semi indotta da brevi trattamenti giornalieri con luce rossa  completamente inibita da successivi trattamenti con luce rossa-lontana. Questi risultati indicano che l'effetto della luce nel fotocontrollo della germinazione in A. belladonna  una classica risposta ad induzione del sistema fitocromo.
42878715|Knife girdling, although a sophisticated method for reducing biennial yield fluctuations of olive, requires very skilled and precise technique in order to succeed. A chemical that could be applied to scaffolds and have the advantages of knife girdling was needed to replace the highly risky girdling method. A morphactin solution paint-banded with a brush; on olive scaffolds was almost as effective as knife girdling in reducing biennial yield fluctuations. It increased perfect flower percentage and shifted most of the yield to the morphactin treated scaffolds. By alternately banding the other half of the tree scafflods every year, yield fluctuations from one year to the next were reduced to 41.6% of those in control trees. Altough, the average yield of morphactin treated trees was not increased as compared with control trees over a period of four consecutive years. La decorticazione anulare, sebbene sia un metodo efficace per eliminare l'alternanza di fruttificazione dell'olivo, richiede di essere eseguita con notevole perizia per ottenere risultati positivi. Tale pratica, infatti, se applicata in modo imperfetto pu causare la morte di intere branche, per mancata ricostituzione del sistema cribo-vascolare. Molto sentita, quindi,  la necessit di individuare un prodotto chimico capace di esplicare gli stessi effetti della decorticazione e di evitare i rischi di questa pratica. Dalle ricerche effettuate per un quadriennio, su olivi delle cv. Manzanillo e Uovo di Piccione ,  emerso che una soluzione di morfactina (CME -72210) applicata con un pennello alle branche principali ha ridotto l'alternanza di produzione in misura uguale alla decorticazione anulare. Il trattamento ha anche aumentato la percentuale di fiori perfetti e ha concentrato la maggior parte della produzione nelle branche trattate. Applicando la morfactina alternativamente in anni successivi alla met delle branche,  stata ridotta del 41,6% l'alternanza di produzione. I trattamenti con morfactina non hanno, peraltro, aumentato la produzione complessiva nel quadriennio di osservazioni.
42878716|Ai valori sperimentali del ritmo di accrescimento e di asportazione di numerosi elementi nutritivi osservati su tre tipi di garofano (Astor, Floriana e Chaubaud)  stata adattata una funzione matematica. I risultati ottenuti e discussi nel lavoro confermano la validit della funzione nel descrivere andamenti biologici di tale natura, l'aderenza dei valori assunti di parametri al significato biologico loro assegnati e la possibilit di ottenere utili informazioni sull'evolversi dei fenomeni studiati, difficilmente ottenibili per altra via. I valori che i parametri hanno assunto per i tre tipi di garofano hanno mostrato chiaramente la loro diversit biologica e la loro diversa adattabilit all'ambiente in cui sono stati allevati. La funzione matematica, inoltre,  apparsa utile soprattutto nel calcolarecon notevole precisione i periodi di pi alto ritmo di accrescimento e di maggior esigenza di elementi nutritivi, ed in particolare di microelementi. A mathematical function with three parameters, each with a biological meaning, was applied to the experimental data of both growth and elemental uptake rates of three carnation varieties (Astor, Chaubaud, and Floriana). Results showed the data matched the function adequately. The biological meaning ascribed to the parameters was found to be reliable throughout. The function proved also useful in calculating, with accuracy, the critical time of both growth rate and elemetal uptake of microelements in particular.
42878717|Alterazioni dei processi fisiologici, quali la traspirazione e la resistenza stomotica, modificano il bilancio energetico delle foglie con conseguenti variazioni di temperatura di queste. La misura della temperatura fogliare tramite termografia all'infrarosso consente la identificazione precoce di stati patologici in piante apparentemente sane. Si descrivono qui i risultati ottenuti su piante di garofano infette da Fusarium oxysporum. The need of checking physiological conditions of plants to manage them in a suitable way is increasing continously. Models of technical management need more and more often to quantify the reply of plants to environmental factors, to pathogens, to nutrients, to competions factors. Phitodiagnostic, a new word we built up, will become a useful tool not only in the research field but in the practice of the modern agriculture. The development of electronics in the last twenty years and the fall of prices of electronics devices will speed up this process of plant monitoring together with other methods coming from chemistry and biochemistry. The aim of our research performed with the microbiologists was to detect plants infected or not by Fusarium. The research was conducted on Dianthus caryophyllus which is infected by Fusarium oxysporum very often. Phytodiagnostic was based on the assumption that the water balance of plants infected could be modified in relation to the plants not infected. Measurement of transpiration were made by an autoporomenter and measurement of leaf water potential by a pressure chamber. Such measurement were made in a first time on plants with evidence of Fusarium attack and on plants completely safe. The results obtained put in evidence the following model: low leaf resistence in not infected plants; low resistance in completely infected plants; high and low resistance in plants infected at the first stage. As we want to detect this last evenience we can do by means of these measurements. Because of the incertanty of the traspiration measurement we shift to leaf temperature measurement. By means of a infrared camera thermivision we check with a good degree of reability the health of plants.
42878718|Nella presente nota vengono illustrati i risultati di alcune ricerche condotte allo scopo di verificare l'effetto di differenti combinazioni di vitamine ed aminoacidi nonch di differenti fitoregolatori (BA, zeatina, kinetina e 2iP nella forma normale e riboside, acido indolbutirrico ed acido gibberellico) rispettivamente sulla crescita in vitro di embrioni di J. regia isolati dai cotiledoni e sulla successiva proliferazione delle plantule ottenute. Tutti i substrati utilizzati avevano in comune i macro e micro elementi minerali di Murashige e Skoog (1962) in quanto questi ultimi avevano fornito i migliori risultati in precedenti prove preliminari (Cossio, Minolta 1983). Le prove attuate hanno evidenziato una scarsa influenza delle combinazioni di vitamine ed aminoacidi saggiate sulla crescita della parte epigea (fusticino e foglie) degli embrioni mentre lo sviluppo della radichetta  apparso strettamente correlato alla presenza di inositolo nel substrato. Relativamente alla proliferazione, i migliori risultati si sono ottenuti impiegando -dopo 45 giorni di permanenza degli embrioni su un substrato privo di fitoregolatori - BA alla dose di 1 mg/1 (tasso medio di proliferazione pari a 2,9:1 dopo 21 giorni di coltura) e zeatina riboside alla dose di 8 mg/1 (tasso medio di proliferazione pari a 3: 1 dopo 21 giorni di coltura); quest'ultima citochinina ha per provocato la comparsa di fenomeni di vitrescenza nella maggior parte degli espianti. L'aggiunta di IBA o di GA alla dose di 0,5 mg/1 al substrato contenente BA alla concentrazione di 1 mg/l non ha consentito, nelle presenti prove, di migliorare il tasso di proliferazione delle colture. This paper describes the results of several experiments on the respective effects of different combinations of vitamins, amino acids (see table 1) and certain growth regulators (BA, Zeatin, Kinetin and 2iP in both normal and Riboside forms, and IBA and GA firstly on in vitro growth of J. regia embryos isolated from the cotyledons and secondly on the subsequent proliferation of the resulting plantlets. All media used in these trials had the same macro-and micro-mineral elements (after Murashige e Skoog, 1962) as they determined the best embryo growth in previous preliminary trials (Cossio, Minotta 1983). The results enphasized that the effect of the vitamins and amino acids used on the stem and leaf growth of the embryos was only slight. It was also found that the presence of inositol in the medium is indispensable for root development. The best proliferation results were obtained using BA at 1 mg/l (average proliferation rate equal to 2.9: 1 after 21 days) and Zeatin riboside at 8 mg/l (average proliferation rate equal to 3: 1 after 21 days) after the embryos had been in the medium without growth regulators for 45 days. The Zeatin riboside, however, caused the appearance of a vitreous aspect in most of the expiants. The addition of IBA or GA at 0,5 mg/1 to the medium having a BA concentration of 1 mg/l did not improve plant proliferation rate in this trials.
42878719|Nel presente lavoro vengono descritte le caratteristiche morfologiche dello stigma di alcune piante da frutto pi comuni (susino, mandorlo, ciliegio, albicocco, pesco, pero, melo) coltivate nel nostro paese. Tutte le specie esaminate presentano una superficie stigmatica umida e le cellule recettive sono papillate. Le papille, all'antesi, presentano pi meno abbondanti processi di necrotizzazione. In pero e melo la superficie stigmatica papillata si continua nello stilo. Morphological characteristics of stigma in some fruit species such as Prunus domestica, P. amygdalus, P. avium, P. armeniaca, P. persica, Pyrus communis, Malus communis, are here described. All the species examined show a wet stigmatic surface and the receptive cells are papillate. At anthesis the papillae show a more or less wide spreced process of necrotization. In Malus communis and in Pyrus communis the papular stigmatic surface is continuous with the style.
42878720|Nel vitigno Schiava Grigia sono stati studiati, da un punto di vista anatomico, i processi di micro e macrosporogenesi. I risultati delle osservazioni microscopiche indicano che entrambi i processi sono soggetti a turbe tali da pregiudicare la produzione; tali alterazioni si manifestano infatti in scarsa allegagione ed acinellatura. In particolare  stata notata la formazione di polline in gran parte malformato e scarsamente germinabile, nonch la degenerazione dei tessuti embrionali dell'ovario. The grape variety Schiava Grigia shows a marked millerandage and a low berry setting. An anatomical investigation was therefore carried out in order to see if such a behaviour is due to irregularities in both micro and macro-sporogenesis. Microsporogenesis occurs regularly, but a high number of pollen grains appear shrinked, polyedric and non-vital; pollen germination is thus very low (under 15%). Many ovules show a degeneration that begins to be detectable at the onset of flowering; gradual detachment of integument was observed. The ovary fails to develop, and by veraison it is totally necrotised.
42878721|Allo scopo di valutare la possibilt di saggiare in vitro la resistenza a Meloidogyne incognita sono stati utilizzati i cloni 420/1 resistente e GF 677 suscettibile. Dalle prove di axenizzazione  risultato che il trattamento pi idoneo  stato quello che prevede l'uso di basse concentrazioni di streptomicina e cloruro mercrico. Il substrato ottimale si  rivelato quello sabbioso addizionato con soluzione PM. Il test di resistenza ha messo in evidenza che il clone GF 677  risultato fortemente attaccato con formazione di galle, dopo 15 giorni; il clone 420/1 non ha presentato galle ma individui di tutti gli stadi del ciclo biologico del nematode, sia pure in misura marcatamente minore rispetto al GF 677. L'attacco sul clone 420/1 anche se debole fa prospettare, come gi dimostrato da altri AA., che la resistenza del genotipo sia stata modificata dal livello residuo di citochinine ed auxine, utilizzate per la moltiplicazione e radicazione degli espianti in vitro. In order to evaluate the possibility of testing in vitro resistance to Meloidogyne incognita, the resistant clone 420/1 and susceptible GF 677 were used. From the axenisation trials of the inoculum it was shown that the most suitable treatment involved emploing the low concentration of streptomycin sulfate and mercuric chloride. The optimal substrate was sand with addition of PM solution. The resistance test showed that the GF 677 clone was strongly attacked by galls formation after 15 days; the clone 420/1 had no evidence of galls but nematodes in all the stages of the biological cycle were present although to a much weaker extent than in GF 677. The attack on clone 420/1 although weak, prospects, as already shown by other authors that the genotype resistance can be modified from the residual level of cytokinins and auxin used in vitro culture.
42878722|Fusarium solati (Mart.) Sacc.  stato isolato da piante di Actinidia di quattro anni, coltivate nella zona di Latina. Il fungo, inoculato al colletto di giovani piante, la cui corteccia era stata ferita, ha prodotto imbrunimenti del legno per qualche centmetro al di sopra del punto di inoculazione. Il fungo  stato reisolato dai tessuti imbruniti. Si ritiene che Fusarium solarii possa insediarsi su Actinidia in seguito a lesioni da cause biotiche o abiotiche. F. solani was isolated from four years old plants of Actinidia chinensis Planchn cv. Hayward, grown near Latina (Central Italy). The fungus caused browning on the wood when inoculated on wounded bark near the collar. Browning extended upwards for a few centimeters. The fungus was reisolated from the discoloured tissues. Probably F. solani attacks the host when weakened or wounded by abiotic or biotic agents.
42878727|Viene esaminata la reazione di 20 cultivar di peperone e 16 cultivar di melanzana coltivate in serra calda (temperatura minima notturna 12 C) ed in serra fredda (temperatura minima notturna 5,5 C), nel periodo di permanenza in vivaio (6 settimane) successivo al ripicchettamento. Vengono discussi i rilievi biometrici riguardanti dimensioni cotiledoni, altezza plantule, numero foglie e larghezza foglie apicali e la loro correlazione con fasi fenologiche di produzione. Le cultivar di peperone che in vivaio hanno presentato livelli di crescita pi elevati alle basse temperature sono state Bell Boy, Melody, e Blue Star, nonostante l'elevato differenziale di crescita tra regime caldo e regime freddo; i caratteri pi significativi per una selezione precoce di cultivar adatte alla serra fredda risultano le dimensioni dei cotiledoni, il numero e la larghezza delle foglie. Tra le cultivar di melanzana che hanno avuto il minore differenziale di crescita in vivaio, tra regime freddo e regime caldo, dobbiamo segnalare Ebany, Fabina, Black Bell, Milionaire, che hanno successivamente fornito buoni risultati produttivi sia in serra fredda sia in serra calda; in questo caso le correlazioni tra caratteri rilevati in vivaio e fasi fenologiche successive non ha dato esiti positivi. The behaviour of 20 cultivars of pepper and 16 cultivars of egg-plant, grown at 5,5 and 12 C night temperature for 6 weeks, was examined. Dimension of cotiledons, height of seedlings, number of leaves and width of apical leaves were measured. The pepper cultivars with the higher growth at low night temperatures were: Bell Boy, Melody, Blue Star; but these cultivars showed also higher differential growth between 5,5 C and 12 C night temperature. The egg-plant cultivars with differential growth were: Ebany, Fabina, Black Bell, Milionaire, these cultivars showed a different level of growth in nursey but a good yield was obtained. The growth in nursery may be utilized for the early selection of cultivars adapted to low temperatures growing, in pepper cultivars but not in egg-plant cultivars, in relation to the correlation coefficient founded with earlyness and yield characters.
42878728|In un esperimento svolto in pien'aria sono state saggiate, unitamente ai genitori, le combinazioni dialleliche (esclusi i reciproci) tra 7 cultivar di melanzana a bacca violetta. Gli ibridi hanno fornito, in media, produzioni significativamente superiori a quelle dei parentali (+ 38,1%) principalmente come conseguenza di un maggior numero di bacche per pianta. Il vantaggio delle combinazioni F sui genitori si  soprattutto esplicato sulle prime fasi del ciclo produttivo, pur essendo state scarsamente rilevanti le variazioni, rispetto ai genitori, relative all'inizio della fioritura. Lievi differenze sono state, inoltre, riscontrate tra i due gruppi per altezza della piante, altezza di inserzione del primo frutto e forma della bacca. Gli effetti pi elevati della a.c.g. per la produzione precoce sono stati evidenziati da P.I. 351129 e dalla variet locale Lunga violetta di Romagna; l'incrocio tra queste due cultivar  risultato, nell'insieme dei caratteri considerati, il pi interessante. All the possible crosses among seven violet fruit varieties were evaluated together with their parents in a field experiment. On the average, the hybrids significantly outyielded the parents (+ 38,1%), mainly because of a higher number of fruits per plant (+ 30,8%). The variation of tfoe mean weight of the fruits was not significant. The hybrid superiority was chiefly achieved in the first harvests, although the average hybrid and variety flowering dates were very similar. Small differences between the two groups of genotypes were noticed for plant height, first fruit height and fruit shape. The parents P.I. 351129 and Lunga violetta di Romagna (a local variety) showed the highest g.c.a. effects for early yield: their cross proved to be the most interesting as regards the agronomic traits considered.
42878729|The effects of many chemicals (fusicoccin, GA, GA4/7, abscissic acid (ABA), cycloheximide and actinomycin D) on the light-mediated germination of the seeds of A. belladonna were studied. Fusicoccin cannot induce seed germination in the dark, but it enhances the percentage germination either in the dark or under continuous red light. It appears that the two factors red light and GA act independently. ABA and cycloheximide inhibit completely the light mediated germination, while the effect of actinomycin D is very low. It is suggested that phytochrome-mediated seed germination in A. belladonna requires cytoplasmic protein-synthesis, while there are no indications for a requirement in RNA synthesis. Our results exclude the likelihood that phytochrome controls germinations of Atropa belladonna seeds through the activation of a H/K exchange mechanism, fusicoccin sensitive, at the membrane level. Si  studiato l'effetto di vari composti chimici (fusicoccina, GA, GA4/7, acido abscissico (ABA), cicloesimide e actinomicina D) sulla germinazione dei semi di A. belladonna indotta dalla luce. La fusicoccina non  in grado di indurre la germinazione al buio, ma la aumenta alla luce. GA e GA4/7 sono in grado di stimolare la germinazione sia alla luce che al buio. I due fattori luce e gibberelline sembrano agire indipendentemente l'uno dall'altro nel controllo della germinazione di A. belladonna. L'acido abscissico e la cicloesimide inibiscono completamente la germinazione indotta dalla luce, mentre l'effetto della actinomicina D  scarso o nullo. I risultati suggeriscono che in A. belladonna la germinazione mediata dal fitocromo richiede sintesi proteica citoplasmatica e sembra non richiedere l'attivazione a livello di membrana di un meccanismo di scambio H/K fusicoccina sensibile.
42878730|Sono state condotte delle prove di moltiplicazione in vitro di espianti di melo cv. Golden Delicious su diversi substrati (PM, MS normale, MS con aggiunta di tampone sodiocitrato - sodio idrato). A fine coltura si  determinata la quantit di elementi minerali nel materiale vegetale ottenuto in 45 giorni di crescita in vitro ed il loro livello. Per l'analisi il materiale vegetale  stato suddiviso in callo (parte basale del ciuffo di germogli) e germogli (comprendenti fusto, gemme e foglie). Sono stati determinati sia per i substrati che per il materiale vegetale i seguenti elementi minerali: N, P, Ca, Mg, K (espressi in percentuale sulla sostanza secca) Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu (espressi in ppm sulla s.s.). I risultati evidenziano che nel substrato vi sono forti abbassamenti di concentrazione di N, P, Zn per gli ultimi due si potrebbe aver raggiunto limiti deficitari. Negli espianti non sono state evidenziate le stesse variazioni in nutrienti che sono caratteristiche dei substrati. Solo per l'N si  rilevato un valore sensibilmente pi elevato nei tessuti vegetali cresciuti in MS. Una forte differenza esiste invece nelle diverse parti dell'espianto diviso in germogli e parti basali . In questa ultima zona si accumulano l'N, Fe e Zn. Le informazioni ottenute non possono in alcun modo essere ricondotte a situazioni in vivo ma da qui possono essere ricavati utili suggerimenti per tentare di migliorare le formulazioni dei substrati minerali per la micropropagazione del melo. Tests of in vitro multiplication of apple explants (cv. Golden Delicious) have been carried out on several substrates (PM, normal MS, MS with addition of sodium citrate -sodium hydrate buffer). At the end of the culture the quantity of mineral nutrients in the vegetal material obtained in 45 days of growth in vitro and their level was analytically determined. For the analysis the vegetal material was sub-divided into callus (basal part of the bunch of shoots) and shoots (comprising stem, buds and leaves). The following mineral nutrients were measured, both for the substrates and the plant material: N, P, Ca, Mg, K (expressed in percentage on the dry matter) Fe, Mn, Zn, Cu (expressed in ppm on the dry matter). The results prove that in the substrate occur marked decreases of concentration of N, P, Zn, for the last two deficiency limits could have been reached. The same variations in nutrients that are characteristic of the substrates were not detected in the explants. Only N showed a considerable increase in the plant tissues grown in MS. A strong difference exists instead in the different parts of the explant, as divided into shoots and basal parts. In this part areas of accumulation were located for N, Fe and Zn. The information obtained cannot in any way be compared to in vivo situations but useful suggestions can be drawn to try to better the mineral substrates formulations for apple micropropagation.
42878731|A study of gladiolus viruses has been carried out. This bulbous, as cut flowers, is agronomically the most important in Italy. 35 cultivars of imported gladiolus bulbs (Gladiolus ssp.), obtained from normal sales outlets, were found to be infected with: Bean yellow mosaic virus (BYMV) (90%), Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) (35%), Arabic mosaic virus (ArMV) (5%), a possible nepovirus (?) (1%) and an unidentified agent (UnV) (1%). These gladiolus plants were kept in a controlled environment for the whole vegetative life-cycle and tested for virus infection several times with the following methodology: leaf sap inoculation to host plants, leaf-dip and serology. The association between the plant symptoms (leaves and flowers) and the virus presence was studied in this survey.  stata condotta in Italia un'indagine sulle malattie da virus del gladiolo (Gladiolus spp.), bulbosa che dal punto di vista agronomico, come fiore reciso,  la pi importante. Sono state complessivamente esaminate 35 cultivar di gladiolo di importazione, acquistate presso i comuni rivenditori. A tal scopo 5-10 bulbi di ciascuna cultivar erano piantati in vaso e mantenuti in serra condizionata, fino all'ottenimento di piante alte 20 cm circa. Queste venivano poi trapiantate in pieno campo per controllarne la fioritura. I metodi utilizzati (inoculazione meccanica su piante test, sierologia, microscopia elettronica) per la identificazione dei virus presenti nelle singole piante, sono stati applicati sia nella prima fase di crescita in serra (dove erano esaminate le foglie), che nella successiva in pieno campo (dove si saggiavano i fiori). Si  in tal modo cercato di correlare le manifestazioni sintomatologiche sia fiorali che fogliari con la presenza di virus nella pianta. Durante la nostra indagine abbiamo individuato i seguenti virus: Mosaico giallo del fagiolo (BYMV), Mosaico del cetriolo (CMV), Mosaico dell'arabis (ArMV), un possibile Nepovirus (?) ed un virus non identificato (UnV). Questi, riscontrati sia singolarmente che in associazione, erano rispettivamente presenti con le seguenti percentuali: 90%-35%-5%-1%-1%. BYMV e CMV sono risultati essere i virus che causano i maggiori danni sia ai fiori (rottura di colore, scolorazione perinervale, anelli e maculature scure) che alle foglie (mosaico poligonale, malformazioni, nanismo, giallume). ArMV e NEPO (?), invece, venivano ripetutamete isolati da fiori bianchi senza sintomi. L'indagine epidemiolgica  tutt'ora in corso.
42878732| stata condotta una indagine per localizzare i focolai di PPV in territorio nazionale. A tale proposito  stato preparato un siero anti PPV e sono state saggiate 828 piante fra Albicocco, Susino e Pesco con il metodo ELISA diretto. Il virus  stato trovato in Provincia di Roma su Albicocco, Susino e Mirabolano. Tutti i peschi saggiati sono risultati non infetti. Le piante malate sono state estirpate. Rimane comunque la necessit di controllare lo stato di sanit delle piante limitrofe che, sebbene risultate sane, potrebbero manifestare infezioni negli anni successivi. A survey for Locating PPV foci was carried out in Italy. For this purpose anti PPV serum was prepared and 828 apricot, plum and peach trees were tested by direct ELISA. The virus was found in two areas near Rome on apricot, plum and myrabolan trees. All tested peach trees resulted healthy. Infected trees were immediately eradicated. However, it is necessary to keep under control the adjacent trees, which could result infected later on.
42878737|Attempts were made to germinate in vitro Pistacia vera L. pollen and to establish the optimum conditions for germination, such as concentration of sucrose, boric acid and calcium, pH, temperature and incubation time. Furthermore pollen longevity was studied at 5,10,23 and -19C. Maximum germination occured at 35,20 and 25 percent sucrose for the clones A, B and C respectively. Treatment with boric acid in different concentrations ranging from 20 to 200mg/l gave maximum germination for both clones A and B. Addition of 2mM calcium to a 5 percent sucrose solution plus 100mg/l boric acid, significantly increased germination percentage. When calcium levels were above or below 2mM germination percentage was decreased. The optimum incubation period was 24 hours after sowing the pollen on the germination medium and the best germination percentage recorded at 25C and pH 6. Depending on their concentration respiratory inhibitors such as NaN3, NaCN and DNP reduced significantly or completely stopped pollen germination. Regarding pollen longevity after storage, its germination percentage appeared to drop fast. The required time for a 50 percent decrease of germination percentage was 2,4 and 12 days at 23,10 and 5C respectively. At -19C pollen germinated even after 1 year. Sono state effettuate delle prove allo scopo di individuare le condizioni migliori per la germinazione del polline di Pistacia vera.  stato studiato l'effetto di diverse concentrazioni di saccarosio, acido borico, calcio, mannitolo, NaN3, NaCN, DNP, dal tempo di incubazione, del pH e delle varie temperature. Inoltre  stato indagato sulla longevit del polline a 5,10,23 e a -19C. I valori massimi di germinazione sono stati ottenuti alla temperatura di 25C con pH 6 e con concentrazione di 35,20 e 25 per cento di saccarosio rispettivamente per i cloni A, B, e C e da 20 a 200mg/l di acido borico per i cloni A e B. L'aggiunta di 2mM di calcio, del 5 per cento di saccarosio e di 100mg/l di acido borico ha aumentato significativamente la percentuale di germinazione. Aumentando o abbassando il valore di 2mM di calcio nel substrato, la germinazione  diminuita. II periodo ottimale di incubazione per la determinazione della germinazione del polline era 24 ore dopo la sua semina nel substrato di coltura. Gli inibitoli di respirazione, in relazione alla loro concentrazione, hanno ridotto in maniera significativa oppure annullato la germinazione del polline. La germinazione in soluzioni isosmotiche di mannitolo era inferiore nei confronti di quella ottenuta in soluzioni di saccarosio. Dopo 2,4 e 12 giorni di permanenza del polline in temperature rispettivamente di 23,10 e 5 e C la sua germinabilit  stata del 50 per cento. Con la conservazione alla temperatura di -19C il polline germinava anche dopo un anno.
42878738|Piante di pesco appartenenti alle cv. Springold e H 6 , sono state trattate con dosi crescenti di GA e in epoche diverse, comprese tra lo stadio A e lo stadio I di Fleckinger. I risultati ottenuti hanno dimostrato che, in generale, trattamenti eseguiti precocemente, fino alla fioritura compresa, possono aumentare la cascola naturale e favorire un maggiore accrescimento dei frutti persistenti. Viceversa, trattamenti eseguiti dopo la fioritura non hanno alcuna efficacia nel modificare le caratteristiche sopra ricordate, mentre inibiscono drammaticamente la differenziazione di gemme a fiore per l'anno successivo. La dose di 50 ppm  risultata poco efficace, mentre i migliori risultati sono stati ottenuti con concentrazioni di 100 e 200 ppm. Eccessiva  apparsa la dose di 400 ppm. Peach trees, cv. Springold and H6 , were sprayed with GA at increasing doses (50, 100, 200 and 400 ppm) at five Fleckinger stages: A (dormant bud), D (calyx red), F (full bloom), H (petal fall) and I (fruitlets). As fruit drop and size are concerned, the best results were obtained by treating during flowering time (D and F stages); later treatments were uneffective. The most efficient concentrations were 100 and 200 ppm of GA. However the treatment time had more weight than concentration in determining an adequate fruit drop. All treatments induced a greater elongation of shoots in comparison with non-treated plants. Furthermore, the GA effects were considered in relation to flower bud induction. It was observed that the later was inhibited by GA and delaying of the treatment led to increase inhibition.
42878739|Some biological properties of strains of Botrytis cinerea variously resistant to benzimidazole and dicarboximide fungicides have been evaluated in vitro. Sensitivity to benzimidazoles of mycelium (in terms% f ED values referred to growth on agar medium) was not correlated to the sensitivity of conidia (in terms of EDso values referred to germination). In the same way, mycelium sensitivity was not correlated to the following parameters of fitness: growth, conidia and sclerotia production on non-amended agar medium; growth on carrot slices. The practical implications of these findings are discussed. Sono state valutate alcune propriet biologiche di ceppi di Botrytis cinerea variamente sensibili ai fungicidi benzimidazolici e dicarbossimidici. La sensibilit ai benzimidazolici del micelio (espressa come ED50 per lo sviluppo su mezzo agarizzato) non  risultata correlata con quella dei conidi (espressa come ED50 per la germinazione). Allo stesso modo, la sensibilit del micelio non  apparsa correlata con i seguenti parametri presi come indicativi della fitness : ritmo di sviluppo, produzione di conidi e di sclerozi su mezzo agarizzato esente da fungicidi, crescita su dischi di carota. Le implicazioni pratiche dei fenomeni osservati sono discusse.
42878740|In vitro heat therapy was successfully applied to shoot-tip cultures of sweet cherry. By this method prunus necrotic ring spot virus was completely eliminated from plant material. Detection of this virus directly in the tissue culture system by the ELISA test was found to be reliabe. Prunus necrotic ringspot virus (PNRV)  il virus pi comune fra le Rosaceae. Generalmente la sua eliminazione  effettuata usando trattamenti con calore su tutta la pianta o nelle gemme utilizzate per la propagazione. Nel presente lavoro  stato dimostrato che un trattamento efficace di termoterapia pu essere eseguito direttamente su culture di tessuti (shoot tips), esponendoli nella fase di proliferazione alla temperatura di 35C durante 4 settimane. Sono stati usati controlli ELISA per evidenziare PNRV in piccole sezioni (0,05-01g) di polloni o foglie. Tutti i cloni che sono sopravvissuti a questo trattamento con calore, sono rimasti esenti da virus durante numerose nuove colture oppure dopo essere stati piantati nel terreno. L'uso di trattamenti con calore nella propagazione in vitro accompagnati dal rapido rilevamento del virus potr abbassare le spese della quarantena e facilitare il miglioramento del materiale di propagazione.
42878741|Vengono riferiti i risultati di una prova di resistenza in campo di 10 cultivar di gladiolo nei confronti di un ceppo di Fusarium oxysporum isolato dallo stesso ambiente di coltivazione. Sulla base dei valori dell'indice di malattia (I.M.) e dei dati produttivi, le cv. White Prosperity e Ballerina si sono dimostrate resistenti, le cv. Found Memory , High Style e Princess Marg. Rose hanno dimostrato buona tolleranza, mentre Coral Spire , Saxony , Her Majesty , Traderhorn e Red Triumph hanno manifestato suscettibilit alla Fusariosi. Results are presented of a field trial carried out to test some gladiolus cvs for their resistance to Fusarium rot. Corms of 10 gladiolus cvs were pre-planting inoculated by a 20 min dip in a suspension of a Fusarium oxysporum strain (1.5x10 conidia/ml) previously isolated from the same field and tested for virulence. On the basis of disease index (I. M.) and yield of flowers, cvs White Prosperity and Ballerina (white flowers) showed to be resistant; cvs Fond Memory (pink), High Style (mauve) and Princess Marg. Rose (yellow-red) were tolerant and Coral Spire (pink), Saxony (orange), Her Majesty (light blue), Traderhorn (red) and Red Triumph (red) were susceptible to Fusarium rot.
42878742|Vengono riferiti i risultati di un'indagine tendente a valutare le possibili relazioni tra le variazioni di alcuni prodotti di metabolismo e il decadimento qualitativo dei frutti dell'arancio Tarocco frigoconservati. Dai dati ottenuti si delinea chiaramente l'effetto della temperatura, del trattamento post-raccolta e della durata di conservazione non solo sull'incidenza delle marcescenze ma anche sulle variazioni di alcuni parametri qalitativi. Fra questi l'acetaldeide e, soprattutto, l'etanolo possono ritenersi sostanze spia dello stato di conservazione, prima che si manifestino sintomi evidenti del deterioramento dei frutti. In this paper are reported the results of an evaluation of the possible relations between variations in some metabolism products and the decline in quality of cold-stored Tarocco oranges. From the data obtained, the effects of temperature, post-harvesting treatment and the storage period are clearly to be seen not only in the amount of rotting but also in the variations of several qualitative parameters. Among these, acetaldehyde and above all ethanol can be considered substances indicative of the state of fruit conservation and are therefore utilizable in the determination of the optimum duration of the process before evident signs of fruit deterioration become manifest.
42878747|Uno studio condotto sulla dinamica dell'abscissione dei frutti e dell'accrescimento dei frutti e dei germogli nel pesco trattato con GA in prossimit della fioritura ha portato ai seguenti risultati. La GA ha stimolato un rapido accrescimento dei germogli nel loro stadio iniziale di sviluppo. Come probabile conseguenza di tali ritmi di crescita  stata registrata una accentuazione della cascola naturale dei frutti, che tuttavia non ha raggiunto i livelli che si raggiungono con il diradamento manuale. La persistenza, nel rimanente periodo fino alla raccolta, di un numero intermedio di frutti tra il controllo non diradato e quello diradato a mano, ha fatto s che alla raccolta, per probabili fenomeni di inibizione correlativa, le pezzature dei frutti nelle tesi trattate risultassero pure di valore intermedio tra quelle dei due controlli. Researches on shoot and fruit development and on peach abscission were carried out in relation to GA treatments at 100 ppm applied at flowering stages D,E,F,G,H of Fleckinger. It has been showed a fast growth of GA treated shoots in the early stages of development, and this induced probably an increase in the natural occuring fruit drop. However, this drop was lower than handtinning. The final fruit load in the peach trees treated with GA was intermediate between handthinned and un-thinned controls. Consequently, the fruit size at the harvest reached intermediate values between the two controls. This was probably determinated by correlative inhibitions between persisting fruits.
42878748|Espianti isolati dalle radici di riserva della cicoria (Cichorium intybus L.), bench coltivati in vitro in un substrato costituito semplicemente da acqua solidificata con agar, mostrano la capacit di rigenerare germogli in gran numeo. La minore potenzialit rigenerativa riscontrata negli espianti excisi dalle parti pi vicine all'estremit apicale della radicale rispetto a quelle rivolte verso la base di questa, pu essere superata mediante l'aggiunta di kinetina al mezzo di coltura suddetto. I germogli rigenerati possono essere allevati fino a piante adulte capaci di riprodursi. Questi risultati dimostrano la possibilit di propagare in vitro, con estrema facilit, piante selezionate per caratteri utili per il miglioramento genetico di questa specie e di isolare, tra le piante rigenerate, eventuali nuovi genotipi. Chicory (C. intybus L.) is a popular vegetable crop in many european countries (comprised Italy). The genetic improvement of this species is still being handicapped by a prevalent self incompatibility which creates considerable difficulty in obtaining homozygous lines needed for the production of hybrid seeds. A very simple method to produce in vitro clonal plants, in high number, through regeneration from chicory mother plants eventually selected for particular genetypes is described. This method could be applied succesfully in plant breeding. Explants of chicory storage roots (cv.  Sweet chicory of Soncino  ) were grown in vitro in water solidified with 8 g/1 agar and lacking auxins and cytokinins. After 25 days of culture, all explants, with a light callus formation on their air exposed surface, showed, on average, a great number of adventitious shoots. Explants excised from root zones near the apex, which showed a lower regenerative capacity (in comparison with the proximal or basal zones of the root), responded to kinetin, added to the above mentioned culture medium, by increasing significantly the number of adventitious shoots. The regenerated shoots, excised at the base from explants, were induced to form roots by transfer to the basic Murashige and Skoog medium, diluted with a same volume of water, and added with indolebutyric acid (IBA) 1 mg/1. All plantlets developed roots and could be grown to ripeness in the soil. These results seems very interesting in relation to clonal propagation of selected plants and to isolation, between regenerated plants, of useful variants for plant breeding.
42878749|L'acido abscissico (ABA) partecipa allo sviluppo dei semi ed  coinvolto nell'inzio della loro dormienza (Walton 1980). Questo lavoro ha studiato la presenza dell'ABA nei cotiledoni e nell'endosperma dei semi di Sechium edule durante il loro sviluppo in relazione alla loro viviparit. Per le determinazioni, effettuate mediante la tecnica del Multiple Ion Monitoring (MIM) all'analisi di gas cromatografia e spettrometria di massa (GC-MS), si  utilizzato l'ABA D come standard interno. Le analisi effettuate hanno dimostrato che nei cotiledoni e nell'endosperma sono presenti i due isomeri cis-trans ABA (c-t ABA) e 2 trans ABA (2t ABA). Il contenuto dell'isomero 2t ABA  via via decrescente durante i vari stadi di sviluppo in ambedue i tessuti. Per l'isomero c-t ABA, invece,  stato riscontrato un andamento discontinuo in entrambi i tessuti. I risultati conseguiti vengono discussi in relazione alle notizie riportate in letteratura. Abscisic acid (ABA) plays a mayor role during seed development and it is involved in the onset of seed dormancy (Walton 1980). This paper reports the identification of ABA in endosperms and cotyledons of Sechium edule during seed development and its relationship to seed vivipary. Hexadeuterated ABA was used as internal standard for the quantitative determinations with Multiple Ion Monitoring (MIM) to gas cromatography-mass spectometry (GC-MS). With this tecnique the presence of the two isomers cis-trans ABA (c-t ABA) and 2-trans ABA (2t ABA) has been revealed both in edosperms and cotyledons. The level of 2t ABA decreased in both tissues during seed development. On the other hand, the c-t ABA level is discontinuous in cotyledons and endosperms during seed development. These results are discussed in relation to the possible role of ABA in the seed development and germination in Sechium edule.
42878750|Dopo avere sottolineato il rinnovato interesse che stanno suscitando le cultivar di pesco a polpa bianca, l'Autore passa a descrivere una nuova cultivar (la quinta tra le sue cultivar di pesco a polpa bianca), la quale viene denominata Maria Cristina. La Maria Cristina  stata ottenuta a Firenze nel 1971 dall'incrocio Honey Dew Hale X Michelini, selezionata nel 1975 e valutata sotto la sigla FI-71.035.017. Le salienti caratteristiche agro-bio-pomologiche sono: elevato vigore e produttivit costante nel tempo; frutto medio, rotondo, molto attraente, con tipica colorazione delle pesche a polpa bianca; polpa bianca, venata di rosso, di squisito sapore, non spicca, di media consistenza, pertanto adatta per il consumo interno; epoca di maturazione precoce con assenza di cascola dei frutti, limitata presenza di scatolato. Questa nuova cultivar non  soggetta ad alcun vincolo contrattuale, n a brevetto d'invenzione, pertanto pu essere moltiplicata liberamente. After pointing out the new surge of interest suscitateci by the white flesh peach cultivars, the Authors describes a new cultivar (the fifth of his white flesh cultivars), which has been named Maria Cristina. Maria Cristina was obtained in Florence in 1971 from a Honey Dew Hale  Michelini cross, selected in 1975 and evaluated under the abbreviation FI-71.035.017. Its most important agro-bio-pomological features are: high vigour and constant productivity; medium size, round, very attractive fruit, with the typical colour of white flesh peaches; white, redstreaked flesh, of exquisite taste, clingstone, of medium hardness, and therefore suitable for internal consumption; early ripening time, with no fruit drop, and small percentage of pit-splitted fruits. This new cultivas is free from any contractual tie or patent, and can therefore be freely propagated.
42878751|Allo scopo di individuare i pi interessanti meli da fiore per una buona impollinazione nelle cultivar di melo commerciali sono stati presi in esame, in un triennio di indagini di campo e di laboratorio (1980, 1981 e 1983), circa 30 meli cosiddetti da fiore, comprendenti varie specie di Malus, alcuni ibridi, di varie selezioni di meli crab. Dal confronto tra le prove di campo e i test biologici in vitro, solo alcuni hanno offerto buone garanzie come impollinatori (Crimson Gold, Dolgo, Evereste, H.F. Dupont, Pioneer Scarlet, Rose Dale, Winter Gold, Sel. N.Y. 111/94, Sel. N.Y. 58/22, M. x adstringens Hopa, M. baccala floribunda, M. baccala gracilis, M. baccala sibiriaca Maxim., M. floribunda Hillieri, M. x purpurea Eleyi e M. x robusta), altri invece hanno fornito risultati mediocri, dimostrandosi quindi poco o punto idonei (M. ioensis Mercer, M. prunifolia, M. x soulardii Britt.). Nel complesso si conclude che i meli da fiore, opportunamente sperimentati e scelti, possono essere usati nella moderna melicoltura intensiva monovarietale, offrendo una reale alternativa al classico schema che prevede di solito la consociazione fra cultivar con diverse esigenze agronomiche e differente valore commerciale. Field and in vitro tests were carried out on 30 ornamental Malus during three years of experiments to assess their potential as pollen donors for commercial apple orchard (cv. Starkrimson and Mutsu). Only a few of the ornamental crab apples tested showed good pollination compatibility and level of fertility (fruit set and number of seeds) comparable to free pollination or to Golden Delicious pollen (Crimson Gold, Dolgo, Evereste, H.F. Dupont, Pioneer Scarlet, Rose Dale, Winter Gold, Sel. N.Y. 111/94, Sel. N.Y. 58/22, M. x adstringens Hopa, M. baccata ficribunda, M. baccata gracilis, M. baccata sibiriaca Maxim, M. floribunda Hillieri, M. x purpurea Eleyi e M. x robusta). The results indicate that some ornamental crab apples can be effectively used in modern, singlevariety apple orchards as they offer a concrete alternative to the more conventional system using pollinators wich produce fruits of low commercial value.
42878756|The ability of strains of Rhizoctonia solani, laboratory resistant to iprodione, to infect snapdragon plants and to grow saprophytically in the soil in the absence or in the presence of different fungicides, was investigated and compared to that of the sensitive parent strains. Iprodione-resistant strains showed a reduced virulence expecially when the artificial inoculation was carried out by placing the inoculum localized at the corner of the plot. When the inoculation was carried out all over the plot, the resistant strains, even if always less virulent in comparison with the sensitive parent strains, were able to severely infect snapdragon plants. Laboratory resistant strains appear, therefore, to have a reduced ability to grow as saprophyte in the soil. Iprodione and tolchlofos-methyl - fungicide to which iprodione resistant strains were cross - resistant - partially controlled resistant strains. Pencycuron showed an excellent control of both sensitive and iprodione - resistant strains of R. solani. Si  studiato la capacit di ceppi di Rhizoctonia solani, resistenti a iprodione, selezionati in laboratorio, di infettare piantine di antirrino (Anthirrinum majus) e di diffondersi nel terreno in presenza o in assenza di fungicidi diversi, a confronto con i ceppi sensibili originali. I ceppi resistenti sono risultati poco virulenti, soprattutto quando l'inoculazione artificiale avveniva in punti localizzati delle parcelle. Quando invece l'inoculazione artificiale era effettuata su tutta la superficie della parcella i ceppi resistenti, pur meno virulenti dei ceppi sensibili, si sono comunque rivelati in grado di provocare danni rilevanti su piante di antirrino. I ceppi resistenti ottenuti in laboratorio paiono, perci, dotati di una ridotta capacit di svilupparsi nel terreno. L'iprodione fornisce comunque un contenimento parziale dei ceppi resistenti e cos pure il tolclofosmetile, nei cui confronti i ceppi di R. solani resistenti a iprodione manifestano il fenomeno della resistenza incrociata. Il pencycuron si  rivelato assai attivo nei confronti dei ceppi di R.solani sensibili e resistenti.
42878757| stata svolta una serie di ricerche mediante osservazioni al microscopio elettronico a scansione (SEM) sul polline di venti cloni appartenenti a otto cultivar di uva da vino (Vitis vinifera L.) al fine di accertare l'eventuale esistenza di caratteristiche morfologiche ultrastrutturali utilizzabili a fini diagnosticotassonomici. I risultati delle ricerche hanno messo in evidenza che tra i pollini esaminati esistono differenze relative alla forma, alla dimensione, alle caratteristiche dei solchi germinativi. Caratteristiche differenziali, seppure meno accentuate, sono state riscontrate anche nelle sculture dell'esina. Nel complesso  stato accertato che, fatta eccezione dei cloni di Pinot bianco. tutti gli altri cloni delle cultivar esaminate erano diversi fra loro per una o pi delle caratteristiche considerate. Gli Autori concludono rilevando che anche nella vite il polline presenta alcune caratteristiche ultrastrutturali utilizzabili per distinguere cloni appartenenti alla medesima cultivar. Osservano, peraltro, che ai risultati delle ricerche non pi essere attribuita una validit generale in quanto tra alcuni cloni della stessa cultivar non sono state riscontrate differenze. Scanning electron microscopy studies were made on pollen samples of 20 clones belonging to 8 vinegrape cultivars (V. vinifera L.) to ascertain whether pollen morphology can provide parameters for clone identification. Results showed variability in the shape, polar axis equatorial diameter / ratio, furrow characteristics, presence and position of bumps in the furrows of pollen grains. Differences, though less evident, have also been found in the exine sculptures (pits and ridges). On the basis of the above mentioned paramenters it has been ascertained that, except for all the clones of Pinot bianco, differences for one or more characters exist between the clones of all cultivars. The Authors conclude that, since identity has been observed in some clones, the morphological differences can not be considered a general rule. Nevertheless, micromorphological characteristics of the pollen could often be used for clone identification, expecially when differences on common ampelographic features are missing.
42878758|Three isolates of Tomato black ring virus (TBRV) have been found in Italy in gladiolus plants (Gladiolus spp.) (cv. Sans Souci and Sprint) with symptomless flowers. Differential hosts, determination of physical properties, purification, electron microscopy and serology were used to identify the three isolates (TBRV-S, TBRV-S, TBRV-SS). S, S and SS were compared to each other, with TBRV type-strain and with four TBRV isolates from gladiolus from Poland. S, S and SS, based on the host range symptoms and stability in crude-sap of Chenopodium amaranticolor, appeared to be similar to each other but they differed from the TBRV type-strain since they did not infected Cucumis sativus and Phaseolus vulgaris. This is the first report of TBRV infection in gladiolus in Italy. We think that this NEPOvirus has been introduced in our country with the propagation material. Further studies are still in progress to better characterize these three isolates. Tre isolati del virus della maculatura anulare nera del pomodoro (Tomato black ring virus: TBRV) sono stati riscontrati in Italia su piante di gladiolo (Gladiolus spp.) (cvs. Sans Souci c Sprint) a fiori bianchi senza sintomi. L'identificazione di questi tre isolati di TBRV (S, S, SS) si  basata sulle risposte sintomatologiche di una serie di ospiti erbacei, sulle propriet fisiche in vitro. sui dati di purificazione, osservazione al microscopio elettronico e test sierologici in gel di agar. Comparati tra di loro TBRV-S, TBRV-S, TBRV-SS presentavano propriet fisiche in vitro pressocch simili (in succo crudo di Chcnopodium amaranticolor perdevano Tinfettivit tra 60-68C alla diluizione di 10 e dopo 14 giorni di conservazione a temperatura ambiente), ma paragonati con il ceppo tipo di TBRV e con TBRV-gladiolo isolato in Polonia, mostravano alcune diversit sintomatologiche in quanto non infettavano Cucumis sativus e Phaseolus vulgaris. Si pensa che questo NEPOvirus sia stato introdotto in Italia con il materiale di propagazione. Questa  la prima segnalazione di infezione naturale da TBRV in gladiolo in Italia; sono tuttora in corso ulteriori studi per meglio caratterizzare i tre isolati da noi identificati.
42878759|Viene posto in evidenza l'importanza che riveste per il nostro Paese la disponibilit di valide cultivar di nettarine, ottenute presso istituzioni di ricerca italiane, riferendo sui risultati scaturiti dal programma di miglioramento genetico del pesco, in atto presso l'Istituto sulla propagazione delle specie legnose del C.N.R. e l'Istituto di coltivazioni arboree dell'Universit di Firenze. Dopo aver ricordato la recente diffusione in commercio delle nettarine Maria Laura (domanda di brevetto n. 36 NV/83), Maria Emilia (domanda di brevetto n. 38 NV/83) e Maria Aurelia (domanda di brevetto n. 39 NV/83), l'Autore passa a descrivere in modo dettagliato la sua quarta cultivar di nettarina, alla quale viene attribuito il nome di Maria Carla. Questa nuova cultivar proviene da autofecondazione di Flavortop, ottenuta a Firenze nel 1973, selezionata a Follonica (GR) nel 1978 e valutata presso i campi di orientamento varietali di Follonica, di Faenza (RA) e di Ravenna, sotto la sigla FI-73.073.014. La Maria Carla  caratterizzata da vigoria e produttivit elevate, con frutti grossi, molto attraenti, estesamente coperti di rosso vivo. La polpa  gialla, molto compatta e resistente alle manipolazioni ed ai trasporti, di ottimo sapore e spicca. La maturazione  alquanto contemporanea e segue la Maria Laura e l'Independence di circa una settimana. La pianta  piuttosto rustica, con buona resistenza al freddo ed alle malattie. Anche per la Maria Carla il Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche ha richiesto il brevetto d'invenzione, con domanda n. 0113 NV/85, concedendo la licenza esclusiva per la moltiplicazione in Italia al Centro Attivit Vivaistiche (CAV) di Faenza (RA). Pertanto la Maria Carl, come le tre precedenti nettarine,  protetta da brevetto e quindi tutelata dalle vigenti leggi che regolano le novit vegetali. After pointing out the importance for country of valuable nectarine cultivars, obtained by Italian research institutions, the results are reported of the peach breeding project jointly carried on at the Istituto di Coltivazioni Arboree (Florence University) and the Istituto sulla Propagazione delle Specie Legnose (C.N.R. - Firenze). After recalling the recent commercial diffusion of the nectarines Maria Laura (patent application n. 36 NV/83), Maria Emilia (patent application n. 38 NV/83) and Maria Aurelia (patent application n. 39 NV/83), the Author describes in detail his fourth nectarine cultivar, named Maria Carla. This new cultivar was obtained in Florence in 1973 from self-pollination of Flavortop, and then selected at Follonica (Grosseto) in 1978; the evaluation was carried out in the varietal orientation plots of Follonica, Faenza (RA) and Ravenna, under the code number FI-73.073.014. Maria Carla is characterized by high vigour and productivity, by large, attractive fruits widely covered by a bright red colour. The flesh is yellow, very firm and resistant to handling and transport, of a very good flavour, freestone. All fruits ripen about one week after Maria Laura and Independence. The plant show a good hardiness, and is quite resistant to cold and diseases. For Maria Carla the Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche (C.N.R.) has applied for a patent (application n. 0113 NV/85), granting the exclusive licence for its multiplication in Italy to the Centro Attivit Vivaistiche (CAV) of Faenza (RA). Maria Carla, like the three preceding nectarines, is therefore proctected by the laws concerning all new fruit varieties.
42878760|In vitro culture technique of Ranunculus using commercial crossing Grazia seeds as starting tissue has been developed. Different sowing media and various multiplication media were tested. Best results were obtained with MO + BAP (0.1 mg/1) + IAA (0.1 mg/1). From every clone half of the plants obtained were rooted on MO and transplanted in glasshouse and half were stored in the dark at 1C for 4 months. Plants were tested in a commercial greenhouse to evaluate quality and quantity of flowers produced. Of 168 clones tested 29 showed good quality production and were used for mass propagation.  stata messa a punto la tecnica della coltura in vitro del ranuncolo usando semi di Grazia come espianto. Differenti substrati di coltura per la semina e la moltiplicazione furono usati. I migliori risultati furono ottenuti con MO + BAP (0,1 mg/1) + IAA (0,1 mg/1). Met delle piante ottenute da ciascun clone furono fatte radicare su MO e trapiantate in serra e met furono conservate al buio a PC per 4 mesi. Le piante furono saggiate in una serra per valutare la quantit e la qualit dei fiori prodotti. Tra i 168 cloni provati 29 mostrarono una produzione di buona qualit e sono stati usati per la propagazione massale.
42878761|In questa nota viene proposto un metodo di calcolo per la quantificazione della radiazione solare potenziale intercettata durante il corso dell'anno da un terreno posto alla latitudine da 0 a 90 Nord ed avente qualsiasi esposizione e giacitura. I risultati espressi in grafici tridimensionali evidenziano le variazioni che si determinano nelle sezioni di intercettazione dei raggi solari durante i diversi mesi su superfici unitarie di suolo e poste a diverse latitudini (0, 25, 45, 75, 85 Nord) e pianeggianti, oppure orientate a Nord e a Sud con inclinazione del 30%; in quest'ultimo caso gli esempi riportati in grafico sono riferiti ad un terreno situato all'altezza del 45 parallelo. Alla predetta latitudine sono stati infine calcolati i valori totali annui della sezione di radiazione solare intercettata, indicizzando tali valori rispetto alla massima capacit di intercettazione teoricamente attribuibile ad una superficie ideale sempre completamente esposta alla luce, e rispetto alla massima capacit di intercettazione di una superficie reale orizzontale posta sul piano di campagna. I risultati di questo studio mettono in rilievo i cambiamenti che latitudine giacitura ed orientamento possono determinare nella quantit di energia radiante disponibile in condizioni definite. Il metodo proposto, applicabile ad ogni situazione di campo, pu quindi permettere la misura della potenzialit energetica di un terreno da adibire a coltura. A method used to calculate and quantify in the course of a year the sunlight interception potential of a ground area situated between 0 and 90 North latitude, and having any given exposure and slope is presented. The results are illustrated using three-dimensional graphs and show the variations in solar radiation interception ground area units at different latitudes (0, 25, 45, 75, 85 North), slope (level or with 30% gradient), and exposure (northern or southern). In the case of the ground unit with northern and southern exposure and 30% slope, the area is situated on the 45th parallel. By using this latter latitude as a base, a numerical index was employed to calculate the yearly effects of exposure and slope on the sunlight intercept area, comparing them to the maximum theoretical intercept capacity of an ideal area having full sunlight exposure, or to the maximum intecept capacity of an actual levelled area. In view of the method's practical application in any given situation, these results show the changes stemming from latitude, slope and exposure in irradiated energy, this representing a measure of lhe energy potential which can be expected in any given unit of farmland.
42878766|Si  cercato di saggiare l'influenza di alcuni fitoregolatori di sintesi, come BA, CEPA, GA, NAA e TIBA, a diverse concentrazioni, sull'accrescimento dei rami e su alcuni aspetti della biologia fiorale e di fruttificazione dell'olivo. A tale scopo questi prodotti, diluiti in acqua, sono stati distribuiti per via epigea a piante della cv.  Moraiolo  in un oli veto specializzato in provincia di Firenze. Dalle prove, condotte per due anni consecutivi, emerge che l'accrescimento appare influenzato, nel primo anno (anno di  scarica ) dalla presenza o meno di drupe sui rami, risultando maggiore in quelli privi di frutti e trattati con i fitoregolatori alle concentrazioni pi basse; nell'anno successivo (di  carica ) soltanto il trattamento con BA a 150 ppm ha determinato un accrescimento significativo rispetto agli altri ed al controllo; inoltre, nessuna differenza sensibile si  notata nelle piante in carica trattate nell'anno precedente a quello di rilevamento. Circa l'allegagione, tutti i prodotti, ma in particolare CEPA e TIBA, sia pure a concentrazioni diverse, sembrano averne incrementato la percentuale rispetto al controllo nelle due annate delle prove. Nei riguardi della cascola, hanno presentato una minore percentuale di caduta delle drupe rispetto al controllo, nell'annata di scarica, le tesi trattate con BA, CEPA e TIBA, e, nell'annata di carica, quelle trattate con GA3, CEPA e TIBA. Infine, gli ultimi due prodotti sembrano aver avuto un effetto anticascola nelle piante irrorate l'anno precedente. Un incremento del peso dei frutti si  registrato nelle piante trattate nello stesso anno dei rilievi con BA a 150 ppm e TIBA a 50 ppm ed in quelle trattate l'annata precedente con BA a 150 ppm e GA a 50 ppm. Infine sia GA che NAA sembrano diminuire la cascola preraccolta delle drupe, ma, mentre l'effetto del primo tende a scomparire dalla terza settimana dal trattamento fino alla raccolta, quello del secondo appare pi duraturo ed incisivo. A research was carried out in the Florence province with the purpose of evaluating the influence of some exogenous growth regulators, such as BA, CEPA, GA. NAA and TIBA on vegetative e growth, fruit set, fruit drop and drupes development, as well as on pre-harvest drop, in olive trees. Water solutions of the above products were sprayed on  Moraiolo  plants in 1982, at three different times (20,50 and 90% of opened flowers), and in 1983, at two different times (30 and 80% of opened flowers). As to the vegetative growth, determined by monthly measurements of the length of several oneyear shoots, the influence of the various products appeared different in the two years considered; In 1982 (a  low bearing  year) the action of the growth regulators appeared strongly influenced by the fruit load of each plant; growth was higher in the shoots with few or no drupes at all. Besides, the highest growth rate was found, if compared to the control, in the plant treated with the lowest concentrations of the products used; the highest concentrations induced growth values similar or inferior to the control. In 1983 (a  high bearing  year) only BA at 150 ppm appears to have induced a significantly higher growth if compared to all other treatments. No remarkable differences were noticed among the  high bearing  plants treated the year before. As to the fruit set, from the data obtained in the two years, it appears that CEPA and TIBA, although at different concentrations (due to the natural hormonal status of the plants), had a favourable effect, inducing a higher fruit set if compared to the control. Regarding fruit drop, the most evident results in the  low bearing  year were obtained in the plants treated with BA, CEPA and TIBA, which had lower fruit drop percentages than the control. In the  high bearing  year GA, CEPA and TIBA seem to have reduced the fruit drop. For the plants treated the year before, the most efficient treatment in reducing fruit drop was CEPA and TIBA. In the 1983 treated plants, only BA and TIBA were able to markedly increase the fruit weight, while GA and CEPA showed a negative effect, with the formation of smaller and elongated drupes. In the plants treated in the year before, increases in weight and size of the drupes has been induced by BA and GA at the lowest concentrations. GA treatments reduced drop percentage, but such an effect was markedly reduced from the third week after the treatment until. harvest. NAA seamed to last more with better efficiency.
42878767|Different characters were tested in order to analyze the response of tolerant and susceptible potato to high temperatures. No differences between the two types were detected in morphological characters while membrane resistance and persistance of chlorophyll in intact tissues showed marked differences. DTO-28, DTO-2, and LT-2 were classified as tolerant in agreement with previous field tests while CEX 69-1, CFK 69-1, and BR 69-84 ail belong to the susceptible group. Our results confirm that the nature of the injury is membrane dependent and suggest that chlorophyll pigment and its stability are also involved in the complex interactions among the different physiological mechanisms controlling heat tolerance. Sono stati analizzati alcuni caratteri per studiare la risposta di genotipi di patata tolleranti e suscettibili alle alte temperature. Nessuna differenza fra le due classi  stata messa in evidenza per caratteri morfologici mentre la resistenza di membrana e la persistenza della clorofilla nei tessuti intatti hanno presentato notorie differenze. DTO-28, DTO-2 e LT-2 sono stati classificati come tolleranti in accordo con precedenti test effettuati in campo mentre CEX 69-1, CFK 69-1 e BR 69-84 appartengono tutti alla popolazione suscettibile. I risultati confermano che la natura del danno  membrana dipendente e suggeriscono che sia i pigmenti clorofilliani che la loro stabilit sono coinvolti nelle complesse interazioni tra differenti meccanismi fisiologici che controllano la tolleranza alle alte temperature.
42878768|Gli autori riferiscono sui risultati di alcune prove di biologia fiorale dell'olivo effettuate negli anni 1982-1983-1984 nel territorio di Sciacca. Sono state eseguite prove di impollinazione della cv. androsterile Cerasuola, con le seguenti cultivar: Altana, Biancolilla, Giarraffa, Nocellara del Belice, Pidicuddara. Soltanto la Nocellara del Belice, la Altana e in misura leggermente inferiore la Biancolilla, hanno evidenziato una valida attitudine impollinatrice, confermata anche dalle osservazioni microscopiche in luce fluorescente. La Altana, tuttavia, ha mostrato una scarsa fioritura ed una insufficiente produzione di polline. Le cultivar Giarraffa e Pidicuddara sono risultate interincompatibili con la Cerasuola. The Authors relate on the results of some research concerning the flower biology of the olive malesterile Cerasuola cultivar. The following cultivars were tested as pollinators: Aitana, Biancolilla, Giarraffa, Nocellara del Belice, Pidicuddarra. Only Nocellara del Belice, Aitana and within a minor extent, Biancolilla, have shown a good pollination ability, confirmed by observations carried out with the aid of fluorescent light. However Aitana has showed a low rate of blooming and a scarce pollen production. Giarraffa and Pidicuddara resulted unable to fertilize the Cerasuola flowers.
42878769|Preliminary trials were carried out using shoot tips of Vitis vinifera cvs. Sangiovese and Trebbiano using three media (MS, WPM, and PM). Best results in respect to growth and proliferation were achieved with MS. The trials were subsequently extended to the scion cultivars Canaiolo Nero, Malvasia Bianca and Malvasia Nera and to the rootstocks Kober 5BB, 420 A, 140 Ruggeri and 1103 Paulsen. The greatest problem encountered was that of tissue vitrification which occurred in varying amounts. Shoot growth varied among the cultivars and the rootstocks, but we were unable to determine whether this was due to different nutritional and/or hormonal requirements or to the greater or lesser incidence of vitrification. Generally, the rooting of the shoots and their acclimatization posed no significant problems; responses were negative only in cases of shoots with marked vitrification. Scopo di queste indagini  stato di saggiare il comportamento di varie cultivars e portinnesti di vite alla propagazione in vitro. Test preliminari condotti con le cultivar Sangiovese e Trebbiano hanno messo in evidenza una maggiore efficacia del substrato MS rispetto al WPM ed al PM; su questi ultimi, oltre a problemi di vitrescenza, rilevata anche su MS, l'accrescimento  stato scarso. La concentrazione migliore di BA  stata di 2 mg/l; a dosi inferiori (0,5 ed 1,0 mg/l) i germogli erano meno vitrescenti ma poco sviluppati. Le ricerche sono state, quindi, estese alle cultivar Malvasia Bianca, Malvasia Nera e Canaiolo Nero ed ai portinnesti Kober 5BB 420 A, 140 Ruggeri e 1103 Paulsen. Per quanto riguarda la proliferazione le risposte sono state differenziate; non  stato per possibile stabilire se queste ultime dipendessero dal genotipo o dalla diversa incidenza della vitrescenza che  stata comunque presente sulle colture. La radicazione dei germogli  stata effettuata con IBA ad 1 mg/l; la percentuale dei germogli radicati  stata piuttosto elevata raggiungendo 1'83% con la Malvasia Bianca ed il 75% con il Kober 5BB. Anche l'acclimatazione non ha mostrato problemi di rilievo; in generale, il maggiore inconveniente incontrato  quello della vitrescenza dei tessuti che, oltre alla radicazione, ha ridotto la capacit di sopravvivenza delle nuove piantine. Queste ultime, durante il primo anno di accrescimento, hanno mostrato varie anomalie fogliari riconducibili, probabilmente, ad un effetto temporaneo di qualche componente del substrato di crescita.
42878770|Sono state valutate la crescita e le asportazioni di elementi nutritivi in piante di Monster a deliciosa Lieb, e Ficus benjamina L., allevate in idrocoltura con due tipi di fertilizzazione: soluzioni di sali nutritivi alla concentrazione di 2 o 3 g/1 e resine a scambio ionico alla dose di 40 e 80 g per pianta;  stata inoltre controllata la variazione di pH e salinit nelle soluzioni nutritive. Nessuna significativa differenza di crescita  stata riscontrata in Ficus benjamina L., fra i diversi trattamenti, mentre in Monstera deliciosa Lieb, le resine alla dose minore hanno fornito risultati produttivi inferiori; le asportazioni di elementi nutritivi sono risultate superiori nelle tesi che prevedevano l'impiego delle soluzioni di sali solubili rispetto alle tesi con resine a scambio ionico. Si sono osservate variazioni molto contenute di pH e di salinit nelle soluzioni nutritive durante il periodo di coltivazione; le soluzioni con sali nutritivi hanno presentato i valori pi elevati di salinit. A trial was carried-out on the growth and the removal of nutriens of Monstera deliciosa Lieb, and Ficus benjamina L., growing in hydroculture with two fertilizing methods: ions exchange resin at the dose of 40 and 80 g per plant and nutrient salts solution at the concentration of 2 and 3 g/1; pH and salinity are also measured in the nutrient solutions to control their variation. No significant differences of growth we have found in Ficus benjamina L., between the different treatments, however in Monstera deliciosa Lieb, the lowest dose of resin produced the lowest growth; the nutrients uptake was greater with the nutrient salts solution and lower with the ions exchange resin. During the observation period we have noted very small variations of pH and salinity in the nutrient solutions. The salinity of the nutrient salts was upper.
42878771|Sono state condotte ricerche per definire l'influenza dei frutti sulla differenziazione a fiore e sulla nutrizione minerale dell'olivo. Per le prove, effettuate in una zona del litorale toscano, sono state utilizzate 8 piante omogenee della cv Frantoio (4 in produzione e 4 scaricate artificialmente in primavera mediante l'asportazione manuale di tutte le infiorescenze). A partire dal 5 settembre '83 e fino al 27 marzo '84 sono state effettuate manualmente defogliazioni di interi rami nei due gruppi di piante ad intervalli di 20 dd. I rilievi hanno mostrato che le piante  in produzione  hanno una riduzione (25%) della crescita vegetativa, ed un sensibile abbassamento della percentuale di gemme differenziate a fiorire, che nelle piante senza frutti  quasi 4 volte superiore. Utilizzando la tecnica della defogliazione  stata messa in evidenza anche una diversa dinamica nei processi di induzione che nelle, piante  in produzione  sono apparsi molto rallentati sinch i frutti non sono pressoch totalmente caduti e si  avuto l'effetto del freddo invernale. I dati analitici relativi agli elementi minerali presenti nelle foglie non indicano differenze di rilievo nelle quantit mentre nel tempo si osservano variazioni importanti per N e K. Research has been carried out to define the influence of fruits on flower differentiation and on mineral nutrition in olive trees. For the experiments, made in an area of southern Tuscany, in the vicinity of the sea, 8 homogeneous plants of the cv. Frantoio were used (of which 4 were bearing and 4 were artificially rendered non-bearing by manually eliminating all inflorescences). Starting on 5 September, 1983, and until 27 March, 1984, defoliations of whole shoots were manually made in both plant groups, at 20 day intervals. Bearing plants showed a reduction (25%) of vegetative growth, and a marked reduction of the percentage of buds that differentiated flowers, which in the non-bearing plants was 4 times higher. Moreover, the use of the defoliation procedure made it possible to notice a different course of the induction processes, which in the bearing plants appeared markedly slowed down until total fruit fall and winter cold spells. The analytical figures, relative to mineral nutrients in the leaves, do not show marked quantitative differences, but in the time relevant variations concerning N and K occur.
42878772|Viene descritta l'evoluzione delle principali tecniche immunologiche per l'analisi quantitativa degli ormoni vegetali. Queste tecniche hanno avuto una certa diffusione negli ultimi anni soprattutto per le caratteristiche di alta sensibilit, velocit e semplicit di esecuzione delle analisi e per il costo contenuto rispetto alle altre metodologie. In particolare vengono descritte, oltre al funzionamento di base dei test, le due varianti che si sono rivelate pi efficaci, e cio la radioimmunologia (RIA) e la enzimoimmunologia (ELISA). La prima si basa sulla competizione nella reazione antigenica di due tipi di antigene: l'ormone vegetale contenuto nel campione e una quantit nota di ormone legato ad un marcatore radioattivo. L'entit della radioattivit ritrovabile dopo la reazione  indice della quantit di ormone contenuto nel campione. Nella seconda (ELISA) l'ormone viene legato ad un enzima e in questo caso viene misurata l'entit della reazione enzimatica di idrolisi di una sostanza successivamente aggiunta. I risultati sono in molti casi paragonabili a quelli ottenibili con le analisi di tipo fisico-chimico. Immunoassay techniques in quantitative plant hormone analysis are reviewed and discussed in terms of sensitivity, speed, simplicity and cost effectiveness vis--vis other techniques. Also described are basic test method and its two most important variations, RIA and ELISA. RIA is based on competition using a hormone sample and a known amount of marker hormone, with detected radioactivity being the amount of hormone in the sample. The ELISA method used an enzyme marker in hydrolysis reaction. The results are comparable in many cases to those from physical-chemical methods.
42878778|The viruses detected to date in commercial strawberry plantings in California are: Strawberry mild yellow edge (SMYEV), Strawberry mottle (SMV), Strawberry crinkle (SCV), and Tobacco streak virus (TSV). SMYEV, SMV, SCV are ubiquitous, while TSV has been found only in the cultivar Pajaro. Infection spread is extremely short range, predominantly along the rows: in fact, few centimeters between plants, impede spread of infection. The distance between beds is a barrier rarely breached. With yearly transplanting of nursery plants in late August or early September, virus spread is not detected before December and occurs mostly during the winter or the early spring months. Marked differences in the rate of virus spread occur, from ranch to ranch and from year to year. Infected nursery plants are the principal, if not the only, inoculum source in production fields. La fragola  uno dei piccoli frutti pi coltivati delle zone della costa centrale della California. A causa dell'aumento della superficie agraria investita, le infezioni da virus sono diventate un problema ricorrente e a questo proposito  stato iniziato uno studio da parte della University of California, Berkeley, U.S.A., per poter individuare i principali virus, la loro incidenza e percentuale di infezione sia nei vivai che nelle coltivazioni da reddito. I virus che pi frequentemente sono stati riscontrati fino ad ora sono: Virus dell'ingiallimento del bordo della fragola (SMYEV), della maculatura della fragola (SMV), dell'arricciamento della fragola (SCV) e della striatura necrotica del tabacco (TSV). SMYEV, SMV e SCV erano ubiquitari, mentre TSV  stato individuato solo nella cultivar  Pajaro  e in bassa percentuale. Si  osservato che l'infezione si diffonde maggiormente lungo le baulature da una pianta all'altra quando sono a contatto tra di loro, e che solo pochi centimetri tra le piante o la stessa distanza tra le baulature, impedisce o per lo meno contiene la diffusione dell'infezione. Se si effettua ogni anno, verso la fine di agosto, primi di settembre, la messa a dimora delle piante di vivaio nel fragoleto da reddito, non si registra una diffusione di infezione fino a dicembre. Esiste inoltre una grande differenza nella percentuale di infezione da un fragoleto all'altro e da un anno all'altro, e le piante, provenienti da vivai infetti da virus costituiscono la principale se non la sola fonte di inoculo nelle coltivazioni da reddito, per cui,  molto importante impiantare vivai utilizzando piante esenti da virus.  necessario tenere presente che le fragole poi coltivate in condizioni di alte temperature, che prevalgono soprattutto nel sud della California, possono essere parzialmente guarite dalle infezioni da virus o per lo meno il titolo del virus scenderebbe a livelli tanto bassi da non indurre sintomi e rendere la trasmissione per afidi pi difficoltosa. Sono tuttora in corso indagini epidemiologiche e studi pi approfonditi sulla natura di questi virus.
42878779| stata studiata l'influenza del pH del substrato sulla radicazione di talee legnose da frutto. Furono preparati substrati di torba con differenti pH, da pH 3 a pH 9, e, per ciascun pH, furono preparati 2 substrati, uno corretto con idrato di calcio e l'altro con idrato di magnesio. Il pH della torba non corretta era 3. In ciascun substrato furono poste a radicare, utilizzando la tecnica del riscaldamento basale, talee legnose delle seguenti specie e cultivar da frutto: albicocco cv Palummella, pesco cv Walgant, ibrido pesco x mandorlo GF 677, melo M 106, Mirabolano di Lesdain, Mirabolano B Marianna GF 8/1, S. Giuliano GF 655/2, susino cultivar De Bordeaux, Late S. Rosa, Tuleu dulce, cotogni A,C ed F. I substrati ammendati con Ca(OH) diedero generalmente una radicazione migliore di quelli ammendati con Mg(OH), i quali invece a partire da pH 6 causarono irreversibili fenomeni di fitotossicit. Generalmente i risultati migliori si ottennero con substrati acidi (pH 4 e pH 5) anche se, in alcune specie e per i substrati corretti con idrato di calcio, anche con substrati alcalini si produssero gli stessi effetti. A pH 7 la rizogenesi, ad eccezione del M 106, fu sempre fortemente depressa. Influence of the rooting media's pH was studied on rooting of hardwood cuttings of fruit trees. Peat with different pH from 3 to 9 were prepared and for each pH, 2 media were prepared, one adjusted with Ca(OH) the other with Mg(OH). The pH of peat without adjustment was pH 3. Hardwood cuttings of the following fruits species were planted in every medium: Palummella apricot cv; Tuleu dulce, Late S. Rosa FK 9-7 and De Bordeaux plum cv.: Quince A, C, and F: GF 677; Myrobalan Lesdain, Myrobalan B; Marianna GF 8-1 and S. Julien 655-2 stone fruits rootstocks; M 106 apple rootstock. The media adjusted with Ca(OH) gave generally a better rooting than those with Mg(OH), that as above pH 6 caused irreversible symtoms of phytotoxicity. Best rooting results were generally obtained by acid media (pH 4 and pH 5), although alkaline media adjusted with Ca(OH) gave same results in some fruit species; pH 7 media, except M 106, always strongly depressed rooting.
42878780|Five standard chrysanthemum hybrid cultivars Chrysanthemum x morifolium Ramat, were evaluated under natural conditions in Jordan. The cultivars Bornholm, Pandion White and Pandion Lila flowered earlier than Tom Pearce and PR. Armgard. Shortest harvesting season was obtained by PR. Armgard. In the first crop, long flowering stems resulted from Tom Pearce and P.R. Armgard. However, in the second crop, longest flowering stems were obtained from Bornholm, while shortest ones resulted from Tom Pearce and PR. Armgard. In the first and second crop, all cultivars were almost similar in flower diameter and flower shelf life. Highest total yield and number of laterals per plant were obtained from Tom Pearce, Pandion White and Pandion Lila. Vengono riferiti i risultati di un confronto tra le cultivar di crisantemo: Bornholm, Tom Pearce, Pandion White, Pandion Lila e PR. Armgard importate dall'Olanda. La prova  stata effettuata nel 1984 presso il campo sperimentale dell'Universit di Amman (Giordania), adottando lo schema sperimentale a blocchi completamente randomizzati. La distanza adottata tra le piante  stata di 20  20 cm. Le piante sono state allevate senza alcuna cimatura. La temperatura  stata registrata giornalmente. Nella prima epoca di coltura si  effettuata la raccolta dall'1/8 al 13/10 tagliando gli steli fiorali ad una altezza di 10 cm dal terreno, quindi le piante sono state lasciate crescere nuovamente per effettuare una seconda raccolta dal 10/10 al 16/12. Per ogni pianta  stato registrato il tempo necessario a fiorire, il numero di steli prodotti, il numero di getti laterali per pianta, la lunghezza dello stelo fiorale, il diametro del fiore e la durata in vaso. Da tale prova  risultato che nella prima epoca di raccolta le cv Pandion White, Bornholm e Pandion Lila hanno fiorito 10-14 giorni prima della cv Tom Pearce; d'altra parte Tom Pearce ha fiorito 14 giorni prima di PR. Armgard. Nella seconda epoca di raccolta le cultivar maggiormente produttive sono state Pandion Lila, Pandion White e Tom Pearce; gli steli fiorali pi lunghi si sono avuti con la cv. Bornholm, mentre i pi corti sono stati prodotti dalle cv Tom Pearce e PR. Armgard. Per quanto riguarda il diametro del fiore reciso tutte le cultivar in prova si sono comportate nel medesimo modo nelle due epoche di raccolta. La maggiore produzione e il numero maggiore di steli per pianta sono stati forniti dalle cultivar Tom Pearce, Pandion White e Pandion Lila.
42878781|Vengono riportati i consumi idrici dell'albicocco, innestato su pesco, nei primi cinque anni d'impianto irrigato a goccia, per aspersione e non irrigato, nella zona vesuviana, a Ponticelli (NA). A goccia sono stati somministrati 3 volumi giornalieri rispettivamente pari al 100, 66 e 33% ET.  stato usato un coefficiente di vasca di 0,60 nei primi tre anni e di 0,80 negli altri due e dei coefficienti di copertura di 0,2; 0,3; 0,4; 0,45 e 0,50 rispettivamente negli anni. L'irrigazione per aspersione  stata a turno fisso (15 giorni) integrando l'evaporato di classe A e moltiplicando per gli stessi coefficienti di vasca usati per la goccia e per un coefficiente di copertura uguale a 1. I consumi idrici sono stati stimati con la somma dell'irrigazione, delle piogge e delle variazioni della riserva idrica del terreno. L'umidit del terreno  stata misurata ogni dieci giorni, con umidometro a neutroni a diverse distanze dalla pianta e ogni 30 cm per il profilo da 15 a 285 cm di profondit, mentre per lo strato 0-15 l'umidit  stata misurata per via gravimetrica. In questo strato, nell'aspersione, viene riciclato circa il 50% del volume irriguo. I volumi irrigui sono variati negli anni sia in funzione dell'andamento climatico, che dello sviluppo delle piante (coefficienti di copertura) e della lunghezza della stagione irrigua. I consumi idrici sono risultati variabili sia in funzione del metodo che delle disponibilit idriche. In condizioni di buone disponibilit il consumo dell'albicocco  risultato crescente negli anni, mediamente circa il 30% annuo, partendo da un minimo nel primo anno di circa 25 cm. Irrigando per aspersione il consumo risulta maggiore che con il metodo a goccia principalmente nei primi anni. Durante la stagione i consumi risultano crescenti sino ad agosto, decrescenti in seguito, ma di pi in ottobre, rispetto a settembre. Ai fini irrigui nei nostri climi la valutazione del contributo della riserva idrica ai consumi  risultata determinante, dato che ha rappresentato anche il 50% del consumo totale. Water consumptive use was measured for apricot on peach rootstok, for a 5 year period after planting, in the Vesuvian area (Naples - Italy). Drip plots were irrigated daily at 100, 66, 33% ET, estimated from US WB Class A. Pan coefficient was 0.6 during the first three years and 0.8 in the other, and corrected for a ground cover coefficient of 0.2; 0.3; 0.4; 0.45; 0.5 according to the tree development. Sprinkle irrigation was made every two weeks, with a water volume derived from class A pan evaporation corrected, as drip. Water consumptive use was estimated by water balance, of water applied, rainfalls and water depletion from the soil. Soil moisture was measured with neutron probe at different distances from the trunk and every 30 cm from 15 to 285 cm depth. In the top 0-15 cm soil moisture was measured by gravimetric method. In this layer was lost almost 50% of water applied. Water applied was different depending on the years. Water consumptive use changed with irrigation method and available water. Water consumptive increased with tree age by 30% per year. Water consumptive use of sprinkler irrigated plot was higher than that of drip, mainly during the first years. During the season water consumptive use is increasing until August, and then decreasing, but more in October than in September. For irrigation purpose evaluation of soil water depletion is important, because in some cases was 50% of water consumptive use.
42878782|Sono state condotte delle prove con callo morfogenetico di Actinidia chinensis ed Actinidia arguta utilizzando il substrato minerale B (Gamborg, 1968).  stato analizzato l'effetto dello zucchero alcool mannitolo (0,05 Mol), dell'auxina NAA (0,25  Mol) e dell'et del callo sia sulla crescita che sulla frequenza di germogli neoformati. Sono state eseguite tre subcolture per Actinidia chinensis e due per Actinidia arguta, ciascuna della durata di 40 giorni. All'inizio ed alla fine di ogni passaggio  stato rilevato il peso del tessuto indifferenziato, espresso come incremento ponderale riferito a 100 mg iniziali, ed il numero medio di germogli prodotti da ciascun callo. In entrambe le specie le produzioni di peso fresco decrescono con i successivi passaggi indipendentemente dal substrato impiegato. I risultati pi significativi sono stati ottenuti in presenza di saccarosio, zeatina ed NAA, alla settima generazione. L'andamento della morfogenesi risulta essere opposto a quello della crescita del callo essendosi rilevata una correlazione positiva tra potenziale morfogenetico ed et relativa del callo. Essendo il saccarosio sempre costante l'aggiunta del mannitolo pu avere solo il significato di un aumento delle osmoticit del mezzo di incubazione con un effetto negativo sia sulla crescita come peso fresco sia sulla produzione di germogli. La presenza di NAA favorisce la crescita come peso fresco, mentre tende ad inibire la formazione di germogli. Trials were carried out with morphogenetic callus of Actinidia chinensis and Actinidia arguta, using the B mineral substrate (Gamborg, 1968). The effects of the sugar-alcohol mannitol (0.05 Mol), of the auxine NAA (0.25  Mol) and of callus age on the frequency of newly formed shoots were analysed. Three subcultures for Actinidia chinensis and two for Actinidia arguta were made, each of them lasting 40 days. At the beginning and at the end of each passage the weight of the indifferentiated tissue, expressed as weight increase over the initial 100 mg, as well as the average number of shoots produced by each callus, were measured. In both species the production of fresh weight decreases at each consecutive passage, irrispectively of the substrate used. The most significant results were obtained in the presence of sucrose, zeatin and NAA at the seventh generation. The course of morphogenesis appears to the contrary to that of callus growth, a positive correlation existing between morphogenetic potential and relative age of the callus. As sucrose levels are always the same, the addition of mannitol can only have caused an increase of osmoticity in the incubation medium, with a negative effect on both growth, as fresh weight, and on shoots production. The presence of NAA favours growth (fresh weight), but shows a tendency to inhibit shoots formation.
42878783|Su tre cultivar di pesco (Armking, Maycrest e Sunred) allevate a frutteto prato sono stati eseguiti trattamenti fogliari con il Paclobutrazolo a 0,6 p.a/pianta sulla vegetazione nata in seguito alla capitozzatura post-raccolta (lunghezza media dei germogli 50-60 cm) per esaminare la possibilit di aumentare la quantit e la qualit della differenziazione ed in senso pi generale la produttivit delle piante. I risultati hanno evidenziato una maggiore differenziazione ed allegagione, una produzione pi elevata associata ad un maggior peso medio dei frutti, un rapporto tra attivit produttiva e vegetativa spostato a favore della prima. I risultati pi significativi sono stati conseguiti sulle cultivar Armking e Maycrest, le variet, tra quelle esaminate, che meno si prestano al frutteto prato. Leaf treatments with the growth regulator Paclobutrazol have been carried out on three peach cultivars (Armking, Maycrest and Sunred) grown to a meadow orchard on trees trained to after-yield pollard system. The researches aimed to evaluate the possibility of increasing the amount and the quality aimed of the floral induction, and, in a more general meaning, the trees productivity. The results show an increase of the flower bud, of the fruit-set, of the yield, of the average weight of the fruits and of the ratio between productivity and vegetative activity. Most significant results have been obtained on the cultivars Armking and Maycrest, which are the less suitable to be trained to a meadow orchard.
42878784|Gli Autori riferiscono i risultati di una ricerca; biennale di raccolta delle noci delle cultivar Sorrento e Malizia mediante scuotitura preceduti da trattamenti con CEPA alle concentrazioni di 0; 250; 500; 1000 ppm. Il trattamento con CEPA ha indotto, in entrambe le cultivar, una cascola preraccolta alquanto modesta. La scuotitura ha determinato un'ulteriore cascola pari in media al 90% circa della produzione totale nelle piante trattat e dell'85% circa nelle piante testimoni. I trattamenti con CEPA non hanno aumentato la filloptosi in maniera preoccupante, e non hanno influenzato negativamente n sulla fertilit delle piante, intesa come numero di infiorescenze maschili e femminili, n sull'entit dell'allegagione. Le reti di plastica collocate sotto le piante prima della scuotitura hanno consentito una migliore raccolta dei frutti. This work refers to a research on mechanical harvesting carried out for two years on cv Sorrento and Malizia using a tree-shaker after spraying with CEPA at 0, 250, 500 and 1000 ppm concentrations. The growth regulator has induced very moderate preharvesting fruit abscission in both cultivars. Shaking has determined a further preharvesting fruit abscission, in average about 90% of the total production in sprayed plants against 85% of the control ones. The plastic nets placed underneath the trees have improved harvesting shaking. CEPA treatments have not increased leaf-abscission in a worrying way, nor have influenced negatively plant fertility.
42878856|La cultivar di ciliegio dolce Germersdorf   stata trattata con due prodotti chimici, con lo scopo di ridurre la forza di distacco dei frutti, cos da incrementare la percentuale di frutti non danneggiati dalla raccolta meccanica. Sono stati usati l'Ethrel ed un nuovo prodotto: l'acido (2 cloroetil) metilbis (fenilmetoxy) silano (Silaid), entrambi alla concentrazione di 400 ppm. Il trattamento  stato effettuato 14 giorni prima della raccolta. Entrambi i prodotti usati hanno ridotto significativamente la FRF. Differenze statisticamente significative tra i due prodotti chimici sono state trovate solo 21 giorni dopo il trattamento. La percentuale dei frutti rimossi con la raccolta meccanica  stata del 72% negli alberi controllo e, rispettivamente, dell' 84% e dell'87% negli alberi trattati con Silaid ed Ethrel. Nelle tesi sottoposte a trattamento, inoltre,  stata riscontrata una minore dispersione nel grado di maturazione dei frutti. I trattamenti chimici hanno anche avuto un effetto positivo sull'uniformit di maturazione delle drupe. Il giorno della raccolta, infatti, dal 91% al 96% dei frutti raccolti dagli alberi trattati erano idonei alla vendita, mentre il 68% e 69% di medesimi avevano un grado di maturazione ottimale. Per il consumo la consistenza della polpa  risultata maggiore nelle tesi trattate. Un'alta percentuale di frutti raccolti dagli alberi sottoposti ad Ethrel non aveva il peduncolo, mentre quasi la met delle drupe raccolte dagli alberi trattati con Silaid, lo possedeva. I trattamenti hanno anche ridotto l'entit dei danni subiti dai frutti. Ciononostante un maggior numero di frutti spaccati  stato trovato negli alberi sottoposti a trattamenti. Non  stata riscontrata n caduta di foglie, n gommosi indotte dai prodotti chimici. Germesdorf sweet cherry cultivar was treated with two chemicals, with the aim to reduce fruit removal force (FRF), thus to increase percentage of uninjured mechanical-harvested fruits. A new chemical, acid (2 chloroetil) methylbis (phenylmethoxy) silan (Silaid), at 400 ppm, was used with Ethrel two weeks before harvest. Two weeks after treatment percentage of fruit removal, by shaking trees with a Schaumann machine, was increased from 72 (control), to 87 with Ethrel and 84 with Silaid. Besides, there was less dispersion at the fruit maturation stage in the treated trees. Chemicals had also a benefical effect on the uniformity of maturation within the trees crop. At harvest time 91 to 96 per cent of the treated fruits were suitable for canning, while 68 to 69 per cent had an optimal maturity. Flesh firmness was higher in treated trees compared with the control. Almost all the Ethreltreated fruits were detached without peduncle, while almost half of Silaid-treated fruits were with peduncle. The treatment also reduced the number of injuries. Nevertheless, open wounded fruits were found mainly in the treated samples. Neither leaf-decay or gummosis were found on the treated trees.
42878857|In a genetic improvement program, attempts were made to produce virusfree garlic clones from five garlic Bianco Piacentino lines. All the lines were infected by potyvirus particles. The shoot-tip technique allowed to obtain the virus elimination from about 85% of shoots growing in vitro. Differences in survival percentages and in proliferation rate were also observed for each garlic line, apparently not due to a specific nutritional requirement, but related to genetic differences among the lines. The nutritional requirements of the shoots were also different for the different phases of development. Nel corso di un programma di miglioramento genetico-sanitario dell'aglio sono state risanate cinque selezioni di aglio Bianco Piacentino particolarmente interessanti per le loro caratteristiche agronomiche. Tutte le selezioni presentavano sintomi virali e cio clorosi fogliare di varia intensit e sono risultate infette da un virus del gruppo poty (750 nm), rilevato mediante osservazioni al microscopio elettronico. La tecnica della coltura in vitro di apici meristematici si  confermata valida portando ad ottenere una percentuale media di risanamento dell'85%. Difficolt sono invece state riscontrate per la coltura in vitro. Si sono evidenziate differenti esigenze nutrizionali nelle varie fasi della coltura, esigenze rivelatesi omogenee per le 5 selezioni di aglio. Per alcune selezioni (Visagli) i risultati rivelano inoltre una scarsa attitudine alla coltura in vitro, per altre invece si possono segnalare le possibilit di buone prospettive di propagazione in vitro ed in campo per la produzione su vasta scala di materiale virus-esente.
42878858| stata misurata la conduttanza stomatica e rilevata l'area delle aperture stomatiche in piante di pesco della cv. Redtop, irrigate e stressate. Sia la conduttanza, misurata con il porometro, che l'area della apertura stomatica, rilevata con il metodo delle impronte, sono risultate influenzate in maniera evidente dal contenuto di acqua nel terreno. La misurazione dell'area dell'apertura stomatica, con il metodo delle impronte, risulta per di difficile rilevamento e non applicabile su tutte le specie. Una volta ripristinate le condizioni idriche ottimali nel terreno non si  verificata la completa ripresa della funzionalit stomatica, neppure dopo 32 ore dall'intervento irriguo. Stomatal conductance and the area of stomatal openings were measured in stressed and irrigated peach trees, cultivar Redtop. The two parameters showed similar trends both in irrigated and in stressed plants. Both conductance  measured with a porometer  and the area of stomatal openings  etimated using the technique of impression  were influenced by the soil water content. This is a technique which cannot be applied to all species, howerer, owing to the difficulty of obtaining accurate measurements and the need for expensive equipment. In irrigated plants the area of stomatal opening reached a maximum value of 178.3 m. Stomatal functioning had still not recovered completely 32 hours after optimal soil water conditions had been recreated. The fruit proved to be the organ most sensitive to lack of water in the soil: its growth rate diminished along with the soil water content.
42878859|Sono stati saggiati i fitoregolatori BAP, K, 2,4-D e NAA a diverse dosi e con diverse modalit di trattamento al fine di stabilirne l'effetto sull'attecchimento dei microinnesti di limone Adamo (Citrus limon L. Burm. f.), di arancio Tarocco (C. sinensis L. Osbeck) e di Clementine comune (C. reticulata Bianco). I migliori risultati di attecchimento si sono avuti con il pretrattamento contemporaneo dell'apice da microinnestare e della parte capitozzata del giovane portinnesto usando 0,5 ppm di BAP oppure 0,5 ppm di K oppure 10 ppm di 2,4-D. Fra le specie e cultivar impiegate il limone Adamo ha manifestato la pi alta percentuale di attecchimento seguito dall'arancio Tarocco e da Clementine comune. Different doses of the growth regulators BAP, K, 2,4-D, NAA were tested using different methods of treatments with the aim of ascertain their effect on the tak of shoot tip grafting of the Adamo lemon (Citrus limon L. Burm. f.) the Tarocco sweet orange (C. sinensis L. Osbeck) and of Clementine comune (C. reticulata Blanco). The best results were obtained with the simultaneous pretreatment with 0.5 ppm BAP or 0.5 ppm K or 10 ppm 2,4-D of the apex to be shoot tip grafted and of the cut end of young rootstock. Among the three species and cultivars tested the Adamo lemon showed the highest percentage of taking followed by the Tarocco sweet orange and Clementine comune.
42878860|Sono state esaminate sette entit di Ceratonia siliqua L. (due cultivar ermafrodite e cinque piante a fiori maschili). Le osservazioni consistono sia nell'esaminare la superficie dell'esina al microscopio elettronico a scansione sia nel valutare alcuni caratteri fisiologici come la vitalit, germinabilit e lunghezza del tubetto pollinico, allo scopo di meglio identificare gli individui. Le differenze nella scultura dell'esina consistono sulla variazione della dimensione dei fori e della loro variabilit. Differenze significative sono state invece trovate nella germinabilit e vitalit del polline. Pollen grains of seven single plant of Ceratonia siliqua L. (two hermaphrodites and five unisexuals) were examined using a scanning electron microscope (SEM) and some physiological characters (viability, germination, pollen tube lenght) for identification purposes. The differences in the exine pattern consists in the sizes of the pits and in its variability. Among the physiological characters significant differences in the viability and germinability were founded.
42878861|The sensitivity to benomyl of several (276) strains of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi, isolated before and after a short or long use of benzimidazole fungicides on carnation in Italy, was evaluated. Repeated use of benzimidazoles during the years apparently caused a slight decrease in average sensitivity: MIC values increased from 3.3 to 5.5 g/ml. Isolates of F. dianthi belonging to race 4 appeared less sensitive to benomyl compared to other races. Si  valutato la sensibilit nei confronti di benomyl di numerosi (276) isolati di Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. dianthi, ottenuti in Italia prima dell'impiego dei fungicidi benzimidazolici e dopo un breve (1-4 anni) o lungo (13-14 anni) periodo di impiego di questi composti. L'uso ripetuto dei benzimidazoli ha avuto come conseguenza un lieve calo di sensibilit nei loro confronti in F. dianthi: il valore medio della concentrazione minima inibitoria (CMI)  passato da 3,3 a 5,5 g/ml. Gli isolati di F. dianthi appartenenti al patotipo 4 risultano meno sensibili nei confronti del benomyl rispetto a quelli appartenenti agli altri patotipi.
42878862|The mild mutant M-1, obtained from TMV-pep.1 (P1-2-3 pathotype) by treatment with nitrous acid, was tested. The M-1 inoculated plants did not show any symptoms and their growth was similar to that of the control, whereas the growth of the plants infected with the virulent strain TMV-pep. 10 (P1-2 pathotype) was poorer than that of the control. The yield of M-1 inoculated plants was 11.2% higher than that of the control. This result demonstrate the efficiency of the mutant as a protective strain against TMV spontaneous infections. The yield of the plants inoculated with M-1 and challenged with TMV-pep. 10 decreased 21.6% of that of the M-1 infected plants, whereas the yield of the TMV-pep. 10 infected plants was 35.9% lower. The yield loss of the challenged plants is due to the fact that the protection power of M-1 is efficient when the protective inoculation is carried out in a very early stage of the plants. If it is done later, the time necessary to obtain a satisfactory protection becomes longer. These results indicate that M-1 used in cross protection could offer a possible solution for the control of TMV in pepper plants. Il mutante ipovirulento, denominato M-1, ottenuto da un ceppo di TMV peperone, TMV-pep.l (patotipo P1-2-3  stato saggiato per la sua preliminare valutazione nelle normali condizioni di coltivazione. Le piante inoculate con tale mutante erano prive di sintomi e il loro accrescimento era identico a quello delle piante controllo, mentre l'accrescimento delle piante inoculate con il ceppo virulento TMV-pep. 10 (patotipo P1-2), usato come confronto, era molto ridotto. La produzione ottenuta dalle piante inoculate con M-1 era dell' 11,2% superiore a quella ottenuta dal controllo. Ci dimostra l'efficacia del mutante come ceppo protettore nei confronti di infezioni spontanee di TMV. La produzione delle piante inoculate con M-1 e sovrainoculate con TMV-pep. 10 era inferiore del 21,6% rispetto a quella delle piante semplicemente protette, mentre la produzione delle piante inoculate con TMV-pep. 10 era inferiore del 35,9%. La perdita di prodotto delle piante sovrainoculate  da imputare al fatto che la capacit protettiva di M-1  efficace quando l'inoculazione premunizzante  effettuata in una stadio molto precoce. Se condotta successivamente, il tempo necessario per ottenere una soddisfacente protezione diventa maggiore. Tali risultati indicano che M-1, usato per la protezione crociata, potrebbe offrire una soluzione per la limitazione dell'infezione del TMV nel peperone.
42878800|An experiment was carried out on the effect of six substrates containing various kinds of peat on the growth of tomato seedlings with and without fertilizer solution feeding (fertigation). The most balanced growth was obtained with fertigation but not if the starting salinity of the substrate was too high. Without fertigation the growth was correlated with initial N and K content and also with the water retention capacity of the substrates.  stato valutato l'effetto di sei differenti substrati contenenti torba di diverso tipo sulla crescita di piantine di pomodoro da mensa cv  Samar  in vivaio. Sono state condotte analisi delle caratteristiche chimiche e fisiche dei substrati ed  stata calcolata la correlazione fra queste e i parametri di crescita rilevati sulle piantine al termine del periodo di prova. Sono risultati migliori i substrati con un elevato contenuto in sostanza organica e senza suolo minerale; la crescita migliore si  osservata nei substrati con il pi alto contenuto iniziale in elementi nutritivi mentre la crescita pi equilibrata  stata ottenuta con la fertirrigazione salvo il caso in cui la salinit iniziale del substrato era troppo elevata. In assenza di fertirrigazione la crescita  risultata correlata con il contenuto iniziale di N e K ed anche con la capacit di ritenzione idrica dei substrati.
42878801|Gli autori riferiscono di una indagine sulla biologia fiorale della cultivar di olivo da mensa  Nocellara del Belice . La  Nocellara del Belice   risultata autoincompatibile. Fra le cultivar saggiate ( Giarraffa ,  Biancolilla  e  Pussulunara ), solo la  Giarraffa  ha mostrato una efficace azione impollinatrice consentendo una buona allegagione dei fiori della  Nocellara del Belice . I risultati di pieno campo sono stati confermati dalle osservazioni microscopiche in luce fluoroscente dei pistilli diversamente impollinati. The Authors relate on the results of some researches concerning the flowering biology of the table-olive cultivar  Nocellara del Belice , which is self-incompatible. Among the cultivar tested as pollinators ( Giarraffa ,  Biancolilla  and  Passulunara ) only  Giarraffa  has shown a good pollination ability. The pollination ability of this cultivar has been also confermed by microscope observations in fluorescent light.
42878802|Per ottenere nuove variet apirene di agrumi sono stati effettuati numerosi incroci tra piante genitrici femminili monoembrioniche (2X = 18 cromosomi) e piante genitrici maschili tetraploidi (4X = 36 cromosomi). I semi originati da questi tipi di incroci sono risultati per la maggior parte raggrinziti (97%) e soltanto in misura minore ben sviluppati (3%). Per produrre una numerosa popolazione di ibridi triploidi (3X = 27 cromosomi)  stata applicata la tecnica della coltura  in vitro  degli embrioni, in quanto i semi raggrinziti seminati in terreno non germinano. Da un totale di 1266 embrioni messi in coltura in vitro su substrato MS estratti dai 1670 semi prodotti il 58% ha dato origine a piante. Di queste il 46%  risultato triploide all'esame citologico effettuato per il conteggio dei cromosomi e il 12%  rimasto indeterminato. Le piante ottenute hanno un aspetto morfologico simile al genitore maschile tetraploide. Un ibrido tra il cedro ed il limone tetraploide ha gi prodotto un frutto apireno e con caratteristiche vicine al limone. In order to obtain new seedless citrus varieties many crosses have been carried out using diploid (2X = 18 chromosomes) monoembryonic tree as seed parent and tetraploid (4X = 36 chromosomes) tree as pollen parent. The seeds produced from this type of crosses were in most cases shrivelled (97%) and only in small amount fully developed (3%). To obtain a larger number of triploid (3X = 27 chromosomes) the embryo culture technique was developed because the shrivelled seeds failed to germinate. From a total of 1,266 embryos, cultured in vitro on MS medium, extracted from 1,670 seeds produced, 58% gave rise to plants. Of these 46% were found to be triploid at chromosome counts and 12% remained nondeterminated. The plants obtained were morphologically similar to the tetraploid male parents. One hybrid derived from the cross of diploid cedar and tetraploid lemon has already produced one seedless fruit characteristically near to lemon.
42878803|Somministrando col metodo del gas a caldo 20 g/m di bromuro di metile, sotto plastica Saranex, impermeabile ai gas,  stata conseguita l'eradicazione dinematodi del genere Xiphinema fino alla profondit di 90 cm in un terreno in agro di Alberobello, Bari. Risultati molto vicini all'eradicazione sono stati ottenuti alla stessa profondit con 40 g/m del fumigante iniettato a gas freddo e con 60-80 g/m dello stesso iniettato a gas caldo, impiegando per copertura fogli di polietilene dello spessore di 45 m. L'impiego della plastica impermeabile ha favorito l'accumulo di bromuro inorganico nel terreno trattato. Species of Xiphinema were eradicated to a depth of 90 cm in a field at Alberobello in the province of Bari, applaying 20 g/m of hot methyl bromide under the gas impervious plastic Saranex. Results very close to eradication were obtained at the same depth with 40 g/m of cold or 60-80 g/m of hot methyl bromide injected under polythene sheets 45 m thick. The use of the gas impervious tarping increased concentrations of inorganic bromine in the treated soil.
42878804|Nel 1983, in Val d'Adige, su piante di Golden Delicious su M 7, di 12 anni di et, sono state effettuate due raccolte di frutti: il 7 e il 21 settembre. Il giorno seguente la raccolta i frutti sono stati trattati per immersione con: 1) Acqua + Agral (50 cc/hl); 2) BHA (200 gr/hl) + Agral (50 cc/hl); 3) BHA (100 gr/hl) + Riscald Control (80 gr/hl) + Agral (50 cc/hl); e successivamente conservati in A.C. (3% CO, 2% O, 2 C) fino al 3/5/1984 e poi tenuti fino al 10/5/1984 a temperatura ambiente. L'atmosfera delle celle nelle quali erano conservati i frutti raccolti il 21/9  stata depurata, per cause tecniche solo a partire dai primi di marzo, dalle sostanze volatili (etilene ed aromi) con torri a caduta in controcorrente con: 1) acqua a perdere; 2) soluzione satura di permanganato di potassio acidificata con acido solforico 1%; 3) senza depurazione. Alla raccolta  stata misurata l'ampiezza e la profondit della cavit calicina dei frutti e sia alla raccolta sia a fine conservazione anche la compattezza della polpa (penetrometro Effegi puntale 11 mm), l'intensit di colorazione dei frutti (densitometro ottico Vopdens 501), acidit titolabile (NaOH 0,1 N), zuccheri solubili totali, ed  stata rilevata la presenza e l'entit delle alterazioni fisiopatologiche. Fra la prima e la seconda raccolta solo la dimensione della cavit calicina ha manifestato un aumento significativo: probabilmente le elevate temperature dell'estate hanno provocato un temporaneo arresto dell'evoluzione della maturazione che ha protratto i suoi effetti fino alle raccolte. A fine conservazione invece i frutti raccolti pi tardivamente sono leggermente pi teneri, alquanto zuccherini e con un'incidenza di riscaldo molto inferiore. I trattamenti con antiossidanti diminuiscono la compattezza della polpa, il colore verde dei frutti, ed aumentano gli zuccheri solubili totali. Il BHA sembra non avere alcuna efficacia sull'incidenza del riscaldo da senescenza delle Golden, mentre l'etossichina dimostra un'azione decisa. Golden Delicious apples on M7 rootstok in a 12 years plant, in Val d'Adige, were picked in two dates, 7th and 21th sept. 1983. Fruits were treated with 1) HO; 2) BHA (200 g/hl); 3) BHA (100 g/hl) + Riscald Control (ethoxyquin) (80 g/hl). Agral wetter was added (50 cc/hl) to every treatment. C.A. storage (3% CO; 2% O; 2C) followed up 3.5.1984 and fruits were furtherly ripened for consume at 18 C for seven days (10.5.1984). During C.A. storage three means of purification were used: 1) simple water; 2) KMnO 3% acidified with H SO 1%; 3) Test with no purification. Width and depth of calyx were recorded at picking; fruit firmness and colour, titrable acidity and TSS were recorded both at picking and after storage. Disorders and deseases were also registered. Between the first and second picking only calyx size had a significant increase. After storage the latest picked fruits were lightly softer, sweeter and less scald affected. BHA seems to have no influence on scald, while ethoxyquin has a definite control.
42878805|A series of long-term fumigation experiments with sulphur dioxide were carried out in Perspex chambers to determine the effects of realistic exposure lasting 5 weeks on the performances of young plants of sunflower, soybean, maize and spinach. Parameters taken into account include: dry matter production, growth attributes, chlorophylls, diffusion resistance, sulphur accumulation. In sunflower (Helianthus annuus cv  Kiwi  ), the exposure to 70 ppb SO induced some beneficial effects in terms of dry matter production, especially at leaf level. No significant effect was observed in chlorophyll content, and an increase in stomatal resistance was detected in treated plants. Soybean plants (Glycine max cv  Hodgson  ) were exposed at 74 ppb: after an initial depression of growth, at the end of the treatment, SO - fumigated plants showed an increase in height, stem and root dry weight, and leaf area. Chlorophyll content was reduced and diffusion resistance was increased by the fumigation. In maize (Zea mays cv  Serena  ), the effects an of exposure to 75 ppb were minimal on dry matter production, even if a decrement in chlorophyll content was observed. Diffusion resistance was increased by SO2. Two separate experiments were carried out with spinach (Spinacia olercea cv  Hybrid7), at 68 ppb and 148 ppb SO respectively. Neither the two concentrations was responsible of significant variations in the parameters considered. Visible symptoms have never been detected in treated plants, even if their sulphur levels were significantly higher than in controls grown in filtered air. The results are discussed in relation to their possible practical effects. Sono state condotte esperienze di fumigazioni croniche della durata di 5 settimane con anidride solforosa in cabine di Perspex per valutare gli effetti di questo inquinante gassoso sulle prestazioni produttive di giovani piante di girasole, soia, mais e spinacio. I parametri presi in considerazione sono stati: produzione di biomassa, analisi di crescita, contenuto di clorofille, resistenza alla diffusione, accumulo in zolfo. In girasole (Helianthus annuus cv  Kiwi  ) l'esposizione a 70 ppb ha provocato alcuni effetti benefici in termini di accumulo di biomassa, specialmente a livello fogliare. Nessun effetto significativo  stato registrato nel contenuto in clorofilla, e le piante trattate presentavano una maggiore resistenza alla diffusione. Per quanto riguarda la soia (Glycine max cv  Hodgson  ) , il trattamento a 74 ppb  stato responsabile di una iniziale riduzione di crescita, ma alla fine dell'esperienza le piante fumigate presentavano incrementi in altezza, peso secco del fusto e delle radici e area fogliare. Il contenuto in clorofille era ridotto e la resistenza alla diffusione incrementata dalla fumigazione. Gli effetti dell'esposizione a 75 ppb su mais (Zea mays cv  Serena  ) sono stati minimi, anche se  stato registrato un decremento nel contenuto in clorofille ed un aumento nella resistenza alla diffusione nelle piante trattate con SO. Nel caso dello spinacio (Spinacia olercea cv  Hybrid 7  ), sono stati realizzati due diversi esperimenti, rispettivamente alle concentrazioni di 68 e 148 ppb, e in nessuno di questi sono state osservate differenze significative. Aspetto comune a tutte le prove  stata la mancanza di sintomi macroscopicamente visibili a carico delle piante trattate, anche se esse accumulavano costantemente molto pi zolfo rispetto alle piante di controllo, allevate in aria filtrata. I risultati ottenuti sono discussi in relazione ad esperienze di altri autori ed alle loro possibili implicazioni di ordine pratico.
42878806|II confronto fra 3 coefficienti colturali (0,4; 0,5 e 0,6 ETP) e un controllo non irrigato evidenzia nella cv Ascolana tenera di olivo da mensa che, nelle condizioni climatiche del Mediterraneo occidentale, l'irrigazione consente di mantenere nel terreno, durante la stagione estiva, percentuali d'acqua disponibile del 20-30% (kc 0,4) e 40-50% (kc 0,5 e 0,6) nei confronti dei valori costantemente inferiori al punto d'appassimento permanente registrati dalla coltura asciutta. Il potenziale idrico fogliare di queste ultime piante risulta all'alba di -1,0 MPa contro i -0,2 e -0,6 MPa osservati rispettivamente per i kc 0,5 e 0,6, e 0,4. I kc 0,5 e 0,6 incrementano le produzioni del 60% e il peso fresco delle drupe del 35% rispetto al controllo, mentre la circonferenza del tronco si accresce del 17,5% invece che del 10,4%. Le differenze si accentuano nelle annate pi siccitose. In the Western Mediterranean area, the comparison of three crop coefficients (0.4, 0.5 and 0.6 ETP) and an unirrigated control group of Ascolana tenera olive-trees showed that irrigated kept the available water percentage at 20-30% (0.4 kc) and 40-50% (0.5 and 0.6 Kc) during the summer compared to the consistently inferior values registered in the unirrigated control group. At down the leaf water potential values were: - 1.0 MPa for unirrigated trees; - 0.2 MPa for 0.5 and 0.6 crop coefficients; - 0.6 MPa for 0.4 crop coefficients. The kc values of 0.5 and 0.6 increased the yield hy 60% and the fruit fresh weight by 35% in comparison to the unirrigated trees. The circumference of the trunk increased by 17.5% instead of 10.4%. Differences were accentuated during the driest years.
42878810|Gemme avventizie erano formate da apici vegetativi di Dieffenbachia amoena Hort. cv Tropic White previamente saggiati con la tecnica di risanamento di Knauss. Substrati solidi e liquidi utilizzati a diversi stadi della coltura hanno permesso l'emissione di nuovi germogli. Un ottimo coefficiente di moltiplicazione (10,43)  stato ottenuto in espianti coltivati in presenza della citochinina 2iP (0.1 - 16 mg/l) ed auxina IAA (0.1 - 2 mg/l) nella fase di accrescimento ed induzione (stadio I-II A),seguita dal trasferimento su substrato di base privo di sostanze di crescita nella fase di allungamento (stadio II B). La radicazione  stata ottenuta nel 95% dei germogli. Adventitious buds were induced in apex of Dieffenhachia amoena Hort. cv. Tropic White previously tested by Knauss's technique. Liquid and agarified medium were used in different growing phases which induced new shoot formation. The plant growth regulators 2iP (0.1 - 16 mg/l) and IAA (0.1 - 2 mg/l) showed the highest rate of micropropagation (10.43) when the explants were cultured with cytokinin and auxin above mentioned during the growing and induction phase (stage I - IIA). Further growth and elongation (stage II B) of adventitious buds is obtained by transfer to a hormone-free medium. 95% of the new shoots rooted easily on basal medium without plant growth regulators.
42878811|Per una coltura di albicocco dal primo al quinto anno dopo l'innesto (su pesco) sono riportati i dati riguardanti il consumo idrico in funzione dello sviluppo radicale. L'esperienza ha riguardato differenti regimi irrigui (a goccia) e un testimone non irrigato. Il consumo idrico  stato valutato attraverso il bilancio idrologico, mentro lo sviluppo radicale  stato misurato con il metodo Newman, su campioni di terreno prelevati nei primi giorni di settembre.  stata trovata una buona correlazione fra sviluppo radicale e consumo idrico negli anni, ma l'assorbimento idrico unitario (cm . d . MPa) negli anni  apparso influenzato dal regime irriguo con assorbimento pi elevato nelle tesi irrigate al 100 e 66% E.T., rispetto a quella non irrigata o irrigata al 33% E.T.  stato valutato il consumo unitario a due distanze dal tronco (85 e 250 cm), che  risultato maggiore ad 85 cm rispetto a quello misurato a 250 cm. Ci lascia presupporre la presenza di una resistenza xilematica di una certa rilevanza, che ha portato ad una differenza di consumo per unit di radice, a fine stagione, di circa il 20% per una distanza di 165 cm. For apricot, grown in the field, from the first to the fifth year after grafting (on peach rootstock) data on water consumptive use and roots development relationship are reported. Experimental data are for different water supplies (drip irrigation) and for a non-irrigated plot. Water consumptive use and root development have been found correlated, but in the years water adsorption by roots (cm . d . cm . MPa) was found different for different water regimes. Higher water absorption was observed in the 100 and 66% ET plots than in 33% ET and dry plots. In the dry plot water absorption was evaluated for two distances from the trunk (85 and 250 cm). Water absorption (cm . d . cm . MPa) resulted higher at 85 cm from the trunk than that observed at 250 cm. This difference should be considered a consequence of the xilematic resistance, which gave a difference of water absorption, for unit of root, of about 20% for a distance of 165 cm, at the end of the season.
42878812|A comprehensive rewiew of previous studies concerning the responses of fruit trees - particularly of the genus Prunus - to waterlogging precedes a discussion of the role played by some toxic compounds present in asfittic soils as well as plant symptoms, morphological and physiological reactions and adaptative mechanisms. Viene riportata una esauriente analisi della letteratura concernente gli effetti dell'eccesso idrico nel suolo sulle piante arboree da frutto, con particolare riguardo al genere Prunus.  descritto il ruolo svolto da talune sostanze tossiche presenti nei suoli asfittici, la sintomatologia e le reazioni adattative morfofisiologiche.
42878813|A new mycorrhizal association between Citrus aurantium L. roots and other commonly used citrus rootstocks and the endomycorrhizal fungus Glomus occultum Walker found in Southern Italy citrus nurseries is reported. Histological observations on infested young roots of Citrus aurantium showed that the hyphae penetrated the epidermis and invaded the cortex giving rise to arbuscules and vesicles. Viene segnalata una nuova associazione endomicorrizica tra alcuni comuni portainnesti di agrumi ed il fungo simbionte Glomus occultum Walker, di recente rinvenuto in alcuni vivai di agrumi nell'Italia meridionale. Osservazioni istologiche su radici di agrumi, Citrus aurantium. colonizzate naturalmente dal fungo hanno mostrato che le ife penetrando l'epidermide ed invadendo larghe aree di cellule corticali danno origine alla formazione di arbuscoli e vescicole intracellulari.
42878814|Gli autori indicano cosa si intenda per sostanze di riserva secondo le accezioni e definizioni pi comuni. Essi riassumono altres le notizie bibliografiche sulla composizione chimica, il ciclo ed il trasporto di esse. The authors explain which are the common definitions for storage substances. They report also bibliographical knowledges on chemical composition, cycle, and transport of such substances.
42878815| stata condotta una ricerca biennale nella Piana del Sele (Sa) per studiare l'influenza del regime irriguo e della densit di impianto sull'aglio da serbo (cv Messidrome) in ciclo autunno-primaverile. Sono stati posti a confronto, oltre ad un testimone non irrigato, tre limiti di intervento irriguo, fissati in 25,50 e 75 mm di evapotraspirazione di una coltura di riferimento ETo e tre volumi di adacquamenti pari a reintegri dell'80, 100 e 120% dell'ETo corrispondente, in combinazione fattoriale con due densit di piante (33,3 e 16,7 piante/m). I risultati hanno mostrato che ad intervalli tra gli adacquamenti pi lunghi corrispondono una riduzione della percentuale di scarto e maggiori incrementi nella resa commerciabile, nella sopravvivenza delle piante e nella durata di conservazione dei bulbi. Il peso medio di questi ultimi  invece aumentato a misura venivano adottati limiti di ETo pi ridotti. La produzione di bulbi e la percentuale di sopravvivenza delle piante hanno esibito andamento decrescente all'aumentare della percentuale di reintegro dell'ETo. Con la densit di 33,3 piante/m  stata riscontrata una maggiore produzione di bulbi che presentavano per dimensioni inferiori rispetto a quelli ottenuti con l'investimento pi rado. Condizioni di persistente umidit nel terreno e la densit di piante maggiore hanno favorito la diffusione del Pseudomonas cepacia Burkholder. Data are reported on a two years research carried out in the Sele river Plain (Salerno) in order to evaluate the behaviour of a garlic crop (cv Messidrome) grown under different irrigation regimens and plant populations. In addition to a non-irrigated control, three irrigation frequencies, based on 25,50 or 75 mm of reference crop evapotranspiration (ETo), and three coefficients of watering, at level of 80, 100 and 120% of respective ETo, are tested in factorial combination with two planting densities (33,3 and 16,7 plant/m). Results show an increase of marketable bulb yield, plant survival and bulb keeping duration and a decrease of non-marketable yield with 75 mm limit of ETo, while mean weight of bulbs enhanced as irrigation frequency increase. Bulb yield and plant survival decrease by increasing coefficients of watering. Planting density of 33.3 plant/m give greater yield but bulb mean weight is lower. The damage by Pseudomonas cepacia Burkholder is linked to higher plant population and to more frequent irrigation regimens.
42878816|Nel biennio 1981-82 viti di Sangiovese/420A, allevate a cordone orizzontale speronato, sono state sottoposte a cimatura, - eseguita, alla 5 foglia sopra l'ultimo grappolo, in due diverse epoche e, cio, precocemente, alla piena fioritura e, tardivamente, nella seconda met di luglio, - a legatura dei germogli senza cimatura, effettuata nella seconda quindicina di luglio; un gruppo di viti  stato lasciato senza alcun intervento. I risultati della ricerca hanno confermato che la cimatura pu influire sull'attivit vegetativa e produttiva della vite, con effetti, peraltro, alquanto diversi in rapporto all'epoca della sua esecuzione. Mentre nel 1981 non sono state riscontrate differenze tra le varie tesi relativamente al grado zuccherino del mosto, nel successivo anno la cimatura tardiva, effettuata, cio, dopo che le gemme pronte non erano in grado di emettere femminelle, ha ridotto il contenuto zuccherino del mosto, probabilmente per effetto della diminuzione della superficie fogliare. Le differenze tra i due anni sembrano connesse al diverso andamento stagionale e, conseguentemente, alle epoche di cui erano avvenute le varie fasi fenologiche. La cimatura tardiva ha determinato un aumento dell'efficienza fogliare (espressa come quantit di zucchero/unit di superficie fogliare), che, tuttavia, non ha compensato gli effetti negativi esercitati sul grado zuccherino dalla predetta riduzione dell'area fogliare. La cimatura ha favorito il contenuto in acidit libera. La legatura non ha esercitato effetti negativi sulle caratteristiche qualitative del mosto. Non sono state riscontrate differenze di rilievo relativamente alla produttivit delle piante sottoposte ai diversi interventi di potatura estiva. Topping and tying up the shoots of the vines are commonly applied in many training systems in Italy. To compare their influence on growth, yield, and must quality researches have been carried out during 1980-1981 on Sangiovese vines, trained to horizontal cordon. Treatments were applied as follows: a) shoot topping at full bloom (i) and in the second half of July (ii) by cuttings at the fifth leaf over the distal cluster; b) tying up the shoots, in the second half of July; c) control. As no laterals have developed after late topping, this treatment reduced the number of leaves and the total leaf area/vine; since early topping stimulated laterals, no differences resulted between this treatment, control and vines with tied up shoots. In the second year the total soluble solid content of the must have been lowered by late topping: differences in the climatic conditions and consequently in the dates of the phenological stages may be accounted for the lacking effect of the topping in the first year of researches. The late topping increased the leaf efficiency (as expressed by quantin of totale soluble solid produced/unit of leaf area); nevertheless in 1981 it did not offset the negative effect on totale soluble solid content caused by the reduction of the number and of the total leaf area/vine. The yield has not been affected by the different treatments.
42878820|Viene descritto un marciume delle radici e del colletto che causa gravi danni alle coltivazioni di Stella di Natale (Euphorbia pulcherrima Will.) in serra. L'alterazione  stata attribuita all'attivit singola o combinata di Fusarium solarii (Mart.) Sacc, Cylindrocarpon destructans (Zins.) Scholten, e Rhizoctonia solani Khn. Severe outbreaks of root and foot-rot on poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima Will.) in greenhouse growings in Southern Italy are reported. Fusarium solarii (Mart.) Sacc, Rhizoctonia solarii Khn and Cylindrocarpon destructans (Zins.) Scholten., singly or in combination, appear the casual agents of this root and foot-rot complex.
42878821|Sono state esaminate le piastre metafasiche di alcune specie di Corylus (C. avellana, C. maxima, C. colurna, C. heterophylla) al fine di verificame il numero cromosomico somatico; in tutte le specie si  rilevato che tale numero  22. Si sono inoltre individuati alcuni casi di tetraploidia in C. heterophylla. Infine sulla base delle analogie riscontrate per forma, dimensioni e posizione del centromero sono stati costruiti i cariogrammi delle diverse specie prese in esame. Chromosomes in root tip cells of some species of Corylus (C. avellana, C. maxima, C. colurna, C. heterophylla) were examined during the metaphase to count chromosome number. Root tips were stained with Feulgen reaction and then squashed in acetocarmine. In all species it was found that somatic chromosome number was 22; besides some plants of C. heterophylla were tetraploid. The chromosomes, similar in shape, size and centromere position were paired in order to identify karyograms. A chromosome pair longer than the others was present in all examined species; in C. colurna and C. maxima it showed a satellite. Besides there were one or two pairs of chromosomes a little shorter than the previous one; the remaining pairs were rather shorter and prevalently metacentric.
42878822|Results are reported on a field test carried out during 1982 and 1983 on the early potato (cv. Jaerla) to investigate the growth and the yield response according to the stage of tuber life. The research compared seed-tuber coming either from Holland (5 months old) or locally multiplied under isolated cages in the first (8 months old, stored at 2  1C) or second crop (2 months old, unripe). Samplings were carried out at ten days interval in order to determine the main indexes of growth; yield, its componed and tuber size distribution were measured at harvest. Best performances, as marketable tubers and dry weight, were obtained by Dutch seed potatoes, which showed higher values of leaf area, number of leaves. LAI, LAD, LAR, CGR and TGR. Worse results were obtained from second crop seed-tubers, which were in dormancy at planting, so that widespread failures in the stand, delay and differences in emergence were caused and most of these plants had one stem and only few tubers. Long stored seed-tubers showed a quick sprouting and gave rise to an early tuber initiation. Scanty results obtained by both locally multiplied tuber should be attribuited to juvenile or senile degeneration. Vengono riferiti e discussi i risultati di una prova biennale condotta in provincia di Napoli sulla patata precoce (cv. Jaerla ) allo scopo di esaminare il comportamento della coltura al variare dell'et del tubero-seme. La ricerca verteva sul confronto tra seme proveniente dall'Olanda (tuberi certificati di 5 mesi di et) e da moltiplicazioni controllate sotto garza effettuate localmente in ciclo vernino-primaverile (seme di 8 mesi di et, conservato a 2  1  C) o estivo-autunnale (seme di 2 mesi di et, fisiologicamente immaturo). Attraverso campionamenti decadali  stato seguito l'andamento dei principali indici d'accrescimento mentre alla raccolta sono stati determinate la produzione e le sue componenti e la distribuzione dei tuberi commerciabili in 3 classi di calibro. I migliori risultati produttivi, in termini di produzione commerciabile e di sostanza secca, sono stati conseguiti con i tuberi-seme olandesi, cui hanno corrisposto i valori pi elevati del numero di foglie, area fogliare, LAI, LAD, LAR, CGR e TGR. Le prestazioni pi basse sono state fornite dai tuberi ottenuti in secondo raccolto, che erano dormienti all'epoca di impianto ed hanno dato luogo a molte fallanze, a ritardi e disformit nell'emergenza; inoltre le poche piante da essi generate erano in maggioranza monostelo e recavano pochi tuberi. I tuberi-seme refrigerati si sono distinti per la sollecita germogliazione e per avere procurato un pi precoce inizio di tuberizzazione. Si formula l'ipotesi che l'esito modesto fornito dai tuberi moltiplicati localmente sia da attribuire a fenomeni di degenerazione giovanile o senile.
42878823|Data are reported on a two-year experiment (1982-83) carried out in the Sele river Plain (Salerno) to investigate the effects of the irrigation on potato (cv Jaerla) grown in spring and harvested at physiological ripening. The irrigation was performed either throughout the growing cycle or in its first part (valued between emergence and 50% crop cover) or in next stage. Three irrigation frequencies, based on 20, 40 or 60 mm of ETm, and three watering rates, at level of 80, 100 and 120% of ETm were tested. The highest yield (+84% compared with non-irrigated control) was obtained by irrigating during the whole cycle and fixing the frequency on 20 mm of ETm and supplying a water depth of 20 mm to balance ETm. This irrigation regime, which required 12-13 irrigations and a seasonal water depth of 240-260 mm, enhanced mean weight of tubers and number of tubers per plant. Among the irrigation variables, only the period of water application affected significantly the tuber size distribution: the percentage of tuber  > 55 mm increased when water was supplied throughout the growing period or only during the tuber enlargement period. Vengono riferiti i risultati di una prova biennale condotta nella Piana del Sele (Salerno) con lo scopo di valutare le conseguenze di ordine produttivo indotte dall'irrigazione della patata cv Jaerla in coltura precoce. Il piano sperimentale era articolato sul confronto tra 28 tesi delle quali ventisette derivanti dalla combinazione fattoriale di: 3 periodi di esecuzione dell'irrigazione (1 - durante tutto il ciclo colturale; 2 - solo durante una prima fase, tra l'emergenza ed il 50% di copertura del terreno da parte della coltura; 3 - solo durante una seconda fase, a partire dalla precedente), 3 limiti di intervento (ogni 20, 40 o 60 mm di ETm) e 3 volumi di adacquamento (basati sul reintegro di 80, 100 e 120% dell'ETm), oltre ad un controllo non irrigato. Le pi alte produzioni di tuberi (+84% rispetto al testimone non irrigato) sono state realizzate con l'irrigazione praticata durante l'intero ciclo colturale, irrigando al limite di 20 mm di ETm con volume di adacquamento corrispondente al 100% dell'ETm. L'applicazione di questo regime ha comportato l'esecuzione di 12-13 interventi irrigui per un volume stagionale di 2400-2600 m/ha, con riflessi positivi sul numero finale di piante per unit di superficie, sul peso dei tuberi e sul numero di tuberi commerciabili per pianta. In termini di qualit, la distribuzione dei tuberi in tre classi di grandezza  stata influenzata solo dal periodo di esecuzione dell'irrigazione: la percentuale di tuberi di maggiore dimensione (0 > 55 mm)  aumentata quando gli interventi erano praticati durante tutto il ciclo o solo nella seconda parte di esso in fase di ingrossamento dei tuberi.
42878824|Flower differentiation, embryo sac formation and fertilization have been described in polyploid plants of Vitis vinifera, cv Barbera. Floral parts appeared following this order: calyx, corol, stamens, pistil. The plants studied showed 7-10 days of delay in calyx differentiation compared with diploids and due to a lateness of bud burst. This delay decreased in the following stages of development; functional megaspore appeared almost at the same time both in diploid and polyploid plants. La differenziazione dei fiori, la formazione del sacco embrionale e la fecondazione sono stati studiati in piante poliploidi di Vitis vinifera, cv Barbera. Dal confronto con piante diploidi non sono emerse differenze nello sviluppo delle parti fiorali che compaiono nel seguente ordine: calice, corolla, stami, ovario. L'iniziale ritardo di 7-10 giorni nella comparsa dei sepali nei poliploidi, ed imputabile ad un ritardo di germogliamento, si riduce nel periodo successivo fino ad annullarsi al momento della comparsa della megaspora.
42878825|Sono stati effettuati trattamenti mutageni con raggi X (10, 20, 40, 60 Gy) a germogli della cultivar di pero  Decana del Comizio  in coltura in vitro in fase di proliferazione (fase II). Dopo il trattamento mutageno si sono effettuati tre cicli vegetativi di moltiplicazione e si  quindi passati alla fase di radicazione. Il trattamento mutageno ha causato: a) un aumento della mortalit dei germogli correlato all'intensit di irraggiamento; b) una diminuzione nel tasso di proliferazione; c) una riduzione nella percentuale di radicazione. La dose di 60 Gy ha provocato la morte di tutto il materiale trattato. Considerando valida una mortalit del 50% in seguito al trattamento (LD 50), i risultati migliori si sono ottenuti alle dosi di 20 e 40 Gy con una dose inferiore a quella ritenuta opportuna, per la stessa cultivar, in vivo. In vitro cultured cuttings of  Comice  pear were irradiated during in vitro proliferation stage II with X rays at 10, 20, 40 and 60 Gy. After the irradiation cultures were multiplied three times and then rooted. Increase in mortality paralleled irradiation intensity. The mutagenic treatment caused always a dicrease in culture proliferation and rooting. The exposure to 60 Gy caused all the irradiated material to die within the second multiplication. The best results were obtained with 20 and 40 Gy irradiation. These doses resulted to be lower than what the same cultivar requested in vivo.
42878826| stata studiata l'influenza di un regime termico notturno differenziato (con una temperatura di 5C nella seconda parte della notte) durante le prime fasi del ciclo colturale sull'accrescimento e la fioritura del primo palco fiorale di piante di pomodoro. Il regime termico differenziato non ha influenzato l'altezza, l'area fogliare e la distribuzione della sostanza secca tra le varie parti della pianta, e ha solo leggermente diminuito il tasso di accrescimento a causa di una minore intensit di assimilazione per unit di superficie fogliare. La bassa temperatura ha leggermente ritardato (3-4 giorni) la fioritura e l'allegagione, ma non ha determinato alcun effetto negativo sulla struttura della infiorescenza o dei singoli fiori. I dati indicano la scarsa influenza sull'accrescimento e lo sviluppo di piante di pomodoro di una bassa temperatura ripetutamente applicata per periodi relativamente brevi durante la notte, e la possibilit di adozione di tale sistema di regolazione della temperatura nelle colture precoci. The effect of split-night temperature (5C during the second part of the dark period) on the growth and the 1st truss flowering of tomato plants was studied. Height, leaf area and dry-matter partitioning were not affected by temperature treatments; however, split-night regime slightly reduced net assimilation rate and growth rate. The low temperature in the second part of the night delayed (3-4 days) flowering and fruit set, but did not affect truss and flower morphology. Results suggest a small effect of repeated, short, nightly low temperature periods on growth and development of tomato plants, and indicate the possibility of adopting this temperature regime in early crops.
42878827|Lo scopo della presente indagine  stato quello di evidenziare alcuni importanti risultati raggiunti con la coltura di tessuti in specie tropicali di particolare interesse (Phoenix dactylifera, Cocos nucfera, Carica papaya, Coffea spp.).  stata data particolare enfasi alle tecniche di organogenesi, embriogenesi somatica, coltura di aploidi, embriocoltura e micropropagazione. L'uso di queste tecniche permetter di raggiungere il duplice scopo del miglioramento varietale e di una nuova metodica di propagazione vegetativa. Particolarmente interessanti sono i risultati raggiunti con la rigenerazione mediante embrioni somatici, anche se tali studi necessitano di ulteriori approfondimenti per massimizzare l'efficienza del sistema. Nel corso dell'indagine  stato inoltre rilevato che la rigenerazione mediante coltura di antere ed ovuli  limitata ad un numero esiguo di individui. Interessanti sono le prospettive mediante la stimolazione di gemme ascellari anche se per alcune specie prese in esame la difficolt principale  rappresentata dal basso numero di gemme utilizzabili come materiale di partenza. The purpose of this article is the presentation of certain information concerning the use of tissue culture of the following species: Phoenix dactylifera, Cocos nucifera, Carica papaya, Coffea spp. It places special emphasis on tecniques of organogenesis, somatic embryogenesis, haploid culture, embryoculture, and micropropagation. These tecniques offer considerable potential for the propagation and genetic improvement of these tropical fruit trees; however, there are certain practical limitations, for example, the regeneration of whole plants via anther culture or ovule culture is still very poor. Better prospects are more likely through the stimulation of axillary buds (micropropagation), even through, the morphology of species such as palms don't provide a large amount of buds for starting material.
42878828|Frutti di due cultivar standard (Hi Early e Starking) su M9 e di due cultivar spur (Redspur e Starkspur Red) su M 26, di 9 anni di et, allevate a spindelbush in Val d'Adige (Trento) sono stati raccolti il 18.9.1984 e conservati in AC (2% O 3% CO, 2C) in cellette la cui atmosfera  stata depurata dalle sostanze volatili (etilene ed aromi). I risultati delle analisi effettuate alla raccolta, dopo conservazione e dopo 5 giorni a temperatura ambiente hanno evidenziato che la cv Hi Early presenta alla raccolta le migliori caratteristiche di compattezza della polpa, contenuto zuccherino ed acidit, ma una scarsa conservabilit. Le due cultivar spur hanno caratteristiche qualitative e di serbevolezza pari alla Starking ed una minore perdita di peso durante la conservazione. Il riscaldo comune si manifesta con maggiore incidenza nella Starking ed  ridotto dalla depurazione dell'atmosfera delle celle frigorifere. L'elevata U.R. presente nelle celle depurate mantiene i frutti pi turgidi ma ne riduce, rispetto al controllo, il contenuto zuccherino e la compattezza. Apples cultivar Hi Early and Starking (standard) on M9, and Redspur and Starkspur Red (spur) on M 26, 9 years old, in Val d'Adige, were picked on 18th sept. 1984 and CA stored (2%O; 3%CO; 2C) with three different means of gas purification for volatile compounds (flavours and ethylene): 1) No purification (C H level  150 ppm) 2) KMnO 3% acidified with H SO 1% (C H level  10 ppm). 3) Simple water (C H level  100 ppm). At picking time red colour was less pronunced in Starkspur Red apples than in Hi Early and Redspur. Red colour was generally reduced perhaps by high scald incidence. Hi Early and Starkspur Red apples were firmer than other apples at harvest time, but after storage they softened their flesh texture more than the other cultivars. Fruits stored without gas purifications were firmer. Hi Early apples had at picking times more starch and Total Soluble Sugars content, and Starkspur Red had less Total Soluble Sugars at picking time and after storage. Gas purifications reduced Total Soluble Sugars content. Before storage titratable acidity is less in spur cultivars but after keeping also Hi Early reduced it. Standard cultivars, and apples in cells without gas purification suffered more weight losses during storage; high R.H. ( 100%) levels of purified cells reduced this phenomenon. Starkspur Red apples had less scald and gas purification reduced it too.
42878829|Sistematiche analisi radiometriche sono state condotte in spettrometria-gamma su campioni di foglie e di frutti di fragola prelevati, dopo l'incidente di Chernobyl, a Cesena dal 5 maggio al 4 giugno 1986. Le piante erano allevate sotto tunnel e in pieno campo, su terreno con e senza pacciamatura. I risultati hanno posto in evidenza:  il positivo effetto della pacciamatura e della copertura con tunnel sul grado di contaminazione dovuta alla ricaduta radioattiva;  la maggiore radioattivit delle foglie rispetto ai frutti;  il consistente decadimento della radioattivit delle due matrici considerate anche nel caso dei radionucidi che, come il cesio, sono caratterizzati da un lungo tempo di dimezzamento fisico. Lo iodio (I) ha dimostrato una pi elevata capacit di diffusione anche sotto tunnel e una maggiore persistenza negli organi contaminati. I livelli di radioattivit del prodotto maturo (raccolto dapprima sotto tunnel poi in pieno campo) sono risultati sempre molto inferiori a quelli contemplati dalla normativa a tutela della salute pubblica. Leaf and fruit samples were collected from May 5 to June 4, 1986 near Cesena on strawberry plants in mulched (plastic) vs. unmulched plots and in the open field vs. plastic tunnels. Radiometric measurements, made by gamma-ray spectometry, showed that: plastic mulch and tunnels reduced the radioactive contamination; radionuclides were partially removed from leaves and fruits by washing; leaf and fruit radioactivity remarkably decayed even when long half-life radionuclides were concerned. Under tunnels radioidine (I) was comparatively more contaminant, owing to its volatility, than the other radionuclides. Radioactivity levels of the ripe fruits (initially picked under tunnels, then in the open) were constantly and remarkably lower than those assumed as critical for feeding.
42878830|Piante di pesco della cv Stark Earlyblaze sono state sottoposte ad entit di diradamento differenziate (3,5 o 7 frutti/ramo) ed a trattamenti singoli o ripetuti di GA (0,1,2 o 3 volte) impiegata alla dose di 100 ppm. Scopo della prova era valutare la possibilit di migliorare la pezzatura dei frutti anche su piante meno diradate rispetto agli attuali standard aziendali (3 frutti/ramo) recuperando parte della produzione usualmente persa col diradamento e verificare l'influenza della maggiore produzione e della GA sull'entit della differenziazione a fiore. I risultati conseguiti indicano che sulle piante diradate a 3 frutti/ramo la GA ha indotto un aumento della pezzatura dei frutti svolgendo un'azione additiva al diradamento. Risultati interessanti sono stati conseguiti anche sulle piante meno diradate. In particolare, per le piante diradate a 5 frutti/ramo la produzione di frutti della pezzatura pi elevata (B-2A)  stata superiore a quella delle piante diradate a 3 frutti/ramo. In tal caso la GA sembra avere svolto un'azione sostitutiva al diradamento. Nell'anno successivo ai trattamenti si  rilevato che la maggiore produzione non ha avuto riflessi negativi sull'antogenesi; al contrario il fitoregolatore ha diminuito l'entit della differenziazione con effetti proporzionali al numero dei trattamenti. Comunque, l'effetto inibente della GA sull'antogenesi non ha raggiunto livelli preoccupanti. Peach trees of Stark Earlyblaze variety received single or repeated GA treatments (1, 2, or 3 times) at 100 ppm. The aim was to improve fruit growth by reducing correlative inhibitions with other fruit and shoots, and allow an increase of marketable crop. To this end, GA was applied on trees that were underthinned, leaving 5 or 7 fruit per branch instead of the 3 fruit/branch allowed by the farm standards. Results show that GA improved fruit size, and mostly so with a single treatment. In trees with 5 fruit per branch, in particular, the marketable fruit load on GAtreated trees was above that of the 3 fruit/branch control trees. This confirms that GA may partially compensate for the thinning applied on trees requiring a lighter defruiting (leaving about 4 fruit/branch in our condition) and allowing. Increased productivity had no effect on flower differentiation the following year. In contrast, GA decreased differentiation in proportion to the dose used. Such a reduction remained limited, however, still requiring the intervenction of hand thinning.
42878831| stata condotta una esperienza al fine di valutare l'influenza del rapporto N/P/S della soluzione nutritiva sulla crescita e sullo stato nutritivo di piante di olivo (cv Frangivento) allevate in contenitore con substrato artificiale. I risultati ottenuti consentono di affermare che il rapporto N/P  in grado di influenzare marcatamente l'accrescimento lineare, modificando la formazione dei rami laterali. La crescita totale, valutata come produzione di materia secca delle piante, a parit di rapporto N/P sembra essere in relazione alle quantit relative di fosforo e zolfo. Il rapporto N/P/S cos come la concentrazione della soluzione nutritiva non hanno modificato lo status nutrizionale delle piante, valutato come contenuto fogliare di macroelementi. I risultati relativi al contenuto fogliare in microlementi pongono in risalto un contenuto di manganese e un rapporto ferro/manganese non ottimali; si ritiene che particolare attenzione deve essere rivolta al tipo di torba utilizzata per il compost. Soilles culture of fruit trees can represent a rapid propagation technique provided that specific nutritive requirements are established. On self-rooted olive plants (cv Frangivento) grown in container with artificial (soilless) substrate, the action on growth and leaf mineral content, of the N/P/S ratio was evaluated. The results show that the N/P ratio of the nutritive solution controls the model of growth, by modifying the lateral shoots formation. Further the observed differences in the linear growth, induced by the different nutritional supplies, are shown in the final period of fertigation. As regards the dry matter production it appears that the value is in relation to the relative amounts of phosphorous and sulfur. The different mineral supplies don't modify the nutritional status, evaluated as sum of foliar macronutrients, of the olive plants and in addition an unbalance between iron and manganese appears. Finally the absolute leaf content of manganese is at no optimum level and in this connection a particular attention must be devoted to the type of peat utilized.
42878832|Frutti di Golden Delicious su franco sono stati raccolti nell'ottobre del 1984 da due frutteti siti in collina in Val di Non (515 m. s.l.m.) e da due frutteti della Val d'Adige (200 m. s.l.m.). Una delle due aziende di collina ed una di pianura hanno avuto un'accurata gestione colturale soprattutto sotto il profilo degli interventi fitosanitari e delle concimazioni, mentre le altre due hanno avuto una conduzione trascurata. I frutti sono stati conservati in A.C. (2% O; 3% CO; 2C) con depurazione dell'atmosfera dalle sostanze volatili e dall'etilene mediante passaggio in controcorrente su acqua a perdere o su soluzione di KMnO (3%) acidificata con HSO (1%); questo procedimento ha innalzato, rispetto alle celle di controllo senza depurazione, la U.R. I risultati delle analisi effettuate alla raccolta, dopo conservazione e dopo 5 giorni a temperatura ambiente hanno evidenziato che le mele di collina sono pi colorate di quelle di pianura e che su questi parametri influiscono l'altitudine e l'ambiente pi che le tecniche colturali. I frutti di pianura sono stati raccolti 22 gg. prima per cui sono, alla raccolta, pi ricchi di amido, pi duri e pi acidi ma nel corso della conservazione queste differenze si annullano; la corretta conduzione aziendale induce una maggiore compattezza della polpa; il contenuto zuccherino  maggiore nelle mele di collina e per quelle di pianura in quelle della azienda ben gestita. L'elevata U.R. contenuta nelle celle di conservazione ha favorito i processi di maturazione dei frutti per cui non si  ottenuto il previsto rallentamento di maturazione dovuto all'eliminazione dell'etilene. I marciumi sono stati rilevati soprattutto nelle mele di pianura e in quelle dell'azienda con meno interventi fitosanitari e in quelle contenute in celle ad elevata U.R. In 1984 Golden Delicious apples were collected from two hill orchards at 515 m in and two valley orchards at 200 m in Adige Valley. At both heights one of the orchards had a good management as for pesticide treatments and manuring, the other had not. Apples were stored in CA (2% O, 3% CO, 2C) and three different means for volatile compounds purification (flavours and ethylene) were compared, i.e.: 1) No purification (test); 2) KMnO 3% acidified with HSO 1%; 3) Simple water. Storage cells with gas purification had high levels of RH (100%). Hill apples had greater calyx size (width and depth) than valley apples. Yellow colour of the peel was improved both by hill positions and good management. After eight months of storage apples from the neglected plain orchard were always less coloured than the other ones. Hill apples were picked 22 days later in the season. At picking date they were softer than valley apples. Generally at harvest the apples were firmer in the well managed than in the badly managed orchards. Apples of the neglected orchard in the plain had less Total Soluble Sugars content and the hill ones early picked less titrable acidy. During storage hill fruits had less weight loss; the apples of the neglected orchard in the valley lost more weight than the other ones. High R.H. of purificated cells promoted apples senescence, the fruits were more yellow coloured, less firm and acid and with reduced weight loss during storage.
42877765|Il controllo del ciclo di fruttificazione mediante fitoregolatori esogeni presuppone una approfondita conoscenza dei meccanismi fisiologici che regolano l'attivit vegetativa e produttiva degli alberi, con particolare riguardo alle interazioni tra organi con sviluppo contemporaneo. Tra le correlazioni funzionali particolarmente importanti sono quelle che si stabiliscono tra chioma e radice, e, nell'ambito della chioma, le interazioni tra attivit vegetativa e produttiva, comprendente quest'ultima tutte le fasi del ciclo di fruttificazione. In tutti questi aspetti morfogenetici, che insieme concorrono a definire il ciclo biologico dell'albero, gli ormoni esplicano un'azione regolatrice diretta e/o indiretta. Fra le azioni dirette si ricorda il blocco esercitato dalle GGAA sul processo della induzione antogena e la stimolazione della maturazione indotta dall'etilene. L'azione indiretta si esplica invece nell'ampio e complesso settore delle inibizioni o stimolazioni correlative, ed  legata alla capacit che gli ormoni hanno di esaltare o deprimere il trasporto floematico e la efficienza metabolica di tessuti o organi specifici. Il complesso di lali conoscenze ha consentito di realizzare importanti applicazioni e di mettere in evidenza che numerosi fitoregolatori esogeni agiscono indirettamente modificando la dinamica delle inibizioni che esistono tra attivit vegetativa e ciclo di fruttificazione; i trattamenti risultano perci poco mirati e, talvolta, possono esplicare effetti collaterali prevaricanti l'effetto primario. The chemical control of fruit tree productivity implies understanding of the physiological basis regulating the vegetative and productive activity of trees, with special concern to the interaction among organs showing concurrent growth. Among the correlation phenomena, of great importance are the shoot/root interactions, and, within the upper part of the tree, interactions among shoots, fruits and developing fruit buds. Hormones play direct and/or indirect regulatory functions over all these morphogenetic aspects of the tree biological cycle. Among the direct regulatory functions are the inhibition of fruit bud differentiation by GGAA, and the stimulation of ripening by ethylene. Indirect regulatory functions are mainly related to the hormones ability in promoting or inhibiting transport and metabolic efficiency of target tissues and/or organs. The functioning of a tree depends upon specific levels of natural hormones, each in balance with the others. The achievement of specific agricultural objectives, however, may depend upon the proper balance of natural and applied growth regulators. This balance changes through the growing season; thus, both timing and concentration are critical in achieving specific responses. Furthermore, it has been shown that several exogenous growth regulators affect plant productivity, by modifying the dynamics of inhibitions between vegetative and productive activity; this may explain the poor specificity and the great extent of side effects shown by some chemicals.
42877766|La tossicit dei fitoregolatori  generalmente inferiore a quella delle altre categorie di fitofarmaci; per quanto tale dato sia rassicurante, l'uso dei fitoregolatori deve essere regolato dalla stessa cautela impiegata per gli altri prodotti pi pericolosi perch altri rischi di danno, derivante da una esposizione minima ma prolungata a residui chimici, possono sussistere. Gli effetti possono essere di tipo cronico e eventualmente di mutagenicit e carcinogenicit. Nonostante la normativa italiana per la registrazione dei fitofarmaci come presidi sanitari imponga una ampia documentazione tossicologica, e una recente ordinanza ministeriale (DM 6 Giugno 1985) stabilisca un limite massimo ai residui dei prodotti alimentari, difetti della valutazione della sicurezza di un prodotto chimico possono sussistere; per esempio come nel caso, recentemente risolto, della idrazide maleica o dei presunti rischi di tossicit sollevati dall'Environment Protection Agency per l'acido naftalenacetico. In aggiunta a ci la determinazione del rischio tossicologico, soprattutto nei casi di prolungata esposizione ai numerosi residui chimici presenti nell'ambiente, necessit di perfezionamento; le difficolt derivano dalla variet di risposta dei sistemi enzimatici farmaco-metabolizzanti, come pure dal ruolo che i residui chimici possono avere sulla stessa. L'invito alla prudenza nell'uso dei fitoregolatori deriva infine da considerazioni pi generali di ordine ecologico. Infatti per quanto il consumo globale nazionale di fitofarmaci (dati ISTAT) mostri una diminuzione rispetto al passato, esso  da considerare elevato rispetto a quello di altri paesi europei quando espresso per superficie di impiego. I benefici dell'uso dei fitofarmaci (e fitoregolatori) sono innegabili e documentati dai notevoli aumenti percentuali di rendimento di produzione agricola nei vari continenti e nazioni; tuttavia la ricerca di nuove estensione agricole a danno del patrimonio forestale mondiale possono comportare serie conseguenze di alterazione dell'equilibrio ecologico. The acute toxicity of plant growth regulators is usually lower than that of other categories of pesticides. Although this seems reassuring, the indiscriminate use of these products should be avoided because of the risks possible from prolonged exposure to the chemical residues. The effects may be chronic and eventually mutagenic or carcinogenic. Italian health regulations require the registration of pesticides accompained by ample scientific documentation of their safety. A recent Ministerial decree of the 6th June 1985 establishes maximum permissible concentrations of residues in foodstuffs (MRL, maximum residue limits). However, the safety of products has sometimes to be revaluated. Example of this are the cases of two widely used plant growth regulators: maleic hydrazide and naphthaleneacetic acid. Moreover the assesment of toxicological risk in case of relatively long-term exposure to numerous environment residues is still uncertain; this fact may depend upon both the different response of drug-metabolizing system and the interaction of chemical residues on it. Prudence in the use of plant growth regulators is also advisable for ecological reasons. Although total national use of pesticides is decreasing (ISTAT data), it is still higher than that of other European countries per area treated. While the benefits of pesticides and plant growth regulators in the world are undeniable and well documented by increasing yields, the serious danger to world forestry heritage should not be underestimated.
42877767|Il presente studio sul polline di melo evidenzia la comparsa di composti glicoproteici nel citoplasma e nella frazione NaCl-solubile delle pareti cellulari. In presenza di 40 M actinomicina D, le pareti dei tubetti pollinici risultano drasticamente impoverite di glicoproteine rispetto al controllo;  da notare che proprio la frazione a legame ionico delle pareti risulterebbe implicata nel riconoscimento, e che l'actinomicina D riesce ad attenuare in vivo la reazione di autoincompatibilit. The present study on apple pollen evidences glycoproteic compounds in cytoplasm and in Na Cl-soluble fraction of grain and tube wall. In the presence of 40 M actinomycin D, pollen tube walls were dramatically poor of glycoproteins. It is known that the protein ionically bound to pollen tube wall could be involved in recognition processes, and that the actinomycin D is able to weaken the incompatibility reaction in vitro.
42877768|Sono stati valutati gli effetti di alcuni fitoregolator: Alar (Daminozide), Cultar (Paclobutrazolo) e Promalin (BA + GA) e di alcuni fungicidi Rubigan (Fenarimol) e Baycor (Bitertanolo) sulla capacit germinativa e fecondativa del polline di melo. Questi prodotti sono stati applicati in vivo sulla cv. Starkrimson subito dopo l'impollinazione manuale con Golden Delicious e in vitro nel substrato di germinazione del polline della stessa Golden Delicious. Lo sviluppo dei tubetti pollinici entro gli stili dopo 72 ore dall'impollinazione,  stato misurato al microscopio in luce fluorescente:  emerso che, indipendentemente dal prodotto irrorato, una certa percentuale di tubetti raggiungeva comunque la base dello stilo. In campo, tuttavia, la percentuale di allegagione  stata negativamente influenzata solo dal trattamento con Paclobutrazolo. Tutti gli altri prodotti non hanno apparentemente prodotto alcun effetto pratico sulla fertilit e sulla fruttificazione mentre, rispetto al controllo, si  avuta una leggera modifica nella forma dei frutti, pi allungati (con Promalin) o pi tozzi con gli altri due fitoregolatori. I risultati delle prove in vivo, peraltro, si discostano da quelli in vivo in quanto tutti i prodotti addizionati al substrato, sia pure in dosi inferiori alle concentrazioni usate in campo, hanno ridotto in varia misura la germinabilit del polline e la stessa lunghezza dei tubetti. A fronte dell' 84% nel controllo, il polline germinato in presenza di Bitertanolo  stato solo il 3%, di Alar il 4%, di Fenarimol il 25%, di Paclobutrazolo il 75%, di Promalin l' 82%. Altre indagini in corso riguardano l'influenza degli stessi prodotti sui contenuti di acidi grassi, proteine e carboidrati del polline germinato. Plant growth regulators and fungicides sprayed at blossoming can affect fruit set and even quality of apple. This study reports the effects of Daminozide, Paclobutrazol and BA+GA plant growth regulators and Fenarimol and Bitertanol fungicides. These compounds were sprayed at full bloom on cv. Starkrimson trees after hand pollination with Golden Delicious pollen. In vitro pollen germination was carried out on agar medium containing the above compounds at the same or lower concentrations as tested in the field. Pollen tube growth in the styles after 72 hours from pollination (in vivo) was examined using the fluorescent light method. Fruit set was negatively affected only by Paclobutrazol whereas the same product had a less unfavourable effect on in vitro pollen germination. In vivo pollen tube growth proved that the ovary was reached in amost every case. The great number of pollen grains on the stigma probably escaped the negative effect of the spray. In vitro pollen germination was drastically reduced by Daminozide, Bitertanol and, at the higher concentrations, by Fenarimol. Neither the percentage of germination nor pollen tube length was improved by BA+ GA. The plant growth regulators changed the fruit shape: less elongated with Paclobutrazol and Daminozide and more elongated with BA+GA.
42877769|Allo scopo di verificare l'influenza di alcun prodotti fitoregolatori e biostimolanti sulla capacit fcondatrice del polline, sono state condotte alcune prove preliminari di germinabilit e sviluppo del tubetto pollinico in vitro, su mandorlo (cv Ferragnes) e su albicocco (cv Bulida). Per il confronto sono stati utilizzati il Paclobutrazolo (alle concentrazioni di 1000, 2000 e 3000 ppm), la gibberellina GA (alle concentrazioni di 200 e 400 ppm) ed il Siapton 10 L (alle concentrazioni di 1000 e 1500 ppm). Le osservazioni sulla germinabilit del polline sono state effettuate al microscopio ottico, su substrato agarizzato, mentre per quelle sulla velocit di allungamento del tubetto pollinico, si  utilizzata la microscopia in luce fluorescente. In generale le gibberelline hanno inibito la capacit germinativa del polline, che  stata stimolata dal Siapton 10L, alle concentrazioni inferiori. Il Paclobutrazolo invece, a basse dosi non ha manifestato alcun effetto, mentre all'aumentare delle concentrazioni ha sensibilmente ridotto la percentuale di germinabilit. La velocit di allungamento del tubetto pollinico nella Ferragnes  risultata pi lenta e solo con il Siapton 10 L ed il PP333 a 1000 ppm,  stato raggiunto l'ovario 72 ore dopo l'impollinazione. Nella cv Bulida invece, l'allungamento del tubetto pollinico  avvenuto, in generale, pi rapidamente, non solo nel controllo, ma soprattutto nelle tesi trattate con il Siapton 10 L, nelle quali il tubetto pollinico ha raggiunto l'ovario 48 ore dopo l'impollinazione. Tra i prodotti saggiati, solo il Siapton 10 L ed il PP 333, in basse dosi hanno stimolato la germinabilit del polline e la velocit di penetrazione del tubetto pollinico. Preliminary trials studying germination and pollen tube development in vitro were conducted on almond (cv Ferragnes) and apricot (cv Bulida) to evaluate the influence of some growth regulators and biostimulants on pollen set ability. The products compared were Paclobutrazol (at concentrations of 1000, 2000, and 3000 ppm), gibberellic acid GA (at 200 and 400 ppm) and Siapton 10 L (at 1000 and 1500 ppm). Observations on pollen germination were made with an optical microscope on agarized medium, while for those on pollen tube growth, the fluorescent light method was used. In general, gibberellic acid inhibited pollen germination, while the biostimulant Siapton 10 L at the lower concentration induced a significant increase. Low does of Paclobutrazol produced no differences compared to the control, and at the higher concentrations provoked a very low germination percentage. Pollen tube growth proved slower in Ferragnes, and the ovary was reached 72 hours after pollination only with Siapton 10 L and Paclobutrazol at 1000 p.p.m.. In the cv Bulida pollen tube growth was generally more rapid in the control and to a greater extent with Siapton 10 L treatments: total elongations was obtained after only 48 hours. In all cases of the various products tested, only Siapton 10 L and Paclobutrazol at low doses had positive effects on both pollen germination and ovary penetration time.
42877770|Alberi adulti di pero Conference su cotogno sono stati trattati con gibberelline associate o meno ad altri alleganti (2-NOA, DPU, CCC) secondo due epoche di intervento (I epoca: piena fioritura e II epoca: 20 e 30 giorni dopo piena fioritura) e tre tipi di impollinazione (autoimpollinazione, impollinazione con William e libera impollinazione). I fitoregolatori erano GA (dose: 20 ppm), Regulex (GA, 20 ppm), PP341 (20 ppm d GA3 + DPU 30 ppm e 2-NOA 5 ppm), PP 341 (idem) + CCC (2000 ppm). In assenza di trattamenti, la fruttificazione, riferita al testimone autoimpollinato,  aumentata di circa 5 volte con la libera impollinazione e di 14 volte con l'impollinazione manuale senza alcuna sensibile differenza, in peso, fra frutti gamici e partenocarpici. L'allegagione, dopo GA, nelle piante impollinate con William, ha raggiunto un massimo del 52% (1 epoca) e del 64% alla 2 a epoca dei trattamenti che hanno sempre aumentato l'allegagione in misura tanto maggiore quanto pi bassa era quella naturale: in pratica, quintuplicando quella degli alberi autoimpollinati e raddoppiando quella degli alberi liberamente impollinati, con una leggera riduzione in peso dei frutti. In complesso, i trattamenti con gibberelline hanno sempre promosso la formazione di una alta percentuale di frutti partenocarpici, specie nelle tesi con impollinazione artificiale, ove  passata dal 14 al 30%. Fra i diversi prodotti, il formulato GA ha stimolato soprattutto la formazione di frutti partenocarpici negli alberi autoimpollinati, mentre la GA  stata tendenzialmente pi attiva di GA nelle piante impollinate, mentre l'integrazione con Cycocel  stata positiva solo alla 2 a epoca; nelle piante liberamente impollinate l'aggiunta di CCC in fioritura  stata nociva, riportando l'allegagione a livello del testimone. In conclusione, i trattamenti con gibberelline sul pero Conference si sono dimostrati utili anche se tardivi, permettendo la ritenzione di una cospicua aliquota di frutti, soprattutto partenocarpici, altrimenti destinati a cadere; hanno per ridotto fortemente l'indice di differenziazione antogena delle gemme, mentre quelli in fioritura hanno avuto analoghe conseguenze negative solo negli alberi impollinati con William dove l'allegagione era stata molto alta. L'applicazione di GA a soli fiori si  dimostrata molto pi attiva che alle sole foglie. Established Conference pear trees on quince were treated with gibberellins both with and withouth other growth regulators. Applications were carried out at blossoming (Date I) and 20 days later (Date II, with a follow-up treatment 10 days thereafter) following controlled free-pollination. The growth regulators, employed at 20 ppm of gibberellins, were GA, Regulex (GA), PP341 (GA + 2-NOA and diphenylurea), and PP341 + CCC at 2000 ppm. When compared to untreated and selfpollinated control, bearing increased five-fold with free pollination and fourteen-fold with hand-pollination, with no weight differences between parthenocarpic and seeded fruits. The fruit-set reached a maximum of 52% (Date I) and 64% (Date II) after GA treatments in hand-pollinated trees. Gibberellin-treated trees always had enhanced fruit-set, i.e. the lower the natural fruit-set, the more effective the treatment: five-fold greater in the selfpollinated and two-fold greater in the free-pollinated trees, with a slight loss in fruit weight. On the whole, the gibberellin treatments always enhance the formation of a high percentage of parthenocarpic fruits especially for cross-pollinated trees in which seedless fruit increase ranged from 14 to 30%. Of the different growth regulators, GA particularly stimulated parthenocarpic fruit formation while GA3 tended to be more active than GA on cross-pollinated trees. PP 341 enhanced the performance of GA for the self-pollinated trees only, whereas the addition of CCC proved effective only by the second treatment. The addition of CCC at flowering lowered fruit-set to the level of control in freely pollinated plants. It can be said that these gibberellin treatments, though applied late, were helpful in greatly increasing fruit-retention, not only the parthenocarpic ones, that otherwise would have dropped. They had, however, a negative carry-over effect on the flower bud differentiation the next year. Therefore bloom was the best time for treatment so as to prevent this inconvenience. The GA treatment of single organs showed that gibberellins flower absorption is more effective than that of foliage.
42877771|Trattamenti con GA durante la fioritura su fiori liberamente impollinati non hanno indotto alcun caso di partenocarpia nella nettarina Independence. La GA ha indotto solamente un aumento del ritmo di crescita dei frutti durante la fase di distensione cellulare. In frutti originatisi da fiori demasculati ed isolati  stata riscontrata la formazione di embrioni apomittici, caratterizzati dalla mancanza del sospensore e dalla posizione laterale rispetto alla cavit ovarica. Tali embrioni, originatisi da cellule del gametofito femminile o da cellule della nocella, non hanno in nessun caso superato lo stadio globulare. Essi sono degenerati al momento di passare dalla simmetri radiata a quella bilaterale. Embrioni dello stesso tipo sono stati osservati in frutti originatisi da fiori demasculati e trattati con GA. In tali frutti, la GA ha stimolato nella prima fase un accrescimento maggiore ma morfologicamente anomalo, presentando i frutti una maggiore crescita nel senso della lunghezza. Nessuno dei frutti, originatisi dai fiori demasculati,  rimasto fino alla raccolta, indipendentemente dal trattamento con GA. Open pollinated flowers of the nectarine cv Independence never showed parthenocarpy, although treated with GAEmbryos of the same kind were observed also in fruit originating from emasculated flowers treated with GA. In these fruits GA stimulated a more rapid growth in the first stage, but this growth was morphologically anomalous, the fruits showing an abnormal lengthening. No fruits originating from emasculated flowers persisted till the harvest, even if treated with GA.. The gibberellic acid only stimulated a greater growth of fruit during the third fase (cell extension). Fruit originating from emasculated flowers showed the presence of apomitic embryos, which were characterized by the absence of the suspensor and by the lateral position in respect to the ovary cavity. These embryos arising from the female gametophyte cells or from nucellus cells never developed beyond the globular stage; they degenerated at the transition stage from radiate to lateral simmetry. Embryos of the same kind were observed also in fruit originating from emasculated flowers treated with GA. In these fruits GA stimulated a more rapid growth in the first stage, but this growth was morphologically anomalous, the fruits showing an abnormal lengthening. No fruits originating from emasculated flowers persisted till the harvest, even if treated with GA.
42877772|Le prove sono state condotte nel biennio 1984/85 a Valeggio sul Mincio (Vr) su alberi delle cv Springerest e Suncrest innestate su franco di 6 anni, allevati a fusetto con un sesto di impianto di m 1,20  m 4,50. Nel 1984 sono stati effettuati trattamenti al terreno e alla chioma. Per quanto riguarda il trattamento al terreno, prima della ripresa vegetativa sono stati somministrati 0,95 kg/ha di pa. I trattamenti alla chioma sono stati effettuati in una unica soluzione (5,5 kg/ha di pa alla fine dello stadio I) o frazionati (2,75 kg/ha alla fine dello stadio I e 2,75 kg/ha 15 gg pi tardi). Nel 1985 gli stessi trattamenti sono stati ripetuti, secondo il medesimo schema sperimentale solamente sugli alberi della cv Suncrest, mentre sulla cv Springerest sono stati osservati gli effetti residui. Per quanto riguarda l'attivit vegetativa i trattamenti con Paclobutrazolo hanno consentito di ridurre, pur con una certa variabilit fra le tesi e fra le cultivar, l'attivit vegetativa degli alberi determinando un minore allungamento degli internodi e riducendo i tempi di lavoro per la potatura. La produzione  risultata superiore nelle piante trattate, nelle quali si sono avuti frutti di maggior calibro. Le applicazioni di Paclobutrazolo hanno inoltre determinato una minore superficie media delle singole foglie, un maggiore peso secco per unit di superficie fogliare, un anticipo della fioritura e della filloptosi. Trials were carried out in 1984 and 1985 at Verona (Italy). In 1984 on 6-year-old Springerest and Suncrest peach trees Paclobutrazol was applied as soil treatment in spring, before bud break (0.95 kg/ha ai) or as single (5.5 kg/ha at the end of SI of fruit development) or sequential foliar sprays (2.75 kg/ha ai at the end of SI + 2.75 kg/ha ai 15 days later). In both foliar treatments a surfactant agent was used (Agral 0.1%). In 1985 treatments were performed as in 1984 only on  Suncrest  . Shoot and fruit growth, leaf number and fruit drop were monitored throughout the growing seasons. Yield per tree, fruit number and diameter were measured at harvest; after leaf drop, pruning weight and time required for pruning were also recorded. All treatments, except the Paclobutrazol applied to the soil on Suncrest, significantly reduced shoot length and leaf number. The foliar sprays caused a larger reduction of pruning wood weight and consequently, of the time required for pruning. Paclobutrazol did not affect fruit drop and increased the total and the marketable yield in all treatments except the 5.5 kg/ha on Springerest. Treated Suncrest trees yielded more than control because of an increase in number and weight of marketable fruits, an effect which was less pronounced in Springerest. The chemical also showed a tendency to delay ripening and caused an earlier leaf drop. Results reconfirmed the effectiveness of Paclobutrazol in reducing activity of peach; growth control was stronger with foliar sprays, although soil application induced a more uniform effect.
42877773|Su alberi di melo cv Gloster su M 26, al 2 anno dall'impianto  stato somministrato Paclobutrazolo per 3 anni consecutivi, per via fogliare con o senza aggiunta di tensioattivo. Nel primo anno di prova (1983) sono state fatte 3 applicazioni di Paclobutrazolo alle concentrazioni di 500 e 1000 ppm (12.5, 24.5 e 12.10), mentre nel secondo (1984) e terzo anno (1985) le concentrazioni sono state dimezzate e sono state eseguite, rispettivamente, una (29.5) e due (5.6 e 26.6) irrorazioni. Nel primo anno i trattamenti di maggio hanno ridotto significativamente la crescita dei germogli fino a met giugno, poi, a luglio, il loro ritmo di crescita  divenuto superiore a quello del controllo, annullando completamente le precedenti differenze. Nell'anno successivo la lunghezza dei germogli trattati si  inizialmente ridotta in misura tanto pi accentuata quanto pi elevata era stata la concentrazione del prodotto, specie se associato al bagnante. Tale effetto, meno marcato al 3  anno, si  manifestato assieme al raccorciamento degli internodi ed alla riduzione della superficie delle singole foglie che presentavano per, rispetto al controllo, un maggior contenuto in macroelementi e in clorofilla oltre ad un pi elevato peso specifico. I trattamenti con Paclobutrazolo hanno marcatamente aumentato l'induzione a fiore delle gemme sia nel secondo che nel terzo anno di prova, fino a raddoppiare il numero di gemme miste, ma non la fruttificazione, a causa soprattutto di una minore percentuale di allegagione; la bassa dose ha risposto meglio di quella alta specie se associata al bagnante anche ai fini della conseguente riduzione di pezzatura. Modesti sono stati gli effetti sulle caratteristiche dei frutti che, per, col trattamento hanno complessivamente migliorato la serbevolezza in frigorifero anche per un migliore rapporto K/Ca; in particolare si  avuta riduzione di butteratura amara e disfacimento interno e, per un anno, anche di marciumi da Gloeosporium sp. Foliar sprays with and without surfactant were applied to Gloster apple trees on M 26 for three consecutive years beginning from the second year after planting. Paclobutrazol was applied three times (May 12, 24 and October 10) at 500 and 1000 ppm in 1983 (first year) and at half these rates once in 1984 (second year) on May 29 and twice in 1985 (third year) on June 5 and 26. The two May treatments in 1983 significantly reduced shoot growth up to mid-June; by July, how ever, their growth rate was superior to control, thus offsetting the previous effects. In the following year, the higher the concentration the greater was the reduction in shoot length, especially in conjunction with the surfactant. This effect was less marked in the third year, when it was accompanied by a shortening of the internodes and a shrinking of area of the individual leaves which, in comparison to control, had higher N, Ca and Mg and chlorophyll contents and increased dry matter. Paclobutrazol also markedly enhanced flower bud differentiation in 1984 and 1985, doubling its number. This did not hold for fruiting, however, which was affected mainly by reduced fruit-set. The lower concentration proved more effective, especially when associated with the surfactant, even in limiting reduction in fruit size. The effects on fruit characteristics were not appreciable although the fruits showed an overall improvement in cold-storage, a fact also due to an enhanced Ca to  ratio. Reductions in bitter pit, internal breakdown and, for one year, Gloeosporium sp. rot were registered.
42877774|Il Paclobutrazolo ed l'SADH sono stati applicati sulla cv Hi Early/MM 106 al terreno nel novembre 1983 alla concentrazione di 1,2 e 4 kg di p.a./ha. Nel 1984 e nel 1985 sono stati verificati gli effetti dei trattamenti sulle caratteristiche produttive e vegetative delle piante. Nel primo anno di indagini sia il Paclobutrazolo che l'SADH hanno determinato un aumento produttivo. Il paclobutrazolo soprattutto alle dosi pi elevate ha aumentato l'allegagione, mentre l'SADH ha soprattutto manifestato un effetto anticascola. Per quello che riguarda invece le caratteristiche dei frutti, non sono state osservate differenze apprezzabili tra le piante trattate e di controllo a carico delle curve di accrescimento e del peso medio dei frutti. Lo sviluppo vegetativo  stato invece ridotto da tutte le applicazioni di Paclobutrazolo, mentre l'SADH non ha esercitato nessuna azione. L'anno seguente  stato osservato un forte effetto residuo del Paclobutrazolo sia sulla produzione che sulla vegetazione delle piante trattate, mentre quelle che avevano subito l'applicazione di SADH hanno avuto un andamento simile a quello delle piante di controllo. La produzione delle piante trattate con Paclobutrazolo  risultata pi elevata (sino ad un 25% in pi del controllo), ma il peso medio dei frutti decisamente inferiore. Per quanto riguarda, infine, i parametri vegetativi, le applicazioni con le dosi pi elevate hanno ridotto consistentemente (50% in alcuni casi) lo sviluppo dei germogli. Paclobutrazol (PP 333) and SADH at 1,2 and 4 kg a.i./ha were applied as soil drench in November 1983 on cv Hi Early/MM 106. Effects of the treatments were observed for two following years on vegetation and fruiting. In 1984, Paclobutrazol and SADH increased final fruit set and yield/tree while average fruit weight was not affected by the treatments. As far as vegetation is concerned, shoot growth was controlled only by the Paclobutrazol treatments. In 1985 only Paclobutrazol treatments showed residual effects. Yield/tree was increased and average fruit weight was significantly reduced by the treatments. As far as vegetation is concerned shoot growth was decreased by Paclobutrazol treatments. SADH did not show any residual effects.
42877775|Per due anni consecutivi (1984-1985) sono state condotte prove di brachizzazione con Paclobutrazolo su piante di Moreau e Giorgia su Prunus mahaleb (posta a dimora nel 1981 e innestato a gemma dormiente nello stesso anno) allevate a candelabro con sesto d'impianto di 5,00  1,20 m. Su entrambe le cultivar nel 1984 sono stati effettuati trattamenti come segue (le quantit sono riferite al principio attivo): a) al terreno (kg 0,83/ha prima della ripresa vegetativa); b) alla chioma kg 4,33/ha distribuiti in dose unica alla scamiciatura oppure frazionati come segue: bl) kg 2,16/ha alla scamiciatura + kg 2,16/ha 15 gg dopo; b2) kg 2,16/ha 15 gg dopo la scamiciatura + kg 2,16/ha 15 gg dopo. Nel 1985 gli stessi trattamenti sono stati ripetuti solo sulla cv Moreau. I risultati ottenuti indicano che il Paclobutrazolo, pur esercitando effetti diversi a seconda della cultivar, riduce fortemente l'attivit vegetativa del ciliegio nello stesso anno del trattamento, aumenta la formazione di dardi fruttiferi per metro di branca, e pu aumentare il numero di fiori per gemma. L'effetto limitante del trattamento nei riguardi della vegetazione si manifesta anche nell'anno successivo; lo stesso dicasi per quanto riguarda l'attivit produttiva che in tutte le tesi  risultata superiore rispetto al controllo. Il trattamento ripetuto per due anni consecutivi sembra determinare una brachizzazione eccessiva; si prospetta comunque la possibilit di un sensibile risparmio nell'impiego di mano d'opera per la potatura senza compromettere le capacit produttive dell'albero. Ulteriori indagini sono necessarie per individuare i dosaggi pi convenienti per le diverse cultivar. Trials were carried out in 1984 and 1985 at Verona, Italy on 3-year-old Giorgia P, mahaleb and Moreau P. mahaleb sweet cherry trees. In 1984 Paclobutrazol was applied as foliar sprays or soil treatment. Foliar sprays were performed as single (4.33 kg/ha at shuck offstage) or sequential applications (2.16 kg/ha at s.o.s. + 2.16 kg/ha 15 days later; 2.16 kg/ha at 15 days after s.o.s. + 2.16 kg/ha 15 days later). In all foliar sprays a surfactant agent was used (Agral, 0.1%). Soil treatment at the ratio of 0.83 kg/ha was applied in springtime before bud break. In 1985 treatments were repeated only on cv Moreau. Shoot length, leaf number and yield per tree were measured in 1984 and 1985. In spring of 1985 and 1986 number of spurs with flower buds and number of flowers were recorded. In both cultivars all treatments greatly decreased shoot and central leader elongation; leaf number was also reduced except in Moreau treated at 4.33 kg/ha. An earlier leaf drop occurred in treated trees. As far as productive activity is concerned, the 4.3 kg/ha, and the earlier sequential spray decreased yield and fruit number. No difference in average fruit weight was found among treatments. Paclobutrazol increased spurs with flower buds and affected the return bloom by increasing the flower density and enhancing bloom date.
42877776|Dal 1982 al 1985, trattamenti fogliari di Paclobutrazolo sono stati posti a confronto con irrorazioni di SADH + CEPA, di MB 25105 (nel 1 anno) e Paclobutrazolo al terreno, con la potatura verde e con nessun trattamento a piante di Gemella su Colt. Dalla presente indagine  emerso quanto segue: 1) lo sviluppo degli alberi  stato ridotto, rispetto al controllo, del 30% dall'SADH + CEPA, 35% dalla potatura verde, 65% dal Paclobutrazolo e dell' 82% dall'MB 25105 e Paclobutrazolo; 2) la migliore struttura scheletrica  stata indotta dalPSADH + CEPA e dal Paclobutrazolo; 3) i primi dati sulla fioritura e fruttificazione lasciano dubbi sulla possibilit di anticipare la messa a frutto nella cultivar Gemella. From 1982 to 1985, sprayings with Paclobutrazol were compared to sprayings of SADH + CEPA, of MB 25105 e Paclobutrazol (on the ground to 2nd year), to summer topping and to control untreated in Gemella sweet cherry trees on Colt, using the following materials and methods. Young trees of Colt rootstock were planted spaced 1  5 m in February 1981 and modified slot grafted with Gemella cultivar in the following year. When the grafted shoot, was long on the average cm 64,97  1,30 were applied the following 5 treatments: Controls: 1) test untreated; 2) summer topping, the shoots were cut back to a length of 47,55  0,84 cm Foliar sprays with: 3) SADH + CEPA; 4) Paclobutrazol; 5) MB 25105 in the spring of 1st year and with Paclobutrazol in the spring of 2nd one only on the apical part of the shoot. At the end of the 2nd year 2 cc of Paclobutrazol, dissolved in 0,5 1 of water, were given on the ground around the trunk of three central trees in every plot. The results can be summarized: 1) tree size was reduced from 30%-35% (by SADH + CEPA) to 65% (Paclobutrazol) - 82% (MB 25105 and Paclobutrazol) in comparison to untreated; 2) foliar SADH + CEPA and Paclobutrazol sprayings caused the best tree shape compared to control, to summer topping (rather high trees) and to MB 25105 and Paclobutrazol on the ground (very compact canopy); 3) first data are not positive about the possibility to improve the fruiting precocity of the  Gemella  sweet cherry cultivar.
42877777|Le prove sono state condotte nel biennio 1984-85 a Verona sulla cv Belrubi in coltura forzata, annuale e biennale, e prevedevano lo studio delle concentrazioni e dell'effetto residuo. Il Paclobutrazolo  stato somministrato per via fogliare, prima della emergenza fiorale, a concentrazioni comprese tra 6,75 e 0,035 kg/ha, con o senza bagnante (Agral, 0,1%). Nel caso della coltura annuale, dopo la estirpazione delle piante trattate, sulle stesse parcelle che avevano ospitato le prove, sono state messe a dimora piante della cv Confitura, sulle quali sono stati controllati gli effetti residui dei trattamenti precedentemente effettuati. I risultati hanno messo in evidenza che la fragola  una specie molto sensibile al Paclobutrazolo, che  risultato efficace nel ridurre lo sviluppo vegetativo (minore superficie fogliare, minore attivit stolonifera) anche alle concentrazioni pi basse, senza peraltro influire negativamente sulla fruttificazione. La presenza del bagnante  risultata necessaria per garantire un buon assorbimento del principio attivo. Per quanto riguarda l'effetto residuo,  stato accertato che, per lo meno alle concentrazioni pi elevate, esso si manifesta sulla coltura successiva con effetti negativi sulla produzione autunnale. Trials wore carried out on annual and biennal bearing strawberry plants (cv Belrubi), grown under tunnel. Paclobutrazol was applied as foliar spray before flower emergence at rates ranging between 6.75 and 0.035 kg/ha, with and without surfactant. Residual effects of the chemical were evaluated on cv Confitura plants which replaced the annual bearing Belrubi plants. The chemical did not affect yield, but plant growth was greatly reduced at all application rates. Petioles were shortened, the leaves appeared tightly adpressed to the crown, leaf surface was greatly reduced and runner formation inhibited. The chemical also affected the dry weight partitioning within the plant. The presence of the surfactant appeared to be an important factor in attaining a stronger and a more uniform control of vegetative growth. As far as the residual effect is concerned, it has been ascertained that the chemical, at least at the highest concentration, negatively affected yield.
42877778|Allo scopo di studiare gli effetti del Paclobutrazolo sulla attivit vegetativa e produttiva del pesco,  stata condotta una sperimentazione su piante della cv. Glohaven. Sono stati eseguiti trattamenti alla chioma in corrispondenza di due diverse fasi fenologiche: la piena fioritura e l'indurimento del nocciolo. All'epoca della piena fioritura sono stati effettuati trattamenti con Paclobutrazolo a 500, 1000 e 2000 ppm. In corrispondenza della fase di indurimento del nocciolo sono state trattate a 2000 ppm piante non diradate, piante diradate e piante alle quali erano stati asportati tutti i frutti. I dati ottenuti mostrano che non ci sono state sostanziali modifiche al normale processo di cascola dei frutti. Solo il trattamento a 2000 ppm, effettuato in piena fioritura, ha indotto una colatura dei fiori sensibilmente superiore a quella delle piante di controllo, cui per non ha corrisposto, alla raccolta, una maggiore pezzatura dei frutti. Inoltre, il Paclobutrazolo non ha, in alcun caso, indotto effetti positivi sullo sviluppo del frutto, la cui crescita  stata inibita dai trattamenti effettuati in piena fioritura. Per quanto riguarda lo sviluppo vegetativo, tutti i trattamenti hanno determinato una riduzione di crescita dei germogli con un conseguente contenimento della vigoria. Trials were carried out on peach (cv. Glohaven) to study the effects of Paclobutrazol on vegetative and productive activity. Trees were sprayed at full-bloom or pit-hardening. At full-bloom, treatments were performed using the chemical at three different concentrations of 500, 1000 and 2000 ppm. At pithardening, a solution of 2000 ppm was sprayed on unthinned'and hand-thinned trees, and on trees from which all fruits had been removed. The data pointed out that Paclobutrazol did not induced any substantial modification in the fruit drop pattern. Only the treatment 2000 ppm performed at full-bloom induced a blossom drop noticeably greater than that in control, but this did not affect the final size. The Paclobutrazol treatments, moreover, had no positive effect on fruit growth, which proved more inhibited with the earlier treatments. As regards vegetative growth, all treatments induced a reduction in shoot length, and, consequently, a limited vigour.
42877779|Su alberi di pero Decana del Comizio e Max Red Bartlett al 4 anno dall'impianto  stato somministrato Paclobutrazolo, rispettivamente per tre e due anni consecutivi, per via fogliare, con o senza l'aggiunta di tensioattivo, alle concentrazioni di 500 ppm  4 trattamenti e 1000 ppm  3 trattamenti, il primo anno di prova (1983); di 250 e 500 ppm, il secondo anno (1984) e 250 ppm, il terzo anno (1985), sulla sola cv Decana del Comizio. Il Paclobutrazolo ha manifestato una forte azione brachizzante su entrambe le cultivar nel primo anno di prova (con trattamenti il 2.5, 19.5, 7.6 e 12.10), mentre nel secondo anno (trattamento il 16.5) il contenimento di crescita dei germogli  stato pi marcato sulla cv Decana del Comizio. L'effetto brachizzante si  esteso alla superficie delle singole foglie che si  notevolmente ridotta dopo due anni di trattamenti. Le analisi chimiche, per, hanno evidenziato, nelle foglie degli alberi trattati, un maggior contenuto di macroelementi oltre ad un aumento di clorofilla e del peso specifico della lamina fogliare. Nel secondo anno di intervento, su entrambe le cultivar, si  inoltre riscontrata una positiva influenza del PP 333 sulla differenziazione a fiore, ma all'aumento di gemme miste non ha fatto seguito una maggior allegagione e nemmeno una maggior fruttificazione e, addirittura, nell'anno successivo, si  avuta una diminuzione di gemme miste almeno in Decana del Comizio. La produzione del terzo anno, per,  stata scarsamente indicativa poich condizionata dagli effetti del freddo invernale (-23 C) che ha ucciso una larga percentuale di gemme. I rilievi sulle caratteristiche qualitative dei frutti, effettuati nel secondo anno, non hanno offerto particolari motivi di apprezzamento in Decana del Comizio, mentre nella cv Max Red Bartlett i frutti degli alberi trattati sono risultati leggermente pi grossi e di maggiore e pi prolungata consistenza della polpa. The effects of Paclobutrazol at two different concentrations (500 and 1000 ppm), combined or not with surfactant, were studied from 1983 to 1985 on young Max Red Bartlett and Cornice grafted on Provence. In the first year Paclobutrazol was applied in 3 or 4 successive sprays starting 10 days after petal fall and finishing at the beginning of October. The total amount of the applied Paclobutrazol was 1-1.5 g a.i./tree. In the second year, the number (only one) and concentration of the sprays were reduced because of strong carry over effects. In the third year  Cornice  only was sprayed once. PP 333 had an immediate effect on shoot elongation in both cultivars. This effect carried over the year after, when in addition we also found a strong leaf growth inhibition. This response was more evident in Cornice. The clorophyll and the mineral contents, as the specific leaf fresh weight, increased in the treated trees. In the treatment year yield was not affected, but in the year after, although there was a greater number of fruit buds, yield per tree was reduced by PP 333. Fruit quality and shape were slightly affected in Max Red Bartlett, which showed shorter peduncles, reduced juice acidity and flesh firmer than control. Generally speaking, the presence of surfactant did not improve the results.
42877780|II Paclobutrazolo  stato valutato in tre cultivar di pero: Gnral Ledere su EMA, Decana del Comizio e Abate Ftel su BA 29. I trattamenti sono stati effettuati sul terreno attorno al tronco o sulla chioma nell'autunno del: I o anno di piantagione (1983) in Gnral Ledere; 2 anno (1984) in Decana del Comizio; 3 anno (1984) in Abate Ftel. Alberi di Decana del Comizio sono stati irrorati sulla chioma nel maggio del 3 anno di piantagione (1985). A seconda dello sviluppo degli alberi di ogni cultivar, sono state somministrate dosi di p.a. corrispondenti a 0,9 -1,8 -2,8 Kg/ha. I rilievi vegetativi, di fioritura e di fruttificazione hanno evidenziato la possibilit di contenere il vigore degli alberi e di indurre la formazione di lambrde fiorifere in misura maggiore rispetto al controllo. L'allegagione, tuttavia,  stata modesta; solo nella Decana del Comizio  risultata incrementata dai trattamenti ma in ogni caso  stata migliorata dalla potatura effettuata a fine fioritura in due alberi per tesi. In generale, gli effetti sono stati maggiori con la somministrazione di Paclobutrazolo sul terreno. Paclobutrazol was sprayed on three pear cultivars: Gnral Ledere on EMA, Comice and Abb Ftel on BA 29. The sprayings were carried out on the ground around the trunk or on the leaves in the Autumn of the first year of planting (1983) on Gnral Ledere, of the second year (1984) on Cornice and of the third year (1984) on Abb Ftel. Trees of Cornice were sprayed on leaves in May of the third year of planting (1985). According to tree growth different a.i. were sprayed: 0.9 -1.8 -2.8 Kg/ha. Remarks on growing, flowering and fruiting owedthe possibility to control trees vigour and to induce higher flower bud formation control trees. Trunk cross-section area was reduced since the following year of spraying, except in Abb Ftel. In Gnral Leclerc was reduced the twig thickness, but non the twig and internode length. The stiffness was also reduced and the trees showed a procumbent leafage. In Cornice, Paclobutrazol, however sprayed, reduced the number of twigs longer than 50 cm. In Abb Ftel, shoots of the lower tree part sprayed in October 1984 withered and died in the first stage of their growth during the 1986 spring; probably because of high Paclobutrazol dose (2.8 Kg/ha of a.i.). Generally speacking growth control was greater with Paclobutrazol sprayed on the ground. Treated trees of Cornice and Abb Ftel, had more flower clusters (per 100) than control trees (with reference to flower + vegetative clusters); some times it was more evident in the Paclobutrazol on the ground (Abb Ftel). Fruit settings, yet, was not modified by sprayings but it was improved by pruning, done at the end blossoming in two trees for every treatment.
42877781|Sono stati valutati gli effetti di alcuni fitoregolatori, estratto di citochinine naturali (Cytex), daminozide (Alar) e paclobutrazolo (Cuitar), sulle caratteristiche fisicochimiche dei frutti di alcune cultivar di pesco: Loadel, Frederica, Kay Grand e Roza. I prodotti sono stati applicati per via fogliare su alberi in piena produzione prima e durante la fase di indurimento del nocciolo: seconda met di maggio (I epoca) e prima met di giugno (II epoca). Lo sviluppo diametrale del frutto in seguito alP applicazione delle citochinine  risultato variamente influenzato nelle diverse cultivar; tali variazioni, in genere di limitata entit, si sono manifestate soprattutto nell'ultima fase di sviluppo dei frutti che solo nelle cv Loadel e Frederica sono risultati di pezzatura pi grossa. Su Loadel la combinazione fra citochinine e paclobutrazolo ha fornito frutti pi sviluppati rispetto al solo paclobutrazolo, mentre la combinazione fra citochinine e daminozide ha ridotto la pezzatura dei frutti, anticipandone leggermente la maturazione. Sulle caratteristiche chimico-fisiche dei frutti non  emersa alcuna influenza se non, nella cv Loadel, un leggero ritardo di maturazione con diminuzione del tenore zuccherino conseguente ai trattamenti con citochinine ed un rapido intenerimento della polpa nelle tesi ove, insieme ad esso, si  somministrato anche daminozide o paclobutrazolo. L'incidenza di frutti scatolati, nulla o trascurabile in Loadel e Kay Grand,  risultata lievemente accentuata dai trattamenti con citochinine nelle cultivar Frederica e Roza. The effects of the growth regulators Cytex (natural cytokinin extract), Alar (daminozide) and Cuitar (paclobutrazol) on the physical-chemical characteristics of the fruit of peach cvs. Loadel, Frederica, Kay Grand and Roza are reported. The products were applied as foliar spray on adult trees before and during pit hardening, i.e. late May (Date I) and mid-June (Date II). The cytokinin treatments variously affected fruit diameter growth of the cultivars. Although limited in extent, these variations were most marked in the last stage of fruit growth (just prior to harvest) where the cvs. Loadel and Frederica only were of larger size. Loadel fruits were more developed when treated with cytokinins and paclobutrazol, whereas the combination of cytokinins and daminozide reduced their size and slightly anticipated ripening. There were no effects on the physical-chemical characteristics of the fruit except in the case of Loadel. The fruit of this cultivar showed a slight delay in ripening associated with a drop in sugar content as a result of cytokinin treatment, and a rapid softening of the flesh when cytokinins were applied with daminozide or paclobutrazol. Split-pit was either non-existant or negligible in cvs. Loadel and Kay Grand and slightly marked following cytokinin treatment in cvs. Frederica and Roza.
42877782|Alberi di Granny Smith su MM 111, Golden Delicious su M 26 e Super Early Stripe su MM 106 allevati nella pianura ravennate, sono stati irrorati con GA+BA (Promalin) alla dose di 45 ppm all'epoca dell'antesi del fiore centrale dei corimbi su lamburde. Alla raccolta, campioni di frutti sono stati prelevati dagli alberi trattati e da quelli non trattati e confrontati con campioni di frutti prodotti in Alto Adige che, notoriamente, senza alcun trattamento assumono la tipica forma tronco-conica allungata. I rilievi dei parametri morfologici, indicativi della forma dei frutti, hanno evidenziato: 1) la possibilt di migliorare la forma dei frutti prodotti in pianura ad una altitudine di 4 m s.l.m.; 2) la rassomiglianza tra le mele trattate in pianura e quelle prodotte in Alto Adige, senza alcun trattamento, ad altitudini di 560 m s.l.m. Trees of Granny Smith on MM 111, Golden Delicious on M 26 and Super Early Stripe on MM 106 in Ravenna district, were sprayed with GA+BA (Promalin) at 45 ppm dose during the blooming of the central cluster flower on spur. At harvest, fruit samples from sprayed and unsprayed trees were compared to control fruits produced in Alto Adige area notoriously with tipical truncated-conic-lengthen shape. Morphological parameter measurements, indicative of fruit shape, showed the possibility to improve, using GA+BA, the elongated shape only in Golden Delicious and in Red Delicious produced in Ravenna district, that is in orchards land to only 4 m on sea level, making them to have similar characteristics to the fruits yielded, for example, in Bressanone area, to 560 m on sea level. Some perplexities grow up about the possible fruit diameter reduction, cause the actual fruit calibration system, and about the effect on fruit calix diameter, however not shown in this research, and on canal style, like has shown in others researches. Moreover, it's not to undervalue the risk, already shown by some authors, about a greater fruit susceptibility to the flesh internal break-down. At last, it should be evaluated if the improved fruit  tipicity  is paid by the customers.
42877783|Le prove sono state condotte nel 1984 a Valeggio sul Mincio (VR) su quattro cultivar di pesco a diversa epoca di maturazione: Flavorcrest, Redhaven, Suncrest, Fayette. Tutti gli alberi, innestati su franco ed allevati a fusetto, erano al quinto anno di et. Le tesi considerate sono state le seguenti:  diradamento manuale  diradamento chimico integrato  non diradamento. Il trattamento  stato effettuato, alla fine dello stadio I di accrescimento del frutto, con CEPA (acido 2-cloroetilfosfonico), alla concentrazione di 40 ppm. Il diradamento chimico integrato ha avuto effetti analoghi al diradamento manuale e cio riduzione della produzione totale, aumento di quella commerciale e del peso medio dei frutti. Nelle tesi non diradate si  avuto un'alta percentuale di frutti non commerciabili. Per quanto riguarda l'intervento manuale di integrazione, la riduzione di manodopera, rispetto al diradamento manuale,  stata, per tutte le tesi, consistente. Peach chemical thinning is far from being applicable because of the overthinning risk. This is largely related to the attempt at optimizing the chemical thinning effect by using high concentration of the chemical. Undesiderable overthinning can be prevented by performing an integrated chemical thinning consisting of sub optimal concentration of the chemical, followed by hand finishing, when required, hand finishing, when required. Trials were carried out in 1984 at Verona, Italy, on four peach varieties characterized by different ripening time (Flavorcrest, Redhaven, Suncrest, and Fayette), grafted on seedlings. Trees trained to fusetto were 5-year-old. The following treatments were compared: a) hand thinning; b) integrated chemical thinning, c) no thinning. The chemical (CEPA, 2-chloroethylphosphonic acid, 40 ppm) was sprayed at the end of stage I of fruit development. The integrated chemical thinning decreased the total yield, increased the marketable production, the average fruit weight, and in comparison to the hand thinning, reduced the hand labour by 84%.
42877784|Alberi di Starkspur Red Delicious su MM 106 sono stati trattati con le seguenti miscele: NAD + NMC, a 40 + 600 ppm, 23 gg. d.p.f.; NAD + NAA, a 55 + 7 ppm, 4 gg. d.p.f. seguita o no da una irrorazione di NMC a 750 ppm dopo 19 gg., cio 23 gg. d.p.f. Altri alberi sono stati sottoposti al diradamento manuale (23 gg. d.p.f.) lasciando 1 frutto ogni 2 internodi, e altri ancora non sono stati trattati in alcun modo. I risultati hanno evidenziato: 1) l'inefficacia della miscela NAD + NMC; 2) il migliore effetto diradante di NAD + NAA. Questa miscela ha ridotto la produzione per albero ed ha aumentato la pezzatura dei frutti; 3) la modesta efficacia diradante delFNMC dopo l'irrorazione di NAD + NAA; 4) la validit del diradamento manuale secondo il rapporto 1:2 in questa cultivar. Starkspur Red Delicious trees on MM 105 were sprayed using mixture of NAD+NMC, (40 + 600 ppm, 23 days a.f.b.) and of NAA (55  7 ppm, 4 days a.f.b.) followed, or not, after 19 days by a spraying with NMC (750 ppm). Other trees were thinned by hand (23 days a.f.b.) leaving one fruit every 2 internodes, and others were not treated any way. Results showed: 1) ineffective thinning of NAD + NMC mixture sprayed when central diameter in the short shoot clusters were about 9 mm. This result confirm previous ones, obtained in researches about Red Delicious standard and spur clones. Many fruits were stopped in their development (pygmy) and, at the harvest time, they resulted partenocarpic and very small (48 g weight on average); 2) good thinning effect of NAD + NAA mixture sprayed early, 4 days a.f.b. (lightly increased from NMC sprayed after 19 days when fruits had a diameter of 7 mm): in comparison with the control, it reduced the crop per tree (34-45%) and increased fruit size (14%); NAD + NAA mixture (with or without following spraying with NMC) delayed fruit drop; 3) the validity of manual thinning applied (1:2 ratio).
42877785|Alberi di Heavy Stripe su MM 106 sono stati sottoposti alle tesi seguenti: 1) nessun trattamento; 2) CEPA, 400 ppm; 3) NMC, 1000 ppm; 4) NMC + CEPA, 500 + 150 ppm; 5) NMC + NAD, 1000 + 30 ppm. I fitoregolatori sono stati irrorati quando il frutticino centrale dei corimbi su laburde aveva un diametro medio di mm. 8,6 0,13. I risultati hanno evidenziato: 1) l'eccessivo diradamento prodotto dal CEPA, sia irrorato da solo che in miscela con NMC; 2) l'effetto di blocco della crescita di una considerevole quota di frutticini e loro persistenza sugli alberi a seguito dei trattamenti con NAD in miscela con NMC; 3) i migliori effetti complessivi delPNMC, sia nell'anno del trattamento che in quello successivo. We refer a research started in 1982 using  Heavy Stripe  cultivar on MM 106, 7 years old, in irrigated orchard, submitted to the following treatments: 1) no thinning (control); 2) CEPA, 400 ppm; 3) NMC, 1000 ppm; 4) NMC + CEPA, 500-150 ppm; 5) NMC + NAD, 1000 + 30 ppm. The results showed: 1) a too strong thinning effect of CEPA applied either alone or in mixture. This caused a too strong yield reduction (-62-43%), an increase (15%) of fruit size and a rich blooming in the following year. On the whole, CEPA's action with tested doses resulted too strong and not practical; 2) the NMC + NAD mixture, applied when the central fruit was 8.6 mm in diameter, is completely inadvisable for fruit chemical thinning in Red Delicious clones. Even with small doses (30 ppm), NAD induced the development of pygmy fruits. 3) the better growth regulator for using on Heavy Stripe was NMC, where effects were intermediate to those obtained with CEPA and control.
42877786|Lo scopo della ricerca era quello di verificare se trattamenti con gibberelline effettuati in pieno campo della fase di pregermogliamento erano in grado di ritardare la schiusura delle gemme della vite in modo sensibile, analogamente a quanto dimostrato in precedenti prove condotte su talee uninodali in condizioni controllate. Nella fase di pre-germogliamento, a tre differenti date (15 marzo, 25 marzo e 1 aprile), sono stati effettuati trattamenti con soluzioni acquose contenenti le seguenti concentrazioni di acido gibberellico: a) 0 ppm, b) 50 ppm, e) 250 ppm, d) 500 ppm. Sono state condotte osservazioni sull'epoca di germogliamento e sulla percentuale di schiusura delle gemme, nonch sulla distribuzione del germogliamento lungo il tralcio in funzione del numero dei nodi lasciati con la potatura. Un mese dopo la fioritura ed alla raccolta sono stati condotti rilievi sulle dimensioni del grappolo, sul numero, peso e volume degli acini, sul grado refrattometrico e l'acidit del mosto.  stato messo in evidenza che i trattamenti con gibberelline, fatti nella fase di pregermogliamento, riescono ad anticipare di alcuni giorni la schiusura delle gemme, in misura inversa alla concentrazione impiegata. Non sono risultate essere sensibilmente variate n la percentuale, n il gradiente di schiusura delle gemme lungo il tralcio. Nelle nostre condizioni sperimentali tale anticipo di germogliamento si sarebbe tradotto, alla raccolta, in aumento proporzionale del grado refrattometrico del mosto. The trials aimed to ascertain whether gibberellic acid treatments performed in the vineyard during the pre-sprouting stage significantly delay bud opening in the grapevine, as demonstrated in previous trials performed on single node cuttings under controllated conditions. During the pre-bd-burst stage, gibberellic acid was sprayed at 0, 50, 250 and 500 ppm, on three different dates (March 15, March 25 and April 1). Bursting date, the percentage of bud opening and the distribution of sprouting along the cane in relation to the number of nodes left after pruning were recorded. The size of the bunch, the number, weight and volume of berries were recorded a month after flowering, while, at harvest, the soluble solids content and acidity of the must were measured. The results showed that the pre-bud-burst gibberellic acid treatments enhance bud opening in inverse proportion to the chemical concentration. Both the percentage and the gradient of the bud opening along the cane remained substantially unaffected. Under our experimental conditions, this earlier sprouting induced a proportional increase in the soluble solids content of must at harvest time.
42877787|La prova  stata condotta nell'arco di 2 anni su piante della nettarina Maygrand innestate su P.S.A. 6 ed allevate in contenitore. Alla caduta delle foglie, un gruppo di piante  stato posto in cella frigorifera, al buio, a 5C, mentre un secondo gruppo  rimasto all'esterno. Ad intervalli determinati (circa 7-10 giorni) sono state forzate a 20C piante provenienti dall'esterno e dalla cella fredda. Dai risultati ottenuti si pu mettere in evidenza come l'uscita di dormienza nei vari tipi di gemma (a legno e a fiore) sia fortemente influenzata dal tipo di freddo ricevuto dalle piante (condizioni naturali; 5  C costanti, al buio). In particolare la forzatura delle piante provenienti dall'esterno mette in risalto una differente sequenza di risposta5 dei due tipi di gemma, a testimonianza di esigenze termiche diverse. Le gemme a legno, infatti, hanno un pi basso fabbisogno in freddo e una maggiore sensibilit alle variazioni di temperatura. La forzatura delle piante, precedentemente vernalizzate a basse temperature costanti, rende pi omogena la risposta dei vari tipi di gemme, favorendo quindi quella delle gemme a fiore. In definitiva questi risultati non concordano con i presupposti del metodo delle Chill Units. The trials were carried out over 2 years on Maygrand nectarine plants grafted on P. S. A6 and grown in containers. At leaf fall, a group of plants was transferred to a cool chamber at 5C and in darkness, and a second group remained outside. At given intervals (7-10 days) plants from both groups were forced at 20C. The mean time and percentage of leaf and flower bud opening were calculated on the basis of phenological parameters measured every 3-4 days. The results show that release from dormancy in the various types of bud (leaf and flower) is strongly influenced by the type of chilling (natural conditions or constant 5C in darkness). The forcing of the plants coming from natural conditions produced a different sequence of responses from the two types of bud, demonstrating their different thermic requirements. Leaf buds have a lower chilling requirement and are mre sensitive to temperature variations. The forcing of the plants previously chilled at a constant low temperature give more homogeneous responses from the various types of bud, thus favouring the flower buds. Our results do not agree with assumptions made in the Chill Units model.
42877788|Sono stati posti a confronto alcuni metodi volti a valutare le variazioni morfologiche, fenologiche e ponderali di gemme a fiore prelevate periodicamente durante l'inverno da rami misti di piante adulte di albicocco della cv Reale d'Imola. In generale i metodi finora proposti, mentre sembrano indicare il momento di ripresa attiva della crescita delle gemme, non permettono di prevedere quali e quante di esse non arrivano a schiudere, non risolvendo, spesso, il quesito relativo al soddisfacimento del fabbisogno in freddo. Lo scopo, pertanto, di questa ricerca  stato quello di giungere a stabilire nel modo pi semplice e rapido il momento in cui le gemme, avendo soddisfatto il fabbisogno di freddo, sono in grado di iniziare la schiusura. I metodi che permettono di seguire l'evoluzione delle gemme durante la maggior parte dell'inverno, abbinati a brevi periodi di forzatura in cella calda, consentono di individuare, con un certo anticipo, le gemme a fiore che, con l'arrivo delle temperature favorevoli, non entreranno nella fase di crescita rapida e che andranno incontro a necrosi fiorali ed alla successiva cascola. A comparison of various methods aiming to evaluate morphological, phenological and weigh variations on flower buds was carried out. The flower buds were taken, periodically during the winter, from twigs of 8 year-old apricot trees of the cv. Reale d'Imola. Methods proposed to date seem able to indicate the time of bud growth resumption, but generally cannot foresee which and how many buds will not open, thus often leaving the problem of chilling requirement satisfaction unsolved. This research aimed to find the simplest and most rapid method of establishing when bud chilling requirement is satisfied and thus when the buds can begin to open. The methods, that let us follow the bud growth during winter months together with short periods in growth chamber, allow early identification of those buds which, with favoreable temperatures, will not resume active growth and are likely to show flower cup anomalies and subsequently drop.
42877789|Vengono riportati i risultati di due prove relative all'impiego del paclobutrazolo nella radicazione in vitro dell'ibrido Prunus persica  Prunus kansuensis S 749  S1490, di media attitudine alla radicazione. In un caso i germogli sono stati prelevati direttamente in fase di proliferazione scegliendo quelli pi allungati; nell'altro caso alla radicazione si  fatta precedere una breve fase di allungamento. Nelle prove si  impiegato un substrato base, con i sali minerali di Murasfhige e Skoog dimezzati, tranne il ferro, e senza citochinica, a cui sono state aggiunte dosi variabili di IBA (0; 0,2 mg/1) e di paclobutrazolo (0; 0,25; 0,5 mg/1, precedentemente sterilizzato mediante filtrazione). In assenza di IBA, il paclobutrazolo ha sempre almeno raddoppiato la percentuale di radicazione rispetto al controllo; mentre il suo effetto  apparso abbastanza rilevante in associazione con l'auxina. Inoltre, a differenza dell'auxina, il paclobutrazolo da solo non ha indotto callo alla base dei germogli; ha portato per alla formazione di radici pi corte e pi grosse all'aumentare della concentrazione. Tutte le piantine radicate in presenza di paclobutrazolo hanno comunque superato la fase di ambientamento; ma si sono accresciute meno rispetto ai controlli (minore altezza, foglie pi piccole), almeno nei primi 25 giorni dal trasferimento al di fuori del vitro. The effect of paclobutrazol, PP333, on the in vitro rooting on S 749  S 1490 Prunus persica  Prunus kansuensis hybrid was investigated. When added to modified Murashige and Skoog rooting media without auxin, Paclobutrazol (0.25; 0.5 mg/1, filter sterilized) strongly increased rooting percentage in shoots dissected both during the proliferation and elongation phases. By contrast, it did not enhance rooting in association with IBA (0.2 mg/1). Moreover, PP333 induced shorter and thicker roots but no callus. Most of PP333 treated plants were successfully hardened in a green-house, but grew less than controls (reduced height, smaller leaves), especially during the first period (25 days) after transfer to the acclimatization phase.
42877790|La ricerca pone in evidenza che nell'olivo l'ombreggiamento della* chioma influenza la differenziazione delle gemme a fiore in funzione del periodo in cui si opera la riduzione dell'intensit luminosa. L'ombreggiamento dal 17/7 al 10/10 e dal 9/9 alla fioritura dell'anno successivo ha determinato una severa diminuzione del numero delle mignole ed anche una riduzione del peso e della inoliazione dei frutti pendenti. Da dicembre, invece, l'ombreggiamento diventa inefficace o di limitata influenza. Le cv Leccino, Frantoio e Coratina hanno mostrato una maggiore sensibilit del Maurino. La carenza di luce sulle foglie completamente sviluppate ha causato una riduzione del peso unitario rispetto al controllo, mentre su quelle formate sotto ombreggiamento ha determinato una maggiore ampiezza del lembo ed un peso per unit di superficie molto basso. Pertanto la riduzione drastica della formazione dei fiori, indotta dall'ombreggiamento nel periodo luglio-ottobre e da ottobre in poi, pu essere attribuita ad una limitazione della capacit di assimilazione delle piante durante l'estate e l'autunno e probabilmente anche ad un impedimento nella sintesi di sostanze ormonali necessarie per la differenziazione fiorale. The reduction of light intensity by shading influenced the flower differentiation in relation to period of application. The biggest effects were noted in Summer and in Fall season; in fact the shadings from 7-17 to 10-10 and from 9-9 to flowering caused a severe reduction of inflorescence formation. While the shading from December to blooming was ineffective or caused only a small flower reduction. Leccino, Frantoio and Coratina cultivars were more sensible than Maurino. Shading from 7-17 to 10-10 caused a reduction of fruit dry weight and oil content higher than that caused by shading appliyed from 9-9 to harvest. On respect to control leaves, those shaded after full expansion showed a lesser weight, while those expansed below shading showed a larger leaf area and a very low weight for area unit. Additional trials confirmed that the light intensity reduction from July to October or from October forward severely reduced the flower formation in relation to less nutritional reserves and to lacked synthesis of substances that influence the inflorescence differentiation.
42877791|Piante di olivo della cv Maurino senza fruttificazione hanno fiorito abbondantemente nell'anno successivo mentre quelle con elevata produzione hanno presentato una scarsa antogenesi. Gli zuccheri solubili sono aumentati nei mesi di scarsa attivit vegetativa, mentre si sono ridotti al germogliamento, con l'avvio di un'intensa attivit metabolica. Il loro contenuto  risultato maggiore nelle piante a fioritura abbondante solo nei rami di un anno e nelle branche di 3 anni. L'amido, in autunno, si accumula nel legno delle radici in quantit molto elevata e successivamente in aprile viene traslocato verso le foglie e i rami per le esigenze del germogliamento e della fioritura. Nelle piante con abbondante fioritura l'amido  risultato presente in quantit maggiore, rispetto a quelle con fioritura scarsa, in quasi tutti gli organi considerati, ma le differenze sono state di proporzioni notevoli soprattutto nell'apparato radicale. Livelli pi elevati di sostanze grasse sono stati riscontrati nelle foglie rispetto agli altri organi aerei e con andamento crescente ad aprile. Nelle radici invece le quantit sono progressivamente diminuite. Poich il differente contenuto in amido delle radici  risultato strettamente correlato con l'entit della fioritura, si suppone che i carboidrati, accumulati nell'apparato radicale, agiscono direttamente o attraverso lo stimolo di sostanze ormonali, sulla promozione del processo di differenziazione delle gemme a fiore. Anche le sostanze grasse, essendo composti specifici di accumulo, possono esercitare la loro influenza sull'antogenesi. Nonbearing olive trees of Maurino cultivar showed a big flowering next year, while bearing trees had scarce flower formation. Soluble sugars were increasing during the months of limited vegetative activity: they were higher on nonbearing trees on one year old shoots and on three year old branches. During Fall, the starch was concentrated in very hight amounts on root wood, from which it was mobilized, on April, to the leaves and to the one year old shoots to promote flowering and shoot formation. On nonbearing trees the starch was always higher than on bearing trees in all the tree portions, but the differences were biggest specially on roots. The fats were higher on leaves than on other aerial parts and they increased from October to April. Instead, on roots they decreased from January through April. Since the different starch content of roots is strictly correlated with flower formation, we hypothesize that sugars, accumulated on root apparatus, are promoting directly or by means of growth substances the flower formation. Also the fats, that are specific reserve compounds, can influence the flower differentiation.
42877792|Su piante di pesco cv  Flavorcrest  di 4 anni, innestate su GF677, allevate a fusetto e impiantate a 4,5  3,5 m, sono state conseguite differenti densit di chioma, mediante interventi di potatura secca e verde. Quindici giorni prima della raccolta dei frutti l'intensit media di illuminazione della chioma, divisa in porzioni di 0,125 m,  variata dal 22,49% al 34,19% rispetto alla intensit massima. Le zone della chioma che in giornate di sole usufruivano di un'intensit di luce superiore a 100 E ms, hanno oscillato dal 31,43 al 61,0%. Mantenendo sulla pianta un numero di frutti quasi identico, alla raccolta, la quantit di frutti per pianta  risultata simile, mentre la percentuale maggiore di calibri commerciali  stata riscontrata nelle tesi con un pi spinto diradamento della chioma e ci ha determinato anche un netto miglioramento del colore dei frutti. Il contenuto in zuccheri  aumentato solo nella tesi in cui la chioma era maggiormente illuminata, mentre l'acidit non  stata influenzata dai diversi trattamenti. La fioritura, nell'anno successivo,  risultata uniforme nelle porzioni alte della chioma, e molto ridotta'nei rami bassi, nelle zone pi folte e meno illuminate. Pertanto  indispensabile assicurare una buona penetrazione di luce in tutte le porzioni della chioma per migliorare la qualit dei frutti, per determinare una regolare differenziazione a fiore delle gemme e per ottenere rami misti di dimensioni ottimali. By applying winter and summer pruning to 4-year-olt trees, on GF677 rootstock, spaced 4.53.5 m and trained to central leader system, different canopy densities were obtained. Before the fruit harvesting the average of light intensity on sections of 0.125 m of the tree crown changed from 22.49% to 34.19% of the maximum light intensity according to the canopy density. The amount of fruits per tree was the same, but on trees with less crown density they had a bigger size, a better colour, and a higher sugar content. The flower formation was high on all the trees with less canopy density. Instead, on more dense trees the lower part of the crown showed and insufficient flower formation.
