25077036|This paper increases the number of Costa Rican species of Epigomphus from five to seven and adds data on distribution, colors and structure of all of them. Adds data on the variation of the generic characters. Announces a hitherto undetected secondary sexual character in the tarsus of the third leg of the males, which is also a new generic character. Makes known one hitherto unknown species (E. subsimilis) and the previously undescribed female of one other species (E. tumefactus). Attempts a correlation of the form of the heads of the females and the male abdominal appendages as concerned in the act of mating and figures the heads of the females more fully than ever before.
25077047|This paper points out that two species have been confused under the name of Gomphus dilatatus: the true dilatatus of Rambur, known only from Georgia and Florida, and a form in the northern states for which the name lineatifrons is proposed. The differentials are listed and many of them figured. G. vastus Walsh is the northern representative of dilatatus Rambur and its characters are briefly enumerated. A comparison of the existing data on the larvae of the three forms is given.
25077099|The results of a tabulation of thirty-two specimens, sixteen males, sixteen females, representing ten species, for twenty-one characters in both front and hind wings, to determine their value for generic diagnosis, are given and their variations stated in percentages. The endeavor is made to fix the specific characters by the abdominal appendages of the males and the prothorax of the females from a study of two hundred and sixty males, and sixty-two females. These structures are figured, many of them for the first time. Seventeen species are recognized, the following six being here described as new: polyxena ( ), Venezuela; elisabeta ( ), Peru; cristalina ( ), Colombia; augusti ( ), Panama; expansa (), Costa Rica, and lankesteri (), Costa Rica; while a seventh, berenice (Hagen MS.) Higgins, Peru, hitherto known by the gizzard only, is described in more detail. The distribution of each species is apparently very limited, in contrast to that of other genera with which Philogenia is associated.
25078119|Based upon characteristics of the adults, this revision includes a classification of and key to the Nearctic species of Calathus, description, studies of geographical variation, and discussion of the phylogeny and zoogeography of the group. Of the 22 species, 20 are endemic in North America, and two were introduced from the Palaearctic Region. Of the latter species, C. melanocephalus Linnaeus is reported from North America for the first time. The new taxa described are: Tachalus (subgenus; type species C. ovipennis Putzeys); from the Trans-Volcanic Sierra - C. clauseni, aztec, leechi, erwini and marmoreus; from the Sierra Madre Oriental - C. rotgeri and potosi; from the Sierra Madre Occidental - C. durango, ambigens serricola, ambigens tarahumara and whiteheadi; from the western United States - C. calceus. Neocalathus, new name (type species Carabus melanocephalus L., 1758) is proposed to replace Calathus auctorum as a subgeneric name. Calathus sensu stricto (type species Carabus cisteloides Panzer, 1793) is recognized as the senior synonym of Fuscocalathus Negre, 1969. The distribution pattern of the extant endemic fauna is accounted for by postulating seven invasions of the Nearctic Region by Palaearctic Calathus stocks, with later invaders displacing descendants of the earlier waves.
25078241|Use of food and microhabitat by an assemblage of grasshoppers from the arid grassland of Trans-Pecos, Texas, is examined. Patterns of use for these resources are compared for several sites by examining species-specific breadths and overlaps of resource use. By making such comparisons, it is possible to gain some insight into the factors responsible for the observed community structure. Different study areas share approximately 1/2 of the component assemblages of grasshopper species which are staggered in appearance throughout the season. Because of this, characteristic patterns of resource use result from exposure to similar ecological factors rather than because of the phylogenetic history of particular grasshopper species. The following results were seen: (1) A wide range of overlaps in resource use for food and microhabitat existed which exhibited a similar pattern among sites. (2) Average niche overlaps for these assemblages were .35 for diet and about .40 for microhabitat. Degree of phylogenetic relationship is important for diet since average overlaps of food utilization within subfamilies are generally much higher than for the community as a whole; but the effects of phylogenetic relationships were not readily observed for microhabitat. (3) Species found at different sites had the same amount of resource overlap with other species at such sites. (4) The average amount of overlap in diet varies with the season but not for microhabitat. (5) The number of species in an assemblage does not affect diet although a weak negative correlation is seen when average diet overlap and species diversity is compared. (6) Associations of species for diet based on forb-feeding and grass-feeding species may be important. (7) No significant relationship between breadth of diet and of microhabitat is seen. (8) Niche complementarity, where high overlap along one resource dimension (e.g., diet) is compensated for by low overlap along the other (e.g., microhabitat), is not observed at any site. Resource utilization of both food and microhabitat is strongly influenced by biotic interactions among grasshopper species. It appears the species-specific use of food resources may be due primarily to coevolutionary interactions between the herbivorous grasshoppers and the specific chemical and spatial attributes of the plants. Microhabitat use indicates that some competitive interactions among species may be possible. Although it is difficult to assess the impact of competition, it appears predation pressure may exert much influence through apparent competitive interactions (Holt, 1977) or because of competition for escape space (Rand, 1967; Ricklefs and O'Rourke, 1975).
25078242|This study presents the first taxonomic revision of the planthopper genus Myndus Stl with keys to species for all of the Americas. Haplaxius Fowler and Paramyndus Fennah are synonymized with Myndus. Sixty-three species are recognized. Thirty-four are described as n. spp.: balli (Ariz.), crena (Ariz.), dozieri (Miss.), flocki (Ariz.), glyphis (N.Y.), lophion (Ariz.), neopusillus (Fla.), nevadensis (Nevada), texensis (Texas), xyron (N.Y), akko (British Honduras), brimosis (Bolivia), caldwelli (Mexico), deleter (Panama), delta (Guatemala), dolon (Brazil), fennahi (Peru), gnophos (Brazil), gomphos (Mexico), jamaicae (Jamaica), lyssa (Peru), meadi (Mexico), mokos (Peru), nimbus (Venezuela), phylax (Costa Rica), sillos (Peru), skarphion (Panama), spanglerorum (Peru), sparagma (Guatemala), synavei (Venezuela), tekmar (Mexico), tekton (Peru), thryligma (Brazil), and vilbastei (Argentina). One new subspecies, lophion alpha (Colo.), is described. Paramyndus cocois Fennah and Haplaxius pallidus Caldwell are synonymized with Myndus crudus Van Duzee; sordidipennis Stl with pictifrons Stl; delicatus Van Duzee with radicis Osborn; and perrinei Caldwell with pusillus Van Duzee. New combinations with Myndus are: M. gabrielensis (Flock) M. simplicatus (Caldwell), M. Serratus (Caldwell), M. laevis (Fowler), and M. frontalis (Fowler). The distribution of the genus includes most of the Nearctic and Neotropical Regions. Plant associations are recorded. All critical diagnostic features are illustrated, and many new distributional records are included.
25078246|The taxonomy of Coptotomus is reviewed, keys are provided for adults of species occurring in eastern North America, and all known species are described. Two new species, C. lenticus and C. loticus are described. C. venustus (Say), C. difficilis LeConte, and C. longulus LeConte were found to be valid species, and a male syntype of C. obscurus Sharp from Florida was designated as the lectotype and synonymized with C. interrogatus (Fabricius). The type sp., C. serripalpus Say, remains unknown. The range of C. interrogatus was found to be restricted to the east coast of the United States, and most species previously identified as C. interrogatus were either C. lenticus, C. loticus, or C. venustus.
25078247|Pyrgomorpha sanderi of Krauss (1901) is not a synonym of P. granulata Stl, but a member of the genus Tanitella Kevan. The  holotype is re-examined and figured. The previously unknown male is also illustrated and commented upon.
25078248|The Loxandrus series is a group of 12 genera presently included in the Pterostichini, but either very primitive members of that tribe, or else incorrectly placed there. Collectively, the group is amphi- Antarctic, and is maximally diverse and divergent in South America and Australia. Loxandrus itself is amphi- Antarctic, its range extending from northeastern United States in the Nearctic Region, southward throughout the tropics and subtropics of the Neotropical Region (including the Greater Antilles in the West Indies); and then, from southern Australia northward to New Guinea, and westward to Celebes in the Indo- Australian archipelago. The Mexican fauna includes Loxandrus LeConte, with 18 species, and Oxycrepis Reiche, represented only by O. (Stolonis) intercepta Chaudoir. A key to species is provided, taxa are characterized verbally and with illustrations of diagnostic features, relationships of groups and species are explained, extent of geographical range is indicated, and habitat data are presented for each species in terms of major vegetation types in which the specimens were collected. The Mexican species of Loxandrus are arrayed in nine groups, based on relationships inferred from character states of adults: L. infimus Group - L. infimus Bates; L. sculptilis Group - L. pactinullus Allen, and L. sculptilis Bates; L. celeris Group - L. elongatus Allen, L. rectangulus LeConte, L. celeris Dejean, and L. cubanus Tschitscherine; L. yeariani Group - L. yeariani Allen; L. omiltemi Group - L. omiltemi, new species (type locality - Oaxaca, Omiltemi); L. stockwelli Group - L. stockwelli, new species (type locality - Panam, Canal Zone), and L. anthracinus new species (type locality - Chiapas, Lacandon Forest, e. slope of Sierra de la Colmena, Arroyo Santa Maria); L. binotatus Group - L. binotatus new species, with three new subspecies - L. b. binotatus (type locality - Chiapas, 11.6 mi. n. Ocozocuautla), L. b. tuxtlensis (type locality - Veracruz, El Bastanal, near Coyame, San Andres Mts.), and L. b. lacandonensis (type locality - Chiapas, Lacandon Forest, e. slope Sierra de la Colmena, Arroyo Santa Maria); L. elnae Group - L. lepidus Allen, L. whiteheadi Allen, L. elnae Allen, L. balli Allen, and L. fraus Allen; and L. crenatus Group - L. littleorum, new species (type locality - Chiapas, Lacandon Forest, e. slope Sierra de la Colmena, Arroyo Santa Maria). Study of character states of Oxycrepis adults resulted in the following new synonymy: at the genus- group level, Prostolonis Mateu, 1976 (type species - P. martinezi Mateu) is a junior synonym of Stolonis Motschulsky, 1865 (type species - S. notula Mostchulsky); at the species- group level, Stolonis ulkei Horn, 1885 (type locality - Texas) is a junior synonym of Oxycrepis intercepta Chaudoir, 1873 (type locality - Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico). Based on evolutionary interpretation of the states of 21 characters, a reconstructed phylogeny is provided for the species groups of Loxandrus known from Mexico. Principal trends involve: modification of microsculpture (from reticulate/isodiametric through reticulate/transverse, to transverse/diffraction grating): modification of stylomere 2 of the ovipositor (changes in orientation, in length and in number of marginal spines, and in form of apex); and armature of the internal sac of the male genitalia (mainly evolution of the "ring sclerite"). Comparison of habitat distribution with the reconstructed phylogeny indicates that the more primitive groups (L. infimus and L. sculptilis Groups) have members inhabiting damp portion of savannas, with moderately derivative groups living in swamps (sunlit or dark), and the more derived groups in seasonal tropical forest, and thus not directly associated with standing water. This sequence is regarded as an ecocline, with savanna having been the ancestral home of Loxandrus. Within Mexico, the species of Loxandrus are concentrated in the south and in the lowlands, with only three species being known north of the Tropic of Cancer. Four species are known from higher elevations: two seem to be relicts (L. omiltemi, with no known close relatives, and adults exhibiting wing loss; and L. lepidus, with a close relative in Panam). Adults of 10 species were collected at light, with the inference that flight is a common means of dispersal. The Mexican fauna likely has numerous connections to that of Middle America (some known others inferred), but very few to the north. The North American fauna contains numerous species, but most are highly endemic. Analysis of the distribution pattern of the genus as a whole suggests origin in the Southern Hemisphere, by Late Cretaceous or Early Tertiary time. A sequence of northward dispersals led to colonization of Middle and North America by the L. rectus complex (of which the Mexican L. yeariani Group is a member). In the Miocene, a grassland barrier at about the Texas-Mexico border probably cut the range of the L. rectus complex in two. The stocks to the north survived, but, according to the hypothesis, the southern ones were eliminated by competition and were replaced with later invaders from the south. These later invaders came sequentially, with the earlier stocks being represented today by geographically isolated, and thus relictual, species. The species groups thought to be the oldest exhibit young distribution patterns (L. infimus and L. sculptilis Groups). The theory of taxon pulses is employed to explain the various geographical and ecological relicts: i.e., groups that evolved dominance later replaced the earlier groups that dispersed out of the major centers of diversity in the South American wetland tropics. The six species of the West Indian fauna includes one endemic that is related to mainland species. The other five have mainland stocks: for four species, the source area was probably Middle America; for the other one, the source area was probably Florida.
25078252|In 1957, 25,383 ha of grasslands were sprayed to control grasshopper populations. On a 194 ha portion, the re-establishment of populations and the interrelationships among species were observed through 1968. Grasshoppers and the contents of their crops were identified, and collection data for each specimen recorded. The vegetation was sampled throughout the period. Matrices of correlation coefficients, hierarchical clustering systems and polar graphics were used to establish and interpret the interrelationships among species in regard to feeding habits, habitats, seasonal occurrence and populations densities. Twenty-eight of 37 species collected were from permanent plots. The 17 more numerous species were selected for detailed analyses. There was little overlap of resource utilization among these species as they were separated by time and/or space and/or food requirements and were not directly competing with each other. The most directly competing species were Ageneotettix deorum and Melanoplus sanguinipes. A. deorum were more restricted in host plant and habitat utilization and were never as numerous nor responded as greatly to conditions favoring increase as did M. sanguinipes. No single factor or group of factors could be determined as contributing to the fluctuation in the populations of any species. Each species appeared to respond independently to conditions with at least one species able to increase in number under any set of conditions.
25078259|A review of literature pertaining to members of the Azyini is presented with a discussion of the various biocontrol attempts involving species of the tribe. The new genus Pseudoazya is erected for the previously described Azya trinitatis Marshall, A. pusilla Weise, and A. nana Marshall; 3 new species, Pseudoazya gnoma, P. boliviana, and P. aberrans are described. Azya pontbrianti Mulsant is placed as a junior synonym of A. luteipes Mulsant; A. ardosiaca Mulsant and A. nigrina Weise are placed as junior synonyms of A. scutata Mulsant; 9 new species, A. bioculata, A. mulsanti, A. imitator, A. elegans, A. weyrauchi, A. satipoi, A. exuta, A. mexicana, A. murilloi, and one subspecies, A. orbigera ecuadorica, are described.
25078261|All species and synonyms of the oedipodine grasshopper genera Aerochoreutes, Circotettix, and Trimerotropis are listed together with their type localities and present whereabouts of the type(s). Lectotypes have been designated for the following taxa: Trimerotropis caerulipes Scudder, Trimerotropis fallax Saussure, T. gratiosa Scudder, T. huroniana Walker, T. viriditibialis Henderson, T. laticincta Saussure, T. latifasciata Scudder, T. maritima interior Walker, T. munda (Scudder), T. vinculata Scudder, T. pseudofasciata Scudder, T. fascicula McNeill. A neotype has been designated for Trimerotropis thalassica Bruner. New status ranking is accorded T. fallax Saussure, T. coquilletti McNeill, T. collaris McNeill. An index of species and current equivalents is provided.
25078262|Published and unpublished data with reference to chromosomal characters, morphological characters, and crepitation are presented in an effort to detect phylogenetic significance. Evidence supports the theory that the trimerotropine grasshoppers are related and probably evolved in western North America. An extensive chart is provided listing all relevant characters. Authors of names used in this paper are given in Table 1.
25078266|Eight species of Lignyodes occur in the Nearctic Faunal Region. The species have hosts in the plant genus Fraxinus (Oleaceae), the ashes. Each species is described, keyed, illustrated, and its distribution mapped. Two species, L. auratus from California, Oregon, and Washington, and L. olearis from Indiana and Ohio, are described as new. Thysanocnemis balaninoides Schaeffer and T. caseyi Klima are newly placed in synonymy under L. helvolus (LeConte), and T. punctatus Casey and T. squamiger Casey are newly placed in synonymy under L. horridulus (Casey).
25078267|The status and bionomics of California and Baja California, Mexico, field crickets in the genera Gryllus (9 species) and Acheta (1 species) are reviewed. G. pennsylvanicus Burmeister, G. integer Scudder, G. vocalis Scudder, G. assimilis (Fabricius), G. veletis (Alexander and Bigelow), G. lineaticeps Stl, and G. insularis Scudder are recognized as valid taxa in the study area. A neotype for G. lineaticeps is designated, as are lectotypes for G. integer, G. vocalis, and G. insularis. Two new species are described: G. brevicaudus Weissman, Rentz, and Alexander, and G. cohni Weissman. The known distribution of A. domesticus (L.) in western North America is extended. Comments are made concerning the possible synonymies of the other three western U.S. Gryllus names: personatus Uhler, armatus Scudder, and alogus Rehn.
25078274|The larvae of 14 species of ants in the genera *Acantholepis, Acropyga, *Antichthonidris, Basiceros, *Cataglyphis, *Eutetramorium, *Melissotarsus, Mystrium, *Nothidris, Odontomachus, Oxyepoecus, *Petalomyrmex and *Terataner are described. The genera marked with an asterisk are characterized for the first time. The genera are added to our 1976 key and a specialization index is given for each genus.
25078278|This study presents the first taxonomic revision of the planthopper Cixius Latreille in the United States and Mexico. Pseudocixius Caldwell is synonymized with Cixius. Twenty-five species are recognized as occurring in the United States and 14 in Mexico. Seven are described as n. spp. from the U.S.: balli (Ariz.), caldwelli (Ohio), evexus (Cal.), narke (Cal.), nike (Maine), prodotes (N.C.), and procrustes (Ark.). Six are described as n. spp. from Mexico: blockeri (Morelos), conjector (Michoacan), dislogicus (Fed. Dist.), metcalfi (Coahuila), nielsoni (Fed. Dist.), and youngi (Hidalgo). C. umbrosus Walley is synonymized with C. nervosus (L.) and C. guttulatus Walley with C. pini Fitch. C. bandarus (Caldwell) is a new combination. The distribution of the genus in the Americas is transcontinental and from the Arctic Circle in Alaska south to southern Mexico. Plant associations are recorded. All critical diagnostic features are illustrated, and many new distributional records are included.
25078279|This paper treats the 46 species of Listronotus in America north of Mexico that usually are larger than 4.5 mm. Fifteen new species are described: arizonicus, borrichiae, burkei, conabilis, crypticus, elegantulus, fasciatus, marshalli, neocallosus, pallidus, pseudosetosus, rubtzoffi, salicorniae, suturalis, and turbatus. Three species are newly placed in synonymy with punctiger LeConte: bagoiformis Champion, gracilis LeConte, and leechi Sleeper. A description of the genus and a key to 46 species are included. Host data and biological information are presented where known. For each new species and those not treated in Henderson's (1940) monograph, there is a description, geographical distribution, and illustrations of parts of the male and female genitalia. The swimming behavior of 14 species is described.
25078280|A list of Trichoptera adults for the Linesville Creek area, Crawford County, Pennsylvania is presented. The list is based on more than 29,000 specimens which are the result of U-V light trap collections made between 1972 and 1977. Notes on flight activity is given for all species with seasonal flight activity patterns depicted for the most common species. Eighty five species in 45 genera belonging to 14 families were collected.
25078286|Visual, tactile, and acoustic signals are involved in pair formation of Aulocara elliotti (Thomas). Males may by-pass courtship displays. However, in the presence of sexually unreceptive females, males perform complex courtship displays characterized by synchronous and asynchronous movements of appendages. The sexually mature female determines whether copulation occurs, depending on a cyclic pattern of sexual receptivity and non-receptivity.
25078293|The genus Oliarus in North America north of Mexico was studied with emphasis on the morphology of the male terminalia. The aedeagal complexes of 36 previously described species were illustrated for the first time. Six species proposed as new to science were described and illustrated. A change of status was proposed for one species, a new name given to another species, lectotypes were designated for two species, and three nominal species were relegated to synonymy. Fifty-one species in the study area were considered as valid, with each species receiving attention as to important features of the external morphology, male terminalia, diagnosis from similar species, location of type material, morphological variation, seasonal and geographical distribution, and other biological information when available. Remarks on relationships and a key to the species, based on male terminalia, were also included.
25078297|The SAS ALSCAL procedure was used to indicate the degree of overlap among 17 species of grasshoppers. The proximities used were the coefficients of correlation for year to year population fluctuations, host plant utilization, habitat distribution and seasonal occurrence. Species were proportionally spaced on scattergrams in relation to their similarity to each other. A 3-dimensional box perspective representation of the combined overlap among grasshopper species for utilization of food, space and time as resources demonstrated that there were no discernable groupings of species because there was little overlap among species.
25078298|The 89 recognized species of Lignyodini are assigned to two genera, Lignyodes Dejean, with subgenera Lignyodes (13 species, Nearctic and Palearctic), Chionanthobius Pierce (3 species, Nearctic and Neotropical), and Neotylopterus (7 Nearctic species, 1 Neotropical species not seen), and Plocetes (65 species, 1 Nearctic, all others Neotropical). Diagnoses and discussions of relationships of the tribe Lignyodini and of the genus Lignyodes and its subgenera, and of the genus Plocetes, are presented, along with keys to the genera of Lignyodini and subgenera of Lignyodes. The species of Plocetes are diagnosed, described or redescribed, illustrated, and keyed, their known geographic distributions stated. All but one of the species of Plocetes, P. ulmi LeConte, are newly transferred to that genus from Lignyodes (or its synonym Thysanocnemis), newly named and described (42 species), or fall to Plocetes because their former genera, Hamaba Casey and Rosella Whitehead, are placed in NEW SYNONYMY under Plocetes. The species of Lignyodes are hypothesized to form a monophyletic group because of synapomorphies, including association with plants in the family Oleaceae (genera Chionanthus, Forestiera, Fraxinus, Ligustrum, Osmanthus, and Syringa). Similarly, the species of Plocetes have synapomorphies, including association with plants in the family Rubiaceae (genera Alceis, Cephalanthus, Macrocnemum, Rondeletia, and Sickingia). Lectotypes are designated for P. zonatus (Champion), P. minor (Champion), P. rufescens (Champion), P. seminiger (Hustache), P. singularipes (Hustache), P. obscurus (Champion), P. ornatus (Champion), P. suturalis (Champion), P. longirostris (Kirsch), P. subfasciatus (Kirsch), P. versicolor (Champion), and P. ulmi LeConte. The name P. laevirostris (Champion) is placed in NEW SYNONYMY under P. brevis (Champion).
25078299|Endophytic oviposition by Leptysma m. marginicollis and Stenacris vitreipennis is documented from both laboratory and field observations. Egg pod structure, life histories and food preferences for the two species are compared. Both Leptysma and Stenacris show a reproductive diapause. One early spring ovipositional period has been observed in Leptysma, while Stenacris has two; one in spring and a second in late summer. Comparative food selection from 19 species of marsh plants shows Leptysma restricts its feeding to cat-tails, grasses and sedges; while Stenacris feeds more widely, selecting the broad leaf water hyacinth and arrowhead in addition to cat-tail grasses and sedges.
25078300|The mite fauna of Pennsylvania conifers was surveyed from 1971 through 1973. Collections were made from 71 species of conifers growing in nurseries, ornamental plantings and woodlands throughout the state. Keys to species, brief descriptions, illustrations, distribution records, seasonal and life histories and hosts and/or prey are presented for the phytophagous families Tetranychidae and Tenuipalpidae and the predatory Phytoseiidae. Keys to family, brief descriptions, collection records and representative illustrations are included for the remaining 24 families collected during the survey. The new phytoseiid genus Heteroseiulus and new species Heteroseiulus aceris are described. Amblyseius hystrix Muma is established as a junior synonym of Fundiseius morgani (Chant). Two new combinations are proposed: Neoseiulus micmac (Chant and Hansell) and yphlodromips nescapi (Chant and Hansell).
25078301|The physical features of the calling songs of a dozen species of Tettigoniidae from Costa Rica are recorded and analyzed. A new species, Cocconotus pusillus, is described from the cloud forest. Several forms from the understory of lowland rainforest utilize high-Q (sinusoidal) carrier frequencies in the ultrasonic range and to this end the sound generating regions of the tegmina are uniquely strengthened. Relative to other katydids, these insects show what may be adaptations for avoidance of predatory bats: elongate antennae, lowered thresholds for elicitation of defensive behaviour and a severely curtailed signal emission time. It is proposed that reduced signal duration has placed a selective premium on localization efficiency during pair formation. The ultrasonic pure tone carrier, functioning in conjunction with highly directional ear slits, may be an adaptation to enhance localization.
25078303|Three subgenera of Pterostichus Bonelli comprise the Hypherpes-like taxa of southern Mxico: Percolaus Bates (generitype-P. champoni Bates); Mayaferonia, new subgenus (generitype-Hypherpes taeniola Bates); and Allotriopus Bates (generitype-Feronia serratipes Chaudoir). Allotriopus is a replacement for a junior homonym, Pristoscelis Chaudoir. The single species of Percolaus in Mxico is P. guillermo, new species (type locality - Rancho Nuevo, 13 km east of San Cristobal de las Casas, Chiapas); P. championi Bates (type locality - here restricted to Cerro Maria Tecn, Guatemala), is known in Guatemala from the upper slopes of Volcan Tacan, on the Mxico-Guatemala border, and is expected to be in Mxico, also. The Mxican species of Mayaferonia are: P. taeniola Bates, 1882 (type locality - Quich Mountains, Guatemala) = P. longissimus Bates, 1882 (new synonymy; type locality - here restricted to Cerro Maria Tecn, Guatemala); and P. triunfo, new species (type locality - El Triunfo, south of Finca Prusia, Chiapas). The species of Allotriopus, confined to the highlands of central Oaxaca, Mxico, are: P. oscitans Tschitschrine (type locality - here restricted to Rte 175, Mije Highlands, 20.9 km north of Oaxaca City); P. hemingi, new species (type locality - Cerro Zempoaltepetl); P. whiteheadi, new species (type locality - Rte 175, 54.7 km south of Valle Nacional); P. serratipes Chaudior (type locality - here restricted to Rte 175, Llano de las Flores, 20.9 km north of Ixtlan de Juarez); P. hallbergi, new species (type locality - Cerro Zempoaltepetl); P. ashei, new species (type locality - 10.4 km south of Totontepec); P. shpeleyi, new species (type locality - 16.6 km south of Totontepec); P. b. brachypterus (type locality - Rte 175, La Parada); and P. brachypterus greenwoodorum, new subspecies (type locality - Llano Verde, northeast of Capulalpam). The name Hypherpes ampliatus Bates is a junior synonym of P. b. brachypterus Chaudoir (new synonymy). All of these taxa are diagnosed and described in terms of morphological features of adults, geographical distribution, and habitat. Keys are provided to the genera and subgenera of Mxican Pterostichina, as well as to the species of the Hypherpes-like complex. The reconstructed phylogeny for Allotriopus, based mainly on features of the male genitalia, groups the taxa in four lineages: P. oscitans; P. hemingi; P. serratipes-hallbergi- ashei; and P. shpeleyi- brachypterus. A hypothesis is presented for the differentiation and distribution of members of Allotriopus, using elements of the re-constructed phylogeny, chorological and ecological affinities, plus assessment of amount of difference (all species are similar in structural features and geographic ranges are mostly allopatric or parapatric). The hypothesis is that the ancestral stock arrived in its present area in about Miocene times and formation of mountain ranges and alternation of pluvial and inter-pluvial climatic periods throughout the Pliocene and Pleistocene have led to derivation of a high number of taxa within a small geographic area.
25078305|The catantopine grasshopper genera Phaeocatantops Dirsh, 1953 (16 spp.) and Xenocatantops Dirsh, 1953 (9 spp.) are reviewed and redefined. In the former genus five new species (curtinotus, haematofemur, tanneri, ufipae and uluguruense) are newly described, three are retained as defined in Dirsh (1953) (johnstoni Uvarov, neumanni Ramme and signatus Karsch), and seven reinstated to full species rank after synonymy or relegation to subspecific rank (rosaceus Uvarov, concolor Karny, sulphureus Walker, hemipterus Miller, fretus Giglio-Tos, solitarius Karsch and sanguinipes Uvarov). The type species for the genus decoratus Gerst. emerges as a smaller taxon after removal from it of taxa wrongly linked with it as subspecies. Xenocatantops has areolatus I. Bol., henryi I. Bol., karnyi Kirby and zernyi Ramme transferred to it from Catantops Schaum. X. brachycerus (C. Willemse) is restored to species rank from subspecies status under humilis Serville. X. parazernyi is newly described and Catantops schoutedeni Bolivar becomes a new synonym of X. zernyi. X. dirshi Willemse and X. sauteri (Ramme) are retained conceptually as in Willemse (1968). The genus now has an Afro-Asian distribution.
25078307|The Pacifica Group is proposed for Pyrota pacifica, new species, from central Mexico, and the Nobilis Group for P. rugulipennis Champion (Mexico and Central America), P. nobilis (Haag-Rutenberg) (Mexico), and P. quadrinervata (Herrera and Mendoza) (Mexico). The two groups appear to be most closely related to the Postica Group, with the Pacifica Group occupying a position intermediate between that group and the Nobilis Group. Pyrota pacifica and P. rugulipennis have a bifasciate elytra color pattern similar to that of the Postica Group; P. nobilis and P. quadrinervata are unusual in having immaculate elytra. Complete synonymies are given, distributional data are summarized, and the previously known species are redescribed on the basis of the adult. Except for P. quadrinervata, the species treated have been collected only rarely. Virtually nothing is known of the bionomics of any of them.
25078308|Cockroaches were sampled in two series of pyrethrum fog treatments in the canopies of Luehea seemannii trees in the Panama Canal area, one series in the late dry season, the other in the early wet season. The numbers of immature and adult cockroaches, identified to species where possible, knocked down from each of five trees were tabulated separately. Low populations agreed with minimal foliage in the dry season (Mar.-Apr.), while high counts coincided with maximum new leaf production in the early wet season (July). Cockroach species from an earlier Vapona fogging experiment during the dry season (Feb.-Mar.) at two forest localities in Costa Rica, one on the Caribbean low-lands, the other on the Pacific side, are also listed. Additional data from light traps on Barro Colorado Island 6 Km from the canopy fogging sites compare cockroaches sampled by the two techniques during similar time periods. This study suggests that the genera Imblattella, Nahublattella, Chorisoneura, Riatia and Macrophyllodromia are canopy indicators. Some genera common in Canal area light traps, including Anaplecta, Chromatonotus, Epilampra and Panchlora, are absent or rare in daytime tree canopy samples.
25078310|The larvae of six species of ants in the genera Acanthomyrmex, Basiceros, Calyptomyrmex, Cephalotes, Cyphomymrex and Goniomma are described. The genus Goniomma is characterized for the first time.
25078313|This study completes the first taxonomic revision of the planthopper family Cixiidae in continental United States. Thirteen genera and 172 species are recognized. A key to all 13 genera is presented. Four genera, Cixius Latreille, Myndus Stl, Oecleus Stl, and Oliarus Stl, were recently revised by the author, and appropriate references are made to these other studies. Species of the remaining 9 genera are treated here. New genera and new species: Stegocixius lochites (Calif.) and Asotocixius diopter (Ariz.). New species: Bothriocera tex (Texas), B. omani (Fla.), B. datuna (Ala.), B. turcafa (Fla.); Microledrida olor (Texas); Pintalia vibex (Fla.), P. gurneyi (Va.). New synonymy: Nymphocixia vanduzeei Muir and N. vanduzeei var. floridensis Caldwell are reduced to syns. of N. unipunctata Van Duzee. Pintalia dorsalis (Van Duzee) and P. dorsivittatus (Van Duzee) are reduced to syns. of P. delicata (Fowler). Lectotypes are selected for Pintalia delicata (Fowler) and Microledrida asperata Fowler. The distribution of the family is nationwide with the greatest number of genera and species occurring in the Southwest. Plant associations are recorded. All critical diagnostic features are illustrated, and many new distributional records are included.
25078315|Nine genera of flightless African and Malagasy grasshoppers in the Phlaeoba genus group are reviewed. Five of these genera are new. Paralobopoma (4 spp.) contains a new Ugandan species viridifrons; P. gracilis is reinstated. Afrophlaeoba gen. n., based on Odontomelus usambaricus Ramme contains four species of which three are new: euthynota sp. n., longicornis sp. n., and nguru sp. n. Parodontomelus Ramme, based on Acteana brachyptera Karny, contains four species, three of them new: arachniformis sp. n., mazumbaensis sp. n. and verticulus sp. n. Chokwea Uvarov (sensu stricto) now contains only three species: bredoi Uvarov, burri Uvarov, and malawii sp. n. Chokwea fitzgeraldi Uvarov and C. backlundi Uvarov 1953 are transferred to Chromochokwea gen. n. Platyverticula gen. n. with type species P. ritchiei sp. n. contains two species, the other being P. eucteana sp. n. Chlorophlaeobella gen. n. is erected for Paralobopoma tananarive Dirsh, while Brachyphlaeobella gen. n. is a new monotypic genus based on B. achilles sp. n. No genera are common to both Madagascar and Africa, though Malagasy genera clearly have close affinities with mainland ones. The Phlaeoba genus group in Africa shows remarkable anatomical convergence with Odontomelus and its allies of the Parga genus group. At the same time they form a further link between the Ethiopian and Indo-Oriental regions, the latter being an area in which the Phlaeoba genus group is richly represented.
25078316|A list of 247 mirids, or plant bugs, of West Virginia is presented, based on collections from 1977 to 1981, supplemented by a review of the literature and examination of collections. Most of the species represent new state records; only 19 species were listed from West Virginia in Carvalho's (1957-60) world catalogue of the Miridae. County distribution and seasonal range are provided for all species collected during the survey. Observed host plants for mirids in West Virginia are recorded.
25078319|The superstructures which North American ants build above the underground portion of their nests are classified, described and illustrated. The following genera are involved: Acanthomyops, Atta, Conomyrma, Dolichoderus, Forelius, Formica, Lasius, Manica, Myrmecocystus, Paratrechina, Pheidole, Pogonomyrmex, Solenopsis and Veromessor. Most of the article is concerned with the thatch-using species of Formica.
25078324|The mite feeding genus Stethorus in the Western Hemisphere is treated taxonomically. Of a total of 21 species recorded, 11 are described for the first time: S. caseyi, S. caribus, S. pseudocaribus, S. pinachi, S. fractus, S. micellus, S. minutalus, S. mayaroi, S. brasilensis, S. simillimus, S. grossepunctatus. A key to species and illustrations are provided; a current list of the world fauna and a table of available host data are included.
25078328|The New World subgenus Progaleritina, which is confined to Middle America and temperate North America, includes seven species, one of which, G. lecontei Dejean, includes four subspecies. One subspecies of G. lecontei is new: G. l. veracrucis (type locality Mexico, Veracruz, 3.5 km. e. Jaltipan). The other three, G. l. lecontei, G. l. bicoloripes Reichardt, and G. l. tenebricosa Klug, were each originally described as specifically distinct; however, the pattern and extent of character distribution are consistent with an assumption of differentiation too recent to have led to specific distinctness. One new species is described (G. reichardti; Mexico, Veracruz, 3.5 km. e. Jaltipan). All of the taxa of Progaleritina are described from adults, using the characters: body proportions, color, vestiture, details of glossal sclerite, proportions of the median lobe of the male genitalia, and lobes of the internal sac. A reconstructed phylogeny indicates the following sequence of relationships: G. forreri Bates- G. reichardti; G. atripes LeConte- G. janus Fabricius; G. mexicana Chaudoir; G. bicolor Drury; G. l. bicoloripes; G. l. lecontei; G. l. veracrucis- G. l. tenebricosa. Changes in body proportions are correlated with overall size, expressed by Standarized Body Length, with relatively larger size being an apotypic feature. Color is partially correlated with geography and sympatry: the range of G. lecontei veracrucis, whose adults are partially melanic, is overlapped by the range of G. reichardti, whose adults are totally melanic. Development of rufous appendages, along with a bicolored or tricolored dorsum, is referred to as "brachinization" and is suggested to represent an enhancement of aposematic coloration. Mllerian mimicry might also be involved, for the species whose adults have pale legs are sympatric over much of their respective ranges. On the other hand, melanization is hypothesized to correlate with a change in habitat from clearings and open forests to closed canopy forests, where selection for aposematy may be less intense. The geographical history of Progaleritina is reconstructed based on distribution patterns of extant species, and hypothesized effects of a drying and cooling climate during the late Tertiary and Pleistocene. The present distribution pattern indicates six refugia (one in each of eastern and western United States, eastern and western Mxico, the Mexican highlands, and the West Indies), and the inference is made that the first four are of long-standing duration.
25078329|At least 13 species of Neoconocephalus occur in the Greater and Lesser Antilles, Trinidad, Panama, and the Florida Keys. Three occur throughout the area: triops (L.), affinis (Beauvois), and maxillosus (Fabricius). The remainder are more restricted: aduncus (Scudder), Cuba; carbonarius (Redtenbacher), Cuba and Grand Cayman; pipulus n. sp., Jamaica; pinicola n. sp., Hispaniola; punctipes (Redtenbacher), St. Vincent, Trinidad, Panama, Jamaica; occidentalis (Saussure), Hispaniola; retusiformis n. sp., Puerto Rico and Mona; susurratus n. sp., Trinidad; saturatus (Griffini), St. Vincent, Grenada, Trinidad; and spiza n. sp., Panama. Sympatric species were initially distinguished by the characteristic calling songs of the males. Wing-stroke rates at 25 C ranged from 8 to 260 per second; calls of some species were regularly interrupted at intervals of 0.2-2 sec. Museum specimens can be identified by gross morphology and by details of the fastigium and stridulatory file. Of the 36 names available for Caribbean Neoconocephalus (all proposed prior to 1900), only 8 are here considered valid. Newly classed as nomina dubia are Conocephalus nieti Saussure, C. prasinus Redtenbacher, C. simulator Walker, and C. tristani Saussure and Pictet. The following new synonymy is proposed: Conocephalus aztecus Saussure and Pictet = N. affinis; C. bilineatus Thunberg = N. triops; C. surinamensis Redtenbacher = N. punctipes; C. adustus Redtenbacher = C. carbonarius.
25078333|The New World genus Neurocolpus Reuter (Heteroptera: Miridae) is revised and 19 species are recognized. Eleven nominal species are redescribed; the species brevicornis, clavatus, fuscicornis, knighti, longicornis, ornatus, pumilus, and scutellatus are described as new; rubidus Knight is placed in synonymy under nubilus (Say); and chiricahuae Knight, obsoletus Knight, and stitti Knight are synonymized under montanus Knight. New status is given and the holotype identified for flavescens Blatchley, neotypes are chosen for mexicanus Distant and nubilus (Say), and a lectotype is designated for simplex Van Duzee. Discussions of host plant relationships, economic implications, color variation, distribution, morphology, and phylogenetic relationships within the genus and with other genera are provided. Photographs of most adults, figures of 1st antennal segments, selected male and female genitalia, and general morphology, and a key to all species should help facilitate accurate identification.
25078334|This study includes 40 species; 33 are described as new. The history of the genus, morphology, taxonomic characters, and methods are discussed. Three keys are included: species of America north of Mexico; species of the Caribbean; and species of Mexico, Central and South America. Two full-figure illustrations and drawings of the male genitalia of 30 species supplement the species descriptions. The junior homonym Cryptorama dufaui minuta (Pic) is renamed C. dufaui pici White, and the subspecies Cryptorama vorticale minor Fall is raised to species level. Four taxa whose types have not been seen are treated under Uncertain Status.
25078338|The species of the genus Isonychia Eaton (Oligoneuriidae) of North and Central America are revised, of which eighteen species are recognized, 3 (I. berneri, I. edmundsi, I. hoffmani) are described as new, and 11 species names (I. bicolor Walker = I. christina Traver, I. circe Traver, I. fattigi Traver, I. harperi Traver, I. matilda Traver, I. pacoleta Traver, I. sadleri Traver; I. sicca (Walsh) = I. manca (Eaton); I. georgiae McDunnough = I. annulata Traver, I. thalia Traver; I. similis Traver = I. aurea Traver) are placed in synonymy. Isonychia campestris McDunnough is recognized as a full species. A Neotype is designated for I. arida (Say). Two subgenera, Isonychia s.s. and Prionoides Kondratieff and Voshell are recognized on the basis of adult and nymphal characteristics. Isonychia s.s. includes 4 species groups based on the male imago: bicolor group with 4 species (I. bicolor, I. rufa McDunnough, I. tusculanensis Berner, I. velma Needham), arida group with a single species (I. arida (Say)), sicca group containing 5 species (I. berneri, I. campestris, I. edmundsi, I. intermedia (Eaton), I. sicca), and diversa group with a single species (I. diversa Traver). The subgenus Prionoides includes 7 species: I. georgiae, I. hoffmani, I. obscura Traver, I. sayi Burks, I. serrata Traver, I. similis. Isonychia notata Traver, known only from the holotype, is of uncertain status. A discussion of the nomenclatural history of the genus and each species is included. Many characters used in the past as specific criteria were found to be related to water temperature and geography. The life histories of two populations of Isonychia (I.) bicolor and one population of Isonychia (P.) obscura are presented. Additional life history information is included for I. (I.) tusculanensis and I. (P.) serrata.
25078339|The family Solvidae is revised for the Nearctic region. Two species new to science are described. Keys to species, with descriptions and distributions of each Nearctic species, are provided.
25078343|Thirty genera of East African catantopine grasshoppers are redefined using male phallic morphology. Eleven genera are new, while one (subgenus Vitticatantops Sjstedt) is restored from synonymy under Catantops Schaum, 1853 and raised to full generic rank. Three genera are synonymised. The type genus for the subfamily Catantopinae Catantops Schaum, 1853 is fully revised and contains fourteen species of which five are new and four restored to full species status. Catantops momboensis Sj. contains two subspecies, subsp. centralis being new. The remaining twenty-nine genera contain 137 species, of which four are new. Five species are newly synonymised. The genus Catantops sensu lato has been broken up into a number of clearly defined generic groups and previously published species allocated to them. The geographical range of each genus is indicated. Several have a previously unsuspected extra-African distribution.
25078344|Thirty-nine species are provisionally included in Neoporus Guignot; some of these name may be synonyms. The 39 species are placed in nine species groups (number of species in parentheses): aulicus (1), vitiosus (1), vittatipennis (6), venustus (2), dilitatus (3), clypealis (7), solitarius (3), blanchardi (6) and undulatus (9). A key is presented to help separate the groups. The vittatipennis group is diagnosed and described. The six species in this group are: H. vittatipennis, pratus (NEW SPECIES), tennetum (NEW SPECIES), latocavus (NEW SPECIES), mellitus, and dixianus. A key is provided to help identify the species, and each species is described, diagnosed, and figured. Three species complexes within this species group are tentatively proposed: 1) H. vittatipennis and H. pratus; 2) H. tennetum and H. latocavus; 3) H. mellitus and H. dixianus. The vittatipennis group is most diverse in eastern North America, especially southeastern portions.
25078345|The genus Oxyethira Eaton of the family Hydroptilidae (Trichoptera) is redefined to include a total of 98 species. Species of the genera Argyrobothrus, Dampfitrichia, Gnathotrichia, Loxotrichia, Oxytrichia, Stenoxyethira, and Trichoglene are included as these are considered to be synonymous with Oxyethira. Subgenera are defined for the first time, with a total of 10 being described. Descriptions and illustrations are given for representative species of each subgenus. The morphology of both adult males and females is reviewed, followed by a phylogenetic discussion of the genus and its constituent subgenera and groups.
25078350|Descriptions, illustrations and taxonomic keys for tiger beetle larvae of the Sulphur Springs Valley of Arizona are presented. Most species are described for the first time. Others are species for which previous identifications were incorrect, incomplete or of different subspecies. Included are all three larval instars of Cicindela obsoleta Say, C. pulchra Say, C. horni Schaupp, C. marutha Dow, C. pimeriana LeConte, C. fulgoris Casey, C. punctulata Oliver, C. nigrocoerulea LeConte, C. tenuisignata W. Horn, C. haemorrhagica LeConte, C. ocellata Klug, C. debilis Bates, C. lemniscata LeConte, and C. viridisticta Bates; first and second instars only of C. willistoni LeConte; and third instars only of C. sedecimpunctata Klug and Amblychila baroni Rivers. Taxonomic characters for cicindelid larvae are reviewed. Morphometric tables, ontogenetic changes and natural history information on the Sulphur Springs Valley species are included.
25078351|Montezumina is a predominantly neotropical genus of bush katydids with one species, M. modesta, the sole representative in the United States. In this taxonomic revision, 16 new species and one new subspecies are described for the first time, with 25 species now listed for the genus. Figures of morphological features of all species are included, and identification keys of both males and females are provided.
25078355|The genus Spelobia, including 3 subgenera and 41 North American species, is revised. The following new species are described in the subgenus Spelobia: S. pulliforma, S. robinsoni, S. depilicercus, S. tufta, S. bispina, S. tuberculosa, S. quadrata, S. ovata, S. peltata, S. curvipecta, S. beadyi, S. fungivora, S. sejuncta, S. curvata, S. aciculata, S. brunealata, S. quinata, S. bumamma, S. frustrilabris, S. brevipteryx, S. rimata, S. multihama, S. acadiensis, S. hirsuta, S. mexicana, S. nudiprocta. The following species are newly recorded from North America: S. pappi, Rohcek, S. pseudosetaria (Duda), S. luteilabris (Rondani), S. bifrons (Stenhammar), S. clunipes (Meigen). The following new synonymies are established: S. bifrons for Leptocera elegans Spuler, S. luteilabris for Leptocera carinata Spuler, S. occidentalis (Adams) for Leptocera curtipennis Spuler, and Pullimosina longicosta (Spuler) for Leptocera nidicola Richards. A key to species is provided. The phylogeny and biogeography of Spelobia (Spelobia) are discussed.
25078356|The 21 species of the venustus group are assigned to the venustus, morbillosus, and flavus species subgroups. Various synapomorphous characters are cited as evidence for the monophyly of these groups and for partial reconstruction of the phylogenetic relationships of the species within each group. The venustus group itself is hypothesized to be monophyletic on the basis of various synapormorphous characters, including the apparent association of the species with members of the plant family Malpighiaceae (genera Galphimia, Malpighia, Mascagnia, and Stigmatophyllum). The species are primarily neotropical in distribution, being recorded from the southernmost United States (Arizona, Florida, Texas) southward to Brazil. Diagnoses of each of the species subgroups and of each of the species accompany a key to the species and detailed descriptions of each species as aids to identification. Illustrations of important morphological features and statements of geographical distributions augmented by maps are also presented. Fifteen species, A. aptus, A. beccus, A. bohemani, A. championi, A. deliqulus, A excelus, A. excultus, A. hastigerus, A. infletus, A. malpighiae, A. pravus, A. quisqueyensis, A. schwarzi, A. vulturiscus, and A. zagluli, are described as new; A. tridens Fall is placed in NEW SYNONYMY under A. caracasius Faust.
25078360|The following described species are recognized as occurring within the boundaries of the United States and Canada: Cryptorhopalum triste LeConte, C. rubidum Beal, C. uteanum Casey, C. apicale (Mannerheim), C. fusculum LeConte, C. obesulum Casey (= C. dorcatomoides Casey, NEW SYNONYM), C. floridanum Casey, C. ruficorne LeConte, C. poorei Beal, C. haemorrhoidale LeConte, C. pruddeni Casey, C. reversum Casey, C. balteatum LeConte, C. filitarse Casey, and C. haplotes Beal. The following new species are described: C. vernale from Arizona, C. focale from Florida, C. woolfi from Arizona, C. aspilon from Arizona, C. sapindi from Arizona, and C. distichia from Arizona. Redescriptions with figures of male terminalia are provided for those species which have not been the subject of a recent revision. Lectotype designations are given where necessary. A key to species of adult males is provided and a key to adult females of the Quadripunctatum group. Known synonymies are listed. Flower hosts, geographic distributions, and other biological information are given insofar as known.
25078361|Subgenus Oxyethira of the micro-caddisfly genus Oxyethira is reviewed. Descriptions and illustrations are provided for the 31 known species of the subgenus along with a checklist of species, phylogeny and biogeographical discussion.
25078362|The genera of living ants are listed alphabetically under tribes and the tribes phylogenetically under subfamilies. Ten subfamilies, 61 tribes and 303 genera are recognized. The authors' disagreements (based in part on larvae) with other current systems are explained in notes.
25078363|The genus Agathilla is revised, with descriptions, diagnoses, and a key provided for two new species in addition to the three previously known. The phylogenetic relationships of the genus are discussed.
25078367|In a nine year study of the benthic environment of southeastern Lake Michigan, 90 taxa of Chironomidae were collected. Of these, 20 were present in sufficient quantities to provide information on densities, yearly population fluctuations, relationships to water depths, correlations with sediment types, growth (based on instars present), and emergence periods. Chironomus fluviatilis-gr. and Saetheria tylus were the numerically dominant species followed by Chironomus anthracinus-gr., Procladius spp., Cladotanytarsus sp., Cryptochironomus sp. 2, Polypedilum scalaenum, and Robackia demeijerei. Average density was greatest between 4-8 m deep (819
25078369|The two morphologically distinct populations currently considered as the subspecies Melanoplus femur-rubrum femur-rubrum (DeGeer) and Melanoplus femurrubrum propinquus Scudder show a parapatric distribution. Intermediate forms are rare in collections and tension zones where the two meet are narrow. Specimens taken from either side of the zone show no influence of genes from the other population. It is recommended that the two populations be considered as distinct species.
25078370|The morphological differences among adult Libellula vibrans Fabricius, L. axilena Westwood, and L. incesta Hagen are discussed and a key is presented.
25078375|The taxonomy and systematics of the Neotropical long-horned caddisfly genus Brachysetodes Schmid are reviewed. Illustrations, synonymies, diagnoses, and distribution maps are provided for each species. Keys to the genera of Neotropical Leptocerinae and to males and females of the 10 Brachysetodes species are included. The larval and pupal stages of Brachysetodes forcipatus Schmid are described and illustrated for the first time; the larva possesses a unique set of heavy setae on the dorsal sclerite of abdominal segment IX and the dorsal plate of the anal prolegs; both features are diagnostic for the genus. A phylogeny of the species of Brachysetodes is proposed; two species, Brachysetodes bifidus Schmid and B. major Schmid, are included in the genus as species incertae sedis.
25078380|The family Lachesillidae is divided into two subfamilies: Lachesillinae n. subf. (for the genera Lachesilla Westwood and Nadleria Badonnel and Garca Aldrete) and Eolachesillinae n. subf. (for all other genera of the family). The latter subfamily is divided into two tribes: Eolachesillini n. tr. (for the genus Eolachesilla Badonnel) and Graphocaeciliini n. tr. (for the genera Anomopsocus Roesler and Graphocaecilius Enderlein s. lat.). The genus Graphocaecilius is restricted and six new genera are erected: Antilachesilla, Mesolachesilla, Nanolachesilla, Notolachesilla, Prolachesilla, and Tricholachesilla. The following new species are described: Graphocaecilius peruvianus (Per), G. pictus (Colombia), Antilachesilla insulana (generotype; Puerto Rico), Mesolachesilla aragua (generotype; Venezuela). Nanolachesilla chelata (USA: Florida), N. haitiana (Haiti), N. hirundo (generotype; USA: Florida), N. hirundoides (Mexico), Notolachesilla avispana (generotype; Per), Prolachesilla callangana (Per), P. mediana (Costa Rica), P. mexicana (generotype; Guatemala, Mexico, Panam), P. pallida (Mexico, Panam), P. panamense (Costa Rica, Panam), P. pilosa (Costa Rica), P. poblana (Mexico), P. terricola (USA: New Mexico, Colorado), P. ticana (Costa Rica), Tricholachesilla alata (Colombia), and T. vampira (generotype; panam). Type material of Graphocaecilius trypetoides Enderlein, the type species of its genus, has been lost. This is a Peruvian species with extensive forewing banding. Our concept of this genus is based on the banded-winged South American species G. interpretatus Roesler (Brazil) and G. pictus n. sp., which appear to be closely related to G. trypetoides. Other previously known species included in this genus are G. enderleini Williner (Bolivia), G. lactea (Williner) (Bolivia, transferred from Lachesilla), and G. vartyi Turner (Colombia, Venezuela). G. nanciae Turner (Jamaica, Mexico), and G. normalis Mockford (Cuba) are transferred to Nanolachesilla. Two species are for the present incertae sedis: G. luridus Enderlein and G. citramams Williner. The latter species will probably go to the genus Dasydemella (Amphipsocidae). The genus Anomopsocus is represented by the temperate North American generotype, A. amabilis (Walsh), and two tropical American species. These two were previously treated under one name, A. radiolosus (Roesler). The type of that species is lost and we find no basis at present for assigning the name. A brief phylogenetic treatment of the graphocaeciliine genera is included.
25078381|The male of Microcentrum louisianum, originally described from a single adult specimen, is redescribed documenting variation in important taxomomic characters. The female is described for the first time. Characteristics separating this species from the closely related M. retinerve are summarized.
25078382|Larvae in the genera Mystrium, Cryptopone, Leptogenys and Simopelta are described and/or figured. The younger larvae of Mystrium and Simopelta are given special attention. The mature larva of Simopelta is described for the first time. References to ponerine larvae in the literature are cited.
25078386|Information on synonymy, geographic distribution, seasonal distribution, anatomy, behavior, and agricultural importance of the species of Cyaneolytta Pringuey is presented in the form of an annotated catalog of species and a bionomic summary. The nomenclature of recorded localities is modernized. Lytta signifrons Fahraeus is designated as the type-species of the genus. Lytta gigas Fabricius, 1792, and Epicauta janthina Mklin, 1875, are treated as junior synonyms of Cantharis gigas Olivier, 1790. The zoogeography of the genus is discussed in some detail, with particular reference to the role of larval phoresy on other insects as a mechanism of dispersal.
25078387|Six species of Hartigia are known from North America. The genus occurs throughout southern Canada and the United States south to Chiapas, Mexico. Larvae are stem borers in Rosa and Rubus. Hartigia riesi, n. sp., is described from British Columbia, Washington, and Oregon; Cephus bifasciatus Cresson and C. fasciatus Cresson are new synonyms of H. cressoni (Kirby). Hartigia bicincta (Provancher) and H. mexicana (Gurin) from eastern North America and Mexico, respectively, are considered valid species, not as synonyms of H. trimaculata (Say). The species are keyed, described, and illustrated.
25078391|The study includes a redescription of the genera Meridialaris and Massartellopsis, and the eggs are described for the first time. Adults of four species of Meridialaris, M. biobionica (Ulmer) M. chiloeense (Demoulin) [= M. penai (Demoulin), new synonymy], M. diguillina (Demoulin), and M. laminata (Ulmer) [= M. illapelli (Demoulin), new synonymy], are redescribed. The nymphs of M. chiloeense, M. diguillina and M. laminata are described for the first time. Three new species, M. inflata, M. spina, and M. tintinnabula are described. Meridialaris inflata is described from male imago, M. spina from nymph, and M. tintinnabula from nymph and male imago. Massartellopsis is a monotypic genus. The subimagos of M. irrarrazavali are redescribed, and the nymph and imagos are described for the first time. Illustrated keys for the nymphs and imagos, and geographic distribution maps are presented for each species. Notes on the biology of the species are included. A phylogenetic analysis of Meridialaris is proposed.
25078397|Based on recently acquired information about Trichopselaphus, a revised key to the species is presented, and two new Lower Middle American species are described in terms of features of adults: T. stockwelli (type locality - PANAM, Madden Dam); and T. woldai (type locality - PANAMA, Volcan Chiriqui, Fortuna). Collection records from light traps reveal that maximum flight activity for adults of T. woldai is during the period April to June, at Fortuna. At the same locality, adults of T. subiridescens Chaudior exhibit a different pattern of activity, without a sharp annual peak. Discovery and study of previously unknown males of T. magnificus Ball and T. gloriosus Ball reveals striking secondary sexual dimorphism (T. magnificus) and its loss (T. gloriosus). Mensural data for males of T. magnificus and T. gloriosus are consistent with previously reported mensural data for females of these species. Such data for T. stockwelli (T. magnificus group) and T. woldai (T. subiridescens group) are consistent with previously reported data for the T. magnificus and T. subiridescens groups, respectively. Comparison of structural features of adults of Trichopselaphus with members of other selenophorine genera provides the basis for inferring that Stenomorphus Dejean is the sister group of the former genus, and that Anisocnemus Chaudoir is the sister group of both of these genera. Together, these three genera comprise the Stenomorphus assemblage of the selenophorine Harpalini. In the revised reconstructed phylogeny, modified herein to include the two new species, grouping and sequence of species is as follows: T. magnificus group - stockwelli-gloriosus, magnificus; T. subiridescens group - erwinorum Ball, woldai-meyeri, minor Bates-subiridescens. Based on the reconstructed phylogeny and geographical distribution of the extant taxa, the following zoogeographic reconstruction is proposed. The genus Trichopselaphus arose in South America, probably in early Tertiary time, prior to connection of this continent with Central America. Northward dispersal of the ancestral stock of the extant species led to development of two lineages: the primarily South American T. magnificus group, and the primarily Middle American T. subiridescens group. The differentiation pattern of the Middle American T. subiridescens lineage reflects in part the middle Tertiary isolation of Lower Middle America from Nuclear Middle America, with T. woldai being only in the former area and its sister species, T. meyeri, only in the latter. Similarly, T. minor seems to be confined to Nuclear Middle America. Its sister species, T. subiridescens, became widespread, ranging now from Nuclear Middle America to cis-Andean tropical South America. Originally, the latter species may have been the Lower Middle American counterpart of the T. subiridescens-minor stock. Geographical details of the T. magnificus group have not been worked out. However, it seems likely that T. stockwelli either relatively recently dispersed from South America to Lower Middle America, or is a Middle American isolate whose ancestral stock crossed a sea barrier in Late Miocene time.
25078398|The 66 West Indian species of Platynus are revised, with a key to species, illustrations, diagnoses, and descriptions provided. New combinations are proposed for 55 species previously placed in Colpodes. Ten species are herein described as new: P. eupunctatus n.sp., P. parallelosomus n.sp., and P. rastafarius n.sp. of Jamaica; P. fractilateralis n.sp. and P. metallosomus n.sp. of Hispaniola; P. glaucipennis n.sp., P. paramemnonius n.sp. and P. pseudoellipticus of Dominica; P. luciae n.sp. of St. Lucia; and P. punctinotus n.sp. of St. Vincent. P. transcibao (n. status) is elevated from subspecific status, and considered distinct from P. biramosus. P. darlingtoni grandior, P. d. obtusior, and P. d. acutior are analyzed geographically, and all subspecies are synonymized with P. darlingtoni because of extensive geographical overlap of the various forms. Based on new material, P. jamaicae fortior and P. biramosus uniramosus are synonymized with their nominate forms. Lectotypes are designated for P. ellipticus (Chd.), P. lherminieri (Chd.), and P. elongatus (Chd.). Colpodes mannerheimi Chd. is considered a nomen dubium. The fauna is classified in 8 species groups: the bromeliarum group of Jamaica (12 spp.); the cinchonae group of Jamaica (4 spp.); the jaegeri group of Hispaniola and Cuba (11 spp.); the laeviceps group of Hispaniola (5 spp.); the fractilinea group of Hispaniola (6 spp.); the ovatulus group (6 spp.), widespread in Mexico, Central America, and in the Antilles on Hispaniola, Cuba, and the Bahamas; the ellipticus group with 4 species on Guadeloupe, Martinique, and Dominica; the memnonius group with 7 species distributed in the Lesser Antilles and one widespread mainland and Greater Antillean species; and the baragua group of Cuba (10 spp.). Of the 66 species, 63 are single island endemics.
25078399|The work on sawflies by H.G. Dyar is summarized. Information for each of Dyar's rearings is incorporated from his unpublished notebooks, published information, and reared adults. The 28 new taxa proposed by Dyar are listed, and lectotypes are chosen where necessary. Indices are given to the taxa and host plants treated by Dyar.
25078403|Five named species presently placed in the genus Capnia are placed in the genus Capnura Banks and two new species are described. Generic diagnoses, descriptions, figures, and keys are presented to facilitate identification. A cladistic analysis is presented including characters used and a cladogram. The species placed in this genus include Capnura venosa, C. elevata, C. wanica, C. fibula, C. manitoba, and two new species, C. intermontana and C. anas.
25078408|The neotropical genus Hoplicnema Matthews is revised. Twenty-three new species are described, and the only previously recognized species, H. sallaei Matthews, is redescribed and a lectotype is designated. The genus is redescribed and taxonomically useful structures are discussed and illustrated. The taxonomic history of Hoplicnema is reviewed and the biology of its species is summarized. Phylogenetic analysis indicates that the genus is monophyletic and partially resolves intrageneric relationships. A key to recognized species is included, and for each species the known distribution is mapped and the aedeagus is figured. New species are: H. affluens, H. cubensis, H. darlingtoni, H. hesperia, H. impunctata, H. insularis, H. jamaicensis, H. media, H. minima, H. spiniventer, and H. thomasi from the Caribbean region; H. fundita, H. lata, H. matthewsi, H. maya, H. panamensis, H. schwarzi, and H. woldai from Middle America; H. amplissima, H. aquilonaria, H. brasilensis, and H. debrae from South America.
25078409|Pteroptyx species of the 1969-70 Alpha Helix expedition to New Guinea were characterised by their patterns of light production. Seven new Pteroptyx species, all characterised by light pattern data as well as conventional morphological criteria, are described. Ballantyne and McLean's (1970) Pteroptyx cribellata "complex" is shown to consist of 5 cryptic species. A second specimen of P. minor is described. New morphological characters which relate to the possible development of a 'copulatory clamp' in species other than P. valida are described. Structure of what may be a key character in Lucioline taxonomy, the aedeagal sheath, is described and used for the first time in Lampyrid taxonomy. Discussion presented on the wider relationships of Pteroptyx in the Luciolinae deals with the occurrence of certain morphological variations throughout the subfamily. Functional interpretations are given wherever possible. Lucioline taxonomy is discussed briefly. Dual origins for Pteroptyx are postulated, and a format given for the recommended subdivision of this group into 2 categories.
25078410|Lucioline morphology of males, females and larvae (much of it described for the first time), is related to function, or suggestions for functional uses made; behaviour, including light production and the mating process, is related where possible to the appropriate structural adaptations; an overview of the present taxonomic status in the Luciolinae is presented with suggestions for further subdivisions.
25078414|Descriptions and illustrations of structural features of adults, keys, and geographical distribution provide the basis for characterizing the 24 known species of the autochthonous and predominantly Neotropical genus, Amblygnathus Dejean, 1829 (type species-A. cephalotes Dejean, 1829). The 15 new species and two new subspecies are: A. interior (type locality-Mxico, state of Sinaloa, Mazatlan); A. panamensis (Panam, Canal Zone, Ancon); A. fricki (Panam, Canal Zone, Fort Clayton); A. woodruffi (Honduras, La Lima); A. tikal (Guatemala, Department of Del Peten, Tikal); A. whiteheadi (Mxico, Chiapas, north of Ocozocuautla); A. gilvipes gilvipes (Brazil, state of Bahia, Chapada); A.g. peruanus (Peru, Department of Huanuco, Rio Yuyapichis); A. xingu (Brazil, state of Mato Grosso, Parque Nacional Xingu); A. braziliensis (Brazil, Rio de Janeiro); A. geminatus (Surinam, Onverdacht, Billiton); A. darlingtoni (Colombia, Magdalena, Rio Frio); A. bicolor (Brazil, state of Par, Santarem); A. gigas (Brazil, state of Mato Grosso, Vera); and A. reichardti (Brazil, state of So Paulo, Salesoplis). New synonyms are the following (junior synonyms in parentheses): A. mexicanus Bates, 1882 (= Selenophorus delumbis Casey, 1914); and A. subtinctus (LeConte, 1866) (= Selenophorus angulatus Casey, 1914). Transfer of Amblygnathus obscuricornis Waterhouse, 1845 to Selenophorus Dejean, 1829 is confirmed, and A. ruficollis Putzeys, 1878 is also placed in Selenophorus. A South American species whose adults have a setose dorsal surface but resemble Amblygnathus in habitus and head structure, is described as a new species in a new monobasic genus: Platymetopsis overali (type locality-Brazil, state of Para, Tracuetua Braganca). The genus Platymetopsis may be at the base of the New World Selenophorus group of genera, i.e., sister group of the ancestral stock of Athrostictus + Selenophorus branches, or it may represent a separate stock of Selenophori in the New World. Its relationships not being clear, this genus is classified incertae sedis in the Selenophorus group of genera. Based principally on a phylogenetic interpretation of character states of the male genitalia, the species of Amblygnathus are arrayed in groups and subgroups: 1., the Middle American-North American A. iripennis group-A. iripennis subgroup (one species), A. mexicanus subgroup (one species), A. puncticollis subgroup (six species), and A. subtinctus subgroup (three species); 2., the South American A. suturalis group-A. gilvipes subgroup (one species and two subspecies); A. suturalis subgroup (three species), and A. darlingtoni subgroup (three species); and 3., the A. cephalotes group-A. corvinus subgroup (one species), and A. cephalotes subgroup (five species). Similarities in structure of the male genitalia hypothesized to be synapotypic indicate that Amblygnathus is related to a complex of species of Selenophorus, designated as the "laminate species group," on the basis of common possession of a lamina, and including the subgenus Celiamorphus Casey, 1914, the S. seriatoporus group, the S. amaroides group, and the monobasic S. ruficollis group. Using this complex as out-group, the phylogeny of the species of Amblygnathus was reconstructed, indicating that the A. iripennis group is the sister taxon of the A. suturalis + A. cephalotes groups. A numerical analysis of the re-coded data, using PAUP and MacClade computer programs, indicates that the reconstructed phylogeny based on mental analysis is only partially supported, and that there are many other equally likely reconstructions, some of which are more parsimonious. Examination of the consensus trees and one of the short trees most similar to the tree resulting from the mental analysis shows that the reasons for such re-arrangements are themselves weak, or are contradicted by additional data used in the mental analysis but not in the numerical analysis. Consequently, the mental reconstruction is used as the basis for classifying the species of Amblygnathus and for evolutionary considerations, including the geographical history of the genus. The ecological aspects of the origin of Amblygnathus are postulated to have involved development of adaptations necessary for: 1, life in wet habitats (i.e., in leaf litter, in the vicinity of swamps and marshes); and 2, eating larger or harder seeds, or other tough plant tissue, and inference based on the enlarged heads of adults, with consequent increased area for origin of larger mandibular muscles. With these modifications, the ancestral stock of Amblygnathus entered an ecological zone different from that of the laminate species of Selenophorus, whose members live in drier lowland habitats. One species, Amblygnathus interior, seems to have returned to a habitat more like that of the laminate species of Selenophorus, i.e., drier litter in forests, but in mountains rather than in lowlands. A reconstructed geographical history of Amblygnathus hypothesizes an early Tertiary vicariance event that separated in Central America the ancestor of the A. iripennis group from the South American ancestral stock of the A. suturalis + cephalotes groups. Correlation of geological events during the Tertiary Period with the reconstructed phylogeny and present geographical distribution patterns indicates that the ancestral stocks of the subgroups of the A. iripennis group were variously isolated in southeastern United States, on the Atlantic and Pacific versants of Middle America, and on what were then islands of Lower Central America. Isolation is postulated to have provided the interruption in genetic contact that was necessary to permit differentiation to occur. Following initial isolations, sympatry among the various stocks was achieved through subsequent dispersal of the species. The single Greater Antillean endemic species of Amblygnathus, A. puncticollis (Putzeys, 1878) is postulated to have reached the islands by flight of volant adults from the mainland of Nuclear Central America.
25078419|The Anthonomus albolineatus group contains 26 Neotropical species, some of which are known to have hosts in the plant genus Croton (Euphorbiaceae). Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species are described and illustrated, and a key to the species is presented. Fifteen new species are described: A. belti Nicaragua), A. inobseptus (Panam), A. caceresensis (Brazil), A. quechpini (Mxico), A. coyamensis (Mxico), A. fortunatus (Brazil), A. limitaris (Costa Rica), A. maltanza (Mxico), A. altamnis (Mxico), A. oraapis (Dominican Republic), A. opous (Brazil), A. rupus Brazil), A. imbifidus (Costa Rica), A. wickhami (Mxico) and A. chernatris (Venezuela). Lectotypes are designated for A. albolineatus Champion, A. canescens Champion, A. incanus Champion, A. nigropictus Champion and A. postscutellatus Hustache. Anthonomus canescens Champion is placed in new synonymy under A. albolineatus Champion.
25078420|The New World genus Neohaemonia Szkessy is considered distinct from the Old World genus Macroplea Samouelle on the basis of 24 adult character states by which they differ, and their long and independent geologic history. A tribal classification of the member genera of Donaciinae is proposed: Haemoniini Chen is re-erected, comprised of Macroplea and Neohaemonia, and N. voronovae Medvedev, which probably requires its own genus; Plateumarini and Donaciini are not diagnosed, but are tentatively recognized for purposes of phylogenetic analysis. A key distinguishes among five species of Neohaemonia recognized. Each species is characterized by sclerites of the male endophallus and female bursa copulatrix, and other genitalic structures. N. flohri (Jacoby) and N. melsheimeri (Lacordaire) are removed from synonymy with N. nigricornis (Kirby). Two species are described as new: N. flagellata (CNC Holotype #19494, Type Locality - Canada, Manitoba, Brokenhead River, crossing Hwy. #15, 20 km. E. of Anola), and N. minnesotensis (CNC Holotype #19495, Type Locality - United States, Minnesota, Maplewood State Park). Natural history data associated with preserved specimens, or obtained by the author's collecting, indicate specimens of Neohaemonia overwinter as adults, and are restricted to host plants of the genus Potamogeton. Reconstructed phylogeny indicates the following relationships in two groups of species: {[nigricornis + (flohri + melsheimeri)] + (minnesotensis + flagellata)}. It is concluded that a single vicariance event, Late Oligocene orogeny of the Western Cordillera, simultaneously divided the ancestor of one species group into eastern and western vicariants, and the other lineage trichotomously into eastern, western, and south-central Mxico vicariants. An ancestral species of Neohaemonia must have existed on the North American continent in the Late Cretaceous, and been divided at that time by transgression of the Mid-Continental Seaway, isolating vicariants on the American part of the Eurasian and Euramerican land masses. Both lineages introgressed following regression of the Seaway, and Neohaemonia has probably remained isolated from the Palaearctic since then. Many temperate North American chrysomelids show distribution patterns similar to Neohaemonia and other donaciines. Ancestors of species-groups of other genera of Donaciinae and many other temperate chrysomelids must have become isolated in North America at times similar to Neohaemonia, and are therefore of comparable age (but not taxonomic rank). Diversity of Neohaemonia can thus be compared with other donaciines, and the genus Chrysomela at their species-group level. Rate of diversification of Neohaemonia is not unusual, rather, it is among the fastest (0.05 species per my, compared with a range of 0.01-0.08 for other genera). The age and rates of evolution of Neohaemonia and some species-groups of other genera are comparable, but Neohaemonia has diverged structurally more from its ancestor, than have other donaciine groups. Speciation rates are not directly comparable among groups with vastly differing geographic histories; rates of diversification which are characteristic of specific biogeographic patterns should be sought after, rather than of biologically diverse groups of organisms as a whole.
25078426|The Old World genus Cylindrothorax Escherich is cataloged in a format that includes citation of all published references containing original information. Data on geographic distribution, seasonal distribution of the adult stage, diel distribution of adult activity, food plants, and other aspects of bionomics are analyzed. The genus contains 74 species, divided among 22 species groups. It ranges from Madagascar and Africa through the Near East to India, Burma, and Thailand. Adults, some of which tend to be nocturnal, have been recorded feeding on feral plants of the families Aizoaceae, Caesalpiniaceae, Zygophyllaceae, and Compositae and cultivated plants of the families Leguminosae, Malvaceae, and Gramineae, including several major vegetable and cereal crops. Adults of several species of the genus are known to blister humans, and cantharidin has been extracted from those of two species. Despite frequent reference in the literature to species as larval predators of grasshopper eggs, there appears to be no reliable information on the larval stage of the genus. The following nomenclatural changes are proposed: Cylindrothorax spurcaticollis (Haag-Rutenberg) is a junior synonym of C. picticollis (Fairmaire) and not vice versa; C. bicolor (Fahraeus) is a junior synonym of C. bohemani (Pringuey) and not of Cantharis bohemani Mklin, a nomen nudum; Cylindrothorax reymondi Selander, new name, replaces C. pici Reymond, preoccupied by C. pici Kaszab; C. kaszabi Selander, new name, replaces C. bayeri (Pic, 1924), preoccupied by C. bayeri (Pic, 1914).
25078430|The systematics and taxonomy of the endemic Neotropical long-horned caddisfly genera Atanatolica Mosely and Grumichella Mller are reviewed (Trichoptera: Leptoceridae: Triplectidinae: Grumichellini). Complete diagnoses, descriptions, and illustrations are included for adult males, females, larvae, and pupae of both genera. Fourteen new species of Atanatolica are described: A. muyupampa, A. penai, and A. zongo from Bolivia; A. flinti from Brazil; A. aurea, A. caldas, A. choco, A. nigra, and A. nivea from Colombia; A. moselyi from Costa Rica; A. acuminata, A. cotopaxi, and A. manabi from Ecuador; and A. panamensis from Panama. Larvae are described and illustrated for six associated species (A. botosaneanui Flint, from Venezuela; A. cotopaxi; A. dominicana Flint, from the Lesser Antilles; A. flinti; A. manabi; and A. moselyi) and four unassociated species (designated Atanatolica species A-D). Atanatolica is composed of two species groups: the brasiliana group (brasiliana, flinti, and Atanatolica sp. A) and the dominicana group (all others). Adults of the four previously known species of Grumichella are redescribed, illustrated, (the males of G. rostrata Thienemann for the first time), and placed into two informal species groups: the pulchella group containing flaveola (Ulmer) and pulchella (Banks) and the rostrata group including aequiunguis Flint and rostrata. Descriptions and illustrations are included for the immatures of G. aequiunguis, G. flaveola and G. rostrata as well as eight unassociated larvae, designated Grumichella species A-H. Leptocella pulchella Banks 1910 is transferred to Grumichella, New Combination. The genus-group name Grumichinha Mller is relegated to the status of Nomen Nudum. Numerous synapomorphies supporting monophyly for the Grumichellini and its included genera are presented. The ditypic Australasian genus Triplexa Mosely is included in the Grumichellini.
25078431|Cylindrarctus Schaufuss is a member of the tribe Tychini restricted to the eastern United States. The genus contains five species described previously: Cylindrarctus americanus Schaufuss, Cylindrarctus crinifer Casey, Tychus ludovicianus Brendel, and Tychus longipalpis LeConte; and five new species, obrieni n. sp. from Florida, bicornis n. sp. from Texas, onaga n. sp. from Kansas, orientalis n. sp. from New York to Virginia, and fluvialis n. sp. from Florida to Texas. The genus is defined and a key to species presented. Character states are derived and polarized, and the relationships of the species are portrayed in a cladogram.
25078432|The world genera of Tychini are reviewed and defined, covering Lucifotychus Grigarick and Schuster (Nearctic), Hesperotychus Schuster and Marsh (Nearctic), Tychus Leach (Palearctic), Pselaphotychus Khnzorian (Palearctic), Tychomorphus Jeannel (Palearctic), Nearctitychus n. gen. (Nearctic), Paratychus Besuchet (Palearctic), Custotychus Park and Wagner (Nearctic), Ouachitychus n. gen. (Nearctic), Cylindrarctus Schaufuss (Nearctic), and Atychodea Reitter (Borneo, relictual Laurasian element). Characters are defined and polarized in a cladistic analysis, and the relationships of the genera are portrayed in a cladogram. Two genera formerly placed in or near the Tychini belong in other tribes: Mimoplectus Raffray in the Proterini, and Physoplectus Raffray in the Brachyglutini. Hylotychus Grigarick and Schuster is newly synonymized under Lucifotychus Park and Wagner, and Tychus eisenachi Park is newly placed as a synonym of Tychus sternalis Raffray. Tychus minor LeConte, T. spiculifer Casey, T. verticalis Casey, and T. pocahontas Casey are transferred to Custotychus. Tychus testaceus Casey is raised from synonymy of Tychus minor LeConte, with the former remaining in Lucifotychus and the latter transferred to Custotychus. Custotychus is raised from subgenus to genus. Nearctitychus n. gen. is based on Tychus sternalis Raffray, and Ouachitychus parvoculus n. gen., n. sp., is described from Arkansas.
25078437|The Platynus jaegeri species group is redefined to include the Antillean jaegeri, laeviceps, cinchonae, and ellipticus species groups of Liebherr (1987), and eight mainland species. The mainland members of the group are P. robustus (Chaudoir) of Chiapas, Mexico (= Colpodes sanchezi Mateu, new synonymy); P. stricticollis (Bates) known from Costa Rica to San Luis Potosi, Mexico; P. aeneosetosus, n. sp. and P. cyanodorsalis, n. sp., of Chiriqi Province, Panam; P. lineopunctatus, n. sp. and P. strictinotum, n. sp., of Guatemala; P. rubrofemoratus, n. sp., from Chiapas; and P. hamatus, n. sp., from Chiapas and Oaxaca, Mexico. A ninth mainland species, P. dilatipes, n. sp., is described from Chiapas, but is considered phylogenetically outside the jaegeri group. As currently defined, the jaegeri group is composed of 32 species. A species group diagnosis and a key to the mainland species described herein is provided. The geographic distributions of the mainland jaegeri group species are compatible with a vicariant origin of the Antillean species, with Antillean vicariance preceding diversification of species on the Isthmus of Panam. The consequences of differential character weighting for hypothesizing taxon-area relationships is investigated in one clade of four species. Phyletic size increase is demonstrated for the redefined jaegeri group.
25078438|The physical structure of male calling songs is recorded and analysed for nine species of false-leaf katydids (Pseudophyllinae, Tettigoniidae) from Ecuador. One new species from Pacific lowland rainforest, Docidocercus chlorops, is described. Redescriptions are provided for eight species. Keys permit identification of Ecuadorean species of Leurophyllum and Teleutias. Spectra are characterized by the emphasis of a single frequency and its harmonics. Carrier frequencies differ between species and even within the same genus. High audio and ultrasonic frequencies predominate. Four species have a suppressed fundamental carrier frequency accompanying a dominant second harmonic. One species frequency modulates during its pulse. Calls are remarkably brief and given infrequently, apparently as an adaptation to reduce song exploitation by bat predators. Pseudophylline ear morphology is distinctive. Sound reaches the rear of the tympana via a small spiracle, a small barrel-shaped vesicle, and an acoustic leg trachea of uniform diameter. In front it gains access through relatively large tympanal cavities. In the absence of the horn-shaped acoustic trachea typical of conocephalines and phaneropterines, pressure gradient mechanisms of localization may operate at the tympanal organ. The prominence of particular wavelengths in the songs may be explained as a way to match the resonant frequencies of cavities found in the acoustic tracheal system.
25078439|Xanthocaecilius new genus (Psocoptera: Caeciliidae) is characterized with Caecilius quillayute Chapman as generotype. Five species complexes are recognized. Two species of the quillayute complex (quillayute from western USA and western Canada and sommermanae Mockford from eastern USA and eastern Canada) are differentially diagnosed and seven species of the granulosus complex are described as new and keyed: anahuacensis (Mexico to Costa Rica), brevicornis (eastern Mexico), costaricensis (Costa Rica), eroticus (southern Brazil), granulosus (Mexico to Panama), macrops (Panama) and microphthalmus (northeastern Mexico). Within this complex the species anahuacensis, costaricensis, and microphthalmus constitute a subcomplex of closely similar forms in which morphological and morphometric methods, applied to all available local populations, were used for the recognition of species. In order to show the taxonomic position of Xanthocaecilius, a proposed classification of caeciliid genera is given in skeletal form.
25078440|In this revision of the genus Microbembex the number of species is raised to 11, with the description of 5 new ones. A key is presented, along with descriptions and figures. The genus is divided into 4 species groups: (1) argentina group, with argentina Brthes, catamarcae n.sp., mendozae n.sp., nasuta J. Parker, and platytarsis n.sp.; (2) patagonica group, with patagonica Brthes, australis n.sp., and bidens J. Parker; (3) uruguayensis group, with uruguayensis (Holmberg) and monstrosa n.sp. (including also difformis Handlirsch and gratiosa F. Smith from Brazil); (4) ciliata group, with ciliata (Fabricius) (including also sulphurea Spinola from Chile, and equalis J. Parker from Chile and Peru).
25078441|A new species of the genus Microcentrum is described from southwestern United States. Important contrasts are made with the partially sympatric species M. rhombifolium and M. californicum.
25078442|This article describes 10 species of myrmicine larvae that have accumulated since the publication of our 1986 supplement. The genus Lachnomyrmex has not been previously described; the other genera are Acanthomyrmex, Leptothorax, Rogeria and Tetramorium. Also included are references to myrmicine larvae in the literature. This treatise includes descriptions of larvae accumulated since the completion of our Ten-Year Supplement (1986) to our 1976 Memoir. It includes also references to myrmicine larvae found in the literature. Citations to our own publications are by year only. The terms used below for describing profiles and mandible shapes are defined in our 1976 Memoir and 1986 Ten-Year Supplement.
25078447|The genus Althaeus is defined, the type-species, A. hibisci (Olivier) is redescribed, and two species, Althaeus folkertsi, n.sp, and A. steineri, n.sp. are described. The genera Hibiscus, Kosteletskya and Abutilon in the family Malvaceae are hosts for these species. Notes on the life history of A. folkertsi are presented, the first instar larva is illustrated, and the head capsule, antenna, prothoracic plate, legs, and chaetotaxy of thoracic and abdominal segments are described.
25078451|Thirty-six species of Arge occur in the Western Hemisphere from Alaska and Canada south to Colombia. Larvae are external leaf feeders on Alnus, Betula, Carpinus, Corylus, Crataegus, Populus, Prunus, Quercus, Rhododendron, Rhus, Rosa, Salix, Sorbus, and Ulmus. The genus is divided into four species groups. Identification keys, descriptions, and illustrations are presented for adults and known larvae for each species. New species are A. arida (Arizona, Mexico), A. flavoalaris (Mexico), A. illuminata (Arizona, Texas, Mexico), A. longiserrula (Mexico), A. magnidens (Mexico), A. nugana (Mexico), A. rufomacula (Mexico), A. texana (Texas), A. quidia (eastern Canada and U.S.), A. rumica (California, Nevada), A. tumsua (eastern Canada and U.S.), A. azaleae (eastern U.S.), A. curvaria (western Canada and U.S.), A. parena (western Canada and U.S.), A. tavida (western Canada and U.S.), and A. willi (eastern Canada and U.S.).
25078496|Three genera of Rhynchaeninae are recognized in the New World. These are Isochnus Thomson (I. arcticus (Korotyaev) [new Nearctic record], I. flagellum (Ericson) [new Nearctic record], I. rufipes (LeConte), I. populicola (Silfverberg) [introduced; new Nearctic record], I. goniophallus sp.n. [type locality, 11 mi.N.E. Blue River, Lane-Linn Co., Oregon]); Tachyerges Schoenherr (T. niger (Horn), T. ephippiatus (Say), T. salicis (Linnaeus)); and, Rhynchaenus Clairville & Schellenberg (R. testaceus (Mller), R. griseus Sleeper, R. pallicornis (Say), R. mixtus (Blatchley), R. betuleti (Horn)). Isochnus is considered tentatively the sister-group of Rhamphus Clairville & Schellenberg; relationships of Tachyerges and Rhynchaenus are unclear but likely involve Orchestinus Morimoto, Orchestoides Roelofs and the Republic of South Africa species component of Rhynchaenus s.l.. Pseudendaeus Voss and Hyporhynchaenus Voss are elevated to generic status pending further study of phylogeny of world Rhynchaeninae. Curculio fagi Linnaeus is designated type species of Salius Schrank. Two genera traditionally placed as Rhynchaeninae are reassigned. Pedetinus Faust is removed to Erirhininae, tribe Derelomini; Laemorchestes Champion to Tachygoninae. The following information is given in detail for Isochnus, Tachyerges, and Rhynchaenus: synonymical list, notes about synonymy, diagnosis, description, comments on included species, and discussion of phylogenetic relationships. A key to the three genera of New World Rhynchaeninae is presented. The following information is given in detail for each species considered: synonymical list, notes about synonymy and type material, recognition features, description, geographic variation, distribution, natural history information, and chorological relationships. Keys to species of Isochnus, Tachyerges and Rhynchaenus are presented. The following new species-group synonymies are presented: Rhynchaenus testaceus (Mller) (= Orchestes canus Horn and O. pallicornis pallidior Leng); Rhynchaenus pallicornis (Say) (= Orchestes puberulus Boheman and O. uniformis Brown); and Tachyerges niger (Horn) (= Orchestes illinoisensis Fall). Neotypes are designated for Orchestes pallicornis Say and O. ephippiatus Say. Lectotypes are designated for Orchestes canus Horn, O. betuleti Horn, O. niger Horn, O. subhirtus Horn, O. rufipes LeConte, O. minutus Horn, and Curculio populi Fabricius. North American species components of Isochnus, Tachyerges and Rhynchaenus do not appear to comprise monophyletic groups, and phylogenetic relationships among species in each genus are not considered in detail. Larvae of North American Rhynchaeninae are leaf miners in a variety of plant families as follows: Isochnus species; Salicaceae or likely Betulaceae. Tachyerges species; Salicaceae. Rhynchaenus species; Betulaceae and Ulmaceae, Betulaceae, Rosaceae. Ancestral larval hosts of Isochnus and Tachyerges species are Salicaceae; those of Rhynchaenus are unclear.
25078497|Forty-four species of Neotropical Anthonomini are assigned to the genus Atractomerus. Hosts of most of the species are unknown, but seven of them are known to be associated with Myrtaceae and one with Melastomataceae. Characters diagnostic of the genus and of the species groups and species assigned to the genus are described and some of them are illustrated. Five species groups, the A. punctipennis Group (3 species, United States, West Indies, Mxico, Central America, South America); the A. nigrocalcaratus Group (18 species, West Indies, Mxico, Central America, South America); the A. sextuberculatus Group (19 species, West Indies, Mxico and Central America, South America); the A. plaumanni Group (3 species, Brazil, Guatemala, Mxico); and the A. tuberculipennis Group (1 species, Bolivia, Brazil), are recognized. A key to these species groups is presented, as are keys to each of the species assigned to the groups. Twenty nine new species, Atractomerus albolateralis (Mxico), A. angusticrus (Colombia, Venezuela), A. angustus (Brazil), A. atricollis (Brazil), A. atrolateralis (Argentina), A. caligatus (Bolivia, Colombia, Panam), A. carijo (Brazil), A. collinus (Colombia, Venezuela), A. confectus (Venezuela), A. coryphaeus (Panam), A. fax (Bolivia), A. glaebosus (Venezuela), A. guaicuru (Brazil), A. immigrans (Brazil), A. indicivus (Brazil, Honduras, Mxico), A. knabi (Mxico, Republica Dominicana), A. lacuna (Brazil, Panam), A. laesioculus (Brazil), A. nigrofasciatus (Brazil, Paraguay, Peru), A. paiagua (Brazil), A. pastinifer (Brazil), A. prolixus (Panam), A. ramirezi (Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Paraguay, Venezuela), A. recessus (Mxico), A. schusteri (Guatemala), A. simplex (Brazil), A. tupinamba (Brazil), A. unidentatus (Brazil) and A. ypsilinum (Colombia, Venezuela). Lectotypes are designated for Atractomerus bruchi (Hustache), A. dufaui (Hustache), A. inaequalis (Champion), A. nigromaculatus (Champion), A. obliquatus (Hustache), A. pitangae (Marshall), A. plaumanni (Voss), A. spinipennis (Hustache) and A. tuberculipennis (Hustache). A neotype is designated for Atractomerus dromedarius Voss. The following are new synonyms: Atractomerus Duponchel and Chevrolat (= Leptarthrus Dietz, Arthleptrus Burke and Cissoanthonomus Hustache); Atractomerus punctipennis (Gyllenhal) (= A. julichi [Dietz]); A. nigrocalcaratus Duponchel and Chevrolat (= A. gibbipennis [Champion] and A. mandapussae [Voss]); A. pitangae (Marshall) (= A. bruchi [Hustache] and A. obliquatus [Hustache]) and A. sextuberculatus (Champion) (= A. nodifer [Champion]). The identity of the Costa Rican A. pustulatus Voss was not determined. The anthonomine genera Loncophorus Chevrolat and Lonchophorellus Clark appear to be closely related to Atractomerus, but character evidence to support a definitive statement about relationships of the genus is lacking.
25078498|This paper treats the 5 species of the genus Pissodes Germar known to occur in Mexico. Three new species are described (P. championi, P. cibriani, and P. mexicanus) and P. guatemaltecus Voss is reported for the first time from Mexico. The genus and the 2 previously described species, P. guatemaltecus Voss and P. zitacuarense Sleeper, are redescribed. A key to the 5 species is included and all species are illustrated using habitus photographs and line drawings of the male phallus and the female 8th sternite and spermatheca. Diagnoses are included for each species and comparisons are made with selected Mexican species and, where applicable, with the 3 species of Pissodes known only from El Salvador. All 5 species have been associated with Pinus. Additional biological information is presented for each when known. Pissodes cibriani and P. zitacuarense are potentially economically important pests in plantations of Christmas trees. Pissodes is the sole generic representative of the Pissodini in the New World. Laccoproctus Schoenherr is transferred to the Molytinae, Anchonini, Cycloterina; Dorytomorpha Hustache is transferred to the Molytinae, Conotrachelini, near Conotrachelus Dejean; and Catiline Champion is transferred from the Ceratopodinae to the Molytinae, Conotrachelini near Dorytomorpha and Conotrachelus. Two species are transferred from Catiline and are now Dorytomorpha elongata (Hustache) NEW COMBINATION and Dorytomorpha tuberculata (Hustache) NEW COMBINATION.
25078503|The cricket genus Pictonemobius previously contained one named species, ambitiosus. Studies of calling songs, morphology, and habitat preferences demonstrated that the genus contains at least four sibling species. P. ambitiosus occurs in a variety of habitats in peninsular Florida, and probably extends to eastern Mississippi and North Carolina. It has a wingstroke rate of 44 - 54 per second at 25C. P. hubbelli n. sp. has a similar range but generally prefers drier, more disturbed habitats and has a wingstroke rate of 30 - 42 per second. P. arenicola n. sp. is confined to scrub and sandhill communities characteristic of deep, coarse sand in peninsular Florida; its wingstroke rate is somewhat faster than ambitiosus, and the two species are easily distinguished morphologically. P. uliginosus n. sp. has the smallest range, limited to pine flat-wood habitats in northern Florida and southern Georgia. It has the fastest wingstroke rate, 56 - 63 per second at 25C. Reproductive isolation among the species was demonstrated by populations coexisting in sympatry, by laboratory crosses, and by electrophoretic analysis. P. arenicola and P. uliginosus can be identified from specimens, but no morphological features were found that consistently separate ambitiosus from hubbelli. A phylogeny of the genus was constructed based on electromorph frequencies, and populations from peninsular Florida clustered into species as predicted by song type. Populations from Georgia and northwest Florida, however, did not cluster as predicted by song type. These populations may represent additional species of Pictonemobius.
25078504|The larvae of ten additional species are described, including all instars of Neivamyrmex opacithorax; the others are in the genera Aenictus, Pseudomyrmex, Iridomyrmex and Technomyrmex. Forty references to ant larvae in the literature are cited and several are discussed. Changes in our "Ant Larvae: Review and Synthesis" (1976) and its "Ten-Year Supplement," (1986) which result from our publications in 1987 and 1988, are indicated.
25078505|There are nine species of Eugnamptus Schoenherr north of Mexico. Seven valid species have been described between 1797 and 1913 and are redescribed here. Two new species, sheilae and pseudonigriventris are described and included in a key to all North American species. Synonymy, description, distribution, and known host data are given for each species. The name sulcifrons Gyllenhal is placed in synonymy with angustatus (Herbst) (NEW SYNONOMY) and cinctus Sharp is now recognized to be north of Mexico. The aedeagus and endophallus are illustrated for each species and for the type species, angustatus (Herbst), characteristics of the female reproductive system are shown.
25078506|The species of Pselaphidae found in Latimer County, Oklahoma, in the subfamilies Faroninae (1 genus, 1 species) and Euplectinae (14 genera, 31 species) are listed, and their seasonality and biology discussed. Four genera are revised (Rhexius LeConte, Thesiastes Casey, Bibloplectus Reitter, Melba Casey), and two others (Trimioplectus Brendel, Pygmactium Schuster & Grigarick) have keys provided for the first time. Species collected in Latimer County are: Mayetia domestica Schuster, Marsh & Park, Conoplectus canaliculatus (LeConte), C. susae Carlton, Rhexius stephani n. sp., R. ferrugineus Casey, R. insculptus Casey, R. schmitti Brendel, R. ouachita n. sp., Thesium caviforns (LeConte), Thesiastes fossulatus (Brendel), T. atratus Casey, T. pumilis (LeConte), Euplectus acomanus Casey, E. confluens (LeConte), Pycnoplectus interruptus (LeConte), P. linearis (LeConte), P. spinifer Casey, Saxet decora (Casey), Trimioplectus australis n. sp., Bibloplectus ruficeps (LeConte), B. choctaw n. sp., B. creek n. sp., B. cherokee n. sp., B. osage n. sp., B. chickasaw n. sp., Dalmosella tenuis Casey, Melba thoracica (Brendel), M. parvula (LeConte), M. sulcatula Casey, Trimiomelba dubia (LeConte), Pygmactium quercavum n. sp., Sebaga ocampi Park. Species covered or figured that were not collected in Latimer County are: Rhexius substriatus Casey, Thesiastes debilis (LeConte), Trimioplectus obsoletus Brendel, T. auerbachi Park, Bibloplectus leviceps Casey, B. integer (LeConte), B. sobrinus Casey, Melba maja (Brendel), Pygmactium steevesi Schuster & Grigarick, P. mollyae (Park). A number of new synonymies were discovered: Rhexius substriatus LeConte (= R. virginicus Casey), R. ferrugineus Casey (= R. transversus Casey, = R. ruber Casey), R. schmitti Brendel (= R. hirsutus Casey), Thesium cavifrons (LeConte) (= Thesium laticolle Casey), Thesiastes fossulatus (Brendel) (= E. rotundicollis Brendel), T. debilis (LeConte) (= E. planipennis Brendel), Trimium brevicorne (Reichenbach) (= T. discolor LeConte, apparent mislabeled European specimen), Melba parvula (LeConte) (= T. durum Brendel, = T. gracilis Brendel, = T. laticolle Brendel, = Melba texana Casey, = M. uniformis Casey), M. sulcatula Casey (= M. fossiger Casey, = M. dentipes Raffray) NEW SYNONYMIES. Trimium americanum LeConte is transferred to Trimiomelba (NEW COMBINATION), and Rhexius simplex Motschulsky, Bibloplectus exilis Bowman, and Melba simplex (LeConte) are placed as Incertae sedis (NEW STATUS). Sebaga ocampi Park is the first member of the Neotropical tribe Jubini recorded from North America.
25078510|The present study aims at reexamination of the nature of reproductive isolation among gomphocerine grasshoppers. Two closely related species of this subfamily (Gomphocerinae) common in Israel were selected for examination: Dociostaurus curvicercus characteristic of the Mediterranean region, and D. jagoi jagoi characteristic of the more arid steppe regions. The distribution ranges of these two species overlap to some extent in Israel, and in the areas of overlap they occur side by side. Significantly, in spite of such spatial proximity and substantial behavioral interaction, D. curvicercus and D. jagoi jagoi appear to have retained their species specificity. As background, the ecology and distribution of the two species were surveyed and critical examination was undertaken to reveal parameters distinguishing the two species. On the basis of several simple diagnostic characters and an extensive morphometric analysis it was demonstrated that the distinctiveness of these closely related species is fully maintained in contact areas. No morphological intergradations were found in such mixed species populations. Comparative studies of the life cycles of the two species were carried out. It was found that though both hatch at the same season (April) and even simultaneously in fields where they occur together, the interval from hatching to fledging differs, with D. jagoi jagoi fledging earlier. Even more disjunct is the timing of sexual activity: D. jagoi jagoi reaches sexual maturity several weeks before D. curvicercus, so that all initial matings of D. jagoi jagoi are homospecific. However, by late summer, both species are sexually active. The two species exhibited markedly different courtship and mating behaviors. Particular emphasis was placed on elucidation of various aspects of acoustic behavior. Marked differences were found not only between the song patterns of the two species, but also in the pattern of movements accompanying their emission. Receptive females of D. jagoi jagoi responded with their own song to a male song, while females of D. curvicercus did not. It was found that when responsive singing between male and female D. jagoi jagoi occurred, it was followed by an attempt (frequently successful) to copulate. In contrast, though a female of D. jagoi jagoi sometimes sang in response to songs of a male of D. curvicercus, there was apparently a subsequent breakdown in cue recognition: mating was not attempted by the D. curvicercus male in the wake of such an acoustic (interspecific) interaction. Copulation positions in the two species were found to differ markedly. The male of D. jagoi jagoi mates in the 'riding' position, while the male of D. curvicercus mates in the 'hanging' position. It was concluded that the morphological differences in the genitalia that characterize the two species, as well as differences in associated structures like the cerci, may reflect these different adaptations in copulation. Intensive screening in areas of mixed habitation, during periods when both species were sexually mature, failed to reveal heterospecific pairs in copula; and despite repeated searching no hybrid insects were ever detected at such sites. Moreover, despite experimental set-ups providing artificial conditions specifically designed to encourage hybridization, only very rarely did interspecific copulations occur. An incidental finding of this study was the discovery of a form subsequently named D. genei littoralis on the geologically recent semi-stable sand dunes of the southern coast. This species is also discussed and compared to the other two taxa. In preliminary cytological studies, D. curvicercus, D. jagoi jagoi and D. genei littoralis appeared to differ from one another in the morphology of the three small chromosomes, 9 10 and 11. It is concluded that reproductive isolation between what appear to be three sibling species of Dociostaurus depends on a combination of factors. Contrary to what has been presumed on the basis of Perdeck's work (1958), the difference in acoustic behavior reported here is only one of the isolating barriers operating. The results obtained exclude the widespread assumption that acoustic differences constitute the sole or the paramount barrier to gene flow between partially sympatric, interacting sibling species of this group of singing grasshoppers.
25078511|The New World Ommatius pumilus species group is defined and includes beameri Wilcox, pumilus Walker, parvus Bigot, infuscatus n. sp., integerrimus n. sp., perangustimus n. sp., acutus n. sp. and praestigiatus n. sp.; parvus and pumilus are redescribed and lectotypes designated. Additions are made to supplement the original description of beameri, and its range is now known to extend from southern Arizona-New Mexico southward to Nayarit and Jalisco, Mexico. Ommatius praestigiatus n. sp. is presently known only from Venezuela. Apomorphic characters determined by comparison with other Ommatius species were used to produce a phylogeny in the O. pumilus group. Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species are presented, along with illustrations and a key to species. The distribution pattern of dense microtricha on the wing is used for the first time to help separate species.
25078512|Species of the shore-fly genus Athyroglossa Loew from the western palearctic are revised. Seven species are treated, including one new species, A. kaplanae (type locality: Israel), the addition of A. africana (Wirth), and two synonymies: A. schineri Sguy with A. flaviventris (Meigen) and A. brunnimana Czerny and Strobl with A. nudiuscula Loew. The total number of palearctic species is increased to nine with these changes. In the western palearctic, greatest species diversity occurs in Israel, with six species. Europe, by comparison, has five species.
25078513|The genus Zabrotes is defined, eight previously and poorly described species are redescribed, and descriptions of nine new species are proposed. Included are Zabrotes arenarius (Wolcott), cruciger (Horn), densus (Horn), obliteratus (Horn), planifrons (Horn), spectabilis (Horn), subfasciatus (Boheman), and subnitens (Horn). New species names are amplissimus, bexarensis, chandleri, cynthiae, eldenensis, humboldtae, stephani, vandykei, and victoriensis. Host records, geographic distribution, and a key to species are included along with illustrations of dorsal habitus, pygidium, and male genitalia for each species.
25078514|This synopsis of Hetaerina includes descriptions of four new species (H. curvicauda, H. erythrokalamus, H. flavipennis, and H. indeprensa), keys to all males and most females, an annotated alphabetical account of all 37 presently recognized species, and illustrations of taxonomic characters for all species. The following nomenclatoral changes are proposed: Hetaerina borchgravii and H. fuscibasis are transferred to Mnesarete; H. carnifex is considered a junior synonym of H. longipes; H. donna a junior synonym of H. rosea; H. klugi and H. papavarina junior synonyms of H. laesa; H. macropus a junior synonym of H. occisa; H. sanguinolenta a junior synonym of H. hebe; H. tolteca a junior synonym of H. capitalis. The specific status of H. maxima and H. smaragdalis is questioned and they are provisionally considered the same as H. capitalis. The intersternite, a newly discovered morphological character in females, is found to vary specifically, allowing identification of most females.
25078515|Eleven neotropical Anthonomini are assigned to the Anthonomus flavirostris group. Hosts of most of the species are unknown, but three are known to be associated with plants in the family Malpighiaceae. Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species assigned to the group are described and some of them are illustrated. A key to the species is presented. Nine new species, A. ambiguus (Brazil), A. ancepitis (Brazil), A. comparabilis (Brazil), A. globosus (Mxico), A. duplus (Argentina), A. geminus (Brazil), A. tremendus (Venezuela), A. marialionzae (Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Venezuela) and A. yarae (Dominica, Venezuela) are described. Lecto-types are designated for A. flavirostris Champion and A. krugii Fischer. Anthonomus dentipennis Chevrolat and A. krugii Fischer are placed in synonymy with A. verrucosus Suffrian. Relationships of the A. flavirostris group to other New World anthonomines associated with plants in the family Malpighiaceae, as well as with the Asiatic A. nodulosus (Marshall), the North American A. quadrigibbus Say, and the Neotropical genus Atractomerus Duponchel and Chevrolat, are discussed.
25078519|A key to species, descriptions of species, synonymical names, and geographical distribution are presented for the 103 species of Acanthoscelides known to occur in Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela. Of the 103 species, the following 47 are described as new: akanthodes, aldanai, altocaura, amplilobus, aragua, barinas, bechyneorum, bogota, bolivar, buenaventura, canar, caripe, caroni, cesari, colombia, colombiano, coro, curimagua, darlingtoni, dominicana, donckieriopsis, elvalle, equivocada, falcon, fernandezi, guaibacoa, guanare, guarico, guiana, ingeborgae, jolyi, klagesi, machala, macheta, machiques, manleyi, maturin, monagas, ramirezi, santander, santarosa, sennicola, suramerica, tibiospinalis, tinalandia, yepezi, and zulia. Host plant records are reported for 72 of the species. Host associations are primarily with seeds of papilionoid Leguminosae. Seeds of mimosoid and caesalpinioid legumes also are fed upon as are seeds of the plant families Malvaceae, Sterculiaceae, and Tiliaceae. Although species of Acanthoscelides and most bruchids feed chiefly in seeds of the Leguminosae, based on ratios, about as many feed in the seeds of Malvaceae as feed in those of the Leguminosae. The legume genus Mimosa is the host most preferred by the species treated here because 37 species in the genus are fed upon by species of Acanthoscelides.
25078523|Fourteen neotropical Anthonomini are assigned to the Anthonomus fischeri group. Three of the species are known to be associated with plants in the family Malpighiaceae, but hosts ofthe others are unknown. Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species are described and some of them are illustrated. A key to the species is presented. Nine new species are described: A.. fissicaudus (Venezuela), A. izafa (Venezuela), A. menor (Argentina, Trinidad), A. papitrae (Brazil), A. staelena (Venezuela), A. sugillatus (Brazil), A. tacarani (Brazil), A. undatus (Colombia, Venezuela), A. villaticus (Brazil). Lectotypes are designated for A. scabricollis Champion and A. veraepacis Champion. Relationships of the A. fischeri group and the A. flavirostris group are discussed.
25078524|Eight neotropical Anthonomini are assigned to the Anthonomus calvescens group. One of the species is known to be associated with plants in the family Malpighiaceae, but hosts of the others are unknown. Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species are described and some of them are illustrated. A key to the species is presented. Five new species are described: A. agresi (Brazil); A. challtonni (Guatemala, Mxico); A. lomonga (Mxico, Venezuela); A. amari (Mxico); A. oenuatti (Argentina, Brazil). Lectotypes are designated for A. v-notatus Champion and A. flexuosus Hustache. Relationships of the A. calvescens group and other Anthonomus species groups are discussed.
25078525|Characters diagnostic of the genus Pseudanthonomus Dietz and of the 30 Neotropical species in the genus are described and illustrated. A key to the three genera of Anthonomini, including Pseudanthonomus, that contain species with 6 antennal funicular articles, and a key to the Neotropical species of Pseudanthonomus are also presented. The latter key includes two of the seven species from America north of Mxico that also occur in Mxico. Eight species are removed from Pseudanthonomus and placed in the genus Anthonomus in the following new combinations: A. apionoides (Champion); A. bellus (Hustache); A. cretaceus (Champion); A. curvicrus (Champion); A. guttatus (Champion); A. lituratus (Champion); A. nubilosus (Champion); A. pusillus (Hustache). Pseudanthonomus seriatus Hustache is transferred to the genus Phyllotrox in the new combination of P. seriatus (Hustache). Twenty-two new species of Pseudanthonomus are described: P. baryon (Venezuela); P. boson (Venezuela); P. electron (Brazil, Guatemala, Mxico); P. fermion (Brazil); P. gluon (Mxico); P. hadron (Brazil, Honduras, Mxico, Venezuela); P. lepton (Brazil); P. meson (Brazil); P. muon (Brazil, Panam, Trinidad, Venezuela); P. nucleon (Brazil, Colombia, Panam and Venezuela); P. neutrino (Brazil); P. neutron (Brazil); P. parton (Brazil); P. photino (Trinidad, Venezuela); P. photon (Cuba, Republica Dominicana); P. pion (Venezuela); P. positron (Mxico); P. proton (Colombia); P. quark (Brazil); P. selectron (Venezuela); P. tachyon (Brazil, Panam); P. tau (Mxico). Lectotypes are designated for Pseudanthonomus griseipilis Champion, P. canescens Faust, P. meridionalis Champion and P. carinulatus Faust. Anthonomus testaceus Boheman is transferred to Pseudanthonomus as P. testaceus (Boheman). The following are new synonyms: Pseudanthonomus canescens Faust (= P. indignus Faust), Pseudanthonomus testaceus (Boheman) (= P. meridionalis Champion). The association of adults of 18 species of Neotropical Pseudanthonomus with plants in the families Boraginaceae, Caprifoliaceae, Krameriaceae, Malvaceae, Malpighiaceae and Verbenaceae is reported. Adults have been reared from the flower buds of some of the Krameriaceae and Malpighiaceae.
25078526|In this study Floresianus Hustache and Floresianellus Lanteri are considered synonyms of Atrichonotus Buchanan, because they are evolutionary grades within the same genus. Atrichonotus is redescribed, its six species are included in a key and redescribed and a cladistic analysis of these species with Graphognathus Buchanan and Naupactus Dejean as outgroups is presented. The cladogram obtained using the computer program PAUP is asymmetrical and shows the following evolutionary sequence: A. taeniatulus (Berg), A. pacificus Kuschel, A. obscurus (Hustache), A. marginatus (Hustache), A. convexifrons (Hustache), and A. sordidus (Hustache). Two additional analyses were done, one deleting the two characters that have the same character states in Atrichonotus and Graphognathus, and another including the genus Eurymetopus as a terminal taxa. The first analysis resulted in three equally parsimonious cladogram; one of them is identical to that obtained when all characters were included, and in the other two cladograms A. pacificus is the most plesiomorphic species. When Eurymetopus was considered as another terminal taxa, it became the sister group of A. sordidus. We believe that the possibility of A. pacificus being the most plesiomorphic species of Atrichonotus, and the possibility of Eurymetopus being a member of this genus, should not be excluded. The paper includes habitus photographs, line illustrations of the diagnostic external and genital characters of Atrichonotus and Graphognathus, a detailed analysis of the character evolution, and a biogeographical discussion. The latter attempts to explain the presence of A. pacificus in Chile and the facts that could have favored the speciation of Atrichonotus.
25078527|The systematic relationships and genetic variation among five species of taeniopterygid stoneflies (Taeniopteryx maura, T. burksi, T. nivalis, T. parvula and Strophopteryx fasciata) were studied electrophoretically. All study specimens were reared imagos collected as larvae from streams and rivers in Pennsylvania, USA. Activity was detected for 30 of 46 enzyme systems screened, but only 23 of the 30 (representing 28 presumptive gene loci) could be reliably scored. Polymorphic loci ranged from 16 to 42% of the total, with expected heterozygosities ranging from 8 to 16% depending on the species. Three loci appear to be sex-linked: malate dehydrogenase-1 for S. fasciata, and phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and pyruvate kinase for the Taeniopteryx species. Phylogenetic relationships derived from electrophoretic data were generally similar to accepted morphologically based hypotheses. Taeniopteryx burksi, T. maura, and T. nivalis form a closely related species group, with T. parvula representing a distinct lineage within Taeniopteryx. Strophopteryx fasciata appears to be distantly related to Taeniopteryx. The most closely related species pair, T. maura and T. burksi, exibited distinct differences in allele frequencies at eight loci, six of which were diagnostic. No evidence of hybridization was found, even though both species coexist and emerge synchronously at all sampling localities. Eight males which had very small femoral spurs (thereby "keying" morphologically to T. burksi) were determined biochemically to be T. maura. This suggests that, at least in our study area, males with any trace of a femoral spur are T. maura and only males without spurs should be considered T. burksi. Slight differences in allele frequencies were detected between adults representing two larval color morphs of T. nivalis, but these were not considered to be taxonomically important. Enzyme electrophoresis was found to be a very sensitive method for determining species boundaries in taeniopterygids.
25078528|The mature larval stages of 11 species of Polyrhachis from Malaysia are described. For 5 of these species (armata, bihamata, muelleri, scissa and ypsilon) all 5 instars are described. The 17 species that we have described in previous publications are cited but descriptions are not repeated. We are unable to differentiate the larvae of the 10 subgenera studied: the differences among the larvae of the 38 species are not congruent with adult differences and they are not of subgeneric magnitude. We have also stressed the homogeneity of the genera of the tribe Camponotini.
25078533|Considerable nomenclatural revision of the North and Middle American Baetidae has resulted from comprehensive research aimed at formulating a phylogenetic classification. The 17 Nearctic species in Pseudocloeon not previously assigned to Acentrella or Apobaetis are newly placed in Baetis or Barbaetis. Cloeon in the area is restricted to C. cognatum, while two species previously in Cloeon are placed in Centroptilum and nine in Procloeon, a genus considered for the first time in the Nearctic. Definitions of Centroptilum and Procloeon are modified, both now incorporate species with hindwings and species without hindwings, and 19 species are transferred from Centroptilum to Procloeon. Pseudocentroptilum s. auctt. in North America is synonymized with Procloeon. Neocloeon is recognized as a synonym of Centroptilum s. str. and removed from synonymy with Cloeon. Dactylobaetis is placed in synonymy with Camelobaetidius, and all species, including those from South America, are newly combined. Two species of Baetis are transferred to Acerpenna, and two to Fallceon. A checklist includes 154 currently recognized species among 19 genera in the area, and incorporates 21 new species synonyms and 57 new combinations. The names Baetis armillatus and Baetis cinctutus are substituted for Pseudocloeon parvulum and Pseudocloeon cingulatum, repectively, which otherwise attain homonymic status. Regional distributions for each species and abbreviated synonymies since 1976 are annotated to the checklist. Brief discussions of each genus include information on species diagnosis, revisionary bases, status, and needs. A guide to all nomenclatural changes and added taxa since 1976 provides the bibliographic sources of all such information and serves as a ready index to name equivalencies resulting from extensive recent and present revisions.
25078534|The North American species of the genus Caenis are revised, and illustrated keys to larvae and adults presented. Eleven nominal species, including one new species, are recognized. Based on shared morphological and behavioral characters in the larvae, adults, and eggs, these species are grouped as follows: diminuta group - C. amica Hagen, C. candida Harper and harper, C. diminuta Walker, C. latipennis Banks, C. punctata McDunnough, and C. youngi Roemhild; hilaris group - C. anceps Traver, C. hilaris Say, C. macafferti n. sp., and C. tardata McDunnough. Caenis bajaensis Allen and Murvosh appears to have been independently derived and is not placed in either group. For each nominal species, synonymies, larval and adult descriptions, figures, and a discussion of taxonomy, distribution, and biology and ecology, are included. Newly discovered synonyms are: C. amica Hagen = C. simulans McDunnough n. syn.; C. latipennis Banks = C. forcipata McDunnough n. syn., C. jocosa McDunnough n. syn., C. delicata Traver n. syn., C. gigas Burks n. syn.
25078538|The systematics of Penaphlebia is reviewed, and the genus is redescribed. The egg is described for the first time. Two subgenera of Penaphlebia are established and described. The subgenus Megalophlebia is monotypic, represented by P. vinosa, and the subgenus Penaphlebia s.s. consists of five species: P. chilensis, P. exigua, P. fulvipes, P. barriai and P. flavidula, the latter two of which are new. Adults of P. chilensis, P. exigua, P. fulvipes [= P. sepia (Thew), NEW SYNONYMY] and P. vinosa are redescribed, The nymphs of P. chilensis, P. fulvipes and P. vinosa are described for the first time. Penaphlebia barriai and P. flavidula are described from the nymphs, imagos and subimagos. Illustrated keys for the nymphs and imagos, and geographic distribution maps are presented for each species. Notes on the biology of the species are included. A phylogenetic analysis of Penaphlebia is presented.
25078539|Seventeen species of New World Anthonomini are assigned to the Anthonomus curvirostris group. Adults of some of the species have been collected on plants in the families Euphorbiaceae, Myrsinaceae, Myrtaceae, Rutaceae and Solanaceae. Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species are described and some are illustrated. A key to the species is presented. Thirteen new species are described: A. agerochus (Dominican Republic, Florida); A. anenius (Brazil); A. arrogans (Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mxico, Venezuela); A. brenthus (Dominican Republic); A. fastosus (Cuba); A. gaurus (British Virgin Islands); A. iactationis (Jamaica); A. ostentationis (Brazil, Guyana); A. sobarus (Bolivia, Brazil); A. sublatus (Costa Rica, Panam); A. superbus (Brazil, Venezuela); A. tarquinius (Mxico) and A. vanus (Peru). Lectotypes are designated for A. curvirostris Champion and A. bimaculatus Hustache. Relationships of the A. curvirostris group and the North American A. signatus Say are discussed.
25078545|A comprehensive comparative morphological and distributional study of mayflies of the family Potamanthidae (superfamily Ephemeroidea) resulted in the recognition of 23 included species. An analysis of cladistic relationships among them was based on 36 larval and adult characters. A phylogenetic classification, incorporating sequencing, was devised from a highly parsimonious cladogram. It entailed the following revision: Genus Rhoenanthus Eaton [=Potamanthindus Lestage, Neopotamanthodes Hsu, and Neopotamanthus Wu & You, new synonyms] (subgenus Rhoenanthus s.s.) includes R. distafurcus, new species and R. speciosus Eaton. Rhoenanthus (subgenus Potamanthindus, new status) includes R. magnificus Ulmer [=R. vitalisi Navs, R. ferrugineus Navs, and Neopotamanthodes lanchi Hsu, new synonyms]; R. obscurus Navs [=Potamanthindus auratus Lestage, new synonym]; R. coreanus (Yoon & Bae), new combination [=R. rohdendorfi Tshernova, new synonym]; and R. youi (Wu & You), new combination. Genus Anthopotamus McCafferty & Bae includes A. distinctus (Traver); A. myops (Walsh) [=A. inequalis (Needham) and A. rufous (Argo), new synonyms]; A. verticis (Say) [=A. diaphanus (Needham) and A. walkeri (Ide), new synonyms]; A. neglectus neglectus (Traver), new status; and A. neglectus disjunctus, new subspecies. Potamanthus Pictet [=Potamanthodes Ulmer and Stygifloris Bae, McCafferty & Edmunds, new synonyms] (subgenus Potamanthus s.s.) includes P. huoshanensis Wu; P. luteus luteus (Linnaeus), new status [=P. ferreri Pictet, new synonym]; and P. luteus oriens, new subspecies. Potamanthus (subgenus Stygifloris, new status) includes P. sabahensis (Bae, McCafferty & Edmunds), new combination. Potamanthus (subgenus Potamanthodes, new status) includes P. macrophthalmus (You), new combination; P. yooni, new species; P. formosus Eaton, combination revalidated [=P. iyonis Matsumura, new synonym]; P. idiocerus, new species; P. kwangsiensis (Hsu), new combination [=Potamanthodes fujianensis You, Wu, Gui & Hsu, new synonym]; P. longitibius, new species; P. sangangensis (You), new combination; and P. yunnanensis (You, Wu, Gui & Hsu), new combination. The latter six species are considered sedis mutabilis because exact branching sequences among them cannot be deciphered until certain life stages become known. Potamanthus nanchangi (Hsu), new combination, and Potamanthus subcostalis Navs, although appearing valid, are considered incertae sedis in that they cannot yet be placed to subgenus due to insufficient data. Rhoenanthus shima Matsumura is a nomen dubium excluded from Potamanthidae. The family is redefined; genera, subgenera, species, and subspecies are described, illustrated (halftone habiti, line drawings, and SEM's), and keyed. Nomenclatural histories of all taxa are given; taxon distributions are plotted; and all materials examined are cited. Character polarities and distributions as well as the linear classification are tabulated; cladograms and phylograms are figured. Three major lineages involve Rhoenanthus, representing one of the initial branches (defined by six synapomorphies), and the opposite initial branch (defined by six synapomorphies) leading to the most recent hypothetical ancestor of Anthopotamus (defined by three synapomorphies) and Potamanthus (defined by four synapomorphies). The phylogeny and thus generic classification is highly reflective of considerable previously unstudied larval characterization. The family demonstrates a Laurasian (Nearctic, Palearctic, and Oriental) distributional pattern. Area cladograms were generated to hypothesize historical biogeography of genera and subgenera, which is highlighted by a major East-West Hemispheric vicariance between North American Anthopotamus and Eurasian Potamanthus. A Wagner groundplan-divergence phylogram shows relative degree of evolutionary change among genera and subgenera. Potamanthus has reduced tusks and other apomorphies possibly related to differences in feeding or burrowing. All genera have filter-feeding larvae, however, based on correlations of ultrastructure and function, Anthopotamus is the most specialized.
25078546|Twelve species of Neotropical Anthonomini are assigned to the Anthonomus rubiginosus group. Adults of some of the species have been collected on plants in the genus Bauhinia (Fabaceae); some have been reared from the flower buds of these plants. Characters diagnostic of the group and of each of the species are described and some are illustrated. Ten new species are described: A. chaos (Brazil); A. hustachi (Brazil); A. leviathan (Venezuela); A. meon (Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay); A. nihilum (Mexico); A. nullus (Mexico); A. paradoxus (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Mexico, Panama, Venezuela); A. sine (Mexico); A. vinarius (Brazil); A. ylem (Jamaica, Haiti). A key to the species in the A. rubiginosus group is presented. The sister group of the A. rubiginosus group appears to consist of two South American species, A. partiarius Boheman and A. zonarius Kirsch, and several undescribed Neotropical species.
25078547|The genus Keyacris is proposed for two new species of Dichroplini Acrididae: Melanoplinae) that are endemic to the bolivian Yungas: Keyacris palidiventer and Keyacris striativenter. Keyacris is placed in the Andean Dichroplini generic group, here established, along with Bogotacris Ronderos, Chibchacris Hebard, Boliviacris Ronderos & Cigliano, Baeacris Rowell & Carbonell, the Dichroplus peruvianus species group Ronderos & Carbonell, and the Dichroplus punctulatus species group Carbonell & Ronderos. The Andean Dichroplini are here considered to be a monophyletic group (justified by synapomorphies of the male genitalia) which is closely related to Timotes Roberts, the outgroup in our phylogenetic analysis. Based on the cladistic analysis presented for the Andean Dichroplini, Chibchacris is hypothesized to be the sister genus of Keyacris; the Dichroplus punctulatus species group is transferred to the genus Baeacris; and the new genus Ponderacris is established to include the Dichroplus peruvianus species group. A key to the genera included in the Andean Dichroplini is also provided.
25078548|The relationship of the ichneumonid subfamily Campopleginae to other subfamilies is examined; the Cremastinae is hypothesized to be its sister-group. The informal name Ophioniformes is suggested for the monophyletic group consisting of Banchinae, Ctenopelmatinae, Tersilochinae, Tatogastrinae, Ophioninae, Anomaloninae, Campopleginae, and Cremastinae. Townes' tribal classification of Campopleginae is unsatisfactory from a phylogenetic standpoint and an informal system of generic groupings should be substituted. The question of the relationship of Rhimphoctona to Pyracmon is critically examined, as well as their relationships to other genera; species group relationships within Rhimphoctona are also analyzed. Nomenclatural changes are: Bathypiesta (NEW SYNONYM) and Biolysia are junior synonyms of Bathyplectes, Synetaeris is maintained as separate from Pyracmon, Rhimphoctona is kept separate from Pyracmon, Xylophylax is placed as a subgenus of Rhimphoctona, and Euraspidion is a junior synonym of Xylophylax (NEW SYNONYM).
25078552|This paper is the first detailed treatment of the Acanthococcus species of the western United States. Keys, descriptions, and illustrations are given for 33 species including 7 that are new to science.
25078553|Twelve species of South American Anthonomini are assigned to the Anthonomus partiarius group. These are A. partiarius Boheman, A. zonarius Kirsch, and ten new species: A. auctoratis (Brazil), A. coactus (Brazil), A. dicionis (Brazil), A. gravatis (Brazil, Venezuela), A. imperium (Brazil, Venezuela), A. opis (Bolivia, Brazil), A. potens (Brazil, Venezuela), A. potestatis (Brazil), A. valentis (Brazil, Suriname, Venezuela), A. vis (Brazil). Characters of the group and of each of the species are described. The habitus and the male genitalia of each species, and the femur and tibia of some of the species are illustrated with photographs. A key to the species is also presented, and a lectotype is designated for A. zonarius Kirsch. Adults of one of the species are reported to have been reared from seeds of plants in the genus Tibauchina (Melastomataceae). The apparently close relationship of the A. partiarius group to the A. rubiginosus and A. marmoratus groups are discussed.
25078554|Eight species of Neotropical Anthonomini are assigned to the Anthonomus marmoratus group. These are A. flavescens Boheman, A. marmoratus Champion, A. pruinosus Champion, A. subparallelus Champion, and four Four new species: A. brasiliensis (Brazil), A. lewinsohni (Brazil, Venezuela), A. reichardti (Brazil) and A. bondari (Brazil). Characters of the group and of each of the species are described. The habitus and the male genitalia of each species, and the femur and tibia of some of the species, are illustrated with photographs. A key to the species in is also presented, and lectotypes are designated for A. marmoratus Champion and A. pruinosus Champion. Larvae and adults of some of the species are known to be associated with plants in the genera Ateleia and Hymenaea (Fabaceae, Caesalpinoideae); larvae of some are known to develop in flower buds of Hymenaea.
25078555|A new tribe, Odontogryllini, is proposed to include neotropical members of the subfamily Pteroplistinae (Gryllidae). The following new taxa are described: Odontogryllus bifidus and O. acutus from the Amazon region; Valchica rinconiensis, a new genus and species from Costa Rica; and a new genus, Brasilodontus with B. mucuriensis and B. riodocensis from the Brazilian Atlantic forest.
25078557|First instars of Mantispa pulchella (Banks) and Climaciella brunnea (Say) are described for the first time and those of Mantispa interrupta Say, Mantispa sayi Banks, and Mantispa viridis Walker are redescribed. Second instars, third instars, and pupae of M. interrupta and M. pulchella are newly described and those of M. viridis are redescribed. A key is provided to distinguish these immature stages, and a system of larval chaetotaxy is developed for use in future descriptions of larval Mantispinae and related neuropteran taxa. Four new spider associations are recorded: Anyphaena maculata (Banks) with M. pulchella, Phidippus texanus Banks with M. sayi, and both Varacosa avara (Keyserling) and an unidentified species of Clubiona with M. viridis.
25078558|Nine species of Himatolabus occur in North and Central America. They include axillaris (Gyllenhal), pubescens (Say), rudis (Boheman), vestitus (Gyllenhal), and five NEW SPECIES: burleyi, umbosis, nudus and vogti described from Mexico and viometallicus from Mexico and Guatemala. H. vinosus (Sharp) and H. subpilosus Voss are placed in NEW SYNONYMY with H. rudis (Boheman). A key to the species of Himatolabus is given and descriptions, distributions, host plant associations and diagnostic characters are included for each species. Taxonomic emphasis is placed on the structure of the male aedeagus and it's sperm transfer apparatus. Structures of the female reproductive system are illustrated only for the type species.
25078560|The main objectives of this paper are to describe a new weevil genus ocurring in the Galpagos archipelago, and to analyze the relationships and distribution patterns of its species. Galapaganus gen. nov. (Polydrosinae: Naupactini) is a clade including fifteen species, two previously described in Naupactus Dejean [G. propinquus (Boheman) and G. lacertosus (Erichson)], six, in Pantomorus Schoenherr [G. blairi (Van Dyke), G. caroli (Van Dyke), G. conwayensis (Mutchler), G. crockeri (Van Dyke), G. galapagoensis (Linell) and G. williamsi (Van Dyke)] and seven species are new (G. ashlocki, G. collaris, G. darwini, G. femoratus, G. howdenae, G. squamosus, and G. vandykei). Within Galapaganus there are two monophyletic groups, the femoratus group, including G. femoratus and G. howdenae (from coastal Ecuador) and the darwini group, including the remaining species (from Per, Puna Island and the Galpagos archipelago). Based on the most parsimonious cladogram it can be hypothesized that the Galpagos archipelago was colonized two or three times by species of Galapaganus. The paper includes descriptions of the new genus and all its species, a key for their recognition, habitus photographs, line drawings of genitalia, a distributional map, data of species habitats, a cladistic analysis using the program HENNIG86, and a biogeographical discussion.
25078561|The North and Central American species of the genus Strigoderma Burmeister, 1844 are revised. Of the 43 previously described species, 28 are considered valid. A key to the adults is provided, and all species are redescribed and illustrated by scanning electron micrographs, photographs, or by original illustrations. Available biological information is included. A neotype is designated for S. pygmaea (F.). The following species names are placed in synonymy: S. pygmaea = S. floridana Ohaus; S. knausi (Brown) = S. oklahomensis (Hatch); S. mexicana Blanchard = S. intermedia Bates; S. caster (Newman) = S. rothschildti Nonfried; S. costulata Nonfried = S. pilicollis Nonfried; S. orbicularis Burmeister = S. nigripennis Bates; S. teapensis Bates = S. latitibia Schaeffer, Alamona parviceps Casey; S. arboricola (F.) = S. angustula Casey, S. arboricola irregularis Casey, S. arboricola puritana Casey, S. arboricola testaceipennis Nonfried, S. arboricola virginica Casey, S. obesula Casey, S. obesula quaternaria Casey, S. texana Casey; S. pimalis Casey = S. pimalis prolixella Casey, S. sonorica Casey, S. subrutilans Casey, S. viridicollis Schaeffer; S. sulcipennis Burmeister = S. aterrima Casey, S. convergens Casey, S. mediocris Casey, S. morelosana Casey, S. radula Casey, S. sulcipennis imitatrix Nonfried, S. sulcipennis impressicollis Nonfried, and S. sulcipennis metallica Nonfried. Strigoderma micans Nonfried is raised to specific rank.
25078563|The Australian species of Bagous Germar are monographed; only three species were previously known to occur in Australia. This number has now increased to 27. Described as new are B. apicalis, B. blyxae, B. blyxodes, B. brittoni, B. callosus, B. dostinei, B. dubius, B. femoralis, B. fornoae, B. hydrillae, B. infrequens, B. josephi, B. matthewsi, B. meridionalis, B. natator, B. occiduus, B. pauxillulus, B. propinquus, B. proximus, B. purcelli, B. rieki, B. simulans, B. tarsalis and B. utriculariae. Many additional, undescribed species are expected to occur in Australia because little collecting has been done except in northern and southern areas of Australia. A key to the 27 species is provided. Habitus photographs and illustrations of male and female genitalia are provided for all species. New terms were adopted to describe some male and female genital structures. Phylogenetic analysis of the Australian members of Bagous was performed to produce an hypothesis about the relative relationships of the 27 Australian species. The Australian species do not comprise a monophyletic assemblage (i.e., some species are more closely related to species from other biogeographic regions). This analysis showed that seven monophyletic species groups could be recognized, which we named: the B. pygmaeus group (one species in Australia, several widespread in Asia), the B. josephi group (one species, known only from Australia), the B. hydrillae group (19 Australian species), the B. humeridens group (two species, one Australian, one Indian and Southeast Asian), the B. apicalis group (two species, one Australian, one Indian), the B. adelaidae group (three Australian species) and the B. trapae group (one Australian, two Southeast Asian and one African species). Picia Tournier (Middle East to Caucasus) is not a Bagoini, but is here transferred to Stenopelmini. Genital characters were important in resolving relationships at all levels and were the most reliable as synapomorphies; external characters tended to be highly homoplastic and subject to numerous interpretations of character state distribution. Seventeen reversals of external characters were required to explain the data, while no reversals of genital characters were required. A new method was introduced to cope with this homoplasy, which we term in transitum analysis. Reconstructions were performed manually and with a computer using PAUP 3.0. The manually- generated tree and the consensus trees derived from 116 PAUP-generated trees were very similar.
25058245|The new genus Huaca is established for a Panamanian species of Anthonomini originally described as Pseudanthonomus curvicrus Champion (the type species of Huaca), and for 25 previously undescribed neotropical Anthonomini: H. apian (Dominica, Puerto Rico, Republica Dominicana, Florida), H. ayacho (Puerto Rico, United States Virgin Islands), H. cajana (Honduras), H. capi (Uruguay), H. cauas (Costa Rica, Mxico), H. cicui (Panam), H. cinca (Brazil, Mxico, Venezuela), H. collana (Cuba, Jamaica), H. cuipan (Belize, Guatemala), H. cumpi (Brazil), H. guayra (Florida), H. matoro (Puerto Rico), H. mayu (Mxico), H. mudca (Honduras), H. pacha (St. Christopher), H. payan (Republica Dominicana), H. picas (Mxico), H. puquiu (Republica Dominicana), H. quilca (Trinidad), H. quillo (Puerto Rico), H. quisco (Jamaica), H. sucanca (Brazil), H. turuca (Dominica), H. usno (Mxico, Venezuela), H. uxi (Mxico). Specimens of these species have been collected in association with plants in the families Malpighiaceae, Myrtaceae, Phytolaccaceae, Rhizophoraceae, Rubiaceae and Rutaceae, but developmental sites and immature stages are not known for any of the species. Characters by which the genus Huaca and each of the included species are distinguished are described and illustrated, and a key to the species is presented.
25058246|A checklist is provided for the 1653 species of caddisflies known from the United States (including Hawaii), Canada, Greenland, and Mexico. These species are classified in 164 genera in 24 families. The six families Hydroptilidae (308 spp.), Limnephilidae (294 spp.), Hydropsychidae (184 spp.), Rhyacophilidae (124 spp.), Glossosomatidae (113 spp.), and Polycentropodidae (112 spp.) include 69% of the species. Species of the six genera Rhyacophila (123 spp.), Limnephilus (112 spp.), Hydroptila (111 spp.), Ochrotrichia (73 spp.), Lepidostoma (69 spp.), and Polycentropus (61 spp.) comprise 33% of the North American + Mexican fauna.
25078566|Seventeen species of Neotropical Anthonomini are assigned to the Anthonomus ocularis group. These are A. ocularis Champion (Costa Rica, Guatemala, Panam), A. xanthopus Boheman (Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela), and 15 new species: A. ciccus (Mxico), A. esse (Venezuela), A. exiguum (Peru), A. existo (Panam), A. gerra (Brazil), A. mica (Peru), A. naucrum (Brazil), A. objectum (Colombia, Venezuela), A. ontos (Colombia), A. ousia (Brazil), A. parvus (Brazil, Peru), A. paulum (Venezuela), A. recula (Venezuela), A. trica (Costa Rica), and A. vesculus (Brazil, Peru). Characters of the A. ocularis group and of each of the species in the group are described. The habitus, pygidium, abdomen, femur and tibia of most of the species, and the male genitalia of each species are illustrated with photographs. A key to the species is also presented. Adults of five of the species in the A. ocularis group have been collected on Croton (Euphorbiaceae).
25078567|Four new genera of Thraulus group mayflies (Ephemeroptera: Leptophlebiidae: Atalophlebiinae) from Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, and the Philippines are established based on external morphological characters. All known life stages are described, diagnostic characters are illustrated, and keys to polytypic genera are provided. These four new genera comprise six species, four of which were previously assigned to Thraulus and two of which are new. The genera Simothraulus from Malaysia and Chiusanophlebia from Japan are also redescribed. Thraulus group mayflies possess three derived character states: an oblique cross vein is located in the fore wings between veins
25078571|Thirteen species of Taenionema are currently recognized. One species is known from Japan and the Soviet Far East, whereas twelve are North American in distribution. Descriptions and keys are given to adult males and females and a proposed phylogeny is presented. Four new species are named from western North America: T. jacobii, T. jewetti, T. uinta, and T. umatilla. Taenionema nigripenne (Banks) is synonymized under T. pallidum (Banks) and T. kincaidi (Hoppe) is recognized as a valid species.
25078577|Seven species of neotropical Anthonomini are assigned to the Anthonomus monostigma group. These are Anthonomus monostigma Champion (Costa Rica, Honduras, Mxico, Panam) and Anthonomus soleatus (Faust) (Venezuela), and five new species: Anthonomus carnifex (Brazil, Peru, Venezuela), Anthonomus immolator (Honduras, El Salvador), Anthonomus interfector (Colombia), Anthonomus mactatus (Brazil, Peru, Venezuela) and Anthonomus victim (Brazil, Paraguay). Characters of the group and of each of the species are described. The habitus and the male genitalia of each species and the femora and tibiae of some of the species are illustrated with photographs. A key to the species is presented. Adults of A. monostigma have been collected on Miconia nervosa Triana (Melastomataceae), but plant associations of the other species are unknown.
25078578|Characters of three new Anthonomus species groups and of new species in the A. rubiginosus and A. partiarius groups are described and illustrated. The Anthonomus ourateae group contains two new species: A. ourateae (Brazil) and A. longurius (Brazil); the A. planipennis group contains one new species: A. planipennis (Brazil); and the A. albocivitensis group contains six new species: A. albocivitensis (Ecuador, Peru), A. brevipennis (Brazil), A. stellatus (Costa Rica, Panam), A. stigmosus (El Salvador, Guatemala, Mxico), A. stigmaticollis (Bolivia, Peru) and A. convexipennis (Brazil). Keys to the species in these three groups are presented. Three new species in the A. rubiginosus group are described: A. ligulicolis (Mxico), A. cacuminis (Brazil) and A. fuscipennis (Brazil, Peru), and two new species in the A. partiarius group, A. lugubris (Brazil) and A. incomptus (Brazil). The A. ourateae and A. planipennis groups are closely related to the A. rubiginosus group; the A. albocivitensis group is more closely related to the A. partiarius group. Larvae of one of the species in the A. ourateae group develop in flower buds of Ouratea sp. (Ochnaceae).
25078579|The Listroderes costirostris species group, broadly distributed throughout southern South America, is defined by the synapomorphies of the large and approximately subrectangular female sternum 8, and the heavily sclerotized hemisternites, with outwardly-directed apical teeth. Nineteen previously known species are included in the group: L. annulipes Blanchard, L. wagneri Hustache, L. leviculus Kuschel, L. bimaculatus Boheman, L. elegans Hustache, L. foveatus (Lea), L. uruguayensis Kuschel, L. wittei Hustache, L. brevisetis Hustache, L. angusticeps Blanchard, L. delaiguei Germain, L. robustior Schenkling & Marshall, L. bruchi Hustache, L. confusus Hustache, L. affinis Hustache, L. costirostris Schoenherr, L. punicola Kuschel, L. pusillus Hustache, and L. apicalis Waterhouse. Four species are described as new (type-localities between brackets): L. scylla spec. n. (Argentina: Tucumn, Siambn), L. charybdis spec. n. (Argentina: Corrientes, Santo Tom), L. howdenae spec. n. (Chile: Elqui, Morrillos), and L. obrieni spec. n. (Chile: Aysn, Coyhaique). The following new synonymy is established: L. costirostris Schoenherr =L. obliquus Klug =L. lugubris Germain =L. difficilis Germain =L. hypocrita Hustache =L. vicinus Hustache =L. paranensis Hustache. New country records include L. bimaculatus in Argentina, L. costirostris in Bolivia, L. uruguayensis and L. confusus in Brazil, and L. apicalis in Chile. A key is provided for identification of adults of all species. They are described, their genitalia illustrated, and their geographical distribution mapped.
25078580|Neochoroterpes Allen is elevated from a subgenus of Choroterpes to the level of a genus, NEW STATUS. Four species are recognized: N. oklahoma (Traver) NEW COMB., includes C. oklahoma Traver (1934) and C. (N.) mexicanus Allen (1974), NEW SYN.; N. nanita (Traver) NEW COMB., includes C. nanita Traver (1934) and C. (N.) crocatus Allen (1974), NEW SYN.; N. kossi (Allen) NEW COMB.; and N. orientalis, N. SP. The imago male of N. kossi (Allen) is described for the first time. Keys to the imago males and larvae are provided.
40785155|The Cicindelidae of Colorado includes species of Amblycheila Say and Cicindela Linneaus; Megaceptala Latreille, could be expected to occur. Amblycheila is represented by two species and Cicindela by 32 species. Cicindela sperata sperata LeConte is recorded for the first time from Colorado and the presence of Amblycheila picolominii Reiche and C. haemorrhagica haemorrhagica LeConte are confirmed for the state. Keys are provided to identify the genera and species of Amblycheila and Cicindela.
40785182|A checklist and synonymy for the 25 species of Draeculacephala is presented and an illustrated key based on discrete morphological characters is provided for species identification.Three new Neotropical species are described and illustrated. Previously unrecognized morphological characters useful for delimiting species and species groups include the number of paleate setae on hind tarsomere I and the distribution of erect setae at the base of the male pygofer. Weighted and unweighted parsimony analyses of morphological characters of the species of Draeculacephala and selected species of the related cicadelline genera Helochara Fitch, Syncharina Young, and Xyphon Hamilton support the status of Draeculacephala as a monophyletic group. Placement of D. floridana Ball, type species of Carneocephala Ball, in Draeculacephala is also supported.Draeculacephala apparently originated in Mexico or the southwestern U.S. and comprises three major lineages that diversified in isolation: 1) D.clypeata Osborn and related Central and South American species; 2) D. crassicornis Van Duzee and related species inhabiting north temperate North America; and 3) the remaining species, which are concentrated in the southeastern U.S.
40785183|Aramigus Horn (Entiminae: Brachyderini) here includes seven species: A. pilosus Lanteri sp. nov., A. curtulus (Hustache) comb, nov., A. planioculus Lanteri sp. nov., A.globoculus Lanteri sp. nov., A. intermedius Lanteri sp. nov., A. conirostris (Hustache) and A. tessellatus (Say) (syn. nov. with A. durius (Germar), A. pallidus Horn, A. viridipallens (Hustache), A. biseriatus (Hustache) and A. santafecinus (Lanteri)). The last is a complex species with bisexual populations and parthenogenetic lineages, some of which correspond to the synonyms of A. tessellatus, and are here treated as morphotypes. The genus is redescribed to include newly discovered variation and its relationships with other genera are discussed. All species are described and five morphotypes of A. tessellatus are diagnosed. A cladistic analysis resulted in four most parsimonious cladograms in which A. pilosus is always basal; A. curtulus and A. planioculus are sister taxa or form a trichotomy with the remaining species; A. globoculus and A. intermedius are in phylogenetic sequence or are sister species; and the pair tessellatus-conirostris is always present and terminal. The paper includes two keys (one for the species of Aramigus and another, for the morphotypes of tessellatus)', outlines of all species; illustrations of female and male genitalia; and distribution maps to the South American species.
40785184|The South American melanopline genera Scotussa Giglio-Tos and Leiotettix Bruner are revised. Leiotettix and Scotussa presently include six and seven species respectively, distributed in southern Brazil, Paraguay, Bolivia, Uruguay, and north-central Argentina. Scotussa brachyptera n. sp. is described from Argentina and Scotussa brasiliensis Bruner is synonymized under Scotussa diens (Stl). Leiotettix eduargaldosi Liebermann is synonymized under Leiotettix pulcher Rehn and Leiotettix punctipes Bruner under Leiotettix viridis Bruner.
40785230|The 60 species and subspecies of Diplura in the subfamily Campodeiinae that have been described or recorded from North America north of Mexico are listed. All North American references to these species and the distribution records are also given. The 60 species and subspecies are grouped into the following genera: Campodea, 21 species and 4 subspecies; Eumesocampa, 3 species; Haplocampa 4 species and 1 subspecies; Litocampa, 5 Meiocmapa, 6 species; Metriocapa, 9 species and 2 subspecies; Podocampa, 6 species. A brief of characters is given that will help identify the genera and subgenera.
40785231|Fourteen species of Eurylophella are recognized in eastern North America based primarily on morphology of full-grown larvae and allozyme frequencies in imagos. Eurylophella temporalis (McDunnough) and E. verisimilis (McDunnough) are redefined and two species that had previously been synonymized, E. bicoloroides (McDunnough) and E. doris (Traver), are reinstated. Three species are described as new: E. enoensis Funk, E. poconoensis Funk, and E. macdunnoughi Funk. Four species groups are defined on the basis of morphological characters in the larvae: the temporalis group, including E. doris (Traver), E. poconoensis Funk, E. prudentalis (McD.) and E. temporalis (McD.); the lutulenta group, including E. aestiva (McD.), E. enoensis Funk and E. lutulenta (Clemens); the funeralis group, including only E. funeralis (McD.); the bicolor group, including E. bicolor (Clemens), E. bicoloroides (McD.), E. macdunnoughi Funk, E. minimella (McD.) and E. verisimilis (McD.). Eurylophella coxalis (McD.), whose larva is unknown, is unassigned to group. A morphological key is provided for full-grown larvae.
40785270|A synopsis of all 29 species of Argia occuring north of Mexico includes keys to both sexes based primarily on caudal appendage morphology in males and morphology of the mesostigmal plates in the females, diagnoses, distributional notes and diagnostic illustrations.Three new species, A. leonorae (Holotype male.  MEXICO: Nuevo Leon state, in FSCA), A. pima (Holotype male.-U.S.A.: Arizona, Pima Co., in USNM), and A. sabino (Holotype male.-U.S.A.: Arizona, Pima Co., in USNM) are described. The following nomenclatural changes are proposed: Argia mista Navas is considered a junior synonym of A. extranea (Hagen),solita Kennedy a junior synonym of A. pollens Calvert, A. spegazzinii Navas a junior synonym of A. plana Calvert, and A. espinalensis Navas a junior synonym of A. translata Hagen in Selys.
40785271|There are fifteen species of Pilolabus Jekel in Central America. They are P. sumptuosus (Gory),P.viridans (Gyllenhal), P. splendens (Gyllenhal), P. rugiceps Voss, P. purpureus Voss, P. nigriclava (Sharp), P. diffinis (Sharp), P. californiens Voss, P. klugi (Gyllenhal) and six NEW SPECIES: P. giraffa, P. tubercleatus, P. guerrerensis, P. caesius, and P. marginatus described from Mexico and P. chiriquensis from the Republic of Panama. NEW SYNONYMY places P. smithi (Sharp) in synonymy with P. viridans (Gyllenhal) and P. lucidus Voss in synonymy with P. purpureus Voss. A lectotype is designated for P. nigriclava (Sharp) and for P. splendens (Gyllenhall) and a Neotype is designated for P. sumptuosus Gory. A key to the species ofPilolabus is given and descriptions, distributions, host plant associations and diagnostic characters are included for each species. External morphological characteristics and male aedeagal structures are used to separate the species. Aedeagal structures are illustrated for all species (except P. diffinis) and the female reproductive system is illustrated for the type species, P. klugi.
40785272|A new species group, the Cholus spinipes group, is diagnosed for the Neotropical genus Cholus Germar. Two new species are described, C. vaurieae, a pest of commercial pineapples in northern Venezuela, and C. palmarum, which attacks forest palms in Grenada, Lesser Antilles, West Indies. The nominate species of this species group, C. spinipes Fabricius, a pineapple pest in Grenada, is redescribed and a key to the three species is included.Illustrations of male and female genitalia are provided for the two new species, as well as habitus photos of all three species. Biological notes are included for the three species.
25078584|The Simulium jenningsi species-group is concentrated in the eastern half of North America where its members occupy a wide variety of streams and rivers. The present revision treats 22 species, including the following seven described as new: S. anchistinum, S. chlorum, S. confusum, S. definitum, S. infenestrum, S. ozarkense, and S. remissum. The larvae of two species-S. aranti and S. nyssa-are described for the first time. The name S. underhilli is synonymized with S. fibrinflatum. Morphological, chromosomal, and ecological evidence suggests that S. confusum n. sp., S. fibrinflatum, S. jenningsi, S. lakei, and S. luggeri are species complexes. Keys to larvae, pupae, males, and females are provided; the larval key is supplemented with chromosomal characters. Notes on taxonomy, polytene chromosomes, and bionomics are included for each species. Neotypes are established for S. lakei, S. penobscotense, S. podostemi, and S. taxodium. A reconstructed phylogeny is presented and suggests that the group originated in the northern Nearctic Region.
25078585|Two new Neotropical species of the genus Culicoides Latreille from the vicinity of the Yacyret dam lake are described and illustrated from female specimens. They are, C. dureti in the subgenus Haematomyidium, and C. ferreyrai in the guttatus group of the subgenus Hoffmania.
25078586|Type localities, type depositories of endemic species, distributions of nonendemic species, taxonomic references and some comments are presented for 85 species of cockroaches recorded from Cuba. Lamproblatta albipalpus, Chorisoneura formosella, Neoblattella detersa, Nyctibora sp., Anaplecta sp., and four undescribed species of Eurycotis are here recorded for the first time. A lectotype is designated for Pseudosymploce excisa (Bolvar). Drawings are included for Eurycotis flavipennis and Pseudosymploce excisa, the two Cuban species known previously only from the original unillustrated descriptions. /// Las localidades tipo, el depositorio de los tipos de las especies endmicas, la distribucin de las no endmicas, referencias taxonmicas y algunos comentarios son presentados para 85 especies de cucarachas reportadas de Cuba. Se reportan por primera vez, Lamproblatta albipalpus, Chorisoneura formosella, Neoblattella detersa, Nyctibora sp., Anaplecta sp., y cuatro especies de Eurycotis aun por describir. Es designado un lectotipo para Pseudosymploce excisa (Bolvar). Se incluyen dibujos de Eurycotis flavipennis y Pseudosymploce excisa, las nicas dos especies cubanas sin ilustrar y conocidas solo a partir de sus descripciones originales.
25078590|Several genera of Neotropical gomphocerine grasshoppers (Alota Bruner, Borellia Rehn, Carrascotettix n. gen., Cauratettix, Roberts, Euplectrotettix Bruner, Jagomphocerus n. gen., Meloscirtus Bruner, Parapellopedon Jago, Pellopedon Bruner, Rhammatocerus Saussure, Scyllinula n. gen. and Stereotettix Rehn) which have a certain number of characters in common are grouped in a tribe under the name Scyllinini. The genus Cauratettix is rehabilitated and the genus Scyllinops is synonymyzed under Borellia. New species described are Borellia alejomesai, Borellia saezi, and Jagomphocerus amazonicus.
25078591|The Hispaniolan fauna of Acridoid grasshoppers is highly endemic and much more diverse than previously recognized. Three new genera and seven new species of Acridoid grasshoppers are here described and illustrated, mainly from subtropical dry forest populations in southwestern Dominican Republic, West Indies. The affinities of these new genera to other neotropical grasshoppers are unclear. They seem to be representatives of a "primitive" grasshopper fauna indigenous to the Caribbean. /// La fauna de saltamontes Acridoideos de la Hispaniola es altamente endmica y mucho ms diversa de lo que se conocia. Tres nuevos gneros y siete nuevas especies de saltamontes Acridoideos son aqu descritos e ilustrados, principalmente a partir de poblaciones del bosque seco subtropical en el suroeste de la Repblica Dominicana, Indias Occidentales. Las afinidades de estos nuevos gneros a otros saltamontes neotropicales no son claras. Estos parecen ser representantes de una fauna "primitiva" de saltamontes indgena del Caribe.
25078596|There are 17 recognized genera of American Ectrichodiinae, 5 new genera and 7 new species are described here: Schuhella hermosa (Brazil), Wygodzinskyocoris nigripes (Brazil), Sinchocoris colombiensis (Columbia), S. panamensis (Panama), Doblepardocoris vittata (Argentina), D. hirsuta (Brazil) and Cryptonannus punctellus (Brazil). All of the above taxa are unique to the New World. The following new synonymies are recognized: Jorgoris Carpintero 1980 and Parapothea Carpintero 1980 are junior synonyms of Pothea Amyot and Serville 1843; Pseudoracelda Carpintero 1980 is a junior synonym of Racelda Signoret 1863. Rhiginia corrugata Maldonado 1972 is a junior synonym of R. atripennis [Walker] 1873. All 19 resulting genera are described and their species listed. A key to the genera is presented. A phylogeny of the genera is proposed accompanying an evaluation of the polarity of phylogenetically significant characters. SEM micrographs of several structures on the legs, antennae and rostrum are provided. A new structure on the antennae, Barth's organ is described.
25078597|The thrips-attacking Eulophidae (subfamily Entedoninae) known from the Nearctic region are reviewed. One new species, Ceranisus loomansi, is described. Four other species of Ceranisus are redescribed and illustrated based mainly on a study of their type specimens as well as on additional material from Arizona, California, Hawaii, Mississippi and Japan. Lectotypes are designated for Ceranisus americensis (Girault), C. nubilipennis (Williams) and C. russelli (Crawford). A key to eight species belonging to four entedonine thrips-attacking genera is given, and host associations are indicated for those species.
25078598|The chaetotaxy of three cytotypes of Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus) nuneztovari larvae and pupae was investigated. Cytotype A larvae have seta 8-M with fewer branches on average than do cytotype B and C larvae. Five setae were found to differ between male and female cytotype B larvae (5-C, 6-C, 6-Mx, 1-M, 0-VI). No easily discernable chaetotactic differences were found among pupae of cytotypes A, B, and C. A complete account of the chaetotaxy of the three cytotypes of An. nuneztovari larvae and pupae is given.
25078602|A total of 672 species and subspecies of mayflies (Ephemeroptera) are listed for North America (Canada, Mexico, and the continental United States). Changes to the list are as follows: Callibaetis ferrugineus hageni Eaton, 1885, new status [=C. americanus Banks, 1900, new synonym] and Callibaetis ferrugineus ferrugineus (Walsh), 1862, new status, are western and eastern subspecies, respectively; Camelobaetidius arriaga (Traver & Edmunds), 1968 [=C. chiapas (Edmunds & Traver), 1968, new synonym, =C. jenseni (Edmunds & Traver), 1968, new synonym]; Isonychia sicca (Walsh), 1862 [=I. edmundsi Kondratieff & Voshell, 1984, new synonym]; Tortopus puella (Pictet), 1843 [=T. incertus (Traver), 1935, new synonym]; and Lachlania saskatchewanensis Ide, 1941 [=L. powelli Edmunds, 1951, new synonym]. Ten species are listed as nomina dubia. A utilitarian, alphabetical index to 1,428 different species names historically used for the North American fauna is provided. The checklist and index serve as an initial basis for a continually updated electronic version available over the internet.
25078603|Limonia dillonae new species and Cheilotrichia (Empeda) cretacea new species are described and illustrated from specimens in amber from the Upper Cretaceous (Turonian, 90-94 million years ago) Raritan-Magothy Formation at Sayreville, New Jersey. The two species are the first crane flies characterized from these amber deposits and are compared with extant and fossil species. Limonia dillonae n. sp. and Cheilotrichia cretacea n. sp. are the oldest undisputed fossil specimens for these genera. A listing of the 15 orders and 45 families of insects and other organisms represented in this particular amber collection is given.
25078607|The caddisfly fauna of these islands now stands at 61 species. Trinidad contains 53 species of which 10 (19%) are endemic, Tobago 33 species of which 7 (21%) are limited to the island, and an additional 6 species (10%) are found on both islands, but not elsewhere. Twelve species are described as new: Cernotina hastilis (Tobago), Austrotinodes adamsae (Tobago), Xiphocentron piscicaudum (Tobago, Venezuela), X. stenotum (Tobago), X. prolixum (Trinidad), Leucotrichia botosaneanui (Trinidad, Tobago), L. tritoven (Trinidad, Tobago, Venezuela), Alisotrichia cyanolenos (Trinidad, Venezuela), Rhyacopsyche duplicispina (Tobago), Ochrotrichia (O.) trinitatis (Trinidad), Ochrotrichia (Metrichia) geminata (Trinidad, Tobago), and Marilia spinosula (Trinidad). Of the insular fauna, 38% is endemic to one or the other or both of the islands, another 5% is shared only with other Antillean islands, a further 18% is shared only with the Paria Peninsula, Venezuela, and the final 39% are more widespread on the Antillean islands and mainland.
25078609|The five species of Lissorhoptrus known to occur in Venezuela and Colombia are treated herein. These include two new species which attack rice, Oryza sativa L. The genus and the known species are redescribed, the new species are described, and all species are keyed. The new species are L. kuscheli (type locality, Venezuela, Guarico, 28 km. SW. Calabozo) and L. persimilis (type locality, Colombia, Valle Department, Valle de Cauca, Palmira). Photos of the habitus, line drawings of the male genitalia, and SEM micrographs of the male hind tibial mucrone of the five species also are provided. Lissorhoptrus paraguayanus Kuschel is treated as a junior synonym of L. lepidus Kuschel [New synonymy].
25078610|Two new genera, Larsenolidia, type-species, Larsenolidia ampla, n. sp. and Hastalidia, type-species, Hastalidia plana, n. sp. from Brazil are described. Also seven new species of Docalidia are described and illustrated: longicrista, egregia, viracitas and ryani from Brazil and latebra, danieli and zacharyi from Peru.
25078611|New taxa described and illustrated include two new genera: Apophydia, type-species, Apophydia stylata, n. sp., Godoyana, type-species, Godoyana laselvensis, n. sp. and new species: Lodia alyssae, Coelidia aculeata, Evansolidia fistuca, Omanolidia triangularis, O. setacea and Deltolidia magnifica, from the Neotropical region and Calodia subcrista from the Oriental region.
25078612|Two Mesoamerican species, Mitona sotoi Park and Bryaxis simulatrix Sharp, are redescribed and tranferred to Eutrichites (new combinations). Two new species are described: E. confusum Carlton (Mesoamerica and Bolivia) and E. skelleyi Carlton (Peru). Additional locality data are provided for E. arizonensis Carlton, E. buscki Carlton, E. funiculus (Park), and E. veracruzensis Carlton. A phylogenetic hypothesis of relationships among the nine species included in Eutrichites is proposed and discussed.
25078617|The Bugilliesia complex is a distinct grouping of Afrotropical Baetidae (Ephemeroptera) genera distinguished by a conspicuous basomedial protuberance on segment 2 of the male genital forceps. It includes Potamocloeon Gillies; Afrobaetodes Demoulin; Kivua McCafferty & Lugo-Ortiz, new genus; Rhithrocloeon Gillies; Bugilliesia Lugo-Ortiz & McCafferty, new genus; and Mutelocloeon Gillies & Elouard. Genera are each highly distinctive as larvae (Kivua remains unknown as larvae), but the complex is not definable in the larval stage. Cladistic analysis shows Potamocloeon to be the most plesiotypic lineage, with all other genera sharing larval apomorphies. Kivua, Rhithrocloeon, Bugilliesia, and Mutelocloeon form the next sequential clade, and the latter three form the next. Bugilliesia and Mutelocloeon are the most apotypic, sister lineages. Relationships are reflected in transitional changes in the unusual male genitalia. The recognition of the six sequenced species groups as genera constitutes a phylogenetic classification. Kivua consists of K. elouardi (Gillies), new combination, and K. insueta (Kopelke), new combination, thereby restricting Rhithrocloeon to consist of R. indicator Gillies and R. permirum (Kopelke). Bugilliesia consists of certain species previously considered in Afroptilum Gillies: B. grisea (Gillies), new combination; B. guineensis (Gillies), new combination; B. nitida (Ulmer), new combination; B. notabilis (Kimmins), new combination; and B. sudanensis (Ulmer), new combination. Potamocloeon macafertiorum Lugo-Ortiz, new species, is described from northeastern South Africa, and represents a considerable range extension for the genus. Afrobaetodes intermedius Lugo-Ortiz & McCafferty, new species, is described from northeastern South Africa. Diagnosis of all genera are given along with species inclusions and distributions.
25078618|Two new species of flightless acridid grasshoppers. Melanoplus nanciae and Melanoplus ordwayae are described from Florida scrub habitat on isolated sand ridges in peninsular Florida. They are members of a group of 5 species that show evolutionary divergence on "islands" of scrub. Habitat-specific flightless grasshoppers may be particularly useful in biogeographic analyses because divergence between lineages is quickly reflected in morphological changes in male genitalia. The two new species are examples of arthropods that are not even named before their habitat is mostly destroyed.
25078619|Four agromyzid species from Taiwan, Ophiomyia scaevolana, Tropicomyia alocasiae, T. passiflorella and Metopomyza taipingensis, are described as new to science. Characters of male and female adults, mining patterns and larva or puparium of O. scaevolana, T. alocasiae and T. passiflorella are illustrated. Differences of male genitalia from related species are proposed for diagnostic discrimination.
25078620|Yoyuteris is a new genus described from Cuba and the Dominican Republic. Yoyuteris species have been found under leaf litter, in hollow trees above ground level, and under stones. They have been collected at elevations of 300 to 700 meters and above. The genus may have originated in proto Antillean Arc during lower the Cretaceus. /// Yoyuteris es un nuevo genero descrito para Cuba y la Republica Dominicana. Sus especies pueden ser encontradas bajo hojarasca, huecos en troncos de arboles caidos o bajo piedras. Ellas han sido colectadas entre los 300 y 700 metros de altura. Este genero puede haber sido originado en el arco proto antillano durante el Cretaceo inferior.
25078621|In this paper we present, for first time, the male genitalia from Cophus thoracicus Saussure, 1974, the type species of the genus, and describe a new genus Cubacophus with one new species. We have also moved two species originally assigned to genus Cophus to the new genus Cubacophus creating two new combinations. These genera are placed into a new tribe Cophusini. /// En este trabajo nosotros presentamos por primera vez la genitalia de Cophus thoracicus Saussure, 1874 la cual es la especie tipo del gnero y describimos el nuevo gnero Cubacophus con una nueva especie. Tambien hemos cambiado dos especies originalmente asignadas al gnero Cophus para el nuevo gnero Cubacophus formando dos nuevas combinaciones.
25078625|A revised annotated checklist for the chironomid midges (Diptera: Chironomidae) of the southeastern United States is presented that includes the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee. Much of the information concerns occurrence and habitat preference records based upon the authors' data, as well as published and unpublished data. Some information is also presented that includes aspects of biology, habitat preference, bibliographic sources, and nomenclatorial changes. Based upon the present work, the chironomid fauna of the southeastern states is comprised of 189 genera (172 described, 17 informally or unofficially described) and 754 species (505 described, 17 informally or unofficially described, 33 that are assumed for generic or subgeneric presence only, 197 estimated species, and 2 species groups). Several new species synonyms and generic placements are recognized. Thirty-eight genera known from the Nearctic region remain unknown from the southeastern states. Diversity of species was greatest in the subfamily Chironominae, considering named as well as unnamed and estimated species. There were no significant changes in overall regional distribution patterns of subfamilies or habitat preferences from that which has been previously reported. The greatest totals for regional records, habitat types, and state occurrences were the Coastal Plain (378), streams (271), and North Carolina (373), respectively.
25078626|One family, three genera, and 18 species of Ephemeroptera are newly reported from Texas. Additional county, drainage, and biotic province records are given for another 13 species. This paper brings the total number of nominal species of mayflies known from Texas to 93. Biogeographical trends and faunal affinities of these new Texas records further confirm previously published theories that the state can be viewed as a transitional zone with mayfly populations that have western, eastern and Neotropical affinities.
25078627|Thirty-six new state records of stoneflies from Maryland are reported. A total of 95 species is now confirmed from Maryland, with most records from the Appalachian Mountains of the western section of the state. Notes on the regional distribution of individual species and a revised state checklist are included. The stonefly fauna of Maryland has received little attention compared to recent and comprehensive inventories from each adjacent state: Delaware (Lake, 1980), Pennsylvania (Masteller, 1996), Virginia (Kondratieff and Kirchner, 1987), and West Virginia (Tarter and Kirchner, 1980). Prior to the study of Duffield and Nelson (1990), only 33 species were listed by Stark et al. (1986). Duffield and Nelson (1990) added 25 new state records based on specimens collected from Big Hunting Creek, a trout stream in the Blue Ridge Physiographic Province. In addition, Sweltsa lateralis (Banks) was reported from Maryland by Surdick (1985) but not included by Stark et al. (1986) or Duffield and Nelson (1990). A study was initiated by the author in 1993 to survey the stonefly fauna of the Appalachian Mountains of western Maryland. All material was collected by the author (SAG) and Richard E. Jacobsen, University of Pittsburgh (REJ). Material were also examined from the United States National Museum (USNM) and Carnegie Museum of Natural History (CMNH), and the personal collection of Dr. Rebecca F. Surdick (RFS). This paper reports 36 new state records, increasing the new state total to 95 species. All new records detailed below are limited to three occurrences where at least males were collected. Twenty-four species are considered Appalachian (AP) in distribution, eleven are widespread-boreal (WB) distributed species, and one is primarily a Gulf Coastal Plain (CP) species.
25078628|Twenty-two species of the genus Ecnomus McLachlan (Ecnomidae: Trichoptera) from the People's Republic of China are described or re-described, among which eighteen species are new to science. One additional species is considered a nomen dubium. A phylogeny of these 22 species is inferred from the adult male characters, using PAUP. Four monophyletic species groups are recognized within the genus. A phylogeny of the genera in the whole family is also inferred with PAUP from information in all life stages. Ecnomus and Psychomyiellodes Mosely are sister lineages. Their sister lineage is((Austrotinodes + Ecnomina) + Parecnomina) + Parecnomina resima. A new genus probably is needed for Parecnomina resima Morse.
25078632|The genus Acantheremus Karny (Tettigoniidae: Copiphorinae) is revised. Two already known species are redescribed and six new species are described from Costa Rica, Panama, Guyana, Venezuela, Brazil and Dominica. Acantheremus possibly represents a highly derived branch within the genus Copiphora Serville, which is specialized for an insectivorous, strictly arboreal way of life.
25078633|The genus Chevrolatia is revised for North America and is found to include two previously described species (C. amoena LeConte and C. grouvellei Croissandeau) and two new species, C. occidentalis O'Keefe NEW SPECIES (type locality: Koppe's Ridge, 5 mi SW College Station, Brazos Co., Texas) and C. suteri O'Keefe NEW SPECIES (type locality: Douglas, Cochise Co., Arizona). Lectotype specimens are designated for C. grouvellei Croissandeau and C. grouvellei Schaufuss. The right antenna is illustrated for each species, the aedeagus is illustrated for all species except C. suteri, and the ovipositor and mouthparts are illustrated for C. amoena. The literature is reviewed on a world basis and a revised catalog of the known species is included.
25078634|Two new species of the subgenus Forcipomyia (Thyridomyia) from Argentina, F. (T.) calchaqui and F. (T.) riojana are described and illustrated from female and male specimens, respectively. Furthermore, F. (Synthiridomyia) sanctaeclarae Wirth is recorded for the first time from Argentina and continental Chile.
25078635|This paper provides the first description of the female form of Diapheromera carolina, comments concerning the taxonomic placement of this species and new locality records expanding the known range to the states of Georgia and South Carolina.
25078640|A morphological study of the adult form of Megalodacne heros (Say) (Coleoptera: Erotylidae) was undertaken. Illustrations and descriptions are provided for various aspects of the anatomy including the internal and external skeletal features, digestive system, nervous system, prothoracic glandular system, and the reproductive systems of both sexes. The morphology is discussed with reference to function and natural history. Comparisons are made to other erotylid species with special emphasis on congeners. Seasonal variation in some internal anatomical features is described. Several intraspecific polymorphisms and sexual dimorphisms are described.
25078641|En el presente estudio se revisan las especies de Bibio (Diptera: Bibionidae) conocidas de Mxico y Amrica Central. Se reconocen quince especies en esta regin, seis de ellas nuevas para la ciencia: B. albipennis Say, B. atrigigas n. sp., B. borisi n. sp., B. chelostylus n. sp., B. chiapensis n. sp., B. criorhinus Bellardi, B. fuligineus Bellardi, B. oreonanus n. sp., B. piceus Bellardi, B. intermedius Rondani, B. slossonae Cockerell, B. stonei Hardy, B. superfluus Schiner, B. xanthopus Wiedemann, y B. xeronastes n. sp.. Bibio alienus McAtee y B. vestitus Walker son incluidos por su posible ocurrencia en el norte de Mxico, discutindose cambios taxonmicos para estas especies. Se designan lectotipos para B. criorhinus, B. fuligineus, B. intermedius, B. piceus, B. stonei, y B. subaequalis Rondani. Seis nuevos sinnimos son presentados: B. albipennis beameri Hardy = B. albipennis; B. rufalipes Hardy = B. alienus; B. peruvianus Edwards = B. subaequalis; B. dispar Schiner y B. carolinus Hardy = B. superfluus; B. mickeli Hardy = B. vestitus Walker. Se proporcionan diagnosis y distribuciones para todas las especies. Se presenta una clave para las especies de Mxico y Amrica Central, tambin la terminalia de los machos y las patas traseras de machos y hembras de todas las especies son ilustradas para comparacin. Son incluidas adems notas e ilustraciones de los tipos de algunas especies suramericanas de Bibio. /// The species of Bibio (Diptera: Bibionidae) known to occur in Mexico and Central America are reviewed. Fifteen species are recognized as occurring in this region, six described as new to science: B. albipennis Say, B. atrigigas n. sp., B. borisi n. sp., B. chelostylus n. sp., B. chiapensis n. sp., B. criorhinus Bellardi, B. fuligineus Bellardi, B. oreonanus n. sp., B. piceus Bellardi, B. intermedius Rondani, B. slossonae Cockerell, B. stonei Hardy, B. superfluus Schiner, B. xanthopus Wiedemann, and B. xeronastes n. sp.. Bibio alienus McAtee and B. vestitus Walker are included as possibly occurring in northern Mexico, and taxonomic changes for these species are discussed. Lectotypes are designated for B. criorhinus, B. fuligineus, B. intermedius, B. piceus, B. stonei, and B. subaequalis Rondani. Six new synonyms are presented: B. albipennis beameri Hardy = B. albipennis; B. rufalipes Hardy = B. alienus; B. peruvianus Edwards = B. subaequalis; B. dispar Schiner and B. carolinus Hardy = B. superfluus; B. mickeli Hardy = B. vestitus Walker. Diagnoses and distributions are given for all species. A key to the species of Mexico and Central America is presented, and male terminalia and male and female hind legs of all species are illustrated for comparison. Notes and illustrations of types of some South American Bibio species are given.
25078642|This paper deals with the taxonomic status of the "buffalo treehopper", its scientific name, and provides notes on closely related species. Stictocephala bisonia here treated as a junior synonym of Stictocephala alta (Walker).
25078643|Twenty-slx species of Tipulidae and one of Ptychopteridae are recorded from the Ouachita Highlands of westcentral Arkansas. Of these, 20 species of Tipuiidae are recorded from Arkansas for the first time although all are widespread in eastern North America.
25078644|Culicoides debilipalpis Lutz is resurrected as a valid species, and Culicoides ichesi Ronderos & Spinelli is recognized as its junior synonym. Besides, the hitherto unknown male of Culicoides lahillei is described and illustrated and the male of C. debilipalpis is redescribed, both from specimens collected in Argentina.
25078648|A new species of weevil of the subfamily Molytinae from Mexico, Chalcodermus persimilis O'Brien, is described herein. The genus is redescribed and C. persimilis is illustrated with habitus photos and line drawings of its male genitalia. Similar illustrations are included of C. radiatus Champion and C. serripes Fahraeus, both of which resemble C. persimilis. Adults and larvae of the Mexican weevil, C. persimilis feed on seeds of Mimosa pigra Linnaeus, a noxious weed in Australia and Southeast Asia. Oviposition preferences, adult feeding preferences and larval development of C. persimilis were determined for a selected group of legume plant species. Adults feed and oviposit on several species of Mimosaceae. Larvae develop into normal adults on several of these species. The host range of this species is too broad to be considered as a biological control agent of Mimosa pigra.
25078649|Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela have, for several years, been facing severe outbreaks in species belonging to the genus Rhammatocerus. This genus is in need of revision and until now it was not certain that the populations involved north and south of the amazonian rain forest belonged to the same species or not. Our studies show that, in fact, a single species with a large distribution area is involved: R. schistocercoides (Rehn, 1906). Biological data, the dynamic of the invasions and hypotheses on the outbreak determinism in the northern and southern parts of the distribution area are synthesized and discussed.
25078650|Rhammatocerus schistocercoides (Rehn 1906) displays a very conspicuous gregarious behavior both in nymphal (bands) and adult (swarms) stages. To see if this species displays morphological phases, classical measurements of morphological characteristics were made on adults collected from populations of different densities and localities in the Chapada dos Parecis, State of Mato Grosso, Brazil, during 1992-94 and in the llanos region in Colombia. A very high degree of morphological and chromatic homogeneity was observed in all studied populations. The results showed that R. schistocercoides does not display the phase phenomenon in spite of its very conspicuous gregarious behavior. So it leads us to consider that this species is not a true "locust" and is better classified as a "grasshopper". Nevertheless more accurate studies are necessary to examine other polymorphic phenomena related to population densities in the nymphal stage or finer density-dependent variations in physiology of nymphs or adults.
25078651|There are three Shiraki's species in the genus Loxoblemmus, i.e., L. appendicularis, L. formosanus and L. aomoriensis which were originally published in 1930 without type designation. The type material was deposited in the Department of Plant Pathology and Entomology, National Taiwan University, Taipei. In this paper lectotypes are designated on the basis of article 74 of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature. The types of these three species as well as L. frontalis, which has been suppressed as a synonym of L. doenitzi Stein, are here described and photographed for comparison in the future.
25078652|Two new species of the genus Eidmanacris are described (E. bidentata and E. corumbatai) and a new combination name (E. alboannulata) is assigned for the species Arachnomimus alboannulatus Piza, 1960 (= E. bicornis Mesa & Mello, 1985). Morphological and karyologycal information are provided, and the structure of the genital sclerites is discussed.
25078653|Experiments on the cricket Platygryllus primiformis showed that assortative mating by both sexes takes place and females and males prefer to mate with larger partners. Female fecundity increases with female body length, indicating an adaptive reason for males to mate with larger females, but clutch fertility is not influenced by female body length or the body length of the males they mated with. Females removed the spermatophores of males smaller than themselves sooner than those of males larger than themselves. The possible effects of this behaviour on clutch fertility and sperm competition is discussed. Assortative mating in this species seems to be controlled by both sexes.
25078654|The mating, mate guarding and male-male agonistic behaviours of the African King Cricket Libanasidus vittatus are described. Males transfer several small spermatophores, one every one to two hours, after first encountering a female. They mate guard vigorously and show stereotyped male-male aggression with mated males winning all encounters against intruding males. The function of mate guarding and the relationship between the duration of fights and the size difference of males is discussed.
25078658|Nine species of the mymarid wasp genus Anagrus Haliday, egg parasitoids of Erythroneura spp. and other leafhoppers associated with North American grape vineyard agroecosystems, are keyed. Two new species, A. tretiakovae and A. daanei, are described and illustrated. Discussed and corrected are the earlier published host and distribution records of A. epos Girault, which is redescribed. Host associations are indicated for all other species reviewed. It is shown that a complex of several Anagrus species is associated with leafhopper hosts found on grape vines as well as on apple, blackberry, prune, and other plants that may occur near vineyards.
25078659|Two hundred and twenty species and subspecies of Cerambycidae and one species of Disteniidae (Coleoptera) are recorded from Mississippi, 108 of which are reported from the state for the first time. Label data is given from the voucher specimen chosen for each taxon on the list.
25078660|Eighteen new species of Plecia (Diptera: Bibionidae) are described from the Neotropical region: P. abditigiga, P. akantha, P. anthophila, P. apoxys, P. arachne, P. boliviana, P. evansi, P. fasciapenna, P. heliomyia, P. jamaicana, P. ornithocephala, P. pellucida, P. protea, P. ramosa, P. tephra, P. triquetra, P. trunca, and P. xyele. Illustrations of male and female terminalia and female heads of new species and some similar species used in diagnoses are provided. Plecia uberta Hardy is found to be a junior synonym of P. quadrivittata Williston and the name P. rufovittata Edwards replaces P. pictipennis Edwards, a junior homonym of P. pictipennis (Handlirsch).
25078665|The genus Colapteroblatta Hebard is revised and 3 closely related genera, namely Poroblatta Hebard, Acroporoblatta Hebard, and Nauclidas Rehn are synonymized with it. Two new species, namely C. darlingtoni and C. rehni are described. We recognize 12 species of Colapteroblatta and place them in 3 species groups. They are found in the West Indies (1 sp.), Dominican Republic (2 spp.), Surinam (1 sp.), Colombia (6 spp.), and Venezuela (1 sp.); the locality of 1 species is unknown. A key is provided to identify the males and females. Litopeltis compleptera, a new species from Ecuador, is described.
25078666|This revision recognizes 20 species of pterocoline weevils from the New World, 5 of which had been previously described. There are 2 species in the genus Apterocolus Sharp and 18 species in the genus Pterocolus Say. Apterocolus includes A. gravidus Sharp and A. pueblensis n. sp. The 18 species of Pterocolus, including 14 described as new, are as follows: P. amandae n. sp., P. angelae n. sp., P. auricollis Sharp, P. azureus Voss, P. bicolor n. sp., P. chamelensis n. sp., P. crinomucrosus n. sp., P. grossus Sharp, P. hespenheidei n. sp., P. jennae n. sp., P. minutus n. sp., P. obrieni n. sp., P. ovatus (Fabr.), P. setosus n. sp., P. torreyae n. sp., P. truncatus n. sp., P. tuberculatus n. sp. and P. vogti n. sp. Lectotypes are designated for A. gravidus, P. auricollis, P. azureus and P. grossus. A key to adult genera and species is given and adult descriptive synopses, distributions, and diagnostic comments are provided for each species. Associations of pterocoline species with attelabid hosts and host plants are also provided where available. External morphology and aedeagal structures are used to separate the species. Aedeagal diagnoses and aedeagal illustrations are provided for all but one species.
25078667|The genus Anthrenus is revised for North America north of Mexico and is found to include the following 6 new species: A. fucosus, A. sophonisba, A. chiton, A. omoi, A. umbra, and A. blanci plus the following 12 previously described species and subspecies: A. scrophulariae, A. thoracicus, A. lepidus, A. pimpinellae pimpinellae, A. pimpinellae isabellinus, A. parvus, A. flavipes, A. verbasci, A. castaneae, A. museorum, A. fuscus, and A. coloratus. A. occidens Casey is synonymized with A. lepidus LeConte and 13 varieties of A. lepidus are recognized, each given a vernacular name. A. acomanus Casey is synonymized with A. parvus Casey. The named Nearctic varieties of A. flavipes and A. verbasci are considered to have no validity for taxonomic purposes. A key is provided to the species. Problems involved in assignment of species to subgenera is discussed. A summary of the general biology of the species is provided plus new information on each. The known Nearctic geographic distribution is given for each plus some limited information on the known ranges of some that extend into Mexico.
25078668|We present type localities, type depository of endemic species, distributions of nonendemic species, taxonomic references, notes and some comments for 58 species of cockroaches recorded from Puerto Rico. Two previously known species, Eurycotis decipiens from Trinidad and Symploce pararuficollis from Guana Island, and seven undescribed species in the genera Colapteroblatta, Euthlastoblatta, Henicotyle, Nelipophygus and Nyctibora are here reported (but not described or named) from Puerto Rico. Corrections to Wolcott's 1948 cockroaches scientific names are given in a table. Drawings are included for Eurycotis decipiens and Neoblattella adusta, two species from Puerto Rico, previously known only from the original verbal descriptions. /// Las localidades tipo, el depositorio de los tipos de las especies endmicas, la distribucin de las no endmicas, referencias taxonmicas, notas y algunos comentarios son presentados para 58 especies de cucarachas reportadas de Puerto Rico. Se citan por primera vez para Puerto Rico, Eurycotis decipiens conocida previamente de Trinidad y Symploce pararuficollis conocida de Guana Island, as como siete especies an por describir de los gneros Colapteroblatta, Euthlastoblatta, Henicotyle, Nelipophygus y Nyctibora y. Se brinda en una tabla los nombres cientficos corregidos de las especies tratadas en Wolcott 1948. Se incluyen dibujos de Eurycotis decipiens y Neoblattella adusta, las nicas dos especies sin ilustrar presentes en la isla y conocidas solo a partir de sus descripciones originales.
25078672|Labiobaetis Novikova & Kluge (Ephemeroptera: Baetidae) is synonymized with Pseudocloeon Klaplek on the basis of adult morphology now known from throughout its Holarctic, Afrotropical, Oriental, and Australian range and consistent with that of P. kraepelini Klaplek, the type of Pseudocloeon. Adult and larval stages of Pseudocloeon are characterized and compared with those of other genera of the Baetis complex. All species previously assigned to Labiobaetis and several species previously assigned to Baetis are reassigned to Pseudocloeon. Tabular summaries of Pseudocloeon species show nomenclatural revisions, regional distribution, and diagnostic character variability among larvae. Pseudocloeon hypodelum, new species, P. inconspicuum, new species, and P. plectile, new species, are described from Australia. Pseudocloeon involutum, new species, P. petersorum, new species, P. tuberpalpus, new species, P. vitile, new species, P. vultuosum, new species, and P. xeniolum, new species, are described from Papua-New Guinea. Biogeographic data are shown to be congruent with the revised systematics of Pseudocloeon. Occurrences of Pseudocloeon in Papua-New Guinea and Australia are probably related to dispersal events as recent as the middle Miocene.
25078673|A redefinition and phylogenetic analysis of the tribe Nanosellini Barber 1924 is presented, including 12 previously described genera (Baranowskiella, Cylindrosella, Hydnosella, Isolumpia, Nanosella, Nellosana, Mikado, Paratuposa, Porophila, Suterina, Throscidium, Throscoptilium) and 14 new genera (Cylindroselloides, Fijisella, Fijiselloides, Garicaphila, Limulosella, Nellosanoides, Nepalumpia, Phililumpia, Scydosella, Scydoselloides, Tasmangarica, Throscoptiloides, Throscosana, Vitusella). Type species are listed for each genus, including 14 new species or combinations: Cylindroides dybasi, Fijisella vituensis, Fijiselloides nandaivatuensis, Garicaphila pilosa, Limulosella waspucensis, Nellosanoides thayerae, Nepalumpia markusi, Phililumpia werneri, Scydosella musawasensis, Scydoselloides alajuelaensis, Tasmangarica chisholmi, Throscoptiloides norcoensis, Throscosana pecki, Vitusella fijiensis. New genus level combinations are presented: Philagarica new synonym of Mikado; Mycophagus new synonym of Nanosella. At the species level, Ptilum fungi LeConte is proposed as a new synonym for Nanosella fungi Motschulsky. Key characters used in the morphological analysis are illustrated. Phylogenetic reconstructions are presented based on parsimony analyses. Possible evolutionary relationships within Nanosellini are discussed.
25078674|A survey of selected moths in longleaf pine savannas in St. Tammany and Tangipahoa Parishes, Louisiana produced a total of 208 species and 1,182 individuals. Over twice as many species were collected in the Tangipahoa Parish site. Thirty-two samples were taken from March 1995 through October 1995 using ultraviolet blacklight traps. Species richness, abundance and seasonal distribution are presented. Species overlap between sites was 38%. Species composition is also compared with two other habitats, a mixed hard-wood site in Louisiana and a scrub pine habitat in Florida.
25078675|The moth composition of a mixed mesophytic hardwood forest in West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana was sampled during the period March 1995 - October 1995 using ultraviolet blacklight traps. A total of 32 collections were made, recovering 314 moth species and 3,155 individuals. Species richness, abundance and seasonal distribution are presented. There was 67% overlap of species between trap sites within the habitat and 46% species overlap when compared to a survey of moths from a mixed hardwood forest in Arkansas.
25078676|Three new Neotropical species of the subgenus Lasiohelea Kieffer of Forcipomyia Meigen are described and illustrated: F. (L.) cacaophila from Venezuela, F. (L.) guarani from Paraguay, and F. (L.) multidentata from Brazil. F. (L.) stylifera (Lutz) is redescribed from the type series, and notes and illustrations on the cibarial armature and scutellar setae of F. (L.) saltensis (Cavalieri) (from its type) and F. (L.) attenuata Saunders (from non-type specimens) are provided. Furthermore, for the first time F. (L.) anitae Huerta and Ibaez-Bernal is recorded from Brazil and Costa Rica, F. (L.) attenuata from Bolivia, and F. (L.) stylifera from Argentina, Belize, Bolivia, Ecuador, Panama and Paraguay.
25078677|The following new synonymies and new combinations for Pselaphinae of North and Central America are documented: Anarmodius aequinoctialis (Motschulsky) (Trichonyx), New Comb.; Anthylarthron cornutum (Brendel) (= Anthylarthron curtipenne Casey, New Syn.); Aporhexius robustus (Motschulsky) (Euplectus), New Comb.; Batrisodes punctifrons Casey (= Batrisodes appalachianus Casey, New Syn.); Batrisodes ionae (LeConte) (= Batrisodes caseyi Blatchley, New Syn.); Batrisodes clypeonotus (Brendel) (= Batrisodes kahli Bowman, New Syn.); Batrisodes lineaticollis (Aub) (= Batrisus globosus LeConte, New Syn.); Brachygluta corniventris (Motschulsky) (Bryaxis), New Comb., (= Bryaxis illinoiensis Brendel, New Syn.); Cedius ziegleri LeConte (= Cedius robustus Casey, New Syn.); Conoplectus simplex (Motschulsky) (Rhexius), New Comb., jun. syn. of Conoplectus canaliculatus (LeConte), New Syn.; Ctenisodes Raffray (= Pilopius Casey, New Syn.); Cylindrarctus ludovicianus (Brendel) (= Cylindrarctus comes Casey, New Syn.; Dalmosanus Park (= Pygmactium Grigarick and Schuster, New Syn.); Decarthron consanguineum (Motschulsky) (Bryaxis), New Comb.; Decarthron formiceti (LeConte) (= Decarthron rayi Park, = Decarthron seriepunctatum Brendel, New Syns.); Decarthron velutinum (LeConte), New Status (= "D. formiceti," Park, 1958); Decarthron marinum Brendel (= Decarthron diversum Park, New Syn.); Decarthron robustum (Motschulsky) (Metaxis), New Comb.; Euphalepsus Reitter (= Barada Raffray, = Tetrasemus Jeannel, New Syns.), in subtribe Baradina; Eupsenius dilatatus Motschulsky (= Eupsenius rufus LeConte, New Syn.); Eurhexius canaliculatus (Motschulsky) (Trichonyx), New Comb. (= Eurhexius zonalis Park, New Syn.); Harmophola adusta (Motschulsky) (Euplectus), New Comb.; Iteticus cylindricus (Motschulsky) (Batrisus), New Comb.; Nisaxis Casey (=Dranisaxa Park, New Syn.); Oropus striatus (LeConte) (=Oropus keeni Casey and O. brevipennis Casey, New Syns.); Panaramecia tropicalis (Motschulsky) (Euplectus), New Comb. (= Panaramecia williamsi Park, New Syn.); Phamisus Aub, (= Canthoderus Motschulsky, New Syn.); Pselaptus oedipus (Sharp) (Bryaxis, Cryptorhinula), New Comb.; Pselaphus bellax Casey (= Pselaphus ulkei Bowman, New Syn); Reichenbachia intacta (Sharp) (= Bryaxis sarcinaria Schaufuss, New Syn.); Reichenbachia pruinosa (Motschulsky) (Bryaxis), New Comb., (= Bryaxis macrura Motschulsky, = Reichenbachia bierigi Park, New Syns.); Reichenbachia rubricunda (Aub) (= Bryaxis gemmifer LeConte, New Syn.); Trimicerus Motschulsky, (= Batrybraxis Reitter, New Syn.); Trimicerus cornigera (Motschulsky) (Bryaxis), New Comb. (= Batrybraxis panamensis Park, New Syn.); Trimicerus pacificus Motschulsky (= Batrybraxis bowmani Park, New Syn.); Trimiomelba dubia (LeConte) (= Trimium americanum Motschulsky, = Trimium convexulum LeConte, = Trimiomelba laevis Casey, New Syns.); Tyrus humeralis (Aub) (= Tyrus consimilis Casey, New Syn.); Tyrus semiruber Casey (= "Tyrus humeralis" of authors); Tyrus corticinus Casey (= Tyrus carinifer Casey, New Syn.); Xybarida trimioides (Sharp) (Bryaxis, Cryptorhinula), New Comb. Lectotype designations: Batrisus ionae LeConte; Batrisus globosus LeConte; Bryaxis consanguinea Motschulsky; Bryaxis corniventris Motschulsky; Bryaxis pruinosa Motschulsky; Metaxis robusta Motschulsky; Rhexius simplex Motschulsky; Trimium americanum LeConte; Tyrus consimilis Casey. New species and genera: Cylindrarctus seminole Chandler, New Species (= "Cylindrarctus comes," Chandler, 1988); Motschtyrus pilosus (Motschulsky) (Tychus), Panama, New Genus, New Comb.
25078681|Stoneflies of the monophyletic chloroperlid genus Suwallia Ricker and the monotypic genus Neaviperla Ricker presently constitute the tribe Suwalliini Surdick. Suwallia, previously composed of seven Nearctic and eight Palearctic species, has remained a problematic genus because of the lack of detailed comparative study of external and internal genitalia, eggs and less weighted but useful characters such as pigment patterns. Our approach to revision of the genus Suwallia Ricker has been to study literature descriptions and holotypes where available, visit North American type localities for topotypes, and collect fresh males for aedeagal extrusion and detailed examination of the epiproct, hemitergal processes and aedeagus using both dissecting and scanning electron microscopy. Palearctic species were obtained from colleagues for further study. We describe, diagnose and provide a dichotomous key to adults of twenty-two of the twenty-three species that constitute this tribe. This includes descriptions of five species, Suwallia amoenacolens, Suwallia salish, Suwallia shepardi, Suwallia starki, and Suwallia sublimis that are new to science. Several species are redescribed, Alloperla bimaculata (Okamoto) is transferred to Suwallia, and Suwallia jezoensis (Kohno) is raised from synonymy. Suwallia tsudai is synonymized with Alloperla thoracica and A. thoracica is transferred to the genus Suwallia. Alloperla nipponica sensu Kawai (1967) represents a new species, S. shimizui, leaving A. nipponica (Okamoto) a valid species of Alloperla as originally described. The genus Neaviperla is synonymized with Suwallia.
25078682|The extant and fossil species of the subfamily Dasytinae (Coleoptera: Melyridae) from Colorado, U. S. A. are reviewed. Twenty extant species and two fossil species are recognized. The synonymy of the genus Pseudallonyx Casey with the genus Vectura Casey is confirmed. The fossil species Trichochrous miocenus Wickham is transferred to the genus Eutrichopleurus Blaisdell, NEW COMBINATION. Vectura albicans Casey is transferred to the genus Vecturoides Fall, NEW COMBINATION. Nine species are recorded from Colorado for the first time: Vecturoides albicans (Casey), Amphivectura monticola (Blaisdell), Dasytellus elegantulus Casey, Dolichosoma foveicolle (Kirby), Pseudasydates inyoensis Blaisdell, Trichochrous rufipennis (LeConte), Amecocerus clavicornis (Casey), Amecocerus interruptus (LeConte), and Amecocerus uniformis (Casey). Brief diagnoses of each species and a key to adults of the extant species of Dasytinae known from Colorado are provided.
25078683|The North American species of Amblyderus are revised, and a key is provided. InAmblyderus Pic is placed as a new synonym of Amblyderus. Six species are redescribed, and one new species, A. owyhee Chandler, is described from the Columbia River Plateau. A checklist of the world species and their distributions is included. Lectotypes for Anthicus granularis LeConte, Anthicus pallens LeConte, Amblyderus obesus Casey, Amblyderus albicans Casey and Amblyderus parviceps Casey are designated. The record of Amblyderus from Puerto Rico is found to be due to a misspelling of the genus Amblycerus Thunberg (Family Chrysomelidae, Bruchinae).
25078684|The Nearctic species of the genus Rhysipolis Frster are revised for the first time. Nine species are recognized, including one previously known from the New World, R. pallipes (Provancher), and one recognized in the New World for the first time, R. decorator (Haliday). Seven species are described as new: R. anomalus Spencer sp. n., R. chiapas Spencer sp. n., R. maritimus Spencer sp. n., R. muesebecki Spencer sp. n., R. platygaster Spencer sp. n., R. sonorus Spencer sp. n., and R. stenodes Spencer sp. n. New host records are provided for several of the nearctic species-the three recorded host genera are all from the Gracillariidae (Lepidoptera). The doubtful monophyly of the genus is briefly discussed, along with its nomenclatural implications.
25078689|The classification of the psocid family Caeciliusidae presented in skeletal form by Mockford (1989a) is expanded. One new subfamily, Aphyopsocinae, is added. Details of the infrasubfamilial classification of the subfamilies Caeciliusinae, Paracaeciliinae, and Fuelleborniellinae are given. Caeciliusinae contains five tribes: Caeciliusini n. stat. (genera Caecilius Curtis, Dypsocus Hagen, Dypsocopsis n. gen., and Isophanes Banks), Coryphacini n. tr. (genera Coryphaca Enderlein, Coryphosmila Enderlein, Protodypsocus Enderlein, Valenzuela Navs, and Stenocaecilius n. gen.), Kodamaiini n. tr. (with genera distributed in five subtribes: Kodamaiina n. subtr. with genus Kodamaius Okamoto, Austrocaeciliina n. subtr. with genera Austrocaecilius Smithers, Asiocaecilius n. gen., and Isophanopsis Badonnel, Thorntoniellina n. subtr. with genus Thorntoniella n. gen., Pericaeciliina n. subtr. with genus Pericaecilius n. gen., and Lienhardiellina n. subtr. with genus Lienhardiella n. gen.), Maoripsocini n. tr. (genera Maoripsocus Tillyard and Maoripsocopsis n. gen.), and Epicaeciliini n. tr. (genera Epicaecilius n. gen. and Orocaecilius n. gen.). In the subfamily Paracaeciliinae which includes the general Paracaecilius Badonnel, Enderleinella Badonnel, Mockfordiella Badonnel, Xanthocaecilius Mockford, one new genus, Chilenocaecilius, is added. No new taxa are added in the subfamily Fuelleborniellinae. Diagnoses are given for all taxa above species level. All 553 named species in the family are assigned to their higher taxa, resulting in 362 new combinations. One-hundred thirty-eight of these (originally described Caecilus), Which are not yet sufficiently known, are provisionally assigned to the already very large and comprehensive genus Valenzuela Navs. The latter name is retrieved from synonymy of Caecilus. A key to the taxa above species level, phylogenetic and biogeographic discussions are included.
25078690|Three Costa Rican species of Mozena: M. auricularia, M. guanacastela, and M. tyttha, are described and illustrated; M. lunata (Burmeister), M. lutea (Herrich-Schaffer), and M. ventralis (Mayr) are recorded for the first time in Costa Rica; new records for M. alata Distant, and M. lurida (Dallas) are given, and a key to the known Costa Rican species of Mozena is presented.
25078691|The publication dates of two key works by the Marquis F. T. de LaFert-Snectre on the Anthicidae are determined. It is established that the series of generic revisions published by LaFert-Snectre in the "Species et iconographie gnrique des Animaux Articuls," edited by F.-E. Gurin-Mneville, precede the release of his "Monographie des Anthicus et genres voisins" by one or two months, and take precedence for the new generic and specific names given in both publications. Both publications appeared early in 1849.
25078692|A new West Indian species of the blaberid genus Colapteroblatta is described. The new taxon is placed in the nigra-species-group and some additions are given to this species group.
25078693|The Neotropical species of the subgenus Forcipomyia (Forcipomyia) are arranged in five species groups, the previously known argenteola group plus the following four herein recognized: fusca, genualis, poulaineae and squamitibia. A key to groups is presented, and diagnoses and included species for each one are provided. Furthermore, a new species of the genualis group, F. (F.) guarani n. sp. from northeastern Argentina, Paraguay and northwestern Uruguay is described and illustrated.
25078694|Choriphyllum bahamensis n. sp. is described from a small cay near Great Exuma island, Bahamas. This is the first record of a West Indian Cladonotinae with a leaf-like pronotum outside of Cuba and Jamaica. Moreover, it is the only known example among West Indian Cladonotinae of a species not living in humid mountain forests.
25078695|We present the first published list of type specimens in the Clemson University Arthropod Collection, Clemson, South Carolina, USA. The Clemson University Arthropod Collection holds pinned, slide-mounted, and fluid preserved paratypes, syntypes, and holotypes of 199 species of insects and copepods.
25078700|The phylogeny of 14 monophyletic groupings of known pannote mayfly genera are presented based on a cladistic analysis. From this, a strictly phylogenetic hierarchical classification of supergeneric taxa is presented, and previous paraphyletic and polyphyletic concepts in the Pannota are corrected. Revised superfamilies, families, and subfamilies are described, illustrated, and discussed in terms of makeup, distribution, and diagnosis. Superfamilies represent the two major cosmopolitan clades: Caenoidea (divided into sister clades recognized as the Caenidae and Neoephemeridae) and Ephemerelloidea (further divided into a sequential series of clades recognized at the family rank and including Ephemerellidae, Austremerellidae, n. stat., Teloganodidae (restricted), Teloganellidae, n. fam., Ephemerythidae, n. stat., Machadorythidae, n. stat., Tricorythidae (restricted), and the measurably most apotypic pannote family Leptohyphidae. The first major branching within the Ephemerelloidea results in a Laurasian clade (Ephemerellidae sensu stricto) and all other lineages, which constitute a Gondwanan clade. Such vicariance suggests a Pangaean origin about 200 million years old for the Ephemerelloidea, and probably an even older origin for Pannota. A sequence of lineages in Caenidae are recognized as the Caeninae, Madecocercinae, n. subfam., and Brachycercinae (restricted); sister lineages in the Ephemerellidae are recognized as the Ephemerellinae (restricted) and Timpanoginae, n. stat.; and sister lineages in Tricorythidae are recognized as Tricorythinae and Dicercomyzinae. Ranorythinae and Madecassorythinae are provisionally placed as synonyms of Tricorythinae and Dicercomyzinae, respectively, because of lack of larval data associated with them. The unrelated families Prosopistomatidae and Baetiscidae must be excluded from the Pannota. Taxonomic keys are constructed to superfamilies, families, and subfamilies of Pannota for both known larvae and adults.
25078701|Diogma gelhausi n. sp. (Diptera, Cylindrotomidae) is described from Baltic amber (Eocene). It is the first fossil representative of the genus Diogma Edwards. Its affinities to other recent and fossil species of this genus are discussed.
25078702|Tipula (Odonatisca) gouldeni new species is described and illustrated from adult specimens collected in the Lake Hovsgol area in northcentral Mongolia. This new species is most similar to T. (O.) nodicornis Meigen (northern Palearctic), based on antennal, male and female genitalic structures, but differs in several features including wing color and morphology of the male inner gonostyle.
25078705|Techniques tending to the preservation of the original morphology and with the mounting of species of Culicoides for SEM, especially larvae and adults, are discussed. Dried adults dry mounted directly on silver paste allowed the perfect observation of the wings. Adults preserved in alcohol, dehydrated in phenol saturated in absolute alcohol, washed in alcohol 70%, and mounted on carbon tape, permitted a thorough observation of the rest of the structures. With regard to larvae, Nembutal was the most efficient of the relaxing drugs used. Phenol saturated in absolute alcohol acts as fixative and dehydrator, being one of the few fixatives which is apt for the observation not only with light microscope but also with SEM.
25078706|The larva and pupa of Culicoides bambusicola are redescribed and illustrated, including photomicrographies, based on the examination with both Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and phase-contrast stereoscope. The larva exhibits the characters stated by previous authors for larvae of tree hole breeding species. A diagnosis and illustrations of the adult stage from type material and specimens emerged in laboratory is also provided. The specimens were collected breeding in tacuara canes internodes in northeastern Argentina.
25078710|In this study Metaleptea is redescribed based on characters from the external morphology and genitalia. The two known subspecies proposed by Rehn (1944) for M. brevicornis (M. b. brevicornis and M. b. adspersa) are considered separate species based on characters found in the male genitalia and female subgenital plate. To analyze if these species show geographic variation in body size, measurements of morphological characteristics were made on adults collected from different localities over the known distributions. Multivariate analyses results showed that there is no evidence of direct relationship between the body size variation and the geographic distribution of specimens, although the species are highly variable in size and color patterns.
25078711|The tribe Colpurini (Coreidae) from Sulawesi is revised. Four genera, two subgenera, and 20 species are recorded. Among them are one new genus (Sulawesihygia) and 12 new species (Homalocolpura delectabilis, Hygia (Sphinctocolpura) dumoga, H. (S.) lepida, H. (S.) palumae, H. (S.) presigna, H. (S.) pronotata, H. (S.) scitula, H. (S.) tengaha, H. (S.) terminalis, H. (S.) utaranus, Sulawesihygia tytha and Typhlocolpura amblysa. New distributional records are given for Hygia (Caracolpura) planiceps (Breddin), Hygia (Sphinctocolpura) guttatipes (Breddin), H. (S.) minahassae Blote, H. (S.) roratipes (Breddin), and Typhlocolpura decoratula Breddin. A diagnosis for previously known species are provided. Diagnostic taxonomic characters of head, pronotum, male and female genitalia, and dorsal view of some species are illustrated. A key is provided for the known genera, subgenera and species.
25078712|There are 18 species of Zabrotes Horn in Mexico. Of these we described the following seven species as new: Z. achiote, Z. californiensis, Z. flemingia, Z. guerrerensis, Z. ixtapan, Z. moctezuma, and Z. sinaloensis. The other 11 species we redescribed and discussed were Z. amplissimus Kingsolver, Z. bexarensis Kingsolver, Z. chavesi Kingsolver, Z. densus Horn, Z. interstitialis (Chevrolat), Z. obliteratus Horn, Z. planifrons Horn, Z. spectabilis Horn, Z. subfasciatus (Boheman), Z. sylvestris Romero and Johnson, and Z. victoriensis Kingsolver. We provided a key to the genera of Amblycerinae and to the species of Zabrotes of Mexico. The host plants of the three genera of Amblycerinae (Amblycerus, Spermophagus, Zabrotes) are discussed. There are 35 species of Zabrotes, all native to the New World. Of these, 12 have known hosts. All the known hosts of Zabrotes are in the Fabaceae with a questionable record in the Bixaceae. Zabrotes subfasciatus, the Mexican bean weevil, is thought to have originally fed in seeds of New World beans but due to commerce it has become a tropicopolitan pest of stored legumes and expanded its host range due to its proximity to other legume seeds in storage. There are approximately 90 species of Spermophagus that have been described in the Old World, about 35 are reported to have hosts. Twenty-four species of Spermophagus have been reported to feed in species of Convolvulaceae. Only five species have been reported from the Malvaceae and three species from the Fabaceae. Because seeds of species of Convolvulaceae are fed upon freely by bruchids in the genus Megacerus (Bruchinae) in the New World, we believe that reports of Spermophagus larvae feeding in these seeds in the Old World to be at least in part accurate. Most species of Amblycerus feed in seeds of the Fabaceae but species of Amblycerus may have the most extensive scope of host plants of any genus of bruchids. Species in this genus have been reliably reported to feed in seeds of the families Fabaceae, Malpighiaceae, Rhamnaceae, Boraginaceae, Sterculiaceae, Tiliaceae, Vitaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Combretaceae, and Anacardiaceae.
25078717|The systematic position of the east Asian ichneumonid subfamily, the Townesioninae, is reviewed. The two component genera, Sachtlebenia Townes and Townesion Kasparyan, are shown to comprise a monophyletic group, but the postulated position of this group as a basal clade of Ichneumonidae is rejected as being unsupported. Rather it is shown that the townesionine genera most probably belong within the Banchinae, putatively as the sister group of Sjostedtiella Szpligeti, an Afrotropical genus of Glyptini. Consequently, the status of the townesionine genera as a separate subfamily is not tenable and it is here ynonymized with Glyptini (syn. n.). It is suggested that most of the features previously used to exclude the townesionine genera from the Banchinae are specialisations associated with a putatively highly derived ovipositional biology.
25078718|More than 50 species of exotic ants have established breeding populations in Florida. This is the largest exotic ant fauna of any U.S. state. An annotated list of species (including distribution, origin, and pest status) includes 4 new records for the U.S. Historical records suggest early modes of transport; air traffic provides new opportunities. A great majority of species arriving before 1940 are from the Old World tropics; since then a great majority are from the New World tropics. In the eastern U.S. there is a major increase in exotic ants from north to south. The proportion of exotics is higher among ants than among several other insect groups surveyed; several reasons might explain this. The ecological impact of exotic ants in Florida varies, from species usually confined to human habitations (low ecological impact) to species that are common in undisturbed as well as disturbed habitats (possibly high ecological impact). The latter 9 species are discussed briefly. Some exotic ants, such as Linepithema humile (Argentine ant) are less dominant in Florida than elsewhere. An annotated list is presented for another 11 species that are possible exotics. Two species reported as exotics are probably native. In the future, more ants will probably become established in Florida. It would be useful to identify likely invaders and interdict them pro-actively. The future of Florida's natural communities is less bleak than it might seem, because there is already some ecological resistance to exotic ants, and this resistance is likely to increase.
25078719|The Tropidostethini are the only tristirids found in the Nothofagus forest, at the southern part of the South American continent along the Andes. Within this tribe, Eremopachys bergi Brancsik, the only known species of Eremopachys, occurs in the chilean patagonia mostly in the open steppe areas with Mulinum spinosum. Males of this species were unknown until recently, when specimens of this sex were found in the vecinity of the "Torres del Paine" National Park. The description of the male characteristics of this species is provided and the phylogenetic relationships for the genus Eremopachys are proposed based on a cladistic analysis performed for the subfamily Tristirinae.
25078720|The North and Central American Leptohyphidae (Leptohyphinae) consists of Allenhyphes Hofmann and Sartori, Haplohyphes Allen, Leptohyphes Eaton, and Vacupernius, n. gen. Leptohyphidae (Tricorythodinae, n. subfam.) of the same region consists of Asioplax, n. gen., Epiphrades, n. gen., Homoleptohyphes Allen and Murvosh, n. stat., Tricoryhyphes Allen and Murvosh, n. stat., Tricorythodes Ulmer, and Tricorythopsis Traver. Asioplax is from the Antilles, North, Central, and South America and includes A. corpulenta (Kilgore and Allen), n. comb., A. curiosa (Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty), n. comb., A. dolani (Allen), n. comb., A. edmundsi (Allen), n. comb., A. nicholsae (Wang, Sites and McCafferty), n. comb., A. sacchulobranchis (Kluge and Naranjo), n. comb., A. sierramaestrae (Kluge and Naranjo), n. comb., and A. texana (Traver), n. comb. Epiphrades is from Central and South America and includes E. bullus (Allen), n. comb., E. cristatus (Allen), n. comb., and E. undatus (Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty), n. comb. Vacupernius is from North and Central America and the Antilles and includes V. packeri (Allen), n. comb., V. paraguttatus (Allen), n. comb., and V. rolstoni (Allen), n. comb. Of species originally placed in HomoLeptohyphes only the type H. dimorphus (Allen), n. comb., is retained; H. mirus (Allen), n. comb. and H. quercus (Kilgore and Allen), n. comb., are added. Tricoryhyphes is also redefined and includes in North and Central America T. condylus (Allen), n. comb. and T. mulaiki, n. comb. Allenhyphes is revised to include an additional 10 species, including in North and Central America A. michaeli (Allen), n. comb., A. nanus (Allen), n. comb., and A. vescus (Allen), n. comb. Additional regional recombinations include Tricorythodes costaricanus (Ulmer), n. comb., T. robacki (Allen), n. comb., Tricorythopsis dicinctus (Allen and Brusca), n. comb., and T. melanobranchus (Allen and Brusca), n. comb. All higher taxa of the Leptohyphidae in North and Central America are reviewed, keyed, and illustrated.
25078721|The Hawaiian endemic genus Labrocerus Sharp is redefined. The genera Argocerus Sharp and Eocerus Sharp are placed in synonymy with Labrocerus. L. vestitus Sharp is assigned as the type of the genus. Three species are described as new: L. auratus, L. producens, and L. argyroxiphii. L. simplex Sharp is placed in synonymy with L. concolor Sharp; L. affinis Sharp and L. pallipes Sharp are placed in synonymy with L. setosus Sharp; L. flavicornis Sharp is placed in synonymy with L. vestitus Sharp; and Argocerus subguttatus Sharp is placed in synonymy with L. similaris (Sharp). Lectotypes are assigned for L. moerens Sharp, and L. dasytoides Sharp. Comments are offered on 4 described species for which inadequate information is available for redescription. Keys are provided to the species by island.
25078722|There is a congruent relationship between the phylogenetic history of phylogenetic taxon Macromischa and the paleogeography of the Greater Antilles. More derived species, both in morphological and behavioral features, have a more Occidental distribution, consistent with the predictions of the adopted paleogeographic model. The most evident evolutionary trends are increasing body size and increasing slenderness and elongation of body and appendages. These features are concentrated in the most derived clade: the limestone-dwellers. Successive shifts in nesting behavior and associated changes in habitats follow a sequence from putative terricolous ancestors to arboreal dwellers to limestone environments dwellers. The derived conditions may be considered evolutionary innovations promoting survival and speciation of isolated populations as a consequence of the complex paleogeographic evolution of Cuba and Hispaniola in habitats virtually lacking specialized competitors.
25078723|The external morphology of the last instar larva and pupa of Tipula (Lunatipula) georgiana is described and illustrated, with brief comments concerning the oak - hickory woodland habitats of the mature larvae. Comparisons are made with mature larvae of several other Lunatipula species to place Tipula georgiana under the Tipula fuliginosa group as currently defined by Gelhaus (1986).
25078724|Type localities, type depositories of endemic species, distributions of non-endemic species, taxonomic references, notes, new distribution records, and some comments are presented for 85 species of cockroaches recorded from the island of Hispaniola (Haiti and Dominican Republic). Seven genera (Aspiduchus, Compsodes, Litoblatta, Lophoblatta, Nesomylacris, Paranocticola and Pelmatosilpha) are reported for the first time from this island. The genera Compsodes, Litoblatta and Lophoblatta represent the first records for the Antilles. The species Neoblattella proserpina, previously known from Jamaica, and 35 undescribed species of the genera Aspiduchus (1), Cariblatta (2), Colapteroblatta (2), Compsodes (1), Epilampra (3), Eurycotis (4), Euthlastoblatta (2), Ischnoptera (5), Litoblatta (1), Lophoblatta (1), Neoblattella (5), Nesomylacris (2), Nyctibora (1), Paranocticola (3), Pelmatosilpha (1) and Symploce (2), are here reported (but not described) for the first time from the island. A preliminary list of fossil genera of cockroaches in Dominican amber is also presented for the first time. /// Se presentan las localidades tipo, los depositarios de los tipos de las especies endmicas, la distribucin de las no endmicas, referencias taxonmicas, notas, nuevos registros de distribucin y algunos comentarios para 85 especies de cucarachas registradas de la isla de La Espaola (Hait y Repblica Dominicana). Siete gneros (Aspiduchus, Compsodes, Litoblatta, Lophoblatta, Nesomylacris, Paranocticola y Pelmatosilpha) son registrados por primera vez para la isla. Los gneros Compsodes, Litoblatta y Lophoblatta representan los primeros registros para las Antillas. Se reportan (pero no se describen) por primera vez para la isla 35 especies pertenecientes a los gneros Aspiduchus (1), Cariblatta (2), Colapteroblatta (2), Compsodes (1), Epilampra (3), Eurycotis (4), Euthlastoblatta (2), Ischnoptera (5), Litoblatta (1), Lophoblatta (1), Neoblattella (5), Nesomylacris (2), Nyctibora (1), Paranocticola (3), Pelmatosilpha (1) y Symploce (2), as como Neoblattella proserpina, especie previamente conocida de Jamaica. Tambin se presenta por primera vez una lista preliminar de gneros de cucarachas fsiles en mbar Dominicano.
25078725|An annotated list of the Papilionoidea, and Hesperioidea and collection localities of Bioko Island (Equatorial Guinea), Africa is provided with discussions of nomenclatural problems and confusion surrounding locality synonomy. Two synonyms are proposed: Hypolimnas salmacis ulysses Collins (1987) a junior synonym of Hypolimnas salmacis insularis Schultze (1920), and Papilio echerioides gabrieli Gauthier (1984) a junior synonym of Papilio echerioides zoroastres Druce (1878). A comprehensive literature review and study of the Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales (CSIC) of Madrid collection increased the known Papilionoidea and Hesperioidea species diversity for Bioko Island from ca. 100 to 244, 33 of which are new species records for the island.
25078730|A total of 13 families, 39 genera, and 81 species of Ephemeroptera are reported from the state of Nebraska, including the first published state records for two families, 13 genera, and 38 species. Also provided are 335 new county records for 65 of the species. Mayflies are now known from 60 of the 93 Nebraska counties and from all drainage areas represented in the state. Most species of the Nebraska fauna are relatively common in North America. Notable exceptions include Apobaetis lakota McCafferty, Brachycercus edmundsi Soldn, B. nasutus Soldn, Cercobrachys serpentis Soldn, Leptophlebia gravastella (Eaton), and Paraleptophlebia gregalis (Eaton). Much of the mayfly fauna is psammophilous, being typical of sand-bottomed streams, which are predominate throughout much of the state. The generally mixed North American geographic affinities of the Nebraska fauna are tabulated, and several species significantly demonstrate their eastern, western, or northern range limits in this north-central plains state.
25078731|Melanoplus alexanderi n.sp. from South-Central Texas Counties centered around Bastrop County and Melanoplus dakini n.sp. from west central Louisiana are described. These two short wing species are part of the 7 member allopatric Melanoplus texanus species group. Distinguishing structure, distribution, habitat, food preferences and egg pods are described and compared. Evidences for hybridization between Melanoplus warneri, having the neo-XY + 10 pairs autosomes karyotype, and Melanoplus angularis, having the XO + 11 pairs of autosomes karyotype, are noted. Characteristics of populations of intergrades between Melanoplus angularis and Melanoplus dakini in four far southeast Texas (Jasper, Newton, Sabine and San Augustine Counties) are delineated.
25078732|The blaberid genus Aspiduchus is redescribed. A new species is described from Dominican Republic (Hispaniola island), and a taxonomic key is given to distinguish the new taxon from the previously known species A. deplanatus (from Cuba), A. borinquen and A. cavernicola (from Puerto Rico).
25078733|Additions and corrections are given for a paper on the classification of the Psocopteran family Caeciliusidae (Mockford, 2000).
25078734|The Rhyacophila invaria Group consists of 14 described species (R. acutiloba Morse & Ross, R. alabama Harris, R. appalachia Morse & Ross, R. banksi Ross, R. carolae Harris, R. carpenteri Milne, R. invaria (Walker), R. kondratieffi Parker, R. mycta Ross, R. nigrita Banks, R. parantra Ross, R. shenandoahensis Flint, R. tricornuta Sykora & McCabe, and R. vibox Milne; R. accola Flint, placed in the R. invaria Group when described, is removed). Incomplete knowledge of these species (females and larvae of several species have not been associated) has hindered resolution of taxonomic questions and the reconstruction of evolutionary relationships. Females of seven species of eastern North American Rhyacophila are illustrated and described for the first time (R. accola, R. amicis Ross, R. appalachia, R. kiamichi Ross, R. mycta, R. parantra, and R. teddyi Ross) and published descriptions for several species are supplemented with additional characters. Larvae of two species are illustrated and described for the first time (R. parantra and R. montana Carpenter). Keys are given for identification of all males of the 34 eastern North American species of Rhyacophila, known females (females of two species remain unknown), and larvae (larvae of eight species remain unknown). Cladistic analysis resolves relationships among the species of the R. invaria Group.
25078739|The genus Daedalellus Uvarov includes seven species, four of them new species described herein. Males of two species previously known only from the female sex are also described for the first time. One new species, D. synmapterus Nickle, is sexually dimorphic in facial characters (i.e., the mandibles of the male are asymmetrical, but symmetrical in the female); in other species of this genus these structures are similar in both sexes. The functional significance of this sexual dimorphism has not been determined.
25078740|Two hundred and five species of Odonata are listed from Texas. County records, seasonal occurrence and habitat preference are given for each species. Publications containing Texas records are presented and briefly discussed in a history of the Odonata research in the state. The physiography of Odonata habitats and zoogeography of the species themselves are discussed. Texas contains a highly diverse odonate fauna, because of its unique geographic position and highly variable physical composition relative to other physiographic provinces. A total of 5,098 records of Odonata are documented from 210 counties in Texas. These records include personal collections, valid literature records, verified material in museum and personal collections, and verified photographic records.
25078741|Two new genera and two newly recorded genera of Pteromalidae are described from south of China - Bupronotum Xiao & Huang, n. gen. with its included species, Bupronotum zhuangarum Xiao & Huang, n. sp., Globimesosoma Xiao & Huang, n. gen. with Globimesosoma yaoarum Xiao & Huang, n. sp., Herbertia Howard and Storeya Boucek. The type specimens are deposited in Institute of Zoology, the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Pteromalidae (Insecta: Hymenoptera) are mainly parasitoids of economically important pests. In the course of reviewing the genera of the Pteromalidae in preparation for a key to the Chinese genera, we went out to collect wasps in different locations. During the investigation of Dayao and Shiwan Mountains, south of China, we recognized two new genera and two newly recorded genera, Bupronotum n. gen., Globimesosoma n. gen., Herbertia Howard and Storeya Boucek. Terminology generally follows that of Graham (1969). Abbreviations are as follows: ocellar-ocular distance is OOL, posterior ocellar distance is POL, antennal funicular segments are F1 through F6, gastral tergites are T1 through T7. We use eye space to describe the shortest distance between two eyes. Body length is measured in millimeters. Other measurements are relative.
25078743|A new fossil species of large carpenter bee (Xylocopinae: Xylocopini) is described and figured. Xylocopa gabrielae n. sp., is proposed for a female bee preserved as a compression fossil from the Eocene-Oligocene boundary of Florissant, Colorado. This specimen is the first fossil representative of its tribe in the New World as well as the oldest presently known (being slightly older than Xylocopa fossils from Europe). The currently known fossil species of the subfamily are outlined and the generic phylogeny of Xylocopinae summarized. This phylogenetic framework is used to briefly consider the geological history and evolution of the Xylocopinae.
25078744|Perelleschus Wibmer & O'Brien (Curculionidae: Curculioninae: Derelomini) is revised, including the redescription of P. carludovicae (Gnther) from Costa Rica and P. rectirostris Voss from Per, as well as the addition of six new species: P. evelynae, new species, from Colombia and Panama; P. variabilis, new species, from Ecuador; P. biventralis, new species, from Ecuador; P. splendidus, new species, from Costa Rica and Panama; P. pubicoxae, new species, from Panama; and P. sulcatae, new species, from Costa Rica. The following putative synapomorphies are proposed for Perelleschus: (1) row of spines that extends along the entire length of the protibial apex; (2) basally broadened aedeagal apodemes in males (excepting P. rectirostris); and (3) basal, acute appendix of the spermatheca in females. Perelleschus subcinctus Voss lacks these and is transferred to Phyllotrox Schnherr as Phy. subcintus (Voss), new combination. Perelleschus is associated with Carludovica Ruz & Pavn (Cyclanthaceae). Observations on the biologies of the species, in particular P. carludovicae and P. sulcatae on C. sulcata Hammel at La Selva, Costa Rica, indicate that the adults are pollinators, whereas the larvae consume the pulp and seeds of the infructescences. A cladistic analysis - with Staminodeus vectoris Franz, a new species of Derelomini, and Systenotelus costaricensis Anderson & Gmez as outgroup taxa - proposes the phylogenetic relationships (P. rectirostris, ((P. evelynae, P. variabilis), (P. biventralis, P. splendidus, (P. pubicoxae, (P. carludovicae, P. sulcatae))))). /// Se revisa Perelleschus Wibmer & O'Brien (Curculionidae: Curculioninae: Derelomini), incluso la redescripcin de P. carludovicae (Gnther) de Costa Rica y P. rectirostris Voss de Per, as como la adicin de seis especies nuevas: P. evelynae, especie nueva, de Colombia y Panam; P. variabilis, especie nueva, de Ecuador; P. biventralis, especie nueva, de Ecuador; P. splendidus, especie nueva, de Costa Rica y Panam; P. pubicoxae, especie nueva, de Panam; y P. sulcatae, especie nueva, de Costa Rica. Se proponen las siguientes sinapomorfas putativas para Perelleschus: (1) fila de espinas que se extiende por el largo entero del pice de la protibia; (2) apodemas del edeago basalmente hinchados en machos (exceptuando P. rectirostris); y (3) apndice basal y puntiagudo de la espermateca en hembras. Perelleschus subcinctus Voss carece de esas y se transfiere a Phyllotrox Schnherr como Phy. subcinctus (Voss), combinacin nueva. Perelleschus est asociado con Carludovica Ruz & Pavn (Cyclanthaceae). Observaciones sobre las biologas de las especies, en particular P. carludovicae y P. sulcatae en C. sulcata Hammel en La Selva, Costa Rica, indican que los adultos son polinizadores, mientras que las larvas consumen la pulpa y las semillas de las infructescencias. Un anlisis cladstico - con Staminodeus vectoris Franz, una especie nueva de Derelomini, y Systenotelus costaricensis Anderson & Gmez como grupos externos - propone las relaciones filogenticas (P. rectirostris, ((P. evelynae, P. variabilis), (P. biventralis, P. splendidus, (P. pubicoxae, (P. carludovicae, P. sulcatae))))).
25078749|Scaptopoda pusilla is here considered a NOMEN DUBIUM; type specimens are lacking, taxonomic placement is uncertain, even to family level, and there have been no additional collections in the 123 years since publication of the name. Four generic and 13 specific mutillid names are synonymized: Calomutilla Mickel, 1952 [=Ancipitotilla Mickel, 1952, NEW SYNONYM]; Dasymutilla Ashmead, 1899 [=Jamaitilla Casal, 1965, NEW SYNONYM]; Lophomutilla Mickel, 1952 [=Mammomutilla Mickel, 1952, NEW SYNONYM]; Neomutilla Reed, 1898 [=Bordontilla Fritz and Martnez, 1975, NEW SYNONYM]; Ephuta (Ephuta) trifida (Gerstaecker, 1874) [=Ephuta (Ephuta) chiriquensis (Cameron, 1894) and Ephuta (Ephuta) viata Casal, 1968, NEW SYNONYMS]; Ephuta (Ephuta) bugabensis (Cameron, 1894) [=Ephuta (Ephuta) scutellata Schuster, 1945, NEW SYNONYM]; Ephuta (Ephutopsis) triangularis (Cameron, 1894) [=Ephuta furcata (Andr, 1905), and Ephuta forceps Schuster, 1945, NEW SYNONYMS]; Ephuta (Ephutopsis) singularis (Spinola, 1841) [=Ephuta (Ephutopsis) solitaria (Smith, 1879) and Ephuta violacea Schuster, 1945, NEW SYNONYMS]; Dasymutilla araneoides araneoides (Smith, 1862) [=Sphaerophthalma melanogaster Cameron, 1895, NEW SYNONYM]; Hoplomutilla spinosa (Swederus, 1787) [=Hoplomutilla dispar Mickel, 1939, NEW SYNONYM]; Hoplomutilla excentrica (Cameron, 1895) [=Hoplomutilla panamensis Mickel, 1939, NEW SYNONYM]; Pseudomethoca credula (Cresson, 1902) [=Darditilla coscaroni Casal, 1968, NEW SYNONYM]; Pseudomethoca vaga (Smith, 1855) [=Darditilla xatiana Casal, 1971, NEW SYNONYM]; Pseudomethoca willei Mickel, 1969 [=Pseudomethoca transversa Brothers, 1982, NEW SYNONYM]. The following NEW COMBINATIONS are made: Calomutilla anceps (Mickel, 1952), N. COMB. from Ancipitotilla; Lophomutilla pectorosa (Mickel, 1952), N. COMB. from Mammomutilla; and Pseudomethoca vaga (Smith, 1855), N. COMB. from Mutilla. The following five species are transfered from Bordontilla: Neomutilla patagonica (Fritz and Martnez, 1975), N. COMB.; Neomutilla cycloflava (Pitts, 2000), N. COMB.; Neomutilla nigra (Pitts, 2000), N. COMB.; Neomutilla obscura (Pitts, 2000), N. COMB. and Neomutilla xanthomaculata (Pitts, 2000), N. COMB.. Five new distribution records, and two new host records are presented. Notes on biology and habitat are given.
25078750|Eighteen species of Pantoteles are recognized. Apantoteles Bondar is included in Pantoteles as a subgenus (new status), with only one species P. erythrorhynchus Boheman. The identities of P. diplostigma Chevrolat, P. rufirostris Voss and P. rectirostris Voss are interpreted and neotypes are designated. New synonymies are P. erythrorhynchus (= A. bahiensis Bondar, = P. mundus Voss), P. flavofasciatus Champion (= P. rufirostris), P. subrectirostris Hustache (= P. sanguineorhynchus Voss) and P. diplostigma (= Ambates pusio var.  Boheman). Pantoteles albocinctus Champion and P. diplostigma are transferred to Ambates (new combinations). Pantoteles flavofasciatus is considered a subspecies of P. longimanus (new status). Eight new species are described: P. futilis from Colombia; P. absconditus, P. grandulus, P. sepositus and P. trimaculatus from Costa Rica; P. pseudumbratus from Guatemala; P. albolineatus from Ecuador; and P. clivosus from Mexico and Belize. Descriptions, habitus photographs, illustrations of aedeagus and spermatheca, geographic distributions and a key for identification are provided.
25078751|A revisionary study on Atrachelacris, a genus in the "paranense-pampeano" group of Dichroplini, was conducted. The genus was found to include only two valid species: A. unicolor and A. olivaceus which are diagnosed and illustrated. Atrachelacris gramineus was confirmed as a junior synonym of A. unicolor. The two species are sympatric for much of their geographic distribution. Atrachelacris is now known to be distributed mostly in the Paranense and Cerrado biogeographic provinces of the Amazonian domain and in the Espinal and Chaco provinces of the Chaqueo domain as defined by Cabrera and Willink (1973).
25078752|The genus Acalymma Barber comprises 72 species widely distributed in America, mainly in the neotropical region. The taxonomy of this genus is in a confused state because of the superficial simility of all species, which posses similar color patterns and elytral punctation. The importance of mouthpart characters for describing taxa (Wilcox, 1965) or assessing phylogenetic relationships among subfamilies of Chrysomelidae, mainly referred to Alticinae/Galerucinae, has been noted by Reid (1995), Crowson and Crowson (1996) and Lingafelter and Konstantinov (1999). Specimens from 13 species of Acalymma belonging to A. gouldi group, A. horni group and A. peregrinum group were examined. The present paper provides a description of the mouthparts of Acalymma. It also discusses the value of structures pertaining to the alimentary habits of Diabroticites and some phylogenetic relationships between Alticinae/Galerucinae. The mouthparts of Acalymma are characterized by: mandibles pyramidal, with 5 apical teeth; with a well developed molar area and prostheca and a setose membrane; maxilla with stipes divided, galea well developed and lacinia and maxillary palp 4-segmented; labium with ligula membranous, slightly developed, not bilobate and labial palp 3-segmented.
25078753|Attini ants form a monophyletic group restricted to America. Atta and Acromyrmex are distributed from the United States south to South America excluding Chile and some of the West Indies. This paper provides new records in addition to the compilation of published information on the beetles associated with those ant genera, including a checklist. There are records for 411 species of beetles associated with Atta and/or Acromyrmex. They belong to 25 families: Carabidae (14 genera/17 species), Hydrophilidae (3/5), Histeridae (18/61), Ptiliidae (3/7), Scydmaenidae (5/8), Staphylinidae (60/141), Passalidae (3/4), Ochodaeidae (1/3), Ceratocanthidae (1/3), Scarabaeidae (33/111), Elateridae (3/6), Lycidae (1/1), Dermestidae (1/1), Anobiidae (1/1), Nitidulidae (2/3), Monotomidae (1/1), Phalacridae (1/1), Cerylonidae (1/3), Endomychidae (1/1), Colydiidae (1/1), Tenebrionidae (10/17), Anthicidae (1/1), Cerambycidae (1/1), Chrysomelidae (7/9) and Curculionidae (3/4). Glenus aureicollis Wasmann, 1902 (not Wasmann, 1925) is synonymized under Glenus regalis Erichson, 1840. Attini-beetle relationships evolved several times within the Order Coleoptera. Permanent beetles are associated with ant debris and/or in fungus chamber; however there is no evidence of direct interactions with the hosts. Most species are associated either with Atta or Acromyrmex, but there are a few species recorded from both genera. Based on the phylogeny of the ants, Attini-beetle relationships are recent ecological interactions, but those with Acromyrmex are older than the ones observed with Atta.
25078754|Aspects of the ecology, biogeography, and conservation biology of 57 checkered beetle species (Insecta: Coleoptera: Cleridae, subfamilies Tillinae and Clerinae) in southeastern Arizona were studied using commercial Geographic Information Systems (GIS) software. Clerid beetles previously investigated in this region are known to be restricted to certain well-defined vegetation types. For the 57 species in this study, published distribution records and label data from specimens in four major institutional collections were combined in a single database. Fifty-two of the collecting sites in this database could be identified on standard topographic maps at an appropriate level of precision for use in the GIS portion of this study. The ArcView  GIS software program was used to compare points representing these 52 sites with the Arizona Gap Analysis Project's digital vegetation map of Arizona. The vegetation type(s) present at each clerid collecting site was determined, and a simple habitat model was used to predict the distribution of each clerid species in southeastern Arizona. From these predicted distributions, clerid species richness values were assigned to vegetation polygons in four mountain ranges in southeastern Arizona. A digital map of federally designated wilderness areas in Arizona was used to evaluate the conservation status of vegetation patches with high predicted clerid species richness. The conservation status of eight species of Cleridae (Cymatodera cazierorum Barr, Cymatodera horni Wolcott, Cymatodera knausi Wolcott, Cymatodera schwarzi Wolcott, Cymatodera tricolor Skinner, Priocera catalinae Cazier, Priocera chiricahuae Knull, and Enoclerus bimaculatus (Skinner)) that are endemic to the "Sky Island" mountains of Arizona, New Mexico, Sonora, and Chihuahua was also assessed. In southeastern Arizona, mid-elevation evergreen oak-pine forests and woodlands in the Chiricahua, Huachuca, and Santa Rita Mountains were found to have highest clerid species richness, and to also provide habitat for multiple endemic clerid species. Expansion of existing wilderness areas in these mountain ranges is recommended to conserve important areas for clerid biodiversity.
25078755|The female and the genitalia of the male of the monotypic genus Morsyma are described and illustrated for the first time. A redescription of the male type is given. Based on a phylogenetic analysis of morphological characters, the relationships of Morsyma are discussed. The present study recognizes the synapomorphies separating Morsyma from other Sphaeropthalmina members.
25078760|Thirty-five external adult morphological characters were used to study patterns of relationships among 38 Nearctic species of Enoclerus Gahan (Coleoptera: Cleridae). Two Nearctic species in closely related genera, Placopterus thoracicus (Olivier) and Perilypus ornaticollis (LeConte), were used as outgroup taxa to root most parsimonious networks resulting from cladistic analysis. Cladistic analysis was performed with the fast parsimony computer program NONA, using the parsimony ratchet search strategy to maximize the number of islands of most parsimonious trees found during analysis. The results of this analysis clearly demonstrate that adult external morphological character systems are highly homoplastic in Enoclerus, as there are few resolved nodes in the strict consensus tree and an overall consistency index of 39 (maximum possible consistency index is 100). Homoplasy in certain adult characters in Enoclerus is probably due to convergent evolution of cryptic and mimetic coloration and body forms. The evolution of two dorsal color patterns (one mimetic, one cryptic), each of which is shared by multiple Nearctic Enoclerus species, is discussed in the context of the cladograms reported here. Each of these color patterns has evolved at least twice in Enoclerus. Despite high levels of homoplasy, several distinct species groups can be recognized in Nearctic Enoclerus on the basis of this analysis.
25078761|The new genus Squamanotoxus is proposed to hold seven species previously placed in the elegans and schenklingi groups of Mecynotarsus. The elegans group is distributed in the southern United States, Mexico, the Greater Antilles, and Central America, while the schenklingi group is found in the Lesser Antilles and South America. This new genus is closely related to Notoxus and Plesionotoxus. The new genus is described, the elegans and schenklingi species groups are characterized, and the extensive variation in color pattern is described for several species. The elegans group holds five species: S. elegans (LeConte) n. comb. (=Mecynotarsus intermixtus Werner, n. syn.; =Mecynotarsus jamaicanus Werner, n. syn.; =Mecynotarsus falcatus Chandler, n. syn.), S. balsasensis (Werner) n. comb. (=Mecynotarsus salvadorensis Werner, new syn.), S. sexnotatus (Champion) n. comb. (=Mecynotarsus nevermanni Werner, n. syn; =Mecynotarsus alvarado Chandler, n. syn.), S. vafer (Chandler) n. comb., and S. hispaniolae (Werner) n. comb. The schenklingi group contains two species: S. guyanensis (Pic) n. comb. (=Notoxus vianay Pic, n. syn; =Mecynotarsus chalumeaui Bonadona, n. syn.), and S. schenklingi (Pic) n. comb.
25078762|In this paper 284 caddisfly (Trichoptera) species representing 20 families and 74 genera are reported from Minnesota based on examination of over 100,000 larval and adult specimens. Of these, 28 are new state species records and 87 are new additions to the fauna since Etnier's (1965) state checklist. The known distributions of all species from five geographic regions of Minnesota are reported. Also, the caddisfly faunas of these five regions are compared, the abundance of each species based on material examined stated, and protective status of rare species noted. An additional 21 species recorded in the literature from Minnesota are listed as doubtful.
25078763|The previously unknown male of the biting midge Culicoides irwini Spinelli & Wirth is described and illustrated from specimens collected associated with females at El Bolsn, Rio Negro Province, Argentina, which represents the southernmost record of this species. The species is compared with C. caridei (Brthes) and C. patagoniensis Ronderos & Spinelli.
25078764|The cockroach genus Ischnoptera Burmeister is rediagnosed. The darlingtoni-species-group is erected and diagnosed, based on the shape of the male's supra-anal plate, and the apex of the median genital phallomere (penis). The group consists of the following 9 species, of which 7 are described as new: aglandis, n. sp. (Haiti); anisopygia Shelford (Peru); caborojoensis, n. sp. (Dominican Republic); chichicastenanga, n. sp. (Guatemala); darlingtoni Gurney (Cuba); lestrelleta, n. sp. (Dominican Republic); linguiforma, n. sp. (Bolivia); pedernalesensis, n. sp. (Dominican Republic); zacualtipana, n. sp. (Mexico). A key is provided to separate the males.
25078765|The previously unknown larva and pupa of Culicoides albomaculus Root & Hoffman are described for the first time, and a redescription of the adult is also provided. Specimens were collected as preimaginal stages in hollows of Agave sp. (Agavaceae) near Mexico, D.F. and reared to adults in the laboratory.
25078769|New detailed descriptions of the western larvae of Isoperla baumanni Szczytko & Stewart, I. decolorata Walker, I. denningi Jewett, I. katmaiensis Szczytko & Stewart and I. rougensis Szczytko & Stewart are provided. Further descriptions of the male and female and new descriptions of the ova of I. decolorata are also provided. With the descriptions contained in this paper all western Nearctic Isoperla larvae have been described except I. gravitans (Needham & Claassen) and I. tilasqua Szczytko & Stewart.
25078770|Parasphaeria boleiriana n. sp. is described from the remnants of the semideciduous table land Atlantic forest in the state of Esprito Santo, Brazil. The genus was previously known from Chile and Argentina with the species P. ovata. The description of this new species establishes the presence of the genus North to these regions.
25078771|Morphological structures of male and female genitalia and the pars stridens of a population of Urogryllus toledopizai Mello (1988) as well as the karyotype of the species are illustrated. The characteristics of song signals and associated behavior are described and information on the seasonality of the species is provided. Disagreements with the results published by other authors are discussed.
25078772|Two new genera and species, namely Mayottella dimorpha Roth (Blattellidae: Blattellinae), and Ylangella truncata Roth (Blaberidae), and one new species Chorisoblatta denticulara Roth (Blattellidae: Pseudophyllodromiinae) are described from Mayotte (Comoro Islands) making a total of 9 species reported from that island. There are 14 species of cockroaches in La Runion, and 40 species in the Seychelles. A key is given to identify most of the known species on La Runion, Mayotte, and Seychelles. Miriamrothschildia badius (Bol.) (= Onychostylus badius Bol.) is a synonym of Miriam. gardineri (Bol.) (= Ischnoptera gardineri Bol.); these taxa were previously considered to be homonyms, a lapsus calami, and were incorrectly renamed Miriam. seychellensis Roth which is invalid. However, Onychostylus gardineri Bol., transferred to Miriamrothschildia, becomes a homonym and its name is replaced by Miriam. mahensis Roth.
25078773|Based on adult structural features of a single adult female, the monobasic new tribe, Ginemini, with type genus Ginema and type species, G. thomasi (type locality, Bolivia, Departamento Santa Cruz, near Warnes) are described. Tribal status is proposed because the combination of character states of this taxon conflict with the diagnoses of previously known tribes; thus, indication of its relationships is vague, beyond membership in the subfamily Harpalinae. Body form, long, roughened tibial spurs and pale color suggest that G. thomasi is psammophilous, living in loose sand, probably on riparian beaches.
25078774|First records are reported for subfamilies and genera of Braconidae in Mexico and the state of Yucatan based on material deposited in CER-UADY. First records were made for the Sigalphinae subfamily in Mexico, and for the Cenocoeliinae, Ichneutinae and Mendesellinae subfamilies in Yucatan. In total there are 27 reported New World subfamilies in Mexico, and 25 in Yucatan, based on the classification of Wharton et al., 1997. A total of 114 new genera records were made, 48 of them for Mexico and 66 for Yucatan, bringing the list of total known genera in Mexico to 277, and that for Yucatan to 190. The new records demonstrate that the Braconidae fauna of Yucatan is mixed in origin. Of the examined genera, 68.4% were represented in only one vegetation community, leading to a revised distribution hypothesis for the Yucatan Peninsula. Given the results, Yucatan has the highest Braconidae genera richness in Mexico.
25078775|The cockroach genus Ischnoptera Burmeister is rediagnosed. The darlingtoni-species-group is erected and diagnosed, based on the shape of the male's supra-anal plate, and the apex of the median genital phallomere (penis). The group consists of the following 9 species, of which 7 are described as new: aglandis, n. sp. (Haiti); anisopygia Shelford (Peru); caborojoensis, n. sp. (Dominican Republic); chichicastenanga, n. sp. (Guatemala); darlingtoni Gurney (Cuba); lestrelleta, n. sp. (Dominican Republic); linguiforma, n. sp. (Bolivia); pedernalesensis, n. sp. (Dominican Republic); zacualtipana, n. sp. (Mexico). A key is provided to separate the males.
25078778|The Neotropical holosericeus complex is reported and defined for the first time. The complex contains 26 species, 20 being assigned to the ampliatus (ampliatus n. sp., angulosus n. sp., angustatus n. sp., ayalai n. sp., bullatus n. sp., constrictus n. sp., depressus n. sp., destitutus n. sp., dolabriformis n. sp., fernandezi n. sp., flexus n. sp., gladiatus n. sp., lunatus n. sp., ovatus n. sp., quadratus n. sp., tanpadiensis n. sp., triangularis n. sp., tropidus n. sp., tucumanensis n. sp., unguiculatus n. sp.) and 6 to the holosericeus (aridus n. sp., conus n. sp., exilus Curran, holosericeus Schiner, narrius n. sp., simulans n. sp.) species groups. Each species group is defined, species described, and the hind femur of the male and terminalia of both sexes are illustrated. The male of Ommatius holosericeus Schiner, a lectotype of O. holosericeus is designated, and the female of O. exilis is reported for the first time. This study increases the number of valid Neotropical species to 93.
25078779|Ten Mexican species of Metrichia: M. circulatrix, M. crenula, M. florecita, M. jorobada, M. longitudinis, M. minera, M. potosina, M. prolixa, M. sonora, and M. yavesia are described and the male genitalia are figured. New records for M. avon (Bueno), M. nigritta (Banks) and M. penicillata (Flint) are given. Metrichia estragna Bueno and Barba is considered a NEW SYNONYM of M. avon Bueno. A list and an illustrated key to the known Mexican species of Metrichia is presented.
25078780|Five Panamenian species of Metrichia: M. triangula, M. difusa, M. enigmatica, M. palida and M. brevitas, are described and the male genitalia are illustrated; M. nigritta (Banks), M. penicillata (Flint), M. sesquipedalis Bueno and Holzenthal, M. seudopatagonica Bueno and Holzenthal, and M. triquetra Bueno and Holzenthal are recorded for the first time in Panama; and a list to the known Panamenian species of Metrichia is presented.
25078781|Egg cases, larvae and pupae of Berosus alternans Leach, 1817 are described from Florencio Varela, Buenos Aires province, Argentina. Diagnostic characters of external morphology are discussed, and comparisons with other known Berosus, are made. A key to different instar larvae is provided.
25078782|Classified as genera of the tribe Masoreini are the pantropical Anaulacus MacLeay, 1825, sensu novo, and three Eastern Hemisphere (Old World) genus-group taxa: Masoreus Dejean, 1821; Leuropus Andrewes, 1947; and Atlantomasoreus Mateu, 1984. Classified as subgenera of Anaulacus are the following previously described genus-group taxa: Anaulacus (sensu stricto), new status; Aephnidius W. S. MacLeay, 1825, new combination; Caphora Schmidt-Gbel, 1846, new combination; Microus Chaudoir, 1876, new combination; Macracanthus Chaudoir, 1846 (= Ophryognathus Chaudoir, 1876, new junior synonym), new combination; and Odontomasoreus Darlington, 1968, new combination. Primarily a taxonomic review of the Neotropical elements of Anaulacus MacLeay, this paper includes a classification, a key to subgenera and species, descriptions of taxa, re-rankings, and new synonymy. In total, 15 species are treated, seven of which are described as new. The Neotropical taxa are arranged in the following sequence, with type localities of new species in parentheses, following name of the taxon. The new subgenus Apostolus includes only its type species, A. batesi Chaudoir. The eight species of subgenus Aephnidius MacLeay are arranged in three species groups: piceolus group, with only A. piceolus Chaudoir; ampliusculus group, with four species-A. ampliusculus Chaudoir, A. bonariensis Chaudoir, A. ciliatus Mutchler, and A. humeralis, new species (Santa Maria de Dota, Provincia San Jos, Costa Rica); and exiguus group, with three species - A. exiguus, new species (15 km. NE Puerto Maldonado, 1233S, 6903W, Departamento Madre de Dios, Peru), A. whiteheadi, new species (San Quintin, 1624N, 6903W, State of Chiapas, Mxico); and A. ashei, new species (type locality same as for A. exiguus, above). Three fossil specimens in amber, from the island of Hispaniola, in the Dominican Republic, are assumed to be conspecific with one another, the species to which they belong being included in subgenus Aephnidius, but treated as incertae sedis in relation to the exant members of that subgenus. The six species of subgenus Macracanthus Chaudoir, are arranged in three species groups, as follows: sericatus group, with three species - A. sericatus Chaudoir, A. thoracicus, new species (Prto Alegre, State of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil), and A. erwini, new species (Cocha Shinguito, Rio Samiria, Departamento Loreto, Peru); the mcclevei species group, including only A. mcclevei, new species (17 km SW Moctezuma, State of Sonora, Mxico); and the A. tuberculatus group, including two species - A. pittieri Gahan, and A. tuberculatus Chaudoir (including A. t. tuberculatus and A. t. brasilianus van Emden, new junior synonym). Generally geophilous, most of the species live at altitudes between sea level and 500 m., in a variety of situations, from tropical evergreen forest, though some live in semi-tropical forests, to dry, open areas. Adults of many of the species fly at night. Most of the species of subgenus Macracanthus are associated in some way with ants of the genus Atta. The species A. (M.) sericatus is a facultative cavernicole, also. The distribution patterns of subgenera and species are fitted to a general model purporting to explain such patterns, in terms of plate tectonics, refuge theory, and climatic change during the Tertiary and Quaternary Periods.
25078785|Three species of Ischnoptera have been reported in the United States: Ischnoptera deropeltiformis (Brunner) is endemic and common in the eastern half of the States. The other 2 introduced species are I. bilunata Saussure, a South American taxon, and I. nox Hebard, from Panama, which was incorrectly identified and is closest to Ischnoptera rufa (De Geer). I. bilunata was correctly reported and has been taken in Alabama, Florida, and Georgia; the United States record of rufa (as nox) apparently is restricted to Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The shape of the apex of the male's median genital phallomere (aedeagus or penis) is important in erecting species-groups. The species are redescribed and a key is provided to separate them.
25078786|The new species Megachile (Dasymegachile) australis is described and illustrated from adult female and male specimens. It is from Valle Tnel (49 23 S; 72 56 W) in southwestern Santa Cruz province, Argentina. The closest species of M. (D.) australis is M. (D.) semirufa Sichel from Chile.
25078787|The mealybug-tending ant A. epedana is an obligate coccidiphile with trophophoretic queens. Trophophoresy is defined as the behavior of a foundress queen transporting a trophobiont on her mating flight for the establishment of a new mealybug "herd" in her new colony. Both the male and queen of A. epedana are described here for the first time. Observations on a laboratory colony of A. epedana suggest that the ants obtain most, if not all, of their energy requirements from the mealybugs they tend. When offered a variety a food items ranging from dead insects to sugary substances (e.g. honey, sugar water), the ants refused them and even acted aggressively towards the dead prey items. Observations of a laboratory colony also revealed a peculiar body jerking behavior suggestive of a form of vibrational communication, though its exact function remains to be studied.
25078788|Although Pseudolasius dodo has recently been placed in the genus Acropyga, several characters suggest the species should be placed back into Pseudolasius; these include: 12 segmented antennae, eyes positioned anteriorly near the midline, a deeply impressed metanotal area, small propodeal spiracles, and a gaster without dense pubescence. P. dodo is here redescribed and a lectotype is designated. Taxonomic notes on the genus as a whole are provided, with several morphological characters reviewed. In addition, it is suggested that the Afrotropical species, which do not appear to be closely related P. dodo, may represent a monophyletic group within the genus.
25078789|Eighty-six species of stoneflies are reported from Colorado, including a new species of Capnia. Three new state records are reported, Bolshecapnia milami (Nebeker and Gaufin), Capnura fibula (Claassen), and Isoperla marlynia (Needham and Claassen). Ninety percent of all Colorado stoneflies are typical western North American species, with seven species, Paracapnia angulata Hanson, Taeniopteryx burksi Ricker and Ross, T. parvula Banks, I. marlynia, Acroneuria abnormis (Newman), Perlesta decipiens (Walsh), and Isoperla bilineata (Say) having eastern affinities. Arcynopteryx compacta (McLachlan) is considered circumpolar species.
25078790|The order Diplura is considered as one of the most ancient groups of insects having evolved at least by the Devonian. They live either in the soil or under rocks and stones and in decaying organic matter. The dipluran fauna of North America has been studied by several workers but a synopsis of this fauna has not been published nor have there been any revisionary studies or cladistic and biogeographic analyses published. This paper brings together data from all the published works on the Diplura of North America in preparation for more extensive studies relevant to understanding evolutionary relationships and biogeographic patterns. All the known North American species are listed, along with maps showing the distributions of most species. Two new species, Campodea ottei and Metriocampa aspinosa, and one new genus, Orientocampa (O. frigillis (Hilton)), are described. Keys to the families, subfamilies and genera are given. In North America there are approximately 170 known species, 23 genera and 6 families. The known distributions of the taxa suggest very ancient, precretaceous, patterns that have not been obscured by extensive dispersal.
25078791|The genus Natalocampa has remained a monotypic taxon known only from Natal, South Africa, since its description by Conde in 1951. A second species belonging to this genus, N. mesotrisetosa (n. sp.) is recorded from a Nothofagus forest in southern Chile. The relevance of Diplura to an understnading of austral disjunct distributions is briefly discussed. In addition to Natalocampa, five other genera of Diplura exhibit disjunct distributions on continents in the far southern hemisphere. Eight additional genera are found on only one of the southern hemisphere continents and may eventually be shown to have a disjunct pattern as the fauna become better known.
25078795|The subfamilies Nematinae, Heterarthrinae, and Tenthredininae of the Tenthredinidae are reviewed for the Western Hemisphere south of the United States. A key is given for the seven subfamilies of Tenthredinidae for this region. Nematinae include six genera and 17 species, with the following new species: Pristiphora auricauda (Costa Rica), P. fernandezi (Colombia), P. fuscalae (Costa Rica), P. hansoni (Costa Rica), P. helveola (Mexico), and P. semialba (Venezuela). Heterarthrinae include three genera and eight species, with one new species, Brasinusa malaisei (Brazil). Tenthredininae include three genera and four species. All Tenthredininae and many of the Nematinae are southern extensions of northern groups into northern Mexico, and two species, Nematus oligospilus (Foerster) (Nematinae) and Caliroa cerasi (L.) (Heterarthrinae), are introductions into southern South America. All nine species of Pristiphora (Nematinae) and the genera Brasinusa and Notofenusa (Heterarthrinae) are endemic to the Neotropics.
25078796|Ten new species of Hapithinae crickets are described from the Lesser Antilles: Hapithus crucencis, Orocharis fuscifrons, O. albifrons, O. proalbifrons, Orocharis n. sp. affinis albifrons, O. maximus, O. angustus, O. minutus, O. saussurei and Orochirus maculatus. Hapithus Uhler, 1864 is recorded here for the first time from the Lesser Antilles. Orocharis Uhler, 1864 appears extremely diversified in the West Indies and 4 species groups are defined. Orochirus Bolivar, 1888 is characterized as a valid taxon and its synonymy with Laurepa Walker, 1869 is invalidated. A key to the genera of Hapithinae is proposed. The calling songs of Orocharis proalbifrons, O. fulvescens and Orochirus maculatus are described and the stridulatory files of all the species are illustrated. Buzzing calling songs are documented here for the first time in crickets and discussed from a functional point of view.
25078797|A detailed description and illustrations of the larva of Palaemnema domina Calvert are provided. P. domina shows the most complex color pattern, and is the least setose larva of the three known species of the genus.
25078798|A total of 15 families, 43 genera, and 106 species of Ephemeroptera are reported from Iowa, including the first state records for six genera and 27 species. The 224 historical records associated with the 79 species previously documented from Iowa are comprehensively reviewed for the first time. Besides new state records, 548 new county records are provided for 83 of the species. Mayflies are now known from 91 of the 99 Iowa counties and are well represented in both the western, Missouri River Drainage and the central/eastern, Mississippi River Drainage Systems. Low-gradient, sand-silt bottomed streams, found in much of Iowa and typical of the Great Plains, provide ideal habitat for mayflies in genera such as Centroptilum Eaton, Cercobrachys Soldn, Fallceon Waltz and McCafferty, Paracloeodes Day, Procloeon Bengtsson, Ephoron Williamson, and Hexagenia Walsh. Species of Baetidae and Heptageniidae often are predominant in benthic communities of Iowa streams. Affinities of the Iowa fauna are primarily eastern, and Iowa forms part of the known western range limits of at least 21 species, northern limits of two species, and eastern limit of one species.
25078799|The genus Steleucoela was established by Kieffer (1908) based on a single species, S. piriformis from Nicaragua. In this paper we update the generic diagnosis and describe and illustrate a new species, Steleucoela brasiliensis, based on specimens from Brazil.
25078801|The Maculipennis species group is composed of nine Dichroplus species (D. maculipennis (Blanchard), D. vittatus Bruner, D. pratensis Bruner, D. porteri Liebermann, D. obscurus Bruner, D. conspersus Bruner, D. robustulus (Stal), D. vittiger (Blanchard), and D. silveiraguidoi Liebermann). Desmopleura concinna Scudder is here considered to be a junior synomym of Dichroplus vittiger (Blanchard). The Maculipennis group is widely distributed in Argentina, mostly in the Pampas, northern Patagonia, Monte and Espinal biogeographic regions, southern Brazil, Uruguay, and central Chile, with a few records from Bolivia and Paraguay. Based on a unique combination of characters from the phallic complex and the external morphology, it appears to constitute a monophyletic group. The species are mostly differentiated by their external morphology and slight differences of the male genitalia.
25078802|Three new species, Tivia vestigialana (Polyphagidae), Nocticola jodarlingtonae, (Nocticolidae) both from Kenya, and Nocticola gerlachi from the Seychelles, are described. Several cockroach records from Africa, the Seychelles, and La Runion are presented.
25078807|Approximately 12,000 specimens of adult aquatic Coleoptera representing 9 families and over 100 species were collected from 105 anthropogenic ponds within the Missouri Prairie Region in August-September 1998, March-April 1999, and June 1999. Within ponds, habitats comprising monospecific stands of aquatic macrophytes, including emergent vegetation, were identified, from which the coleopteran fauna was collected. Taxonomic keys and annotated lists for 55 species of Hydradephaga collected from ponds, including likely pond inhabitants, are presented. Within the Hydradephaga, 20 species were new Missouri state records. Inter-pond and inter-habitat analyses were performed to elucidate aquatic coleopteran community structure and habitat associations. Species richness of aquatic Coleoptera differed significantly among habitats in August-September 1998 and June 1999, but not in March-April 1999. Generally, emergent vegetation supported beetle communities with higher richness than did submerged vegetation. Results from analyses of large-scale factors indicated that beetle species richness in most ecoregionalization schemes did not differ among subregions.
25078808|Proconiine sharpshooter (Hemiptera: Clypeorrhyncha: Cicadellidae: Proconiini) host associations are indicated for five species of egg parasitoids in four genera of Trichogrammatidae (Hymenoptera) in the southeastern USA: Oligosita Walker, Paracentrobia Girault, Ufens Girault, and Zagella Girault. Four named and three unnamed species are included in the illustrated key and taxonomic notes are given for those species. Zagella spirita (Girault), a new combination from Ufens, is redescribed based on the recently collected specimens. The lectotype is designated for Trichogramma nigrum Ashmead, the type species of Ufens.
25078809|Nyctibora acaciana Roth, n. sp. (Blattellidae: Nyctiborinae) is described from Costa Rican dry forest. The females glue their oothecae to the stems and branches of ant-acacias (Fabaceae: Acacia collinsii, etc.) inhabited by aggressive Pseudomyrmex spp. (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) colonies. This environment is apparently hostile enough to prevent most parasitic wasps from ovipositing into the ootheca. Only one species of Oozetetes (Hymenoptera: Eupelmidae) was reared from a large sample of oothecae. We discuss the ecological status of ant-acacias selected by the cockroach for ootheca deposition, the behavior of the female cockroach while exploring a potential acacia oviposition site, as well as the possible mechanisms used by the eupelmid wasp to successfully circumvent this defense. Brief mention is made of other acacia/cockroach and ant/cockroach associations.
25078810|Lamproglandifera flavoglandis new genus, new species (Blattidae: Lamproblattinae), is described. Lamproglandifera is readily separated from species of Lamproblatta Hebard, by the specialization on the male's supra-anal plate. Two species of Lamproblatta are redescribed for comparative purposes.
25078811|Larva and pupa of Dasyhelea bahamensis (Johnson 1908) and Dasyhelea necrophila Spinelli and Rodrguez 1999, are described and illustrated by using a phase-contrast stereoscope and scanning electron microscopy. Dasyhelea bahamensis was collected from flooded, muddy areas in Cohauila, Yucatn, Mexico, while D. necrophila were discovered in small artificial or plant-holding containers in Argentina and Mexico. Larvae of both species have character states typical of herbivorous ceratopogonid larvae.
25078812|M.(D.) semirufa is redescribed based on a lectotype and paralectotype, here designed, and new characters for their identification are included. New country record for Argentina is given.
25078813|The grasshopper genus Aidemona Brunner is comprised of five species: A. azteca (Saussure) n. stat., A. amrami Roberts n. stat., A. alticola Roberts, A. sonorae Roberts and A. scarlata n. sp. Specimens of A. azteca azteca and A. azteca amrami have been found in sympatry in some collected localities, the differences between the two taxa are slight but constant without intermediate forms, so they are considered to be separate species. Except for A. sonorae and A. scarlata, only known from their type specimens, the remaining species of the genus have been collected widely in Mexico, with A. azteca ranging from central southern USA (Texas) to Colombia.
25078814|A new species of palm weevil in the genus Foveolus is described and illustrated. Its association with flowers and spathes of Euterpe oleracea Mart. in northern Brazil is reported; as well as its distribution, relationship with, and diagnostic separation from, Foveolus aterpes Vaurie.
25078819|The natural history of the Great Sand Dunes tiger beetle, Cicindela theatina Rotger, was studied from 1997 through 2000 at its type locality, the Great Sand Dunes of Saguache and Alamosa counties, Colorado. Cicindela theatina is an endemic insect of the Great Sand Dunes, restricted to suitable habitat within an area of 290
25078820|Seventeen Poecilimon Fischer species are studied from the Bat Karadeniz (West Black Sea) Region of Turkey. Four new species, P. azdavayi, P. karabagi, P. iucundus, P. karabukensis and unknown female of P. celebi Karabag are described. Original references, type localities, type depositories, previous records, material examined, distributions and new figures are given. Three species, P. adentatus Ramme, P. uvarovi Ramme and P. turciae (Ramme) are recorded from the Region for the first time. A key to the species is prepared.
25078821|Three new species of Poecilimon Fischer, P. toros, P. karakushi and P. eskishehirensis are described, illustrated and compared with the relative species from Western Turkey.
25078822|An association analysis among areas of butterfly endemism in the West Indies was developed. The following analytical tools were used: Parsimony analysis of endemicity (PAE), Principal Components Analysis (PCA) and Panbiogeography. PAE and PCA's results yielded three main associations: Cuba-Bahamas (BAH)-Isle of Pines (PIN)-Cayman Islands (CAY), Hispaniola (HIS), Puerto Rico (PRI)-Jamaica (JAM)- Virgin Islands (VIR), and Leeward and Winward islands (LEE-WIN). Panbiogeography produced the following generalized tracks: Cuba-BAH, Cuba-PIN, Cuba-HIS, Cuba-CAY, Cuba-HIS-BAH, Cuba-HIS-PRI, HIS-PRI, HIS-JAM, Cuba-HIS-JAM-PRI and LEE-WIN. Cuba is the "mass center" of shared species and HIS the "mass center" of endemism. It was considered that both islands represent "biogeographic attractors" in the complex Antillean scenario. Panbiogeographic analysis produced results more in agreement with the real complexity and reticulation of spatial relationships among areas.
25078823|The mole cricket genus Scapteriscus Scudder, 1869 is revised to include 21 species, 9 of which are described herein as new: costaricensis, didactyloides, ecuadorensis, grossi, macrocellus, peruvianus, quadripunctatus, saileri, and tibiodentalis. Two species, S. tenuis Scudder 1869 and S. didactyloides Nickle new species, each have several geographical variants which may prove to be distinct species. Two species, S. leptodactylus Chopard, 1928 and S. siangensis Tandon and Shishodia 1972, described from India and Pakistan, are removed from Scapteriscus and placed in a new genus, described herein as Indioscaptor Nickle. Species of Scapteriscus are defined using both traditional morphological characters and other methods of species recognition, including analyses of morphometrics and cuticular hydrocarbons.
25078824|The male of the Neotropical genus Hoplognathoca Surez is described and illustrated for the first time, based on sex association of Hoplognathoca nodifrons (Gerstaecker, 1874) from Panama. Comments about the association of the sexes are made. Hoplognathoca costarricensis Surez, 1962 and H. nodifrons, are recorded for the first time from Panam, both species were known previously only from their female holotypes from Costa Rica and Colombia, respectively.
25078825|Tallium lattkei n. sp., male and female, is described and illustrated. This new species represents the first record of Tallium for Venezuela and Colombia and the northernmost distribution record for this Neotropical genus.
25078826|This paper addresses the phylogenetic relationships of the tettigoniid genera Dectinomima Caudell and Uchuca Giglio-Tos. A new species is named of Dectinomima and the genus redescribed. Males of this genus present the odd characteristic of a stridulatory file with extreme tooth density: > 600 teeth. Four new species of Uchuca are described, all alate. In four the vestigial file of the right tegmen is well developed; the functional file in two species terminates suddenly, well short of the wing base, something not seen before in a katydid. This paper contains a revision of the genus Dectinomima, with description of the male of D. jenningsi and of a new species: D. sagittata. Based on the male genitalia, Dectinomima differs considerably from Uchuca. Both genera appear to be closely related monophyletic groups, as previously thought, but they are members of a larger generic complex, incorporating the genus Paranelytra and several undescribed genera from the New World. A complete analysis of their calling songs accompanies detailed descriptions of two of the new Uchuca spp. These acoustic signals are ultrasonic and present considerable interspecific variation in quality factor (Q).
25078827|Enochrus grossi (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae) is described as new from the southeastern United States. It is distinguished from other Nearctic Enochrus by the sparse pubescence of the hind femora being restricted to the basal two thirds. Subgeneric placement is discussed and diagnostic features illustrated.
25078828|The invasive grasshopper species Melanoplus sanguinipes (F.) is reported to have been accidentally introduced over 30 years ago into Dominican Republic. This species has been found in several mountain localities around the town of Constanza, Cordillera Central. The complete extent of its distribution in the Dominican Republic remains to be mapped, but the species appears to be absent from the country's lowlands.
25078829|The genus Litocampa, known form Europe, North and South America and Hawaii, is composed mostly of species that are obligate cave dwellers. Two new epigean species, described here, were discovered in the southern Appalachian region of eastern North America during July of 2003: L. appalachiensis, L. tennessensis. Five specimens of a previously described epigenan species and previously known only from the holotype, L. condei Ferguson, were also collected. A key that will separate the three known epigean species of Litocampa is given.
25078833|Taxa that are comparatively treated belong to basal clades within a monophyletic subset of genera of Heptageniidae having, for example, an apically adenticulate outer incisor and scattered setae ventrally on the galealacinia. The genus Ecdyonurus Eaton is restricted and a distinct Holarctic subgroup within it (the simplicioides species group) is defined and shown to be equivalent to previous concepts of Afghanurus Demoulin, Paracinygmula Bajkova, and Akkarion Flowers. The Nearctic genus Leucrocuta Flowers is detailed. The Holarctic genus Nixe Flowers is restricted (as the prior subgenus Nixe s.s.) and detailed. The Palearctic genus Siberionurus, n. gen., is described and shown to be a sister genus to Leucrocuta. New combinations for strictly Western Hemisphere species include Ecdyonurus bellus (Allen and Cohen), n. comb., which is also shown to be the first species of this broader subset of genera to be found in the Neotropics, E. criddlei (McDunnough), n. comb., and Nixe kennedyi (McDunnough), n. comb. The only Holarctic species recombined is E. simplicioides (McDunnough), recomb. Strictly Asian species recombined include E. klugei Braasch, recomb., E. rubrofasciatus Brodsky, recomb., N. subspinosa Braasch and Soldn, recomb.; and new combinations include Siberionurus asperus (Kluge), n. comb., and S. inversus (Kluge), n. comb.
25078834|Twenty-nine monophyletic species groups based on the study of nearly 200 species of the Ephemeroptera family Heptageniidae from North and Central America, Africa, Eurasia, and Southeast Asia were subjected to cladistic analysis in order to hypothesize their interrelationships and produce a framework for a strict phylogenetic higher classification for the family. As a result, three sequentially derived major clades are recognized as the subfamilies Ecdyonurinae, Heptageniinae, and Rhithrogeninae. The Ecdyonurinae is divided into four tribes: the Ecdyonurini, containing the genera Nixe Flowers and Ecdyonurus Eaton; the Leucrocutini, n. trib., containing the genera Siberionurus McCafferty and Leucrocuta Flowers; the Notacanthurini, n. trib., containing the genera Notacanthurus Tshernova and Electrogena Zurwerra and Tomka; and the Atopopini, n. trib., containing the genera Afronurus Lestage [=Cinygmina Kimmins, n. syn.], Asionurus Braasch and Soldn, Thalerosphyrus Eaton [=Compsoneuriella Ulmer, n. syn.; =Notonurus Crass, n. syn.], and Atopopus Eaton. The Heptageniinae is divided into four tribes: the Compsoneuriini, n. trib., containing the genera Compsoneuria Eaton and Trichogenia Braasch and Soldn; the Heptageniini, containing the genera Heptagenia Walsh, Dacnogenia Kluge, n. stat., and Raptoheptagenia Whiting and Lehmkuhl; the Kageroniini, n. trib., containing the genera Kageronia Matsumura [=Parastenacron Kluge, n. syn.] and Stenacron Jensen; and the Stenonematini, n. trib., containing the genera Macdunnoa Lehmkuhl, Maccaffertium Bednarik, n. stat., and Stenonema Traver. The Rhithrogeninae is divided into four tribes: the Rhithrogenini, containing the genera Paegniodes Eaton, Rhithrogena Eaton [=Rhithrogeniella Ulmer, n. syn.], and Cinygmula McDunnough [=Epeiron Demoulin, n. syn.; =Ororotsia Traver, n. syn.]; the Cinygmatini, containing the genus Cinygma Eaton [=Cinygmoides Matsumura, n. syn.]; the Epeorini, n. trib., containing the genera Bleptus Eaton, Ironodes Traver, and Epeorus Eaton [=Epeorella Ulmer, n. syn.]; and the Anepeorini, containing the genera Anepeorus McDunnough [=Acanthomola Whiting and Lehmkuhl, n. syn.] and Spinadis Edmunds and Jensen. The nomenclatural history of the higher classification of the family, bases for the new classification and synonymies, and the biogeography and evolution of the genera are discussed.
25078835|New names are proposed for two junior homonyms: Notoxus peccatus Chandler and Nardi, for Notoxus orientalis Chandler; Notoxus tlaxcalensis Chandler and Nardi for Notoxus pygidialis Chandler. Two new synonymies are recognized: Notoxus dugesi Pic, 1901 (= Notoxus stephani Chandler, 1978); Notoxus fraternus Champion 1890 (= Notoxus talpa var. subnotatus Pic, 1913). Notoxus argentinus Pic is redescribed, and may be an introduced Palearctic species. Three new species are described: N. carrorum Chandler, Rocky Mountains of North America; N. beameri Chandler, New Mexico; N. lipovskyi Chandler, western Mexico.
25078836|A survey of Wisconsin Darkling Beetles (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae) conducted from literature searches, collection inventories, and two years of field work (1998-1999) yielded 90 species and an additional two dubiously recorded species from 10 subfamilies. Of these, 51 species (57% of the Wisconsin fauna) represent new state species records, having not previously been recorded from the state. The known distributions of all Wisconsin species are reported by region and county, along with pertinent natural history and other collection information, when known. Also, the Wisconsin tenebrionid fauna is compared to reconstructed and updated faunal lists of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio. Literature and collection distributional records suggest that there are likely several more species indigenous to Wisconsin.
25078837|Egg case and larvae of Helochares femoratus (Brull) are described from Ensenada, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. Diagnostic characters of external morphology are discussed, and comparisons with other known species of Helochares Mulsant are made. A key to different larval instars is provided.
25078838|The genus Euhybos Coquillett is recorded from the Oriental Realm for the first time. One species is described as new to science: Euhybos sinensis n. sp.
25078839|One new species of the genus Syndyas Loew from China is described. A key to the species of the genus from China is presented.
25078840|New data on the systematics of Turkish species of Leptophyes are presented and a new species L. helleri is described. A key to Turkish species of the genus is provided. New data on bioacoustics and faunistics for the species are also recorded. Morphological features and song oscillograms of the species are also provided. A short phylogenetic relationships and biogeographical comments of the species of the punctatissima group are presented.
25078841|Harmonia axyridis, a coccinellid native to Asia, was discovered in South Dakota in 1996, but its distribution and habitat use in the state had remained undetermined. We sampled coccinellids from various habitats, including agricultural and natural areas, in eastern and central South Dakota in 2000 and 2001. Timed searches, sweepnets, blacklight traps and a Malaise trap were used for numerical sampling. We made additional field observations of coccinellids. We sampled 2624 coccinellids, including H. axyridis, Coccinella septempunctata (an established, Eurasian coccinellid), and seven native species (Brachiacantha ursina, Coleomegilla maculata lengi, Cycloneda munda, Hippodamia convergens, H. parenthesis, H. tredecimpunctata tibialis, and Hyperaspis undulata). Hippodamia tredecimpunctata tibialis, H. convergens, and H. axyridis, in order, were the most abundant coccinellids. Hippodamia convergens was the most abundant of eight species sampled by timed searches, and Coleomegilla maculata lengi was most abundant in sweepnet and Malaise trap samples. Hippodamia tredecimpunctata tibialis, H. convergens, and H. axyridis comprised over 99 percent of coccinellids sampled in blacklight traps. Harmonia axyridis was recorded from seven eastern counties, but we did not find it in central South Dakota. Adult H. axyridis were found in many habitats surveyed, and larvae were found on maize and ornamental plants. We observed adult H. axyridis preying upon Aphis glycines on buckthorn in autumn 2001. Samples of H. axyridis included the first ebony morph collected from eastern North America. Timed searches, sampling autumnal aggregations, and blacklight traps are all potentially useful in studying H. axyridis in the field, whereas sweepnetting and Malaise trapping appear inefficient.
25078842|Four species of Astochia Becker are reported from Thailand, increasing the number to five. Of these, A. lancealata Scarbrough nov. sp., A. nigranta Scarbrough, nov. sp., and A. flava Scarbrough nov. sp., are described and compared with similar species. Astochia jayarami Joseph and Parui, an Indian species, is also reported from Thailand. A key to the known species from Thailand, diagnoses of the four species, and illustrations of the terminalia of the males and flat setae of A. lancealata are included.
25078843|A new species of the Forcipomyia (Forcipomyia) poulaineae group, F. (F.) muzoni, from steppe areas of the province of Ro Negro in Argentina is described and illustrated. The previously known species F. (F.) edwardsiana Wirth is redescribed and illustrated, and notes on the distribution and types of the later species and F. (F.) caliginosella Wirth are provided.
25078847|The male of Caraguata bella is described and illustrated for the first time and the original description of the female is enlarged. New diagnostic characters: mouthparts, hind wings, metanotum, metendosternite, male and female genitalia are provided. This species is compared with C. sublimbata Baly its closest related species.
25078848|The genus Chillcottomyia Saigusa is recorded from China for the first time. One species is described as new to science: Chillcottomyia shimentaiensis n. sp. A key to the species of the genus from Asia is presented.
25078849|The species of the genus Crossopalpus Bigot (Diptera: Empididae) from China are reviewed. The following two species are described as new to science: C. bisetus and C. yunnanensis. A key to the species of the genus from China is presented for the first time, and the distribution in China is discussed.
25078850|The present contribution is referred to the femoratus species group of Galapaganus Lanteri 1992 (Curculionidae, Entiminae, Naupactini), a taxon that includes two weevil species from Ecuador. The descriptions of Galapaganus femoratus Lanteri and G. howdenae Lanteri are herein enlarged, with morphological characters of the males, especially from the abdomen, and new geographical records are provided. The former species is distributed around the Gulf of Guayaquil, in the provinces of Guayas, Caar and El Oro. The latter has a broader distribution, from the Gulf of Guayaquil to the slopes of the western cordillera, in Pichincha Province. Two new subspecies of G. howdenae are herein described: a) G. h. howdenae from lowlands of Guayas, Manab and Los Ros provinces, and introduced into Santa Cruz island, Galpagos archipelago; b) G. h. pecki, distributed in Pichincha province and reaching higher elevations (1.300-1.400 m). Both subspecies differ mainly in characters of the vestiture, morphometrics and the shape of the aedeagal apex. The paper includes illustrations of habitus, diagnostic structures of the taxa and a map of distribution.
25078851|A new species of Dasyhelea from northeastern Argentina, D. correntina Ronderos and Daz, is described and illustrated from adults and pupae, based on the examination through binocular and Scanning Electron Microscopes. The species, a typical member of the Dasyhelea grisea species group, is compared with similar congeners within the group.
25078852|The Ephemeroptera fauna of Guatemala is inventoried by way of documenting 160 Tomnew locale records for 48 species and reviewing historical geographic records associated with any of the 66 species represented. Mayflies are now known from 18 of the 22 departments of Guatemala. Twenty-four species are reported from Guatemala for the first time. Baetodes inermis Cohen and Allen, B. longus Mayo, B. pictus Cohen and Allen, Camelobaetidius mexicanus (Traver and Edmunds), C. shepardi Randolph and McCafferty, C. variabilis Wiersema, Thraulodes eccentricus Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, and T. Gonzales Traver and Edmunds also represent new Central American records. Species of the genera Allenhyphes Hofmann and Sartori, Epiphrades Wiersema and McCafferty, Farrodes Peters, Guajirolus Flowers, Traverella Edmunds, and Tricorythodes Ulmer are reported from Guatemala for the first time. Thraulodes pacaya, n. sp., is described; it occurs from southern Mexico to Panama, with its type locality in Guatemala.
25078853|The first species of Heligmoneura and Orophotus (Diptera: Asilidae) are discovered in Thailand. The new species of H. calceolaria, O. gracilis, and O. pilosus are described, compared with similar species, and illustrated.
25078854|Detailed descriptions of Isoperla muir, a new species of western Nearctic Isoperla including larva, ova and adults are provided. The larva of I. tilasqua Szczytko and Stewart is described for the first time.
25078855|Twenty one new species of the genus Ochrotrichia Mosely are described and the male genitalia of Ochrotrichia affinis, O. alargada, O. amorfa, O. bractea, O. catarina, O. citra, O. compacta, O. cuspidatus, O. delgada, O. indefinida, O. involuta, O. ixtlahuaca, O. leona, O. regiomantana, O. spina, O. spinula, O. unicornia, O. yavesia, from Mexico and O. assita, O. curvata and O. longispina, from Panama are illustrated. O. aldama (Mosely) is recorded for the first time for Panama.
25078856|The toothpick grasshopper, Achurum sumichrasti (Saussure), was collected in 12 pitcher plant bogs in long-leaf pine savannah associations in southeast Texas, from four south-central Texas coastal habitats and three west Texas localities. Comparisons of morphology, karyotypes and song of east Texas and west Texas populations of Achurum sumichrasti (Saussure) were made by the junior author. Food preferences and life histories were determined by the senior author from caged specimens brought back from their native habitats.
25078861|Sensilla styloconica are elongated microscopically conspicuous chemo-mechano receptors found exclusively at the tongue tip of many adult Lepidoptera. These unique proboscis sensilla were comparatively studied using the scanning electron microscope in 107 species of North American and tropical butterflies. Focus was on 76 species of North American Nymphalidae representing 45 genera and 11 subfamily groups, and 15 species of tropical Nymphalidae representing additional genera and subfamilies. Observations of adult nymphalid feeding behavior and food preference for correlation with morphological characteristics were made largely in North America and substantially in the Neotropics, where bait traps were used in conjunction with aerial netting. The tongue tips of 16 additional species representing five more butterfly families were also examined for the presence and morphological characteristics of sensilla styloconica. Nomenclature for generalized and specific types of nymphalid sensilla is proposed, with focus on the morphological features of the stylus where great variation in shape, topography, sculpturing and serration was discovered. Platyform was the predominant stylar shape represented, and aspinate (smooth) was the predominant surface topography. Other types were characterized by variable symmetry, ridging, fluting, serration and spination. Morphological features of the stylus were generally consistent for all or most species within genera and often within subfamilies, with specified exceptions. Written descriptions and SEM micrographs are presented for each species studied. The greatest total and average numbers of sensilla on a proboscis were in the subfamily Limenitidinae, with 288 and 89.9, respectively. The greatest density of sensilla in the mid-region of a proboscis tip was 158/linear mm in Megisto cymela (Satyrinae). Other sensillar characteristics presented and discussed include extent of coverage of the proboscis tip, numbers of ridges and shoulder spines, length of stylus and sensory peg and apical shoulder spine lengths. Statistical analysis revealed significant differences for six of eight numerical and measurement characteristics of sensilla styloconica tested between two distinct feeding guilds identified for the North American Nymphalidae species studied. Average number, density, extent of proboscis coverage with sensilla, and their total length, and apical shoulder spine length averages were all significantly greater in the non-nectar feeding guild than in the nectar feeding one, and may indicate adaptation for greater efficiency of their feeding by dabbing the proboscis tip on wet surfaces of various textures. The number of ridges was significantly greater in nectar feeders. No significant difference was detected in the number of shoulder spines per stylus and average sensory peg length between the feeding guilds. The aspinate condition predominated and was correlated with the nectar-feeding guild. The greater frequency of apical shoulder spines in non-nectar feeders may proponen las siguientes sinapomorfas putativas para Perelleschus: (1) fila de espinas que se extiende por el largo entero del pice de la protibia; (2) apodemas del edeago basalmente hinchados en machos (exceptuando P. rectirostris); y (3) apndice basal y puntiagudo de la espermateca en hembras. Perelleschus subcinctus Voss carece de esas y se transfiere a Phyllotrox Schnherr como Phy. subcinctus (Voss), combinacin nueva. Perelleschus est asociado con Carludovica Ruz & Pavn (Cyclanthaceae). Observaciones sobre las biologas de las especies, en particular P. carludovicae y P. sulcatae en C. sulcata Hammel en La Selva, Costa Rica, indican que los adultos son polinizadores, mientras que las larvas consumen la pulpa y las semillas de las infructescencias. Un anlisis cladstico - con Staminodeus vectoris Franz, una especie nueva de Derelomini, y Systenotelus costaricensis Anderson & Gmez como grupos externos-propone las relaciones filogenticas (P. rectirostris, ((P. evelynae, P. variabilis), (P. biventralis, P. splendidus, (P. pubicoxae, (P. carludovicae, P. sulcatae))))).
25078862|The eggs of six Isogenoides species have been incubated at a single, approximately simulated, San Miguel River, Colorado, seasonal temperature regime for 2-5 years. Eggs were collected from reared, laboratory-mated females of I. colubrinus, I. doratus, I. elongatus, I. frontalis, I. varians, and I. zionensis. Eggs were held in 8 ml containers and visually examined usually weekly for development and hatch. Only some I. zionensis eggs from a combined first and second mass of a Leopard Creek, Colorado population hatched directly within two weeks, continuing until late September, and resuming mainly May-June the following year; one and two eggs hatched in 2002 and 2004, respectively. I. doratus and I. varians experienced hatch only after an over-summer, 3-4 month diapause, and I. varians again in late August-September during the second year. Populations of I. colubrinus, I. elongatus, I. frontalis and a San Miguel River, Colorado population of I. zionensis began hatching only in the year following deposition, after a 10-12 month diapause. Some hatching of these four species occurred at spring-summer temperatures in subsequent years (2nd, 3rd, 3rd, and 4th years, respectively), with no intervening hatch at winter temperatures. The study confirms extended, usually asynchronous diapause and hatching for from 3 months to 4 years, probably genetically controlled, in the six species, and a great degree of adaptive capacity for diapause in the genus Isogenoides.
25078863|The new genus Demirsoyus Sirin and Ciplak n. gen. (Orthoptera, Acrididae, Oedipodinae) and the new species Demirsoyus salmani Sirin and Ciplak n. sp. are described on the basis of specimens from Antalya in Mediterranean Turkey. The necessary illustrations are provided to support the descriptions. Relationships between new genus and closely related genera are discussed. Relationships between Aiolopus group genera are suggested to be Aiolopus + (Platypygius + (Epacromius + Demirsoyus n. gen.)). Finally, a biogeographic evaluation of the last three genera is presented, assuming their history to be related with tectonic evolution of Mediterranean.
25078864|A survey of crane flies (Diptera: Tipuloidea) was conducted at 11 reference sites through sampling associated with the All Taxa Biodiversity Inventory (ATBI) in Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and North Carolina, U.S.A. Two new species of crane flies, Ormosia (Oreophila) parviala new species and Tipula (Lunatipula) atreia new species, are described here. Ormosia parviala is most easily distinguished by the reduced wings of the female. Tipula atreia is a small Lunatipula, distinguished primarily by a trilobed ninth tergite, a minute outer gonostylus, and the appendage of the ninth sternite with straight pale setae. Significant range extensions are reported and discussed for ten species of crane flies: Antocha (Antocha) obtusa Alexander, Ctenophora apicata Osten Sacken, Discobola nigroclavata (Alexander), Hexatoma (Eriocera) spinosa Osten Sacken, Limnophila (Idiolimnophila) emmelina Alexander, Limonia maculicosta (Coquillett), Tipula (Lunatipula) flavibasis Alexander, Tipula (Lindnerina) illinoiensis (Alexander), Tipula (Lunatipula) monticola Alexander, and Tricyphona (Pentacyphona) autumnalis (Alexander).
25078865|A new species of fossil Dicranoptycha Osten Sacken, 1859 crane flies is described from Baltic amber (Eocene). Its affinities with other recent and fossil species of Dicranoptycha limoniids are discussed. A key for Baltic amber species of Dicranoptycha is given. SPECIES NOVA: Dicranoptycha osata sp. n.
25078866|Four new species of Xystromutilla are described: X. hansoni from Peru, X. carpenteri from Colombia, X. hondurensis from Honduras and X. zulia from Venezuela. The three latter species represent the first records for the genus Xystromutilla for each of those countries. A new combination is made: Xystromutilla marginipennis (Smith, 1879), N. COMB., from Mutilla. The total number of Xystromutilla species is now 14. New host records are presented for Xystromutilla turrialba Casal which parasitizes Podium sp. and Trypoxylon sp. (Sphecidae s. l.). Males of Xystromutilla are illustrated for the first time and a key to the four species whose males are known is presented. Three new distribution records are given: X. turrialba from Honduras, previously known from Panama, Costa Rica and Nicaragua; X. mansueta from Colombia, previously known from Ecuador, Peru, Brazil and Bolivia; and X. marginipennis (Smith) from Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia, previously known only from Brazil.
25078867|Five new species: Protoptila olvidada, P. perdida, Lepidostoma ibarrai, L. weaveri and Wormaldia alicia mostly from Mexico, except P. olvidada, which is from Panama, are described and the male genitalia are figured.
25078868|Sinodrapetis basiflava, a new genus and species from the Oriental realm is described and illustrated, and its relationships with the closely related genera Drapetis Meigen and Elaphropeza Macquart are discussed.
25078869|The species of the genus Paraclius Loew from continental China are keyed. One species, Paraclius planitarsis n. sp., is described as new to science.
25078870|The species of the genus Tachytrechus Haliday from China are keyed. One species from Guangxi, Tachytrechus guangxiensis n. sp., is described as new to science.
25078874|The genus Cyclodinus Mulsant & Rey is revised for the New World. Seven species are now known: C. annectens (LeConte), C. californicus (LaFert-Senctre), C. franciscanus (Casey), C. mimus (Casey), C. mundulus (Sharp) are redescribed; C. mono n. sp. and C. paiute n. sp. are described as new; Anthicus texanus LaFert-Senctre is placed as a junior synonym of C. californicus. Lectotypes are designated for Anthicus californicus LaFert-Senctre, Thiscanus mimus Casey, and A. mundulus Sharp. A key to species is provided and the male genitalia are figured. One species, C. mundulus, has been introduced to Hawaii and Hispaniola, and it is possible that others have been introduced to central Mexico.
25078875|The discovery of several pieces of Dominican amber with Acropyga inclusions provides evidence that the trophophoretic behavior of Acropyga queens is at least 15-20 million years old. A fossil species, A. glaesaria, is described and its relationship to extant Acropyga is discussed.
25078876|Five leptogastrine genera, including eight new species and new records of four species, are reported from the Dominican Republic. Of these, Apachekolos Martin, Psilonyx Schiner, and Eurhabdus Aldrich are reported for the first time. Apachekolos flaventis Scarbrough and Perez-Gelabert, sp. n., A. invasus Scarbrough and Perez-Gelabert, sp. nov., A. magnus Scarbrough and Perez-Gelabert, sp. nov., A. volubilis Scarbrough and Perez-Gelabert, sp. nov., A. vultus Scarbrough and Perez-Gelabert, sp. nov., Beameromyia incisuralis Scarbrough and Page, sp. nov., Psilonyx zephyrus Scarbrough and Page, sp. nov., and Eurhabdus sororius Scarbrough and Perez-Gelabert, sp. nov., and the females of B. dicrana Scarbrough and Leptogaster lineatus Scarbrough are discovered and described. The terminalia of each species and the wings of A. clavipes (Johnson), B. incisuralis, B. dicrana, E. sororius, L. lineatus, and P. zephyrus are illustrated and keys to species are included. New records of B. melana Scarbrough, B. dicrana, L. lineatus, and A. clavipes are also included. The distribution of A. clavipes, previously known from the Bahamas and Jamaica, is expanded to include Hispaniola.
25078877|Reviewed are ten species (three of them unnamed, known from males only) of the thrips-attacking genus Ceranisus Walker (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae: Entedoninae) in the New World. One new species, C. hoddlei, is described from specimens collected in Costa Rica, Honduras, Mexico, and Venezuela. New distribution and, when available, host data are provided for the previously described species.
25078878|Five nominal species of braconid wasps that parasitize nymphs of five mirid species were studied on farms. The biological data obtained indicate that Peristenus pallipes (Curtis) is likely two (and possibly three) distinct species. In alfalfa and alfalfa-forage grass fields, there were clear parasite:mirid host associations: P. pallipes "A": Leptopterna and Trigonotylus; P. pallipes "B": Adelphocoris; P. pallipes "C": Lygus; P. digoneutis: Lygus; P. conradi: Adelphocoris; P. pseudopallipes: Lygus; and P. howardi: Lygus. Diapausing adults of these parasite species do not emerge from their cocoons immediately after the cocoons are removed from cold storage; this delay is referred to here as diapause "duration". Average diapause duration varied from 8 to 61 days, depending on the parasite species, and each duration was statistically different from that of the other species. These durations corresponded to the temporal sequence of appearances of nymphs of the appropriate mirid host species during the growing season, and serve to synchronize the emergence of parasite adults with the hatching of their preferred hosts. All parasites studied except P. digoneutis and P. howardi are univoltine. The latter two species produce some non-diapausing progeny in their first generation, which emerge promptly, enabling these species to parasitize second generation mirids. The unusually prolonged emergence period of P. howardi suggests that the second generation of this species may be partly produced by late-emerging (long-duration) parasites from the previous year, or perhaps by a very similar (sibling) species. Diapause rapidly increased in both P. digoneutis and P. howardi collected in hosts within two weeks after the maximum photoperiod occurred (June 21) in the field.
25078879|The egg and five instars of the harpactorine Zelus longipes Linn are described and illustrated. Descriptions include morphological characters and measurements of specimens reared in the laboratory.
25078880|The vibrational communication (drumming) behavior is reported for males and all but one species for females of the stonefly genus Isogenoides. Signals and duets were species-specific, and ranged in complexity from ancestral monophasic signals and sequenced duets to derived grouped signals and symphonic exchanges. Isogenoides olivaceus is least specialized, having mostly sequenced duets, and all the other species are characterized as having complex derived drumming, since their calls, male-female exchange patterns and female answers contain varying degrees of signal grouping and symphonic exchanges. The drumming of all species fit at some level of the Stewart (2001) evolutionary paradigm for the suborder Arctoperlaria.
25078881|The endemic Australian genus Phricta Redtenbacher is reviewed and its subfamilial status discussed. Four species are known. The genus is confined to eastern Australian coastal rainforests from the Daintree River area of northern Queensland to the Border and McPherson Ranges of northern New South Wales. This is a continuation of the Monograph of Australian Tettigoniidae begun by the first author (see Rentz, 1985, 1993, 2001). Instead of publishing results in book form, it seems best to approach the project at the generic or tribal level. This is the first offering under this scheme. All of the protocols established in the above works are followed here. Approximately 70% of the Australian tettigoniid fauna remain to be described. It is now estimated to be in the area of 1500 species. This paper follows the protocols established in Rentz (1985). Phricta is one of a number of Australian genera of pseudophylline katydids. It is the sole example of the group "Phrictae" or tribe Phrictini in Australia. Other unrelated pseudophyllines will be dealt with in subsequent papers. Phricta is a common rainforest species and is conspicuous by its size and lichen-like camouflage colour pattern.
25078882|The caddisflies of Mount Rainier National Park (MRNP), Washington, USA, were surveyed between 1997 and 2004. At least 1,930 specimens from over 250 collections at 163 sites were examined. Based on the current understanding of caddisfly systematics, 108 species were identified. With nine additional species previously reported that we did not confirm, a total of 117 species are now known from MRNP, representing over 50% of the reported Washington state caddisfly fauna. The collections of the rare brachycentrid, Eobrachycentrus gelidae Wiggins, represent the second and third known records of adults for this species. Six species, Apatania zonella (Zetterstedt), Asynarchus aldinus (Ross), Limnephilus moestus Banks, Polycentropus flavus (Banks), Rhyacophila vobara Milne, and Neophylax occidentis Banks represent new records for the state of Washington. One new species of Polycentropus was discovered.
25078883|Associations were made for four species of western Nearctic Sweltsa nymphs, and a comparative study of selected specimens was initiated to locate characters that might have potential systematic value. Nymphs of S. fidelis (Banks), S. pacifica (Banks), S. revelstoka (Jewett) and S. townesi (Ricker) were successfully distinguished using chaetotaxic features of cerci, mouthparts and femora in combination with pigment patterns of the frons.
25078884|A new genus of psocids, Papuapsocus, of subfamily Perientominae is described based on a new species from New Guinea with the unique character of tailed forewings. Several new characters for the subfamily are recorded, resulting from examination of all genera available, in addition to the new one. These are Lepium Enderlein, Nepticulomima Enderlein, Perientomum Hagen, Proentomum Badonnel, and Soa Enderlein. Several of these genera were originally based on seemingly trivial characters of wing venation and an attempt is made to evaluate them, as well as other described genera not seen, based on all information available. The new subfamily Parasoinae is proposed for the genus Parasoa Thornton. The genus Notolepium Enderlein probably belongs in subfamily Thylacellinae. Nepticulomima pulvillata New, Nepticulomima saltuaria Smithers and Nepticulomima scottiana Enderlein are transferred to the genus Proentomum Badonnel. A key is included to the genera that clearly belong in Perientominae.
25078885|Twelve species of Aulacidae, three Aulacus and nine Pristaulacus, are recorded from northern South America: Aulacus amazonicus (Roman), A. cephalus, n. sp., A. ochreus, n. sp., Pristaulacus absens, n. sp., A. colombianus, n. sp., P. femurrubrum, n. sp., P. haemorrhoidalis (Westwood), P. maculatus (Schletterer), P. punctatus, n. sp., P. ruficeps (Westwood), P. tridentatus, n. sp., and P. zonatipennis Roman. This study is based on recent collections from Colombia. Aulacus bicornutus Schletterer 1889 is a new synonym of Pristaulacus ruficeps (Westwood 1851). The species are described and illustrated and a key is given.
25078886|A new subgenus, Muratovocampa, and two new species belonging to the subgenus, M. jamaicensis and M. caerulea, are described. This new genus may be readily recognized by characters associated with the absence and/or presence of macrochaetae on the thorax and abdomen: 1) mesonotum and metanotum with only 1 + 1 and 0 macrochaete respectively; 2) abdominal tergites without macrochaetae. A taxonomic key is given for the subgenera of Campodea.
25078887|A new genus, Molaricampa, and species, M. fergusoni, are described from a single locality in northern Alabama. The genus is characterized by the presence of 4 macrochaetae on each side of the pronotum (4 + 4, ma, la, 2 lp). The describption is based on three specimens. The holotype is deposited in The Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia.
25078892|Prior to this study, the stonefly genus Isogenoides Klaplek contained nine species distributed throughout North America, north of Mexico. Despite this small number of species, Isogenoides has remained a problematic genus because of the lack of detailed comparative studies of genitalic, egg and nymph characters. This revision of Isogenoides has involved all known university, museum and individual holdings, and new collections by colleagues and us over a four-year period from type localities and other sites to rear males and females of all species. Rearing provided nymph correlation for comparative descriptions and fresh males for aedeagal extrusion. The in situ genitalia of males, and details of the aedeagus, epiproct, lateral stylets, hemitergal processes and other structures were computer-illustrated and photographed using scanning electron microscopy. Holomorphological examination of all life stages has resulted in new comparative descriptions, keys, and synonymy of Isogenoides krumholzi (Ricker 1944) with I. doratus (Frison 1942). Recently collected nymphs can be identified primarily by subtle differences in pigment patterns and with combinations of other finite characters.
25078893|The species of the genus Patagoniodes from China are reviewed. Three species, Patagoniodes longicurva sp. n., Patagoniodes infundibularis sp. n. and Patagoniodes dayuensis sp. n are described as new to science. A key to the Chinese species of the genus is provided, and the geographic distribution is discussed.
25078894|A new species of Tropicomyia angioptericola Shiao (Diptera: Agromyzidae) was found feeding on Angiopteris lygodiifolia Rosenst. (Marattiaceae) in northern Taiwan; morphological characters of the adults and larvae as well as mining patterns are described and illustrated. Remarks on the morphology, taxonomy, host plants and related issues of fern-feeding agromyzids are provided. Differences in the male genitalia with related species are also proposed for diagnostic discrimination.
25078895|Two new species of Pheidole from Guyana are described, P. funki LaPolla and P. schultzi LaPolla. One species, P. funki, belongs to the scrobifera-group and is only the second member of the species-group known from South America. The other species, P. schultzi, belongs to the tachigaliae-group. P. tachigaliae is also illustrated to identify morphological differences with P. schultzi. Modified versions of Wilson's (2003) key are provided. Recent biotic survey work across Guyana revealed that at least 86 Pheidole species are present in the country.
25078896|Egg and larva of Culicoides venezuelensis Ortiz & Mirsa are described and the pupa s redescribed and illustrated by using phase-contrast microscope and Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM). Larvae and pupae were collected from a muddy area in a stream margin at Sierra de la Ventana, province of Buenos Aires, Argentina, and reared in laboratory. Eggs were extracted from the abdomen of a gravid female from Encarnacin, Paraguay. Larvae show characters states typical of carnivorous ceratopogonids that breed in mud. Sierra de la Ventana is the southernmost locality of the species.
25078897|In this paper, six new species of the genus Aculus (Acari: Eriophyoidea: Eriophyidae) from China are described and illustrated, namely Aculus amygdali sp. nov., Aculus persicae sp. nov. on peach, Amygdalus persica L.; Aculus huixiansis sp. nov. on willow, Salix sp. L.; Aculus coggygriae sp. nov. on common smoketree, Cotinus coggygria Scop.; Aculus populi sp. nov. on poplar, Populus sp. L. and Aculus altissimae sp. nov. on ailanthus, Ailanthus altissima (Mill.) Swingle. A key to the species of Aculus from China is provided. All species are vagrant on leaves. All type specimens are deposited at the Department of Entomology, Nanjing Agricultural University, Jiangsu Province, China.
25078898|The species of the genus Rhaphium Meigen (Diptera: Dolichopodidae) from the Chinese mainland are reviewed. The following two species are described as new to science: R. heilongjiangense sp. n. and R. wuduanum sp. n. A key to the species of the genus from the Chinese mainland is presented for the first time.
25078899|The species of the genus Medetera from Taiwan of China are keyed. A species, Medetera yangi n. sp., is described as new to science.
25078900|The species of the genus Aphalacrosoma Zhang et Yang, 2005 from China are keyed. A species from Taiwan, Aphalacrosoma taiwanense n. sp., is described as new to science.
25078901|In the present paper, the species of the Hercostomus (Hercostomus) incisus-group from the Oriental realm are reviewed. One species from Taiwan is described as new to science: Hercostomus (Hercostomus) taiwanensis sp. nov. A key to the species of the incisus-group from the Oriental realm is given for the first time. The distribution of the group is discussed.
25078902|Numerous specimens of Phaneropterinae from Turkey and the Middle East have been studied. The material included unidentified specimens preserved in the Natural History Museum London and material collected by the author. The taxa, Micrimon Ramme, Isophya acuminata Brunner, Isophya obtusidens Ramme, Poecilimon rammeanus Karabag, Poecilimon raggei Karabag and Poecilimon tuncayi Karabag are synonymized. Micrimon karabagi Ramme is transfered to the genus Poecilimon Fischer. A replacement species name for Poecilimon karabagi nal is proposed. Three new species and subspecies, Poecilimon ege n.sp., Poecilimon marmaraensis nalbanti n.ssp. and Poecilimon luschani egrigozi n.ssp. and the previously unknown female of Dasycercodes iranicus Bey-Bienko are described. Taxonomic positions of Isophya autumnalis Karabag and Isophya bicarinata Karabag are discussed. Some doubtful and misidentified specimens are discussed.
25078903|A new genus Naskreckiella n.gen., and a new species Naskreckiella kalamboi n.sp. are descrided. The relative genera are discussed. Descriptive illustrations are included.
25078904|The neotropical genus Odontosema Kieffer 1909 (Hymenoptera: Cynipoidea: Figitidae) is revised, and O. anastrephae Borgmeier 1935 is placed in synonymy with O. albinerve Kieffer 1909.
25078905|The demokidovi-like short winged Glyptobothrus species in Anatolia, belonging to the genus Chorthippus Fieber (Orthoptera, Acrididae, Gomphocerinae), are reviewed. Chorthippus demokidovi (Ramme) is redescribed presenting comments on its old synonyms C. satunini Mistshenko and C. pygmaeus (Bei-Bienko). Two new species are described; Chorthippus kazdaghensis Mol and Ciplak sp. n. from northwest Anatolia and Chorthippus taurensis Sirin and Ciplak sp. n. from southwest Anatolia. Necessary illustrations of morphology and male calling song/leg movements are provided and a detailed comparison of the three species in the group is presented. It is concluded that the Anatolian species are related to a group of short winged European species (which share presence of hind wings 1/2-2/3 of the tegmina in length and tegmina with a precostal field reaching to its apex) such as C. willemsei Harz, C. biroi (Kuthy) and allies. Biogeography of the group is speculated. From their distribution pattern and habitat preference, it is postulated that the present species of the group are relicts of some ancestral stock in southeast Europe which later spread eastward through highland chains in western and southern Anatolia up to Caucasus.
25078906|A first comprehensive study of the Ephemeroptera of North Dakota accounts for the presence of 14 families, 42 genera, and 85 species including the first published state records for 9 families, 33 genera, and 78 species, and 340 new county records involving 81 species. Mayflies are now known from all drainage regions of North Dakota and 41 of the 53 counties. Most North Dakota species are relatively common in North America; however, less common species include, for example, Amercaenis ridens McDunnough, Apobaetis lakota McCafferty, Cercobrachys cree Sun, Webb and McCafferty, and Traverella lewisi Allen. Much of the fauna are psammophilous. Nearctic affinities are primarily eastern, with North Dakota forming part of the western range limits of at least 24 species. North Dakota also, however, forms part of the eastern limits of 12 species, and northern limits of five species.
25078910|Two tribes of the Mecopodinae are represented in Australia. Both are confined to the tropics. The Australia Mecopodini comprises a single genus Austromecopoda, Rentz et al., with four species that occur in grasses adjacent to forests occurs on both sides of the continent. The Sexavini is reppresented by a single species of Segestidea, a genus with many species to the north of Australia, some of which are of economic important because of the damage they cause to Coconuts. This genus will be dealt with in a future paper. The taxonomy, biology and distribution are discussed in detail. This is a continuation of the Monograph of Australian Tettigoniidae begun by the first author (see Rentz, 1985, 1993, 1995, Rentz et al. 2005. Approximately 70% of the Australian tettigoniid fauna remain to be described. It is now estimated to be in the area of 1500 species. This paper follows the protocols established in Rentz (1985).
25078911|Season-long sampling in streams and rivers produced 112 species of mayflies, which with other records totals 121 species for New Hampshire; 88 of these are new state records. Appearance of blackwing/mature larvae were used to develop statements on seasonality of species. Distinct differences were found between the faunas of southern and north-central New Hampshire, with an important factor being water temperatures through the season. A biogeographic analysis coupled with known habitat preferences reinforced the hypothesis that water temperature was a critical factor in determining species distributions in the state.
25078912|We conducted a phylogenetic analysis of the Afrotropical mayfly family Ephemerythidae using PAUP* and MacClade. The subgenus Tricomerella Demoulin proved to be applicable to a clade of species with apomorphically reduced hind wings that includes the type species of Ephemerythus Gillies and therefore is placed into strict synonymy with Ephemerythus [= Tricomerella, n. syn.]. Limnokijara, n. gen., is described for the second clade within Ephemerythidae and includes the species L. kiboensis (Gillies), n. comb., and L. picta (Gillies), n. comb. Limnokijara is differentiated from Ephemerythus by the adult males having stout spines distally on the inner margin of genital forceps segment 1. Larvae associated with Ephemerythus, s.s., have enlarged apical spines on the maxilla and abdominal gills 6 present. Larvae associated with Limnokijara have reduced apical spines on the maxilla and gills 6 absent.
25078913|Phylogeny of the cosmopolitan Ephemeroptera infraorder Pannota (Furcatergalia) is revised based on analysis of 46 characters from 34 Operational Taxonomic Units under the parsimony criterion of PAUP*, with Rhoenanthus Eaton (Scapphodonta: Potamanthidae) as an outgroup. Phylogenetic sequencing conventions were applied to the most parsimonious tree that was derived from this analysis. The resultant changes in classification include placing Philolimnias Hong, a monobasic genus from Eocene amber, into Philolimniidae, n. fam. Vietnamellidae is restricted to include only Vietnamella Tshernova, and Austremerella Riek is replaced in Austremerellidae, revalidation. Teloganella Ulmer is moved to Melanemerellidae (subfamily Teloganellinae, n. stat.). Coryphorus Peters is returned to Leptohyphidae (subfamily Coryphorinae, n. stat.).
25078914|Chilephotopsis Cambra and Quintero, a new genus of nocturnal Mutillidae, subfamily Sphaeropthalminae, is described and illustrated based on two new species from northern Chile, known from males only: Ch. aconcagua n. sp. and Ch. brothersi n. sp. The genus can be distinguished from other sphaeropthalmine genera by the deeply emarginate medial posterior margin of metasomal tergum seven and the highly modified paramere. A discussion of possible relationships with other nocturnal sphaeropthalmine genera from South America is presented.
25078915|A new species of genus Astemma is described from Argentina. A photograph of habitus and illustration of male genitalia are included.
25078916|Chaetochile Mitchell (Megachilidae) is herein confirmed as a subgenus of Megachile and represented by one species M. (Chaetochile) mitchelli Raw. The subgenus is characterized by a clypeus and supraclypeal area which is flat in the female, a second mandibular tooth which truncate and closer to the first than to the third tooth; T6 with an anterior depression and the distal margin with a conspicuous expansion and one spine on each side in the male. This contribution includes a redescription of M. Chaetochile and its single species.
25078917|The adult of the predaceous midge Stilobezzia fiebrigi Kieffer is redescribed and illustrated by using binocular compound microscope, and the pupa is redescribed by using binocular microscope and Scanning Electron Microscope. Immature stages were collected as pupae in mud in flooded soil in Corrientes province, Argentina. Adult and pupae are compared with their similar congener Stilobezzia coquilletti Kieffer.
25078918|Six hundred larvae of all instars of Aedes aegypti Linnaeus, 1762 (Diptera: Culicidae) were experimentally infected with larvae of Paragordius varius (Leidy, 1851) (Gordiida: Nematomorpha). All A. aegypti larvae were examined under a light microscope in order to assess the percentage of parasitized larvae, the number of P. varius larvae per A. aegypti larva and their location (thorax and/or abdomen). ANOVA was used for statistical testing of treatment effects. Data of the number of P. varius larvae per A. aegypti larva were log transformed and analyzed by two-factors ANOVA (instars: 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th; position: thorax and abdomen). Means were compared by Tukey test and the significance level was set at p< 0.05. The results obtained showed that A. aegypti larval mortality, at 2h 30min after infection, was higher in parasitized larvae (42.5%) than in the control group (3%). First and 2nd instar larvae were the most susceptible to parasitism (52.15% and 46.67% respectively). More than 90% of each instar A. aegypti larvae were parasitized and the percentage parasitism did not differ between instars. More parasitic larvae were found in 1st and 2nd instar A. aegypti larvae than in 3rd and 4th instars. Paragordius varius parasitize predominantly the abdomen. 9.1% 3rd instar and 68.4% 4th instar Aedes aegypti larvae induced an internal defense reaction (IDR). No infection was registered in the control group.
25078919|A new species, Syntormon medogense sp. nov., is described from China. A key to the 14 known species of the genus from the Chinese mainland is presented.
25078920|A new species of Tachydromia, T. guangdongensis sp. nov., is described. A key to the species from China is presented for the first time.
25078921|Two species of the genus Hybos, H. taichungensis sp. nov. and H. taiwanensis sp. nov., are described from Taiwan as new to science.
25078922|The genus Trichopeza Rondani is recorded from Taiwan for the first time. A new species, Trichopeza taiwanensis sp. nov., is described. An updated key to the world species is presented.
25078923|The following two species are described as new to science: T. clavatus n. sp. and T. lamellaris n. sp. Remarks on their relationships with the closest species are given. One species, T. nitens Grootaert & Meuffels, is recorded for the first time from China.
25078924|A detailed description and illustration of the larva of Macrothemis ultima Gonzlez-Soriano is provided, based upon larvae reared until emergence. Its main features are: body dark brown, integument mostly bare, premental setae 7+3 or 8+4, ligula prominent, palpa setae 6, dorsal protuberances on abdomen well developed and high on 2-5, low, spine-like on 6-9, total length 15.8-16.5 mm. It appears more closely related to the larva of M. aurimaculata Donnelly than to others.
25078925|A rich material which consists of the unidentified specimens preserved in the Natural History Museum London; Naturhistorisches Museum Wien and the specimens collected from Turkey by the author, is studied. Eighty-eight species and subspecies are listed. Iranusa uvarovi sp.n., Platycleis (Montana) kure sp.n., Hermoniana brozai sp.n., Parapholidoptera belen sp.n. and unknown male of Pezodrymadusa affinis (I. Bolivar, 1899) are described. Platycleis (Squamiana) ankarensis Karabag, 1950 and Platycleis (Squamiana) irritans Ramme, 1951 are given in new combination. Squamina erzuruma Demirsoy, 1975 is synonymized. The species Phytodrymadusa longipes (Brunner, 1882), Platycleis (Squamiana) irritans Ramme, 1951, Pachytrachis gracilis (Brunner, 1861) from Turkey, Eupholidoptera cypria turcica Salman, 1983, Anadrymadusa (s.str) danensis Karabag, 1972 from Syria and Pholidoptera brevipes Ramme, 1939 from Asia are recorded for the first time. The genera and subgenera Rammeola Uvarov, 1934, Montana Zeuner, 1941, Squamiana Zeuner, 1941, Sureyaella Uvarov, 1934, Koroglus nal, 2002, Bolua nal, 1999 and many species are discussed and compared with their close allies. Identification keys for the known species of the genera Iranusa Uvarov, 1942, Hermoniana Broza et al., 2004, Apholidoptera Maran, 1953 and two subgenera of Platycleis (s.l.), Squamiana Zeuner, 1941 and for the Turkish species of Montana Zeuner, 1941 are prepared. In addition 99 original figures are added.
25078926|The species of the genus Phyllovates Kirby from west South America are revised. Six valid species are recognized, and P. gracilicollis n. sp. and P. brevicollis n. sp. are described. P. stolli (Saussure & Zehntner), previously treated as a synonym for P. tripunctata (Burmeister), is returned to species status. A key is provided.
25078927|A globally distributed cricket species, Gryllodes sigillatus (Walker), has recently been treated as a junior synonym of Gryllodes supplicans (Walker) from Sri Lanka. Examination of the male genitalia indicate that G. sigillatus is distinct from the Sri Lankan species. Two species were described from Sri Lanka - G. supplicans, and its junior synonym, G. greeni Chopard. The type of G. supplicans is lost. A syntype male of G. greeni is here designated as the neotype of G. supplicans.
25078932|Two tribes of Mecopodinae (Mecopodini and Sexavaini) are represented in Australia. Both are confined to the tropics. The Mecopodini have been covered recently (see Rentz et al., 2006) and that group comprises a single genus with four species that live in grassy situations, often adjacent to rainforests. The Sexavaini is represented by a single species of Segestidea I. Bolvar, a genus with several species to the north of Australia. Some Segestidea species are well known to cause damage to coconuts. The single species, S. queenslandica, the Queensland Palm Katydid, is apparently facultatively parthenogenetic and is described with notes on its biology and distribution.
25078933|Planthoppers from Malaise traps (22 traps operated continuously over 3 years at 11 sites) were investigated as a component of an ongoing all-taxon biotic inventory of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The Malaise samples contained 2,195 specimens representing 55 species from 7 families. Elevation patterns and seasonality of planthoppers from the Malaise traps are also presented. Based on Malaise trap data, species accumulation curves and 9 estimators of species richness anticipated 57-81 species, a higher number than predicted in our previous study (Bartlett & Bowman 2004), but lower than the cumulative species list, currently including 97 species in 10 families based on 6,860 specimens. None of the data sets based on single sample methods produced estimates of species richness that were greater than the observed diversity from the compiled species list. Species richness estimates between 95-124 were obtained by combining the Malaise trap sample data with Bartlett and Bowman's (2004) sweep sample data and additional data from 2006, although two estimators still remained below the observed richness of 97 species for the Park. Implications of these findings are discussed.
25078934|The new species Platycleis (Montana) helleri Ciplak&Taylan sp.n. (Orthoptera, Tettigoniidae, Tettigoniinae) is described on the basis of morphology and male calling song. The phylogenetic relationships of the new species are evaluated using both song and morphological characters, for which illustrations are provided. The species Platycleis (Montana) medvedevi (Miram) is assumed to be the closest relative of Platycleis (Montana) helleri sp.n. Finally a short remark on distribution of the the subgenus is given.
25078935|The type material of Aganaspis species is studied. Two species groups are described: the A. contracta species group (including A. contracta Lin) and the A. daci apecies group (including A. daci Weld, A. ocellata Lin and A. major Lin); A. pelleranoi (Brthes) and A. nordlanderi Wharton are transfered to another genus. The name Ganaspis pelleranoi is re-established and the new combination Trybliographa nordlanderi is formed.
25078936|Enochrus (Methydrus) barituensis new species and Enochrus (Methydrus) robustus new species are described from the Neotropical Region. They are distinguished from all other known Neotropical Enochrus (Methydrus) by the highly tectiform, anteriorly keel-shaped prosternum. E. barituensis can be distinguished from E. robustus by its smaller size, by the prosternal and mesosternal crest and by the aedeagus morphology. Illustrations of the diagnostical characters are provided. The total number of Argentine species of Enochrus is here increased to 18 (one in the subgenus Hydatothrephis, eight in Hugoscottia and nine in Methydrus).
25078937|A recent (March 2006) field survey of plant-pollinator interactions in North Patagonia, Argentina, revealed the presence of Bombus terrestris as flower visitors to several plant species in a natural environment. This is the first record of this invasive bumblebee in Argentina. The available evidence suggests that B. terrestris entered Argentina from Chile, where it was introduced in 1998, through low-altitude passes across the Andes.
25078938|Data obtained from observations in the laboratory on the morphology and biology of immatures of Dasyhelea necrophila Spinelli & Rodriguez are provided. Eggs and larvae were collected from containers with rain water and organic matter in Gonnet, La Plata, Argentina. The C-shaped eggs were able to resist desiccations of approximately 48 hours. Hydrated eggs developed in 7-10 days and the emerging larvae (instar I) remained immobile during 30 minutes. The first molt took place inside the eggs exposed to drought periods. These eggs started to break when rehydrated and after 24 hours larvae II were born. Larva I showed positive phototropism and due to the fact that the processes of the last segment are still internal, it hardly moved. The pupa did not show any changes when placed under artifical light and remained immobile for short periods at the bottom of the glass tube. The larva in their different instars and the pupa increased mobility with the increase of temperature.
25078939|The follwing report is on a collection of crickets made by the Costa Rican ALAS Project (Arthropods of La Selva). Collections were made along two transects. The first is the La Selva Biological Station, located in Costa Rica, Heredia Province, 10 26' N, 84 01' West, 50-150m elevation. This is a lowland rainforest reserve of approximately 1500ha (McDade et al. 1993). The Station has about 73% of its area under primary tropical rain forest. The second is a montane rain forest: Heredia Province, 16 km SSE of La Virgen, 1016'N 8405'W, 1050 - 1150 m. The scope of the ALAS project is outlined in http://www.ots.duke.edu/en/laselva/ Virtually all crickets were caputured with Malaise traps (Marris House, with black vertical panel and white roof). A program of quantitative sampling was initiated in March, 1993. Sixteen areas were selected on a La Selva station map, stratified by soil type (alluvial vs. residual) and forest type (primary vs. secondary). Malaise traps consisted of open-sided tents with a collecting head in which flying or crawling arthropods were trapped and accumulated. The collecting head was a plastic bottle containing 75% ethanol. Malaise traps were placed in light gaps and potential flyways and maintained from March 1993 to March 1994, for a total of 13 months. At the beginning and the middle of each month, the collecting bottle with accumulated arthropods was removed and replaced with a fresh bottle of ethanol.
25078940|The first two fossil species of Idiocera Dale (Diptera, Limoniidae) are described from Baltic amber (Eocene). Their affinities to recent Idiocera and Gonomyia are discussed.
25078943|Larval morphology of the New World dytiscid genus Anodocheilus Babington is studied. For this purpose, the three larval instars of A. maculatus Babington are described and illustrated for the first time, with particular emphasis on the morphometry and chaetotaxy. First-instar larva of Anodocheilus can be distinguished from those of Liodessus Guignot and Amarodytes Rgimbart (the only other bidessines known as first instars) in its more elongate siphon. All Bidessini genera known as first-instar larvae are characterized by the absence of pore ABc. This pore is consistently present in the remaining hydroporines. Third-instar larva of Anodocheilus has an elongate siphon and a short first urogomphomere. These features link the genus to Uvarus Guignot and Bidessus Sharp. The remaining known Bidessini genera have a short siphon and an elongate first urogomphomere. The presence of two contiguous pores on a very small bulge in the stipes of Anodocheilus larvae reinforces the hypothesis that hydroporines lost the galea secondarily.
25078944|During a 13-year field study in northwestern New Jersey, total May-June rainfall ranged from 6.5 to 10.7 inches (165-272mm). The highest rainfall reduced first generation nymphs of the tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris (Palisot) (Miridae), in alfalfa by 50%. This reduction was likely mechanical (raindrops knocking the mirids off the plants) rather than biotic, because infections by nematodes and a fungus disease were not significantly increased. The rainfall-reduced mirid populations also had less mortality by the introduced parasite Peristenus digoneutis Loan (Braconidae), probably a result of the lower host density (density dependence). Conversely, in low-rainfall years there were more tarnished plant bugs, and parasitism rates were doubled, so the two mortality factors were complimentary.
25078948|Seven new species of the Aleiodes pilosus-group (=Tetrasphaeropyx Ashmead) are described and a key is provided for all known Canadian species in this group, as well as a new species found in North and South Dakota that is similar to one of the new Canadian species. Species described are as follows: A. argyllacearia, A. crassijugosus, A. dakotensis, A. dissiticarina, A. huberi, A. secwepemc, and A. sexmaculativorax. Species previously described and included in this key are A. anatariatus Fortier (2007), A. cartwrightensis Fortier (2007), A. halifaxensis Fortier (2007), and A. provancheri Fortier (2007).
25078949|The mayfly fauna of Washington consists of 109 species in 38 genera among 12 families. Previous and new data (from 22 major collections) are given for all species and include new state records for 45 of the species, and the first published data for 57 species. In addition, 725 new county records involving 38 of the 39 state counties are given for 91 of the species.
25078950|The mayfly fauna of Oregon consists of 142 species in 45 genera among 11 families. Previous data and new data (from 20 major collections) are given for all species and include first published state data for 52 of the species. In addition, 977 new county records involving all 36 Oregon counties are given for 117 of the species.
25078951|The nymphs of two uncommon stonefly species Calileuctra dobryi Shepard & Baumann and Haploperla chilnualna (Ricker) are described and illustrated from correlated and reared specimens collected from California streams from 2004 to 2006. The diagnostic characters of these nymphs of both species affirm the nymphal generic characters for Calileuctra (Leuctridae) and Haploperla (Chloroperlidae) proposed by Stewart & Stark (2002). Absence of Calileuctra dobryi in interrupted and intermittent streams in drought years suggest that it is capable of having extended egg diapause and flexible univoltine to semivoltine life cycles similar to some species of Zealeuctra.
25078952|A new species of Nepalomyia Hollis, 1964, N. nantouensis, is described from Taiwan. Further record of a recently described Taiwanese species, N. horvati Wang and Yang, 2004, is also included. A key is given for the species from Taiwan.
25078953|A new species of Ischiolepta, I. biuncialis sp. nov., is described. A key to the species of the genus from China is presented.
25078954|Two new species of Diostracus from China, D. clavatus and D. longicercus, are described. A key to 21 known species of the genus from China is given.
25078955|The identification of Addyme-Calguia-Coleothrix complex is clarified. One species, Coleothrix longicosta, is described as new to science, Calguia obscuriella (Inoue) is transferred to Coleothrix Ragonot, and Addyme inductalis (Walker) and Calguia defiguralis Walker reported by Inoue and Roesler et al. are listed as misidentifications.
25078956|A new Hercostomus species group, crassivena-group is established. The species of the group are reviewed and keyed. A new species, Hercostomus huaguoensis sp. n., is described.
25078957|Two new Plagiozopelma species are described: P. biseta n. sp. and P. flavidum n. sp. A key to species of the genus from China is given.
25078958|Chilemutilla Cambra and Quintero (Sphaeropthalminae), a new genus of nocturnal Mutillidae is described and illustrated based on the following six new species from northern Chile: C. aielloae n. sp., male; C. aptera n. sp., male; C. atacama n. sp., male; C. gauldi n. sp., male; C. incognita n.sp., female; and C. snellingi n. sp., male. Chilemutilla aptera is the first wingless mutillid male described from South America. In addition, we have prepared the first generic key for nocturnal sphaeropthalmine males from South America.
25078959|A new species, Stilobezzia (Acanthohelea) curvistyla from Argentinean and Chilean Patagonia is described and illustrated, and compared with the similar species S. (A.) nigerrima Ingram and Macfie. The latter species is redescribed, including the first description of the male, and for the first time recorded from Chile.
25078960|Argia yungensis sp. nov., a new species close to Argia difficilis, is described. Both species are illustrated and diagnosed and their distributions mapped. They can be distinguished by the morphology of male tori, cerci and paraproct, and female prothorax. Their distributions are allopatric, with Argia yungensis distributed along the foothill jungle of the Yungas rain forest from NW Argentina to Peru, and A. difficilis from Peru and Brazil to Venezuela across the lowland Amazon forest. Argia extranea forficula Fraser is synonymyzed with A. difficilis, and the latter is redescribed.
25078965|New World members of the genera Toya Distant and Metadelphax Wagner are here revised and the genus Hadropygos n. g. described from South America. Generic limits are discussed, with particular comparison to Syndelphax Fennah. A key to treated genera and species is provided. The type species of Toya, T. attenuata Distant from Sri Lanka, is illustrated and discussed. Among the New World Toya, T. boxi (Muir) and T. venilia (Fennah) are retained in the genus; two species are transferred to Toya from Delphacodes Fieber, Toya idonea (Beamer) new comb. and T. nigra (Crawford) new comb., with Delphacodes axonopi Fennah placed as a new junior synonym of T. nigra. Three new species of New World Toya are described (T. goliai n. sp., T. dietrichi n. sp., and T. recurva n. sp.). Toya iaxartes (Fennah), described from a single specimen from St. Lucia, is here considered nomen dubium as it appears to have been described from a malformed or parasitized specimen. Metadelphax, restored as a genus by Ding (2006), consists of five species: M. propinqua (Fieber) (type species), M. argentinensis new comb., here transferred from Toya, M. pero, here transferred from Syndelphax, M. wetmorei (Muir and Giffard) new comb., here transferred from Delphacodes, plus M. dentata n. sp. Metadelphax bridwelli (Muir), transferred from Toya by Ding (2006), is returned to Toya. Hadropygos n. g., with the single species, H. rhombos n. sp., from the Neotropics bears comparable features to Toya and Metadelphax. Lectotype designations are made for Toya attenuata Distant and Delphax propinqua Fieber. Collectively, 3 genera are treated: Hadropygos n. g., with a single new species, Metadelphax with 5 species (1 new), and Toya with 7 New World species (3 new), excluding T. iaxartes as a nomen dubium.
25078966|A new genus, Alinjarria, Rentz et al. is proposed to accommodate two species, one on each side of the Australian continent in the far north. A species originally described in Hemisaga de Saussure, but considered aberrant, is transferred to the new genus. The other is a new species described from Eucalyptus woodland adjacent to rainforests north of Mareeba, Queensland. The placement of the species in the Listroscelidinae, rather than the Austrosaginae, was indicated by the morphology of the eggs of the two species.
25078967|One new species of Lomachaeta Mickel and 15 new species of Sphaeropthalma Blake are described from Central America and northern South America: L. garm sp. nov. from Colombia, S. alsvid sp. nov. from Costa Rica, Mexico, Honduras and Nicaragua, S. arvak sp. nov. from Mexico and Guatemala, S. chupacabra sp. nov. from Mexico, S. freki sp. nov. from French Guiana, S. geri sp. nov. from Colombia, S. gullinbursti sp. nov. from Mexico, S. gulltopp sp. nov. from Colombia, Trinidad, and Venezuela, S. hati sp. nov. from Mexico and Guatemala, S. hrimfaxi sp. nov. from Costa Rica, S. hugin sp. nov. from Colombia, S. munin sp. nov. from Colombia, S. nosferatu sp. nov. from Venezuela, S. ratatosk sp. nov. from Guatemala, S. skinfaxi sp. nov. from Mexico, and S. skoll sp. nov. from Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and Panama. A preliminary key to the male Sphaeropthalma of this region is provided. Two new species-groups are proposed for Neotropical Sphaeropthalma. A new distribution record is given for L. hyphantria Pitts & Manley. Male genitalia are illustrated for all male species.
25078968|The female postabdomen of three Dolichopodinae species, Ahypophyllus sinensis (Yang), Aphalacrosoma sichuanense (Yang et Saigusa) and Setihercostomus zonalis (Yang, Yang et Li), are reported. It is the first time that the female genitalia of the genera Ahypophyllus, Aphalacrosoma and Setihercostomus are described and illusterated.
25078969|Two new species of Poecilosomella Duda from China are described: Poecilosomella longichaeta sp. n. and P. tridens sp. n.
25078970|The Hercostomus fatuus-group is established. A species Hercostomus dayaoshanensis n. sp. is described as new to science.
25078971|Two new species of Euhybus are described: Eubybus nanlingensis n. sp. and E. xui n. sp. A key to the species from the Oriental Region is given.
25078972|Psilephydra Hendel is recorded from continental China for the first time. Two new species, Psilephydra guangxiensis sp. nov. and P. sichuanensis sp. nov., are described.
25078973|Two species of Condylostylus, C. yunnanensis n. sp. and C. xizangensis n. sp., are described as new to science.
25078974|We present new records of Tibicen chloromera (Walker) in Connecticut. Monitoring population size differences by song suggests that several population densities are common in Tibicen chloromera: (1) sizable calling populations (2) small populations numbering no more than 5 calling individuals (3) single calling individuals that often do not remain in the same location for more than a few days. We discuss the distribution of this species in the state and the implications of differing densities.
25078975|A nomenclatural and bibliographic catalog of the genus-group names of aphids (Hemiptera: Aphidoidea) from the New World is presented. The catalog includes 206 available genus-group names with type species with New World localities, full bibliographic citations, and other associated nomenclatural and taxonomic information. Two nomenclatural discrepancies are resolved: Siphonophora acerifoliae Thomas is designated the type species of Phymatosiphum Davis, and Strenaphis Quednau nomen novum is proposed as a replacement name for the homonymic Stenaphis Quednau.
25078976|This study on the Harpalinae (Coleoptera: Carabidae) species collected from different altitudes and climatic conditions and from localties of different vegetation was conducted between 2004 and 2005 in Kahramanmaras, towns and villages belonging to Kahramanmaras, and sometimes in the interiors of the bordering cities which have got suitable habitat for the species, and at the borders of the nearby cities (Malatya, Gaziantep, Sivas, Adiyaman, Adana, Kayseri, Osmaniye), which cannot be completely separated from Kahramanmaras by rivers and mountains. In the researches 38 species and subspecies belonging to subfamily Harpalinae were examined. The measurements of these samples, an identification key of genus and the species, the localities, coordinates, and altitudes where each species was collected, their distribution in Turkey and chorotypes were also given.
25078977|The flea beetle Systena silvestrii Bechyn 1957 was studied in context with the evaluation of natural enemies of the alligator weed, Alternanthera philoxeroides (Martius) Grisebach (Amaranthaceae). The female is described and the holotype male is redescribed adding new diagnostic characters: mouthparts, hind wings, metendosternite, male and female genitalia. Differences in color patterns between S. silvestrii, S. marcapatensis Bechyn, S. scurra scurra Scherer and S. scurra ajonjoli Bechyn & Bechyn are considered. This flea beetle was collected mostly on alligator weed but also on Phyla canescens (Vebenaceae), in Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Brazil. Therefore, further evaluation is strongly recommended prior to its consideration for biocontrol of A. philoxeroides.
25078979|Observations on a mating swarm of Acropyga arnoldi are reported for the first time. Aspects of the trophophoretic nature of the queens are discussed. The mealybugs carried by the queens were all females. For specimens examined further, each mealybug was found to possess a single, very large egg, an unusual observation for mealybugs.
25078980|A new nemobiine cricket from Anak Krakatau in the Sunda Strait (Pteronemobius krakatau n. sp.) and a new grylline from Clarion Island in the eastern Pacific (Gryllus alexanderi n. sp.) are illustrated and described.
25078981|Ommatius tractus, n. sp., from Santo Amaro, Brazil, is described, illustrated, and diagnosed. A modified key is presented to aid in its identification. Ommatius spatulatus Curran is placed in the species group and is reported from Argentina for the first time. Ommatius riali Vieira, Castro & Bravo is established as a New Synonym of O. spatulatus Curran. A check list of the costatus species group is also included.
25078982|Pygommatius gruwelli, n. sp., from Cameroun is described, illustrated, and compared with congeners. The illustrated wing of P. brevicornis (Curran) is included for comparison. The Afrotropical key is modified to include the new species.
25078986|The species currently included in Telagrion Selys are found to belong to three different genera: Telagrion sensu stricto, monotypic, including only the type species T. longum Selys, Schistolobos gen. nov., also monotypic, including Telagrion boliviense Daigle, and Aceratobasis Kennedy, resurrected to include Metaleptobasis cornicauda Calvert (type species), Agrion macilentum Rambur, Telagrion mourei Santos and T. nathaliae Lencioni. Synonymic lists, diagnoses, illustrations and distribution maps for the three genera and a key for species of Aceratobasis are provided. /// Se halla que las especies includas actualmente en Telagrion Selys pertenecen a tres gneros distintos; Telagrion sensu stricto, monotpico, incluyendo solo la especie tipo T. longum Selys, Schistolobos gen. nov., tambin monotpico, incluyendo a Telagrion boliviense Daigle, y Aceratobasis Kennedy, revivido para incluir a Metaleptobasis cornicauda Calvert (especie tipo), Agrion macilentum Rambur, Telagrion mourei Santos y T. nathaliae Lencioni. Se proporcionan listas sinonmicas, diagnosis, ilustraciones y mapas de distribucin para estos tres gneros y una clave para las especies de Aceratobasis.
25078987|Atychodea Reitter is re-described, and descriptions of the eight species included are given. Three of these were known and have been included in this genus earlier, two, from other genera, newly included in Atychodea, and three are new (A. portentosa sp. n. from Myanmar, and A. fedorenkoi sp. n. and A. vicina sp. n. from southern Vietnam). One species, A. lenticornis Reitter, is excluded from this genus and a new monotypic genus Amorphodea gen. n. is described to include this species. A key to the species of Atychodea is given. On the basis of a large set of morphological data, the relationships of all genera of the Tychini are considered, and Hesperotychus Schuster and Marsh and Tychomorphus Jeannel are synonymized with the genus Tychus Leach. A key to genera of Tychini is given. A complete catalogue of the tribe, with 20 new combinations and 12 revised combinations, with data on species distribution, is also provided.
25078988|The following nine new species of Pseudomethoca are described and illustrated: P. hansoni n. sp., P. roubiki n. sp. and P. ugaldei n. sp. from Costa Rica and Panama; P. bicarinata n. sp. and P. masneri n. sp. from El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and Costa Rica; P. sermenoi n. sp. from El Salvador, Nicaragua and Costa Rica; P. bimaculata n. sp. from Panama and Ecuador; P. cartaginense n. sp. from Costa Rica; and Pseudomethoca jica n. sp. from Panama. New distribution records are presented for: Pseudomethoca expansa (Andr, 1906), Costa Rica and Panama, previously known from Guatemala, and Pseudomethoca tetraspilota (Gerstaecker, 1874), New Combination from Mutilla, Panama, previously known from the type specimen from Colombia. Pseudomethoca cleonica (Cameron, 1894), from Mexico, is an additional New Combination from Sphaerophthalma. We have prepared two identification keys for the females of 20 species of Pseudomethoca, including the nine new species.
25078989|The following species are recorded by first time in Mexico: Lepidiella albipeda (Rapp, 1945b), L. matagalpensis (Collantes and Martnez-Ortega, 1998), Australopericoma caudata (Satchell, 1955), Balbagathis sylvatica Quate, 1994, Paramormia furcata (Kincaid, 1899), Psychoda cinerea Banks, 1894, P. lativentris Berdn, 1952, P. savaiiensis Edwards, 1928, and P. tothastica Quate, 1955. Aditionally, some state records of Clogmia albipunctata (Williston, 1893), Psychoda alternata Say, 1824, and P. alternicula Quate, 1955, are provided. The female of Lepidiella albipeda (Rapp), the male of Balbagathis sylvatica Quate, 1994, and the male and female of one previously unknown species of the genus Psychoda Latreille, 1796, are described and illustrated by first time. Additionally, Telmatoscopus sobrinus Quate, 1955 and Duckhousiella corniculata Vaillant, 1973 of North America are transferred to the genus Paramormia Enderlein.
25078990|The Ephemeroptera fauna of Nicaragua is inventoried based on the study of recent collections and includes eight families, 28 genera, and 56 species. Forty-seven species are reported from Nicaragua for the first time. Genera found in Nicaragua for the first time include Allenhyphes Hofmann and Sartori, Baetodes Needham and Murphy, Camelobaetidius Demoulin, Choroterpes Eaton, Epiphrades Wiersema and McCafferty, Fallceon Waltz and McCafferty, Farrodes Peters, Guajirolus Flowers, Hagenulopsis Ulmer, Haplohyphes Allen, Lachlania Hagen, Leptohyphes Eaton, Maccaffertium Bednarik, Paracloeodes Day, Terpides Demoulin, Thraulodes Ulmer, Traverella Edmunds, Tricoryhyphes Allen and Murvosh, Ulmeritoides Traver, and Vacupernius Wiersema and McCafferty. Americabaetis alphus Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, Baetodes bibranchius McCafferty and Provonsha, Campsurus notatus Needham and Murphy, Fallceon planifrons (Kluge), Farrodes pakitza Domnguez, Molineri and Peters, F. savagei Domnguez, Traverella albertana (McDunnough), Tricoryhyphes condylus (Allen), and the genus Tricoryhyphes are reported from Central America for the first time.
25078991|The faunal inventory of the Great Plains state of South Dakota includes 15 families, 40 genera, and 77 species of Ephemeroptera, including the first published state records for 37 species, and 187 new county records for 64 of the species. The mayfly fauna of South Dakota includes transcontinental species, widespread species, many species that typify the central lowlands of North America, and some 18 species that find their eastern range limits in South Dakota, five species that find their northern range limits in South Dakota, and 16 species that find their western range limits in South Dakota and often additional states directly north or south of South Dakota.
25078992|The nymphs of three nemourid stonefly species, Malenka bifurcata (Claassen), Ostrocerca dimicki (Frison) and Soyedina producta (Claassen), are described and illustrated from field correlated and reared specimens collected from Oregon summer-dry headwater streams from 1992-2007. Their characters affirm the nymphal diagnostic generic characters proposed by Stewart & Stark (2002). Variation in specific characters from the few described congeners is discussed; these traits may be useful in eventual construction of species-level keys.
25078993|The generic classification of Ephemerellidae Klaplek (Ephemeroptera) is reviewed and revised. Taxonomic status quo is maintained for the subfamily Timpanoginae Allen, except that Melanameleus Tiensuu (Ameletidae McCafferty) is not synonymous with Eurylophella Tiensuu. Data from the external morphology of eggs, larvae and adults of Ephemerellinae, s.s., species are coded into a data matrix and analyzed via the parsimony criterion of PAUP* to construct phylogenetic trees. A higher classification of Ephemerellinae is proposed based on the naming of groups from these trees. Two tribes are recognized and redefined: Ephemerellini, s.s., and Hyrtanellini Allen. Ephemerellini contains eleven genera: Drunella Needham [= Eatonella Needham, new synonym; = Myllonella Allen, new synonym; = Tribrochella Allen, new synonym; = Unirhachella Allen, new synonym], Caurinella Allen, Ephemerella Walsh, Matriella, new genus, Tsalia, new genus, Caudatella Edmunds, Notacanthella, new genus, Spinorea, new genus, Adoranexa, new genus, Ephacerella Paclt and Cincticostella Allen [= Rhionella Allen, new synonym]. The genus Notacanthella contains two subgenera: Notacanthella, s.s., and Samiocca, new subgenus. The genus Ephemerella contains six subgenera: Zonadia, new subgenus, Hosoba, new subgenus, Draeconia, new subgenus, Scholitza, new subgenus, Vittapallia, new subgenus, and Ephemerella, s.s. [= Chitonophora Bengtsson]. Hyrtanellini contains six genera: Penelomax, new genus, Teloganopsis Ulmer [= Amurella Kluge, new synonym; = Kangella Sartori, new synonym; = Uracanthella Belov, new synonym], Serratella Edmunds, Quatica, new genus, Hyrtanella Allen and Edmunds and Torleya Lestage [= Crinitella Allen and Edmunds, new synonym]. Four replacement names are established for species: Drunella fuso, new name [=Ephemerella fusongensis Su and Gui nec Ephemerella fusongensis Su and You], Serratella occiprens, new name [= Ephemerella imanishii Gose nec Ephemerella imanishii Allen], Serratella tsuno, new name [= Ephemerella cornuta Gose nec Ephemerella cornuta Morgan] and Cincticostella braaschi, new name [= Ephemerella serrata Braasch nec Ephemerella serrata Morgan]. New generic combinations are given for 41 species. Generic identification keys are provided for egg, larva and male adult stages of Ephemerellidae.
25548095|Since the publication of the Catalog of the Aphid Genera Described from the New World (Favret et al. 2008), several errors and omissions have come to light. We here make corrections to seven genus-group names and add 17 valid and nine invalid generic names, raising the total number of available New World genus-group names to 232. Future nomenclatural additions and corrections, at any aphid taxonomic level, will be published in the Aphid Species File database (http://aphid.speciesfile.org).
25548096|An extensive review of published record data, and the amassing of new collection data from the study of numerous collections and surveys has led to the accounting of 182 species of Ephemeroptera from the state of South Carolina. Previous listings are corrected, and all species are supported by previously available or, for the most part, new collection data. Twenty-two species are listed for the state for the first time, and supporting data are provided for the first time for another 39 species. Three species previously listed for South Carolina are discounted. Over 1000 new county records are given for 160 of the species and all 46 state counties.
25548097|The mayfly fauna of California consists of 155 species in 44 genera among 15 families. Previous data and new data (from 23 major collections) are given for all species and include first published state data for 53 of the species. In addition, 1,720 new county records involving all 58 California counties are given for 140 of the species. Less than 10 percent of the species appear endemic to California.
25548098|Stream sampling on the island of Martha's Vineyard and in southeastern mainland Massachusetts produced 154 species, when added to other records, 157 species have been documented, including 47 new state records. Unaltered streams on Martha's Vineyard are cold water streams with temperatures similar to streams at higher elevations in New England. Extended seasonal larval presence of several species was noted on Martha's Vineyard.
25548099|The family Roeslerstammiidae is recorded from Mailand China for the first time, including one new record genus, Agriothera Meyrick, 1907, and two new record species, Agriothera doipakiae Moriuti, 1987 and Agriothera issikii Moriuti, 1978. The wing venations of these species are illustrated for the first time. A key to the species of this family from Mailand China is also presented.
25548100|Two new Asilidae species, Psilonyx flavicoxa sp. n. and P. dorsiniger sp. n. are described from China. A key to the Chinese Psilonyx is given in the present paper.
25548101|A new procedure for clearing eggs belonging to genera of Ceratopogonidae is described. In the new procedure eggs in different states, with different ultra structures of the exochorion, were immersed in 10% glycolic acid (CH2OH-COOH) and 20% mandellic acid (C6H5.CHOH.COOH) for 1-4 minutes. Eggs, prepared by both acids and subsequently neutralized by distilled water, were placed in a saturated solution of phenol, and then passed through a battery of alcohol solutions. Finally, critical point was performed and gold metallized. After preparation the eggs of this group retained their natural form under vacuum long enough to yield good microphotographs of the outer layer of the chorion.
25548105|The North American genus Gnathium of the meloid subfamily Nemognathinae is reviewed. Adults appear to be confined to inflorescences of Asteraceae. The genus includes 11 species primarily distributed in western and southern United States and northern Mexico. Included is a discussion of the taxonomic status of the genus, a review of known biology, a key to species, and descriptions. Species treatments include host data, and details on seasonal and geographic distribution, and intraspecific variation. Two new species are described and three nominal species are placed in synonymy.
25548106|The species of the genus Ochrotrichia Mosely present in Mexico and Central America are reviewved. The genus includes 84 previously known species and six new species here described. Illustrations of the male genitalia and a key are provided for all species. The new species described are: Ochrotrichia gretae new species from Mexico, O. spinulosa new species from Mexico, O. yetla new species from Mexico, O. angularis new species from Mexico, O. canicula new species from Mexico, and O. nicaragua new species from Nicaragua.
25548107|This is only the second report of the life history, and first on ontogenic nymphal development, for any of the 22 western species of North American Sweltsa. Concurrent monthly collections of nymphs, with bi-weekly collections of adults from emergence traps, from an intermittent Oregon stream over 10 years yielded an interesting assemblage of stoneflies, including Sweltsa adamantea with no congeners. Adults were taken from emergence traps from 2001 to 2007, and the head-capsule widths of 1,159 nymphs from 1999 to 2007 collections were individually measured. Counts of antennal and cercal segments, windpad presence and backward projecting length, presence of dark, thoracic sternocoxal hairs (a diagnostic character in late instar Sweltsa), diameter of compound eyes, general presence and length of body hairs, and sexual dimorphism were determined for 68 nymphs representing an array of 0.27 to 1.86mm head capsule widths from 2004 to 2007 collections. Eggs were studied and photographed with SEM. The life cycle was semivoltine; adult emergence was from late March to late July, with a peak from May 1 to June 15. The recruitment of a new cohort of nymphs before early emergence indicated an egg diapause for at least much of the first year. Growth of nymphs was slow through the warm, dry summer, accelerated in fall beginning about September, and rapid from December until emergence. Smallest field-sampled nymphs (0.27 to 0.50mm head capsule width) had 16-18 antennal segments, 5-6 cercal segments, 0.03mm diameter compound eyes, and no wingpads, dark sternocoxal hairs or sexual dimorphism. Progressive development of all these and other noted setal characters occurred until pre-emergent size. Antennal and cercal segments more than doubled in number, and wingpads, dark sternocoxal hairs and sexual dimorphism became discernible at specific hcw sizes. Eggs were oval, measured 234340m, had no collar, and had a finely punctuate chorion. Numerous nymphs of medium size range 0.51 to 1.08mm hcw had parts of chironomid larvae protruding from their mouthparts indicating that they were important predators.
25548108|The species of the genus Sphaerocera Latreille, 1804 from China are reviewed. Two species are described, keyed, and illustrated. Among them, Sphaerocera pseudomonilis hallux Rohcek et Florn, 1987 is newly recorded from China and compared with the other two subspecies S. pseudomonilis pseudomonilis Nishijima et Yamazaki, 1984 and S. pseudomonilis asiatica Papp, 1988. The geographic distribution is updated and discussed.
25548109|Two new species of Hercostomus, H. sanjiangyuanus and H. yinshanus, are described from Oriental China. Their relationships with the close species are discussed.
25548110|Two new species, Hybos bilobatus sp. nov. and H. constrictus sp. nov., are described from Oriental China. Their relationships with the related species are discussed.
25548111|A distinct new species of Rhopalopsole, R. fengyangshanensis, in the family Leuctridae is described. Its diagnostic characteristics are discussed with the closely related congener R. sinensis.
25548112|Two new species of Lichtwardtia, L. dentalis and L. taiwanensis, are described. A key to Chinese Lichtwardtia is erected.
25548113|The species of the genus Cavatorella Deonier from China are reviewed. A new species, Cavatorella jinpingensis n. sp., is described. A key to the world species of the genus is presented.
40587743|The click beetle genus Limonius is revised for North America and forty-seven species are recognized: L. aeger LeConte, L. aurifer LeConte, L. auripilis (Say), L. basilaris (Say), L. beutenmuelleri Van Dyke, L. bicolor Van Dyke, L. californicus (Mannerheim), L. canus LeConte, L. clypeatus Motschulsky, L. confusus LeConte, L. consimilis Walker, L. cribriceps Van Dyke, L. crotchii Horn, L. definitus Ziegler, L. ectypus (Say), L. flavornarginatus Knull, L. fulvipilis Candeze, L. griseus (Beauvois), L. huguenini Van Dyke, L. humidus Lane, L. jonesi Lane, L. lanchesteri Lane, L. lanei Van Dyke, L. meridianus Knull, L. mirus LeConte, L. nebulosus Van Dyke, L. nimbatus (Say), L. nitidulus Horn, L. olentangyi Knull, L. ornatulus LeConte, L. pappi Becker, L. pectoralis LeConte, L. pictus Van Dyke, L. plebejus (Say), L. quercinus (Say), L. rectangularis Fall, L. sinuifrons Fall, L. stigma (Herbst), L. subauratus LeConte, L. ursinus Van Dyke, L. venablesi Wickham, two new species are described, L. kondratieffi n.sp., L. norahae n.sp., and nine new synonyms are recognized. Limonius insperatus Brown is designated as a synonym of L. aeger LeConte, L. dubitans LeConte is designated as a synonym of L. agonus (Say), L. shircki Lane and L. snakensis Lane are designated as synonyms of L. crotchii Horn, L. infuscatus Motschulsky is designated as a synonym of L. ectypus (Say), L. seminudus Van Dyke is designated as a synonym of L. fulvipilis Candeze, L. maculicollis Motschulsky is designated as a synonym of L. ornatulus LeConte, L. arizonicus Van Dyke is designated as a synonym of L. sinuifrons Fall, L. anceps LeConte is designated as a synonym of Limonius subauratus LeConte, and L. agonus (Say) is recognized as a valid species. Neotypes were designated for L. agonus and L. ectypus. Limonius debilis Dejean is considered a Nomen dubium.
40587744|A total of 143 new USA state and Canadian province records of mayfly species are given based on initial published data. One hundred species and 34 states and provinces are represented in the new data. The most cited species (with four or more new state and provincial records each) include Acentrella nadineae, Iswaeon anoka, Leucrocuta maculipennis , Paracloeodes minutus, Procloeon viridoculare , and Pseudocentroptiloides usa. The most cited regions (with five or more new species records each) include Georgia, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, Montana, North Carolina, Ohio, and Vermont. While the first record of Spinadis simplex is given for Arkansas, the former incorrect Arkansas record for the latter is shown to be attributable to Raptoheptagenia cruentata.
40587745|A new species, Anabasis prompta is described from South China. One related genus and species, Pseudanabasis incanimaculata gen. and sp. nov., is described from Xizang, China.
40587746|Bazaria Ragonot and its type species, B. turensis Ragonot, are reported for the first time from China. One species, B. dulanensis sp. n. is described as new to Science. A key to Chinese species of Bazaria is provided and the geographic distribution is discussed here.
40587747|Two new species, O. flavimaculata sp. nov. and O. liui sp. nov., are described from Palaearctic China.
40587748|The subfamily Siloscinae Gozmny, 1968 and the genus Autochthonus Walsingham, 1891 are recorded from Guangdong Province, China. Autochthonus singulus sp. nov. is described and illustrated. This is the first record of the genus and the subfamily outside the Ethiopian Region.
40587754|Miss Mattie Wadsworth, an amateur entomologist from rural Maine, stands out as one of the early women authors in Entomological News. Wadsworth's correspondence with Philip P. Calvert, prominent and longtime member of the American Entomological Society, shows Cal vert's important role in cultivating her entomological interests. Celithemis martha (Odonata: Libellulidae) was named in honor of Wadsworth by E. B. Williamson.
40587757|The diversity of stenocranine planthoppers and their reported host plants is reviewed and discussed with particular reference to the New World fauna. A new species of Obtusicranus and two new genera (Frameus n. g. with 5 new species, Tanycranus n. g. with 1 new species) are described and illustrated. These taxa are the first stenocranine planthoppers known from Mexico and South America. Members of Frameus and Tanycranus are remarkable for having a greatly elongated head. A key to New World genera of stenocranine planthoppers and keys to species for the genera Obtusicranus and Frameus are provided. Stenocranus maculipes (Berg) described from Argentina is not a stenocranine, but is in the Delphacini and is here referred to incertae sedis. Stenocranus luteivitta (Walker) is not a Stenocranus, and is here referred to Delphacodes. The specimen reported by Hamilton (2006) from Illinois as the Asian genus Terauchiana is here found to be Kelisicranus arundiniphagus.
40785275|Despite a proliferation of regional faunistic treatments throughout North America in recent years, knowledge of the Odonata fauna of Missouri has lagged behind that of other midwestern states. Samples of larval Odonata were collected from 105 ponds in the Prairie Region of Missouri over three sampling periods: Fall 1998, Spring 1999, and Summer 1999. Some ponds were sampled during more than one sampling period, resulting in a total of 117 unique pond and sampling period combinations. Sites were selected from Missouri Department of Conservation owned lands and the University of Missouri owned Baskett Wildlife Area.Within each pond, sampling was conducted separately in each distinct vegetational mesohabitat. Supplemental rearing of difficult or uncommon taxa was carried out in in the laboratory. More than 30,000 specimens, representing 51 species, 22 genera, and 6 families of larval Odonata were collected from ponds in the Prairie Region of Missouri. Overall, the ponds of the Prairie Region supported a generalized Odonata community, with a relatively small number of species being found in a large number of ponds. Presented here is a faunistic inventory of the larval Odonata of ponds in the Prairie Region of Missouri, with mesohabitat associations and a taxonomie key to suborders, families, genera, and species known or expected to occur there.
40785276|The 224 types of species of Tenebrionidae and Perimylopidae (Coleoptera) housed in the collection of the Entomology Department of Museo de La Plata up until December 2008 were examined and listed; 96 names are recorded, 39 of them (41 percent) are represented by name bearing types (" primary" types). These 224 types belong to 85 species and 9 subespecies of Tenebrionidae assigned to the following subfamilies: Diaperinae (3 species, 3 types), Lagriinae (4 species, 9 types), Pimeliinae (53 species, 1 subspecies, 128 types), Stenochiinae (7 species, 10 types) and Tenebrioninae (18 species, 8 subspecies, 72 types), and 2 types belonging to 2 species of Perimylopidae. Species and subespcies herein treated were described by Berg (23), Burmeister (1), Bruch (1), Fairmaire (8), Flores & Carrara (1), Flores & Roig-Juent (1), Flores & Vidal (2), Freude (2), Kulzer (27), Molinari (7), Mller (2), Pea (14), Pea & Barra (2), Pie (3), Steinheil (1) and Viana (1).Complete information is given for each type, including reference to original description, and label data. Two lists were added in order to support future research: one for specimens labelled as types but not found in the bibliography and seemingly not published and another for specimens labelled as types but not included in the original series.
40785277|A rich and interesting material collected from Turkey and the neighbouring countries including the Middle East has been evaluated. The material consists of the historical and unidentified specimens mainly in the Naturhistorisches Musem Wien, the Natural History Museum London and the specimens recently collected and preserved in the Abant Izzet Baysal niversitesi Entomoloji Mzesi. Eight genera and 106 species and subspecies are listed The Isophya species are included into 7, the Poecilimon species are included into 16 species groups. The relationships of the species and the species groups are proposed as phylogenetic trees in writing format. Three distinct clades of the species groups of Poecilimon are separated and discussed their taxonomie positions. The genus Poecilimonella Uvarov, 1921 is included to the genus Poecilimon Fischer, 1853 and the species Poecilimon richten Ramme, 1933 is synonymized with Poecilimon similis Retowski, 1899. Twelve new species and subspecies, Isophya hitit, I. sureyai amazonae, I. artvin, Poecilimon inopinatus, P. ferwillemsei, P. solus, P. obtusicercus kasnak, P. iucundus aequocercus, P.longicercus, P. similis proximus, P. diversus, P. Istanbul, are described. The females of 3 taxa, Poecilimon obtusicercus obtusicercus Heller et al., Poecilimon xenocercus Karabag and Poecilimon concinnus runner are described for the first time. Poecilimon concinnus Brunner, 1878 has been rediscovered since its description. The following 12 taxa are proposed in subspecies level: Isophya sureyai sureyai Ramme, I. stenocauda stenocauda Ramme, I. stenocauda obenbergeri Maran, I. anatolica anatolica Ramme, I.anatolica pentheri Ramme; Poecilimon obtusicercus obtusicercus Heller et al., P. adentatus adentatus Ramme, P. adentatus uvarovi Ramme, P. celebi celebi Karabag, P. celebi azdavayi nal, P. celebi tevfikarabagi nal and P. iucundus iucundus nal. The lectotypes for 8 species, Isophya amplipennis Brunner, I. savignyi Brunner, I. major Brunner, I. rectipennis Brunner, Poecilimon pergamicus Brunner, P. hamatus Brunner, P. unispinosus Brunner, P. zonatus I. Bolivar, are designated. Poecilimon cognatus (Fieber, 1853) is proposed as nomen novum. The determined congeneric partners of the species and subspecies are given. Five speciation stages which determine the taxonomie position for the taxa of Isophya and Poecilimon are designated. In addition 147 figures and a distributional map for the new taxa are provided.
40785278|Anew species of flat-headed mayflies (Heptageniidae) is described as Maccaffertum wudigeum McCafferty and Lenat, n. sp. The species is based on larvae taken from western North Carolina. It is morphologically most similar to some M. mediopunctatum (McDunnough) larvae, but does not possess any of the distinguishing markings associated with the latter and also differs from it in habitat.
40785279|One new species of the planthopper genus Epora Walker (Hemiptera: Fulgoromorpha: Tropiduchidae), E.bilemisca sp. nov. (southern China: Hainan) is described and illustrated. A key to the known species of the genus from China is also provided. The types are deposited in the Entomological Museum, Northwest A & F University, Yangling, Shaanxi Province, China (NWAFU).
40785280|The genus Martintella Artigas, 1996, is recorded from the islands of Tobago and Trinidad for the first time. M. elliptica sp. nov from Tobago and Trinidad is described and illustrated. M. elliptica is compared to M. lestes (Williston).
41000117|Species of the nivea group (genus Ditrichophora Cresson) are revised. The group now includes four species of which one, D. gulkana (Alaska and Mongolia), is newly described. The group is now known to have a Holarctic distribution with two species, D. gulkana and D. nivea, being the first reported from the Nearctic Region. Another Asian species, D. brunnicosa, previously placed in Diclasiopa, is transferred to this group (genus Ditrichophora) and is also reported from Mongolia. To facilitate identification of these rare species, we have included diagnoses of the tribe, genus, and species group and have also provided an annotated key to Holarctic genera of the tribe Discocerinini and to species of the nivea group within Ditrichophora. We also provide the first illustrations of male terminalia for all included species.
41000118|A new species of flat-headed mayflies (Heptageniidae) is described as Maccajfertium appaloosa, n. sp. The species is based on larvae taken from Tennessee, U.S.A. It is both morphologically and markedly unique within the genus, and is most conspicuous with respect to spotting on the abdominal sterna.
41000119|An annotated checklist consisting of 300 species is provided for the mayfly fauna of the southeastern United States [Alabama (139 spp.), Arkansas (118 spp.), Florida (77 spp.), Georgia (155 spp.), Kentucky (135 spp.), Louisiana (61 spp.), Mississippi (59 spp.), North Carolina (207 spp.), South Carolina (185 spp.), Tennessee (167 spp.), Virginia (170 spp.), West Virginia (119 spp.)]. The list is based on previously published and newly published collection data. Some 107 supported state records in the region are also provided based on 92 of the species. The Southeast is the richest region in North America in terms of mayfly biodiversity, but the states of Louisiana and Mississippi remain poorly known.
41000120|Megachile is one of the largest genus of the family Megachilidae widely distributed in temperate and tropical areas of the world. Megachile (Pseudocentron) gomphrenoides was described by Vachal (1908) based on three female collected in Buenos Aires. Recently in a work about nest building of bees, we obtained females and males of this species in trap-nest. In this paper, the original description of the female is enlarged and the first description of the male is provided. Additionally, floral host and new record geographical are presented.
41000121|Two new species, Eudorylas dicranus sp. nov. and E. atrigonius sp. nov., are described from Palaearctic China.
41000122|The genus Dinica Gozmny, 1965 is recorded from Sabah, Malaysia. Dinica robinsoni sp. nov. is described and illustrated, as the first record of this genus from Malaysia. The new species is very similar in appearance to Dinica ruiliensis Li et Xiao, 2007, from China and Thailand, but it can be distinguished easily from the latter by the caudo-lateral lobe of the tegumen being knife-shaped, the shipshaped subscaphium, and the broad, short, pot-shaped saccus.
41000123|Two new species, Hybos guanmenshanus sp. nov. and H. latus sp. nov., are described from Hubei, China. Their relationships with the related species are discussed.
41000124|A new species, Oreogeton flavicoxa sp. nov., is described from Oriental China. A key to Palaearctic and Oriental species of the genus is presented.
41000125|Two new species, P. brevis sp. nov. and P. didymus sp. nov., of Platypalpus are described from Oriental China. These two new species belong to the longicornis species group.
41000126|Four species of the genus Ophthalmothrips Hood are recorded from Mainland China, including the descriptions of one new species. O. yunnanensis sp. nov. (Yunnan). Illustrations of the new species and a key to all species of genus Ophthalmothrips from Mainland China are provided, along with a checklist of the known species of the genus.
41000127|Three new species of Philonthus furvus species group with orange elytra are described: P. rufotibialis sp. nov. from Chiapas (Mexico) and San Marcos (Guatemala); P. pollens sp. nov. from Morelos (Mexico) and P. navarretei sp. nov. from Oaxaca (Mexico). Diagnostic features, new state and locality records for P. hoegei, P. testaceipennis and P. yaqui are included. Also, a key to identify the six species recorded from Mexico and the species shared with Guatemala is presented, with some schemes of the most important structures.
41000128|The genus Nanotopsis Schuster is revised. The two species currently included in the genus, Nanotopsis isolatrix Schuster, male, and N. malincha (Casal), female, are redescribed, and four new species are described: Nanotopsis delsinnei, male and female, from Paraguay and Argentina; N. leleji, male, from Argentina; N. paglianoi, male, from Guatemala; and N. panamae, male and female, from Panama. Additional records for N. isolatrix and N. malincha are given. Body and genitalia of males are illustrated for the first time. A key is provided for the six species of the genus Nanotopsis, species that have disjunct distributions in America: Guatemala, Panama, Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina.
41000129|The genus Cardiodactylus Saussure, 1878 with one new species, Cardiodactylus hainanensis, sp. nov., is reported here from Hainan Island of China for the first time. This new genus record extends the range of Cardiodactylus westward from Taiwan Island, China. The new species can be distinguished from others mainly by its longer and higher dorsal ridge in the apical part of the pseudepiphallic, in lateral view, as well as the rectangle-shaped basal part of the ridge.
41000130|A chance find of a dead mole cricket is proved to be a new species. Gryllotalpa choui, sp. nov., from Yunnan, China. This species, described in the present paper, can be distinguished from all other mole crickets mainly by short abdomen (pronotum longer than half length of abdomen), tegmen nearly round when flattened, large proportional size proportion of the harp, c1 and c2, very short apical field as well as longitudinal veins in this field, vestigial hind wings and a foot-shaped ectophallus.
41000131|The genus Semelaspidus MacGillivray, 1921 is reviewed, and one new species, Semelaspidus multiporus sp. nov., from China, is described. In addition, photographs and illustrations of the new species, and a key to all species of the genus are provided.
41495849|New regional distribution records and range extensions involving one Canadian province, 17 Mexican states, 10 USA states, and five Central American countries are given for 53 species of Ephemeroptera. In Mexico, states with the greatest number of new species records include Queretaro, Mexico, Nueva Leon and Tamaulipas. For the USA, states with the greatest number of new species records include Oklahoma, Wisconsin, Kentucky and Texas. Farrodes flavipennis, Lachlania fusca and Leptohyphes peterseni records are the first for Mexico and North America, and the presence of Tricoryhyphes mulaiki in Texas represents a new USA record. New Central American country records include Americabaetis pleturus in El Salvador, Camelobaetidius arriaga and Thraulodes zonalis in Guatemala, Euthyplocia hecuba in Honduras, and Thraulodes pacaya in Costa Rica. Highly disjunct northern range extensions discovered for Tricorythodes robacki and T. albilineatus in the St. Croix River on the Minnesota/Wisconsin border parallel a pattern seen in some other psammophilous mayflies in eastern North America. Far eastern Oklahoma records oi Acentrella nadineae, Caenis macafferti, and Eurylophella prudentalis demonstrate a common relationship between the Central Highlands and the Southern Appalachians.
41495850|A newly discovered larva of Baetidae (Insecta, Ephemeroptera) is described from Nunavut, Canada as Kirmaushenkreena zarankoae, n. gen. and n. sp. The new taxon has a unique combination of generic characteristics, including unusual claw armature that is diagnostic. Closest relatives of the new genus may possibly be in the Indobaetis complex of genera. The absence of a villopore sets the new species apart from other far northern North American baetine species, and other differences and convergent similarities such as claw setation and gill dimensions among that fauna are discussed.
41495851|Twelve new species of Psyllipsocus are described from the United States, Mexico, and Guatemala. Augmentations of existing descriptions are included for P. hyalinus Garcia Aldrete, P. maculatus Garcia Aldrete, P. oculatus Gurney, P. ramburii Selys-Longchamps, and P. yucatan Gurney. A key to the 24 known species of the area, including the Greater Antilles (Cuba) is presented. Relationships within the genus are discussed briefly
41495852|Calathus libanensis deuvei ssp. n. is described from southern Turkey. A list of the species of Calathus Bonelli, 1810 collected from Amanos mountains is then presented. New localities are given for some species of Calathus Bonelli, 1810 with a descriptive key and taxonomic reviews. This taxonomic review is based on the description of the male genitalia.
41495853|The genus Epactris Meyrick, 1905 is recorded from China. E. capulus sp. nov. is described and illustrated, as the first record of this genus from China. The new species is very similar in appearance to E. alcaea from India, but it can be distinguished easily from the latter based on the characters of forewing. The adult photos of those two species and a photo of the male genitalia of the new species are provided. All type specimens of the new species are deposited in HUNAU (Institute of Entomology, Hunan Agricultural University, China).
41495854|James Needham and Cornelius Betten in 1901 published one the first studies of aquatic insects in North America providing life history information for a number of taxa, and descriptions of 10 new species and two new genera from the Adirondacks in New York. However, since this early publication, relatively little taxonomie research and field surveys have been conducted targeting aquatic insects in the Adirondack Park. The diverse array of aquatic habitats present in New York harbors numerous aquatic insect taxa. Research funded by the NYSDEC State Wildlife Grants and the NYS Biodiversity Research Institute on Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera biodiversity in eastern New York have resulted in the first ever comprehensive assessment of aquatic insects in the region. Distributional records were obtained from primary literature, institutional collections and field surveys. During our four-year study of the Park more than 25,000 specimens from 465 locations were examined. We report 509 species of EPT from the Adirondack Park of which 99 are reported from New York State for the first time. Our field surveys have also resulted in the discovery of several species new to science and numerous species of conservation concern.
41495855|A new species of long-palped crane fly, Tpula (Vestiplex) dhalma, is described and illustrated from adult specimens collected in the Primorskiy Kray of the Far Eastern Federal District of Russia. This new species is most similar to T. (V.) scripta scripta Meigen, 1830 and other species of "scripta" complex, based on antennal and male and female genitalic structures, but differs in several features including the morphology of the male ninth tergum, structure of female hypo val vae and wing pattern.
41495856|The first fossil species, belonging to genus Afrolimnophila Alexander, 1956 and a new species belonging to subgenus Dactylolabis (Eolabis) Podenas, 2003 are described from Baltic amber (Eocene) preserved in the collection of the Geologisch-Palontologischen Institut der Universitt Hamburg, Germany. Their affinities to recent as well as fossil species are discussed.
41495857|Two species of Lagynogaster are described as new to science: L. saetosus sp. n. and L. yunnanensis sp. n. Species of Lagynogaster from China are keyed.
41495858|The genus Chortinaspis Ferris from China is reviewed and a new species, Chortinaspis tianmuensis Wei & Feng, sp. nov., is described. Chortinaspis biloba Maskell is also redescribed from specimens collected in China. A key to the species of Chortinaspis and a checklist of all known species of the world is provided.
41495859|This paper describes one new species P. cycasae sp. nov. of Pseudaonidia from China. A key to species of the genus Pseudaonidia from the Oriental Region is proposed and a checklist of Oriental Region species is provided.
41495860|Male and macropterous female of Ctenothrips smilax Bhatti, 1976 are first described and illustrated, together with brachypterous female which has already been reported by Bhatti in 1976. The species was firstly reported from China. All specimens are deposited in the Entomological Museum of Northwest A & F University (NWAFU).
41495861|Two new species, Allognosta gongshana sp. nov. and Allognosta zhuae sp. nov., are described from Oriental China.
41495862|A new species, Chalarus polychaetus sp. nov., of the genus Chalarus from China is described. Three species, C. angustifrons Morakote, 1990, Cfimbriatus 1966 and C. longicaudis Jervis, 1992, are recorded from China for the first time. A key to the species of the genus from China is presented.
41495863|One new species, Helina submaculitibia sp. nov., is described from China. The new species belongs to the Helina hirsutitibia-group, based on morphological and genitalic characters. A differentiation between the new species and its morphological relatives is provided.
41495864|A Rhopalopsole species of the dentata group, R. guangdongensis, is described as new to science from China. Its relationships with related species are discussed.
41495865|The formicine ant genus Plagiolepis in Arabia is reviewed and an identification key to the worker caste is given. Eight species are recognized, two of which, P. boltoni and P. juddi are described as new. Two species, Plagiolepis abyssinica Forel and Plagiolepis schmitzii Forel are redescribed.
41495866|The genus Invreiella Surez is revised. The two species currently included in Invreiella, I. cardinalis (Gerstaecker) and I. strapa (Gerstaecker), are illustrated and additional distribution records are presented. One new species, I. curoei, female, is described from Puebla, Mexico, and a key is provided for the three endemic species of the genus Invreiella from Mexico. Males have not been described. Relationships between Invreiella, Pseudomethoca, and Myrmilloides are discussed.
41550033|Eleven species of Periclista subg. Neocharactus MacGillivray are recognized in North America. Six species occur in eastern North America: P. (N.) absens, n. sp., P. (N.) asper, n. sp., P. (N.) inaequidens (Norton), P. (N.) major, n. sp., P. (N.) subtruncata Dyar, and P. (N.) varia, . sp. Five species are found only in California: P. (N.) bakeri (MacGillivray), P. (N.) curva, n. sp., P. (N.) pallipes (Provancher), P. (N.) parva, n. sp., and P. (N.) schifft, n. sp. Known host plants are various species of oaks, Quercus spp. A key to species is provided, as well as descriptions and illustrations of each species.
41550034|The taxonomic history of the genus Eleodes Eschscholtz is reviewed and the subgenus Melaneleodes Blaisdell redefined based on characters of the female terminalia with Blaps carbonaria Say herein designated as type-species. Eleodes debilis LeConte is removed from Melaneleodes to a new monotypic subgenus, Omegeleodes, based on the female characters. The subgenus Melaneleodes as redefined contains eleven species: anthraeinus Blaisdell (new status), carbonarius (Say), halli Blaisdell (new status), humeralis LeConte, neomexicanus Blaisdell, parowanus Blaisdell, pedinoides LeConte, quadrieollis Eschscholtz, rileyi Casey, tricostatus (Say) and wenzeli Blaisdell. Eleodes halli Blaisdell is resurrected from synonymy as the oldest available name to replace the homonym Eleodes fuscipilosus Blaisdell 1925 (nee Casey 1890). Eleodes anthraeinus Blaisdell, a subspecies of E. quadrieollis Eschscholtz is elevated to full species. The subspecies E. quadrieollis lustrans Blaisdell is placed in a new combination as Eleodes anthraeinus lustrans. Eleodes speculicollis Blaisdell is reduced to subspecific status as E. wenzeli speculicollis, new combination. Eleodes reductus Blaisdell is reduced to a subspecies giving a new combination, E. rileyi reductus. Eleodes coloradensis Blaisdell, Eleodes concinnus Blaisdell and Eleodes quadrieollis lassenica Blaisdell, are all submerged as synonyms under Eleodes rileyi Casey. A key to the species is provided along with diagnoses for each with notes on distribution and variation. Eleodes carbonarius (Say) is redefined to contain a number of variants previously recognized as species or subspecies. Along with the previously recognized subspecies Eleodes carbonarius carbonarius, Eleodes carbonarius omissus LeConte, E. carbonarius knausi Blaisdell, and E. carbonarius soror LeConte, newly recognized subspecific combinations are: E. carbonarius omissoides Blaisdell and E. carbonarius chihuahuaensis Champion. New subspecies described herein are: Eleodes carbonarius nuevoleonensis and E. carbonarius disjunctus. Eleodes mazatzalensis Blaisdell is placed in synonymy under E. carbonarius carbonarius and Eleodes lineatus Blaisdell is placed in synonymy under E. carbonarius chihuahuaensis Champion. A key for the identification of the nine subspecies of Eleodes carbonarius is provided.
41550035|Two new species o Styringomyia Loew, 1845 (Diptera, Limoniidae) are described from Ghana. Their affinities to other African Styringomyia are discussed. Additionally 5 species are recorded for the first time for the country. An identification key for all Styringomyia from Ghana is given.
41550036|We describe Pheidole acutiloba Mackay, based on the majors, minors, females and males, with the head of the major formed into a shield. This species is similar to P. aberrans and P. obscurifrons , and we discuss the similarities and differences between the majors of the three species. We provide an amendment to the key in Wilson's monograph to accommodate the new species. Describimos la hormiga Pheidole acutilobata Mackay de Argentina, basada en los soldados, obreras, hembras y machos, con la cabeza del soldado en forma de escudo. Esta nueva especie es semejante a P. aberrans y P. obscurifrons; consideramos las caractersticas semejantes y diferentes de estas especies. Incluimos cambios en la clave de Wilson para identificar la nueva especie.
41550037|Hadropus Schoenherr, 1826 is a monotypic genus of Naupactini (Curculionidae: Entiminae), ranging in Brazil and Paraguay. It is easily recognized by the nebulose pattern of the elytral vestiture, the presence of very short rostrum and humped elytra with strongly bisinuate anterior margin. The morphological characters of the rostrum, antennae, legs, elytra and female genitalia relate Hadropus to Ericydeus Pascoe. Hadropus albiceris (Germar) shows variation in body size, morphometrics of the pronotum and color of the scaly vestiture, that allows distinguishing two basic morphotypes. This paper includes descriptions of the genus and its single species, habitus photographs, line drawings of genitalia, and a map of distribution.
41550038|Twenty-three Ephemeroptera species are reported variously from four Central American countries (Costa Rica, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama) and nine Mexican states (Chiapas, Durango, Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Oaxaca, Puebla, Queretaro, San Luis Potosi) for the first time. Campsurus decoloratus, Fallceon nikitai, and Tricorythodes explicatus are reported from Central America for the first time. Allenhyphes vescus is reported from southern Mexico for the first time, and second ever records are given for Choroterpes ungulus (Durango), and Leptohyphes priapus (Panama). Published record based checklists for the 28 Mexican states with reported mayflies are provided. The greatest diversity is found in Vera Cruz followed in order by Chihuahua, Chiapas, Tamaulipas, Neuvo Leon and Queretaro. Baetis magnus, Callibaetis pictus , Camelobaeitidus mexicanum, Fallceon quilleri , Neochoroterpes Oklahoma, Thraulodes brunneus, Traverella albertana and Vacupernius packeri are among the most commonly encountered mayflies in Mexico.
41550039|The study of Chlorops species which were collected from Yunnan province is given. The following 12 species are described from Yunnan province as new to science: Chlorops ancistrus sp. nov., C. augustus sp. nov., C. digitatus sp. nov., C. flavaristatus sp. nov., C. latiusculus sp. nov., C. latus sp. nov., C. liae sp. nov., C. marginatus sp. nov., C. posticus sp. nov., C. rotundatus sp. nov., C. tengchongensis sp. nov. and C. triangulatus sp. nov. A key to the species of the genus from Yunnan is presented.
41550040|Two new species of the genus Hybos, H. longipilosus sp. nov. and H. xiaoyanae sp. nov., are described from Taiwan. These two species are closely related and distinctly different from other members of the genus in the sternite 8 swollen, sternites 7-8 with rather long hairs, epandrial lobes basally connected by the long curved bridge, and left surstylus much elongated.
41550041|Loyolaia Ananthakrishnan, a newly recorded genus of the subfamily Idolothripinae, is reported from China, with Loyolaia wuyiensis sp. n. is described. A key to all known species of this genus is provided.
41550042|Euhybus is newly recorded from Taiwan. A new species, Euhybus taiwanensis sp. nov., is described. An updated key to the Oriental species is given.
41550043|This paper deals with the genus Glomerexis and provides a revised generic diagnosis. Moreover, a new species Glomerexis angustifolia Wang et Che is described and illustrated.
41550044|A new species of Aulacaspis jiangsuensis sp. nov. from the genus Aulacaspis Cockerell is described and illustration. Its relationships with related species are discussed.
41827175|A small collection of Psocoptera based on a rapid survey of the Ragged Islands group of the Bahamas contains 14 species in eight families. Six species are new and are described in the following genera: Echmepteryx (one), Cerobasis (one), Blaste (one), Indiopsocus (three). Pseudocaecilius similis Turner, described from Jamaica, is a new junior synonym of Pseudocaecilius tahitiensis (Karny).
41827176|This is the second part of the taxonomic studies on Palaearctic Tettigoniidae carried out in some European and Turkish collections. Sixty species and subspecies collected from Turkey and the Middle East countries are given. The genera Farsodecticus Mirzayans and Zagrosiella Mirzayans are studied and discussed for the first time after their descriptions. Farsodecticus is included to the tribe Tettigoniini. Known species of Mixodusa Stolyarov are compared using both sexes. Anterastes uludaghensis species group is reviewed. Three species of Uvarovistia Maran are given with comparable new illustrations. The genus Koroglus nal is validated with a discussion and comparison to the A. uludaghensis sp. group. Two new species, Lithodusa mirzayani sp. n. from Iran, Platycleis (s. str.) kibris sp. n. from Cyprus are described. A lectotype for Eupholidoptera smyrnensis (Brunner, 1882) is designated. Two species are synonymized: Anterastes ucari iplak, 2004 with A. babadaghi Uvarov, 1939 and Eupholidoptera femorata iplak, 1999 with E. unimacula Karabag, 1956. Besides, the priority of the paper of Schulthess-Rechberg (1882) and the book of Brunner von Wattenwyl (1882) is discussed and the precedence is given to Schulthess-Rechberg. Therefore, Brunner's taxa Anterastes serbicus Brunner, 1882 and Metrioptera (Broughtonia) domogledi (Brunner, 1882) are synonymized with Anterastes serbicus (Schulthess-Rechberg, 1882) and Metrioptera (Broughtonia) domogleti (Schulthess-Rechberg, 1882) respectively and currently synonyms two more taxa described by Schulthess are discussed under the account of A. serbicus in the text. The authorship of the tribes Pholidopterini and Platycleidini is discussed. Keys to the species of Lithodusa Bey-Bienko, 1951, Uvarovistia Maran, 1953 and A. uludaghensis sp. group are prepared. Besides, many taxonomic, systematic and faunistic discussions for the taxa are given. To support the descriptions and discussions 152 figures are provided.
41827177|The invertebrate fauna of the Mississippi River is compiled from published material (215 total taxa) is compiled from published material (205 taxa) and records of 10 new taxa obtained in a dietary study of sturgeon in the Lower Mississippi River. The previously undocumented taxa are Leptophlebia sp. (Ephemeroptera: Leptophlebiidae), Pseudiron centralis McDunnough (Ephemeroptera: Pseudironidae), Gillotia sp. (Diptera: Chironomidae), Lipiniella sp. (Diptera: Chironomidae), Metriocnemus fuscipes (Meigen) (Diptera: Chironomidae), Parachironomus sp. (Diptera: Chironomidae), Paratendipes basidens Townes (Diptera: Chironomidae), Polypedilum flavum (Johannsen) (Diptera: Chironomidae), Saetheria sp. (Diptera: Chironomidae), and Zavrelia sp. (Diptera: Chironomidae).
41827178|Seventy six new Melanoplus species from the United States are described. These include the following groups and species: The Sanguinipes Species Group Melanoplus mantua new species, Melanoplus uinta new species Melanoplus perezi new species. Melanoplus Artimisiae Group Melanoplus cedarense new species Melanoplus tendoyense new species Dodgei Species Group Melanoplus boulderensis new species Melanoplus glymma new species Melanoplus nufioi new species Melanoplus cumbres new species Melanoplus culebra new species Melanoplus adapi new species Melanoplus hatu new species Melanoplus delano new species Melanoplus wai new species Melanoplus ourayensis new species Melanoplus douglasi new species Melanoplus pahgre new species Melanoplus atangi new species Melanoplus betangi new species Melanoplus gothicus new species Melanoplus flechado new species Femurnigrum Species Group Melanoplus janus new species Melanoplus empusa new species Melanoplus mogollona new species Melanoplus withingtoni new species Melanoplus apache new species Melanoplus prescotti new species Melanoplus carinae new species Melanoplus Flabellatus Group Melanoplus adox new species Melanoplus zabro new species Melanoplus arcanus new species Melanoplus rosor new species Melanoplus aster new species Melanoplus Indigens Group Melanoplus knowlesi new species Melanoplus Marginatus Group Melanoplus francisdrakei new species Melanoplus jakei new species Melanoplus napa new species Melanoplus andreasi new species Melanoplus mcnaryi new species Melanoplus jenniferae new species Melanoplus jessicae new species Melanoplus laurelae new species Melanoplus lapollai new species Melanoplus spearmani new species Melanoplus jillae new species Melanoplus Montanus Group Melanoplus shoshoni new species Melanoplus eccentricus new species Melanoplus ohadi new species Melanoplus latah new species Melanoplus illash new species Melanoplus baldi new species Melanoplus trinitense new species Melanoplus aix new species Melanoplus stipes new species Melanoplus alector new species Melanoplus tincupense new species Melanoplus phobetico new species Melanoplus pyro new species Melanoplus sol new species Melanoplus ixalus new species Melanoplus lemurus new species Melanoplus lolo new species Melanoplus elkhornense new species Melanoplus xenus new species Melanoplus zeus new species Melanoplus obex new species Melanoplus molothrus new species Melanoplus oregonis new species Melanoplus Ponderosus Group Melanoplus zento new species Melanoplus carrabellae new species Melanoplus peatus new species Melanoplus Puer Group Melanoplus bonita new species Melanoplus kissimmee new species Melanoplus Tequestae Group Melanoplus sebringi new species Melanoplus childsi new species Melanoplus Texanus Group Melanoplus kendalli new species Melanoplus imtenda new species Melanoplus hilliardi new species Melanoplus sutanex new species Melanoplus imto new species.
23595777|The South African flightless hemiacridine genus Euloryma is revised for the first time, with 21 new species described. The genus name Euloryma is a nomen novum, proposed because the genus Loryma Stl, 1878 (Orthoptera: Acrididae) is a junior homonym of the genus Loryma Walker, 1859 (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae). A detailed discussion of the rationale for this new name is provided. Species keys, a reference chart of species, extensive photography of external and internal morphology, and distribution maps are provided. Morphology figures labeled with internal and external terminology are included. Two provisional Euloryma species-groups are proposed: karoo species-group and the cederbergensis species-group. The majority of the karoo species-group members are found in succulent karoo biome, with one species in the grassland biome, whereas the majority of the cederbergensis species-group members are found in the fynbos biome. The new tribe name Dirshacrini is proposed, due to proposed changes in nomenclature; tribe members Hemiloryma, Dirshacris and Labidioloryma are photographed, a list of diagnostic differences is provided, and a key to the genera is given. The following new species are proposed: KAROO SPECIES-GROUP: ashleyi sp. nov.; carolynae sp. nov.; magna sp. nov.; browni sp. nov.; khoi sp. nov.; namaqua sp. nov.; san sp. nov.; mayi sp. nov.; zebrata sp. nov.; bonteboki sp. nov.; karoo sp. nov.; CEDERBERGENSIS SPECIES-GROUP: mirabunda sp. nov.; cederbergensis, sp. nov.; lapollai sp. nov.; tsitsikamma sp. nov.; waboom sp. nov.; solveigae sp. nov.; larsenorum sp. nov.; umoja sp. nov.; lyra sp. nov.; ottei sp. nov.
43682051|Members of the Melanoplus tribulus species group are flightless grasshoppers that inhabit open forests and forest edges throughout a large portion of the eastern United States. Here distributional, habitat, and morphological information is provided for several species of the group from the southeastern United States, including Melanoplus morsei, Melanoplus tepidus, and Melanoplus vulnus. Two new species, Melanoplus harrisi and Melanoplus nossi are described.
43682052|Caenodelphax Fennah was reviewed with reference to putatively allied species in the polyphyletic genus Delphacodes Fieber. Phylogenetic analyses using maximum parsimony of 34 morphological features for 15 ingroup and 3 outgroup taxa found that Caenodelphax sensu stricto did not group with putatively allied Delphacodes. Caenodelphax is here redefined as monotypic, and Flavoclypeus new genus is described to accommodate a clade of 8 species (6 transferred from Delphacodes and 2 transferred from Caenodelphax). Caenodelphax philyra was found to be a junior subjective synonym of Caenodelphax teapae.
43682053|The genus-group name Chermes Linnaeus 1758 has been suppressed, but an accounting of the various nominal species described in combination with it has not been presented until now. Nominal species of Chermes are found in 13 families of three major lineages of Stemorrhyncha (Aphidomorpha, Coccoidea, Psylloidea). Eleven available names remain unplaceable (incertae sedis nomina dubia) and to date do not appear in the various Stemorrhyncha catalogues. In order to clarify their status, we here present an annotated list of the 137 nominal species-group names originally described in combination with Chermes. We provide the original bibliographic citation and an assessment of the current status of each name.
43682054|More than 230 species of benthic macroinvertebrates are recorded from Kentucky Lake, a major reservoir on the Tennessee River system, and compiled in an annotated list. Chironomidae (Diptera) and Unionidae (mussels) comprise more than 60% of the total taxa. Most species are restricted to shallow or marginal areas of the lake with only about 12 being common everywhere. The common species were similar to those found in both large and small reservoirs in the eastern United States. High disturbance regimes and sedimentation patterns are thought to control the similarities, limiting the communities to a small suite of adaptable species. This may reduce the usefulness of reservoirs in understanding climate change. A small number of invasive benthic species are well-established but appear to have had little affect on the rest of the benthic community. Invasive zooplankton and fish seem to have had little influence on the benthos, but the recent invasion of silver carp, Hypophthalmichthys molitrix (Valenciennes), may be a tipping point.
43682055|The species of the genus Hybos Meigen from Tibet are reviewed. The following seven species are described as new to science: Hybos beibenganus sp. nov., Hybos brevifurcatus sp. nov., Hybos curvus sp. nov., Hybos hanmianus sp. nov., Hybos lihuae sp. nov., Hybos nigripes sp. nov., and Hybos beibenganus sp. nov. A key to the species of the genus Hybos from Tibet is presented for the first time.
43682056|Previously only one species of the genus Chrysosoma Guerin-Meneville was described from Tibet. Here four Chrysosoma species are added to the fauna of Tibet. The following three new species are described: Chrysosoma furcatum sp. nov., Chrysosoma nyingchiense sp. nov. and Chrysosoma spinosum sp. nov. Both a key to the species of the genus Chrysosoma from Tibet and a key to the species of the genus from China are presented respectively.
43682057|We have described a new species of genus Aeropedellus from Mongolia. We collected the specimens from near the Tunamalnuur, Tsagaanuul Sum, Hovsgol Province, Mongolia. The diagnosis and the detail description of the species are provided in this paper.
43682058|A new Neotropical species of Trentepohlia (Mongoma) is described from Cuba. This is the first species of the subgenus from the West Indies, whereas the other four Trentepohlia spp. are from the subgenus Paramongoma. Notes on the phenology of this new species are provided. Also, we discuss the transfer of Trentepohlia suberrans Alexander, 1979 to Mongoma and provide a key for the identification of the three species of this subgenus present in the Neotropics.
43682059|Previously only two species of the genus Syneches were reported from Tibet. Here the following six species from Tibet are described as new to science: Syneches astigma sp. nov., Syneches distinctus sp. nov., Syneches flavicoxa sp. nov., Syneches flavitibia sp. nov., Syneches indistinctus sp. nov., and Syneches wangae sp. nov. A key to the species of the genus Syneches from Tibet is provided for the first time.
43682060|Two new species of Neoxabea and three new species of Oecanthus are described from Nicaragua: N. cerrojesusensis and N. ottei, O. belti, and O. symesi occur at higher elevations in the northern half of Nicaragua. A large population of O. bakeri was found in dry tropical forest west of Lake Nicaragua. The presence of O. allardi in Nicaragua is documented as the first record outside of the West Indies,and waveforms from the first known recordings of a singing male O. leptogrammus are provided. Keys are provided for Neoxabea and Oecanthus in Central America.
43682061|Six new species from Mesoamerica are described and illustrated into the formerly monotypic genus Parkana. These species are segregated into 3 subgenera, Parkana s.s. (bearing a large dorsal process on the aedeagus) consisting of 5 species, and a single species each in Furcoparca new subgenus (with the median processes of the pygofer formed into a large forked process), and Litoparca new subgenus (lacking both features, genitalia relatively simple, aedeagus bearing lateral teeth). The new species are P. (P.) mirasol, P. (P.) nigra, P. (P.) pallida, P. (P.) tres, P. (F.) chico (all from Mexico, except P. nigra also from Guatemala), and P. (L.) costa (Costa Rica). Keys are provided to subgenus and species. Parkana was previously known only from the type species (P. alata) from western United States. The diversity of Mesoamerican delphacid species is briefly discussed.
43682062|The grasshopper genus Philocleon, with six previously known species (nigrovittatus (Stal), spatulatus Roberts, anomalus Roberts, luceroae Fontana and Buzzetti, scudderi (Hebard), and ottei Fontana & Buzzetti), is revised to include the following eight new species: zygon, zima, illa, cledon, axiton, azumai, iropon, and erissa. The subspecies nigrovittatus spatulatus Roberts is raised to species status. The fourteen species are placed into the four following species groups: Anomalus group, Illa group, Nigrovittatus group, and Scudderi group.
43682063|Curculionidae (weevils) frequently are recognized as favoring moist environments and wetland vegetation. To better understand the relationship between wetland type and the presence of curculionid species, twenty-four isolated wetlands (previously characterized as marshes, savannas or forested swamps) were sampled. Seventeen genera and 27 species were identified. Indicator species analysis revealed an association between the genus Dirabius and marsh habitat. NMS (Non-Metric Multidimensional Scaling Ordination) found a significant 2-dimensional solution to abundance data. Auleutes nebulosus, Lissorhoptrus simplex, Notiodes laticollis, Rhinoncus longulus, Sphenophorus minimus, and an unidentified species of Dirabius and Listronotus were associated with marshes. Swamps were characterized by their absence of Curculionidae. Savannas were intermediate between marshes and swamps. Marshes, with their diversity of vascular plants, appear to provide more suitable habitat and possess characteristics that allow curculionid populations to persist in the landscape.
43682064|The genus Aptenopedes Scudder is revised. Two new related genera, Floritettix and Floridacris are described. Twentysix species are mapped and illustrated. Aptenopedes now encompases nine species of which five are new. Seven species or subspecies formerly included in Aptenopedes are here placed into the new genus Floritettix. Four taxa treated as subspecies of Aptenopedes aptera (borealis, coquinae, saturiba and simplex) are raised to species rank and placed in Floritettix. Two taxa treated as subspecies of Aptenopedes sphenarioides (appalachee and clara) are raised to species rank. Three new species and Aptenopedes robusta are assigned to the new genus Floridacris.
43682065|The genera Eneremius SAUSSURE, Lithidium UVAROV and Lithidiopsis DIRSH are revised. Lithidium becomes a junior synonym of Eneremius. Eneremius includes seven species previously described (some under Lithidium) and 12 new species. Lithidiopsis includes two previously described species (one under Lithidium) and two new species. A new genus Tsautettix, in the the Lentulidae, is erected to include one species previously placed under Eneremius (namaquensis BROWN), and ten new species. The new genus Tanquata, also in the Lentulidae, is erected to include two new species from Tanqua Karoo.
43682066|Leatettix is a genus of small bush-dwelling grasshoppers known from the fynbos region of the Cape Province. They are distributed north through Namaqualand. One species is from near Aus, in Namibia. Four species in this genus were previously known, one as Namatettix denticornis. Twenty-nine new species are described here.
43682015|Chironomid pupal exuviae were collected from coastal rock pools at Isle Royale National Park, Michigan, from April to October in 2009 and 2010. Pools in bedrock depressions were separated into those higher on the shore, where desiccation is likely an important disturbance, and lower on the shore, where wave-wash from Lake Superior is likely a fundamental influence. The 102 species collected represent 42 genera in six subfamilies. The distribution and ecology of each species is summarized. Also included are remarks on species with significant range expansions, either with Palearctic or Nearctic disjunct ranges, or novel habitat use among species that are typically considered lotic but occur in splash zone pools at Isle Royale.
43682016|A new name, Melanoplus billyharrisi, is suggested as a replacement name for Melanoplus harrisi Hill 2014.
43682017|Here eight species of the subgenus Neohomoneura Malloch are added to the fauna of Yunnan. The following 6 species are described as new to science: Homoneura (Neohomoneura) baoshanensis sp. nov., H. (N.) dischida sp. nov., H. (N.) dongae sp. nov., H. (N.) latisurstyla sp. nov., H. (N.) menglunensis sp. nov., and H. (N.) nigribasis sp. nov. Furthermore, H. (N.) indica Malloch is newly recorded from China, and H. (N.) incompleta Malloch is redescribed. A key to the species of the subgenus from Yunnan is presented.
43682018|The following five species of the genus Phyllomyza Falln from China are described as new to science: Phyllomyza emeishanensis sp. nov., Phyllomyza latustigenis sp. nov., Phyllomyza planipalpis sp. nov., Phyllomyza tibetensis sp. nov. and Phyllomyza dicrana sp. nov. A key to the known species of Phyllomyza from China is presented.
43682019|Previously only three species of Elaphropeza Macquart were known to occur in Veitnam. Here the following seven species of are described as new to science: Elaphropeza biseta sp. nov., E. lamdongensis sp. nov., E. melinhana sp. nov., E. parva sp. nov., E. postica sp. nov., E. singularis sp. nov., and E. xingyuei sp. nov. A key to the species of the genus from Vietnam is provided.
43682020|The following two species are described as new to science: Dubius flavipedus sp. nov. and Dubius yunnanensis sp. nov. A key to the world species of Dubius is presented.
43682021|The following three species of the genus Cryptochetum Rondani from China are described as new to science: Cryptochetum shaanxiense sp. nov., Cryptochetum yunnanum sp. nov., and Cryptochetum zalatilabium sp. nov. Akey to the known species of Cryptochetum from China is presented.
43682022|The following 8 species of the genus Chlorops Meigen from Oriental China are described as new to science: Chlorops bisetulifer sp. nov., brevis sp. nov., C. flavicorneus sp. nov., flavimaculatus sp. nov., C. internus sp. nov., C. medialis sp. nov., C. meihuashanensis sp. nov., C. wuyishanus sp. nov. A key to the species of the genus Chlorops from China is presented.
43682023|Several reviews of dung beetle (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) behavior and ecology, as well as numerous research reports, have either implicitely or explicitely indicated that predation on dung scarabs is rare or absent and thus of minimal or no importance to the biology of the group. This review presents 610 records of predation on dung beetles by 409 species of birds, mammals, reptiles and amphibians from around the world. The involvement of invertebrates as predators on dung scarabs is also documented. It is concluded that this data establishes predation as a potentially major factor in the evolution and current behavior and ecology of dung beetles. The data presented also represents a considerable underestimation of prdation on the group.
43682024|Keys, descriptions and figures are provided for the identification of 30 species assignable to the nominate subgenus of the tenebrionid genus Eleodes. Three species groups can be recognized: the grandicollis group, containing only E. grandicollis Mannerheim; the obscurus group, containing E. obscurus (Say), E. acutus (Say) and E. suturalis (Say); and the dentipes group, containing E. dentipes Eschscholtz, E. acuticaudus LeConte, E. adumbratus Blaisdell, E. armatus (LeConte), E. curvidens Triplehorn & Cimentes, E. discinctus Blaisdell, E. eschscholtzi Solier, E. femoratus LeConte, E. gracilis LeConte, E. hispilabris (Say), E. loretensis Blaisdell, E. mexicanus Blaisdell, E. mirabilis Triplehorn, E. moestus Blaisdell, E. muricatulus Triplehorn, E. rossi Blaisdell, E. rugosus Perbosc, E. samalayucae Triplehorn, E. sanmartinensus Blaisdell, E. scyropterus Triplehorn, E. spinipes Champion, E. sponsus LeConte, E. subcylindricus Casey, E. tenuipes Casey, E. vanduzeei Blaisdell, and a new species described herein, Eleodes fiski Triplehorn. Eleodes amadeensis Blaisdell and Eleodes striatipennis Blaisdell are synonymized under Eleodes armatus (LeConte). Eleodes subpinguis Blaisdell is synonymized under Eleodes hispilabris (Say). Eleodes wickhami Horn is synonymized under  . eschscholtzi Solier. The status of Eleodes femoratus LeConte 1851 under E. militaris Horn 1870, is reversed based on priority.
43682025|The scope of this study is to make evaluations on faunistic, ecological and zoogeographical composition of the subfamily Aleocharinae (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae) of the Central Anatolian Region of Turkey. Ninety-three species, belonging to 26 genera and 11 tribes, were detected by field studies between years 2009-2011 in the Central Anatolian Region. It is concluded that among these, one species from Atheta (Atheta camardiensis, Sert et al., 2013) and Gyrophaena (Gyrophaena cagatay, Sert et al., 2013) respectively are new to science and seven species from Atheta, Brachyusa, Ischnopoda and Liogluta are new genera records for Turkey (Sert et al., 2013a). Eight species are endemic for Turkey and 69 species are new records for Central Anatolian Region.
43682026|The South American big-headed ant Pheidole obscurithorax was first found in North America in Mobile, Alabama in 1949. Since then, this species has also been recorded in Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, and Texas. We compiled and mapped published and unpublished specimen records of P. obscurithorax from >170 sites in South America and the US to evaluate the current geographic range of this species and its possible future spread. We documented the earliest known records for nine geographic areas (South American countries and US states). Site records of P. obscurithorax ranged 27.5 degrees of latitude (from 6.7S to 34.2S) in South America, and 3.5 degrees of latitude (from 28.0N to 31.5N) in North America. It may be that the North American populations of P. obscurithorax have a fairly narrow range of climatic tolerances. Earlier genetic analyses of native and exotic populations of P. obscurithorax found that the North America populations appear to originate from a single introduction from a population most closely related to native study populations from a stretch along the Paran River in Argentina from Resistencia (27.5S) to Santa Fe (31.6S). This latitudinal range matches the current latitudinal range of  obscurithorax in North America. Alternatively, the much greater latitudinal range of  obscurithorax in South America suggests that exotic populations of P. obscurithorax may have potential for much additional expansion in North America and beyond. In South America, P. obscurithorax has a similar native range as the invasive fire ant Solenopsis invicta. In the North America, exotic populations of P. obscurithorax may spread like S. invicta has, across the southeast of the US and into the West Indies.
43682027|The number of species of Indiopsocus known (i.e. published in print) from Texas is raised from three to seven. Three of the newly recorded species are new and are here named and described. Distribution records are given for them within and outside of Texas. Texas distribution records are given for the previously known species. The series of syntypes of Indiopsocus texanus (Aaron) in the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences and in the Cornell University Insect Collection was examined, and the single male in the series (Cornell Collection) was selected as lectotype for this species, the generotype of Indiopsocus. Abrief phenetic classification of Indiopsocus is included with the known species listed in each category. A key to the species of Indiopsocus recorded from Texas and eastward to the Atlantic coast is included.
43681947|The Melanoplus scudderi species group, when erected by Blatchley, contained six species. The revision of the group presented here describes 21 new species and establishes the Carnegiei group and Davisi groups. Most of these new species are associated with grasslands in the southeastern United States. Analysis of DNA barcoding data, suggests that the technique does not adequately delineate species based on well-established morphological concepts. However, analysis of the barcode data did produce three broad mitochondrial DNA clades that correspond to the Apalachicola and Mississippi River discontinuity phylogeographic pattern, which is displayed by several other organisms in the southeastern United States and is attributed to vicariant events resulting from Pleistocene glaciation. Keys to the groups and species along with a hypothetical evolutionary history of the groups are presented.
43746564|In 2009 and 2010, a butterfly and skipper survey was conducted at Franklin Parker Preserve (FPP) located within Woodland Township, Burlington County, New Jersey. This survey was part of the joint cooperation between the American Entomological Society and the New Jersey Conservation Foundation and funded by a Research Experience for Undergraduates grant. Franklin Parker Preserve is located in the center of the Pine Barrens, where insect fauna has not been strongly studied and inventoried, specifically with the Lepidoptera fauna. Through this survey, fifty-three butterfly and skipper species have been documented to occur on Franklin Parker Preserve property. Time of year and abundance of these species were recorded. Three Species of Special Concern listed by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection were found at FPP: Callophrys hesseli Rawson & Ziegler (Hessel's Hairstreak) Euphyes bimacula Grote & Robinson (Two-Spotted Skipper) and Hesperia attalus Edwards (Dotted Skipper.) This paper provides baseline data for the butterflies and skippers in the New Jersey Pine Barrens and will be helpful for future biodiversity and conservation managements that should occur.
43746565|Twenty one new species are added to the leafhopper genus Erythrogonia from South America. Sixteen species, acuminata, ancora, anisa, apicalis, bidigitata, bispinata, clavata, elongata, expanda, gorgonica, grandis, lateralis, lobata, retosa, rotunda, and undulata, from Colombia; two species, guianae and rara, from French Guiana; two species, boliviana and dirhachis, from Bolivia; and one species, peruviana, from Peru. A list of species with new country records, and a key to the species of this genus is also included.
43746566|We report 15 species of Megaloptera from the Interior Highlands of Arkansas, Illinois, Missouri and Oklahoma including 2 genera and 9 species of Sialidae and 4 genera and 6 species of Corydalidae. New state distributional records are reported for Protosialis americana (Rambur) from Illinois, Sialis joppa Ross and S. vagans Ross from Missouri, and Chauliodes pectinicornis (L.) and Nigronia serricornis (Say) from Oklahoma. Distributional and biological data are summarized for each species where available. An illustrated key to the species occurring in the Interior Highlands is included.
43746567|Five new species of crickets in the subfamily Eneopterinae (tribe Hapithini) are reported from Jamaica and Puerto Rico. The species are Antillicharis dystheratos n.sp, A. vocatus n.sp., A. volatus n.sp., Laurepa killos n.sp. and Orocharis elyunquensis n.sp. The last species is described from Puerto Rico.
43746568|The faunistic composition, ecological properties and zoogeographical composition of Cerambycidae of the Central Anatolian Region in Turkey were examined. Seventy-eight species, 20 tribes and 38 genera were identified. The Central Anatolian region's cerambycid fauna is relatively similar to that of Turkey and shares many species with the European part of the Western Palearctic.
43746569|Nineteen new species are added to the Genus Taperinha Linnavouri from South America. The new species are Taperinha nuda, T. trigona, T. angulata, T. hamata, T. media, T. ungulata, T. lobata, T. anisota, T. lapayensis, T. odonta from Colombia; T. retusa, T. zanolae from French Guiana; T. dozieri, T. longicornis from Ecuador; T. elongata from Suriname; T. stypa from Venezuela; and T. bulba, T. stenostyla, T. peruviana from Peru. A key to the species known from Colombia is included.
43746570|Twenty-seven species of Eremidium are now known. In this paper sixteen new species are named and described. The genus ranges along the eastern scarp of South Africa, preferring lush vegetation, often at the margins of forests, but also occurring in the eastern extension of the fynbos region of the Cape. Illustrations of Nyassacris are provided for comparison.
43746571|Melanoplus foxi Hebard, 1923 (Orthoptera: Acrididae: Melanoplinae) is a flightless and morphologicallydistinct member of the Puer Group of grasshoppers that is endemic to sandhills in the state of Georgia, U.S.A. This species had not been collected in almost 60 years despite our combined eight years of independently searching for it in and around all known localities. Thus, the species was thought to possibly be extinct until our rediscovery of a combined total of 33 specimens of M. foxi in May of 2015 in three locations: Seminoie State Park and Little Ocmulgee State Park and Lodge, which are protected areas, and along the road just outside of the latter. The discovery of a large number of specimens of M. foxi among the unidentified grasshoppers in the collection of the University of Michigan's Museum of Zoology's Insect Division and the subsequent examination of the collectors' digitized field notes (linked to the specimens via a code system) led directly to the discovery of these extant populations. This rediscovery highlights the need for detailed field notes and retaining their link to the specimens they describe, often an arduous task, but one which some institutions are embracing by converting field notebooks into digital form either via wholesale scanning, transcription, or a combination of both, and allowing the public to access them on the internet. Such data are invaluable and should be recorded by field explorers and made available to others whenever possible. In addition, absence or negative data, largely unreported in natural history publications, also played a role in the rediscovery of this unique species because it gave us the ability to keep track of investigated sites, and these are reported here to assist in planning future field trips to discover new locations harboring M. foxi.
43893411|Discriminate analysis and canonical correlation analysis were used to separate the Aphaenogaster phalangium species complex into 5 species of tropical New World ants: A. araneoides Emery, A. brevicollis Forel, A. inermis Forel (= Aphaenogaster araneoides var. nitidiventris new synonymy), Aphaenogaster (Deromyrma) araneoides var. canalis new synonymy), A. mexicana (Pergande) and A. phalangium Emery. This complex is easily recognized as a long necked group of Aphaenogaster found primarily in tropical forests. Aphaenogaster araneoides, distributed from El Salvador to Panama, can be recognized by the relatively elongated neck, lack of erect hairs on the dorsum of the posterior femur, and in that the sculpture of the head is similar to that of the dorsum of the first tergum of the gaster. Aphaenogaster brevicollis, known only from northern Panam, is a robust, relatively large species with a short neck. Aphaenogaster inermis is a smaller species found from Nicaragua south into Colombia, with numerous semierect hairs on the dorsum of the hind femur, the only species with this characteristic. Aphaenogaster mexicana is known only from central western Mxico, and is a weakly sculptured species with a small eye and moderately developed propodeal spines. Finally, A. phalangium is similar to A. araneoides, except that the dorsum of the first gastral tergum is finely sculptured, much more weakly than the sculpture of the dorsum of the head, and is known from El Salvador to NW Colombia. The workers and males are separated by keys in English and Spanish, the characteristics and distributions of each species are discussed. Anlisis discriminatorio y anlisis cannico de correlacin fueron usados para separar las cinco especies del complejo phalangium del gnero Aphaenogaster, hormigas tropicales de Mxico al sur hasta Colombia, incluyendo: A. araneoides Emery, A. brevicollis Forel, A. inermis Forel, A. mexicana (Pergande) y A. phalangium Emery. Es un complejo fcil de reconocer por la forma del cuello, que es alargado y delgado. Aphaenogaster araneoides, conocida desde El Salvador hasta Panam, puede identificarse por el cuello muy alargado, carencia de pelos rectos y subrectos en la superficie dorsal del fmur posterior y la escultura en la superficie del gster, que es semejante a la escultura del dorso de la cabeza. Aphaenogaster brevicollis del norte de Pana, es robusta y grande con un cuello relativamente corto. Aphaenogaster inermis es una especie pequea de Nicaragua hasta NW de Colombia, que tiene muchos pelos rectos y subrectos en el dorso del fmur posterior, siendo la nica especie con esta caracterstica. Aphaenogaster mexicana es la nica especie del complejo conocida de Mxico (Nayarit y Jalisco) y tiene poca escultura en el cuerpo, ojos pequeos y espinas propodeales moderadamente desarrolladas. Aphaenogaster phalangium es simular a A. araneoides, con la excepcin de que el dorso del primer tergo del gster tiene poca escultura, mucho menos que la escultura del dorso de la cabeza; se conoce de El Salvador hasta Colombia. Incluimos claves para la identificacin de las obreras y machos (en espaol), caractersticas de las especies y sus distribuciones.
43893412|The genus Chrysotus Meigen is reported from Hainan island for the first time. Six species are recorded. The following four species are described as new to science: Chrysotus diaoluoshanus sp. nov., C. hainanensis sp. nov., C. magnuscaputus sp. nov. and C. zhouae sp. nov., Chrysotus biprojicienus Wei & Zhang and Chrysotus serratus Wang et Yang are recorded from Hainan island for the first time. A key to the species o Chrysotus from Hainan island is presented.
43893413|The descriptions o Rhopobota tungurahuana Razowski & Pelz and Ancylis ecuadorica Razowski & Wojtusiak were based on female specimens collected in Ecuador. Series of both sexes of these species were collected in Venezuela, and these represent new distribution records. Male genitalia are described, and figures of imagos and genitalia of both sexes are provided.
43893414|Acerophagus orientalis (Ferrire) and Cryptanusia albiclava Girault (Hymenoptera: Encyrtidae) are reported for the first time from India. Besides, new distribution records for 23 species and new host records for nine species of Encyrtidae are documented from different parts of Southern India.
43893415|Only one species of the genus Lindneromyia Kessel, Lindneromyia argyrogyna (de Meijere), was known to occur in Laos. Here the following three new species are added to the fauna of Laos: Lindneromyia laosensis sp. nov., L. longa sp. nov. and L. obtusa sp. nov. A key to the species of Lindneromyia from Laos is presented.
43893416|The following two species are described as new to science: Asyndetus clavipes Liu, Wang & Yang, sp. nov. and Asyndetus latisurstylus Liu, Wang & Yang, sp. nov. A key to the species of Asyndetus Loew, 1869 from China is presented.
43893417|The weevil Oopterinus distinctus O'Brien (Coleoptera: Curculionidae; Curculioninae; Otidocephalini), that was previously only reported from four counties in Arkansas, has been collected in Louisiana and Alabama and additional counties in Akransas. This represents new state and county records for this rare weevil.
44028843|In this study, the genitalic structures of species belonging to the genera Stenurella, Stictoleptura, Pseudovadonia, Leptura, Pachytodes, Anastrangalia, Etorofus, Pedostrangalia and Strangalia of Lepturinae (Cerambycidae: Coleoptera) were examined. Several given for the first time in detail, some others were compared with related literature.
44028844|An annotated checklist of the forty-seven species of Chrysididae from Pennsylvania is presented. The checklist is based primarily on 655 by-catch specimens collected by the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture during statewide exotic pest surveys from 2011-2013. Additional records from the literature and regional museum collections are also summarized. We confirm county-level localities in Pennsylvania for thirty-nine species belonging to fifteen genera. Three species, Caenochrysis areolata (Mocsry), Ca. deversor (Bohart), and Chrysis conica Brull are reported from Pennsylvania for the first time. Caenochrysis deversor (Bohart) has not been previously reported east of the Mississippi River and may represent a recent accidental introduction to the state.
44028845|The genus Hilara Meigen is reported from Shaanxi for the first time with 9 species. The following seven species are described as new to science: Hilara biprocera sp. nov., H. digitata sp. nov., H. lata sp. nov., H ningshana sp. nov., H. qinlingensis sp. nov., H. spinata sp. nov., and H. zhouzhiensis sp. nov. Two species are newly recorded from this province: H. flata Liu, Li et Yang and H. digitiformis Liu, Li et Yang. A key to the species of the genus Hilara from Shaanxi is presented.
44028846|A revision of the genus Chrysotus Meigen from Inner Mongolia, China is presented. Ten species are herein recorded. The following two species are described as new to science: Chrysotus cerciaffiliatus Liu, Wang & Yang, sp. nov. and Chrysotus neimengguensis Liu, Wang & Yang, sp. nov. Five species are recorded from Inner Mongolia for the first time: Chrysotus biprojicienus Wei & Zhang, Chrysotus femoratus Zetterstedt, Chrysotus minuscapillumus Liu et Yang, Chrysotus motuoensis Liu et Yang and Chrysotus pennatus Lichtwardt. A key to the species of Chrysotus from Inner Mongolia is provided.
44028847|Mississippi Hydrochidae are poorly known. In this paper, we attempt to untangle some of the taxonomic difficulties caused by recent dubious works of D. Makhan and to validate an undescribed species from previously unpublished research. The 12 species occurring in Mississippi are reviewed and one new species, H. falsus Hellman sp.n., is described. Six new synonymies are established as follows: Hydrochus hanoewanti Makhan, 1994 is a junior synonym of Hydrochus rugosus Mulsant, 1844; Hydrochus monishi Makhan, 1995 is a junior synonym of Hydrochus foveatus Haldeman, 1852; Hydrochus equicarinatus Blatchley, 1928 is a junior synonym of Hydrochus simplex LeConte, 1855; Hydrochus daviniaae Makhan, 1995 is a junior synonym of Hydrochus vagus LeConte, 1851; Hydrochus bakkeri Makhan, 1995 is a junior synonym of Hydrochus obscurus Sharp, 1882; and Hydrochus soesae (Makhan), 2004 is a junior synonym of Hydrochus scabratus Mulsant, 1844. Hydrochus inaequalis LeConte, 1855 is removed from synonymy with Hydrochus foveatus Haldeman, 1852 and resurrected as a proper species. Neotypes are designated for H. rugosus Mulsant, 1844, H. rufipes Melsheimer, 1844, and H. scabratus Mulsant, 1844. Alectotype is designated for H. foveatus Haldeman, 1852. Species descriptions, illustrations of male genitalia, distribution maps and a key to species are presented. Additional notes on Makhan species and holotypes, including unavailable types, are provided.
44028848|This work is aimed at the species-level identification of the brachypterous forms of the genus Rhyopsocus found primarily in ground litter throughout southwestern United States, Mexico, and Guatemala. Characters for separation of species used in the present study and in past studies are reviewed critically. A revised definition of Rhyopsocus is given, based in part on venation of macropterous forms. The structure of the complex Rhyopsocus phallosome is compared to that of the species of the genus Psoquilla Hagen. Two new species of Rhyopsocus are described, both from southwestern United States and known to extend into Mexico. The descriptions of Rhyopsocus maculosus Garca Aldrete, Rhyopsocus micropterus Mockford, Rhyopsocus texanus (Banks) and Rhyopsocus concavus Garca Aldrete are augmented with some new characters. A key to the brachypterous forms of Rhyopsocus species occurring in the area under study is presented. The question of whether the species dealt with here form a clade within Rhyopsocus is briefly discussed but not resolved.
44134353|A new species of Acropyga (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Formicinae) is described from Panama. The largest known Acropyga species in the New World, Acropyga oreithauma, new species is described and images are provided. Based on its morphology, A. oreithauma is likely closely related to A. exanguis and A. fuhrmanni. These three Acropyga are also known to enter into trophobiotic relationships with the same mealybug species, Neochavesia caldasiae.
44134354|The Bothroponera sulcata ant species complex is distributed in Afrotropical areas, including tropical and subtropical ecosystems and is part of a poorly known group of ants. The sulcata species complex now includes 10 species, including 3 new species, 2 taxa elevated to species status and 7 new synonyms: B. ancilla Emery, B. crassa Emery, B. crassior Santschi (= B. ilgii syn. nov., Pachycondyla (Bothroponera) crassa st. crassior var. andrieui referred here), B. kruegeri Forel (= B. asina syn. nov., = B. rhodesiana syn. nov.), B. notaula (sp. nov.), B. picardi Forel, B. pilosuperficia (sp. nov.), B. ryderae (sp. nov.), B. silvestrii Santschi (= B. kenyensis syn. nov., = B. nimba syn. nov.) and B. soror Emery (= B. lamottei syn. nov., = B. suturalis (syn. nov.). The main defining character of this complex is the presence of a metatibial gland; however, there are other characters such as the shape of the anterior clypeal border, mandible surface and shape, teeth number and posterior dorsopropodeal shape (broadly or strongly curved or angulated). Diagnosis, comparisons, illustrations, distributions and other information about the species are provided with a key for the worker caste.
44134355|Temnothorax allardycei (Mann) (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) is a rarely encountered ant known only from the Bahamas and South Florida. I found a total of only 24 site records of T. allardycei, six in the Bahamas and 22 in South Florida. Temnothorax allardycei nests in plant cavities, notably in dead vines and dead stems of sawgrass, Cladium jamaicense (Cranz). All records of T. allardycei for which I have habitat data came from relatively intact natural areas, a pattern that suggests that this species is native to both the Bahamas and South Florida.
44134356|Here we report on nut-nesting ant communities in the southeastern United States. We compared species diversity, ant abundance, and nut occupancy rates among sites in five states, and report the spatial dispersion of ant colonies in nuts in relation to colony-housing opportunities created by nuts and nest-site choice. Our results indicated that species diversity and nut occupancy rates do not differ among sites or states and that ant-occupied nuts are spatially aggregated across ant species, a pattern inconsistent with spatial segregation of species that might arise in a competition-assembled community. We tested the ability of artificial nest cavities ("Mobile Artificial Ant Pods", MAAPs) to attract ant colonies, a method for sampling the ant fauna in litter. MAAP occupancy rates were similar to occupancy rates for nearby nuts.
44134357|In July 2012, we sampled ant species in remnant and restored prairie tracts in the Platte River Prairies, managed by The Nature Conservancy of Nebraska. The sampling period coincided with TNC's July 2012 "Week of Insects", an event which involved both general public and invited expert participation, and was an opportunity for both education and citizen science. In four days of sampling, even under severe drought conditions, we encountered 22 species of ants. Fifteen species were found in never-plowed, remnant prairies, and four species were found only in them. Thirteen species were found on restored (planted) prairies, with three of these found only in the planted prairies. Four species were exclusively associated with mature cottonwood trees near the site headquarters.
44318744|Gerromorpha or semiaquatic bugs have the ability to walk on the surface of the water and occupy a wide variety of habitats. They are relatively well studied in the Neotropical Region, but some species are known only from the type localities or have many gaps in their documented distributions. In this study we examined specimens housed in the National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, and report new records for 17 species: Mesovelia bila, Hydrometra argentina, H. caraiba, H. comata, Limnobatodes paradoxus, Euvelia lata, E. mazzucconiae, Husseyella turmalis, Oiovelia cunucunumana, Paravelia conata, Platyvelia brachialis, Steinovelia virgata, Halobatopsis platensis, H. spiniventris, Ovatametra obesa, Limnogonus aduncus aduncus, and L. recurvus.
44318745|A new genus, Paradicodia, type species, Paradicodia eminentia, sp. nov. and 22 new species in ten genera and four tribes in the subfamily Coelidiinae from Peru are elucidated. These include the following: Paradicodia eminentia, P. bispiculata, P. lineata, Evansolidia semibulbata, Crassinolanus bulbatus, Dialodia undulata, (Coelidiini); Stalolidia prodignatia, Stalolidia oblongata, Hastalidia retrorsa, Docalidia multipenna, D. acinacea, D. unica, D. lunata, D. ata, D. soulierae, D. rodriguezi, D. trispinata, D. quadrata, D. vansweringeni (Teruliini); Sandersellus flexus (Sandersellini); Youngolidia undulata and Y. bifurcata (Youngolidiini). New records for Peru include the following species: Docalidia dentula (Metcalf), Dicodia germari Nielson, Megalidia elongata Nielson and Boliviela inflata (DeLong).
44318746|Only one species of the genus Agathomyia Verrall, Agathomyia shaanxiensis sp. nov., is described as new to science in Shaanxi. The genus Lindneromyia Kessel is newly recorded from Shaanxi with following four species: Lindneromyia brevis sp. nov., L. obtusa Han & Yang, L. taibaishanus sp. nov. and L. zhouzhiensis sp. nov. A key to the species of Lindneromyia from Shaanxi is presented.
44318747|Previously only two species of Chrysotus were known to occur in Guangxi of China. Here a revision of the genus from Guangxi is presented. Eight species are herein reported. The following three species are described as new to science: Chrysotus guangxiensis sp. nov., Chrysotus triprojicienus sp. nov. and Chrysotus xiaominae sp. nov. Three species are recorded from Guangxi for the first time: Chrysotus biprojicienus Wei et Zhang, Chrysotus shanxiensis Liu et Yang, and Chrysotus motuoensis Liu et Yang. A key to the species of Chrysotus from Guangxi of China is provided. The relationship of the two genera Dubius and Chrysotus is discuss.
44318748|Global interest in biofuels has resulted in the development of novel land-use practices for the production of cellulosic biomass. One novel land-use practice that has recently been developed is intercropping switchgrass (Panicum virgatum) between rows of planted loblolly pines (Pinus taeda). However, our understanding of how intercropping switchgrass influences loblolly pine flora and fauna is limited. Therefore, we evaluated the influence of switchgrass cultivation within loblolly pine stands on invertebrate communities. We detected 2,913 individuals (n = 1,172 and 1,741 in 2014 and 2015, respectively), encompassing 13 orders. To examine invertebrate community composition among treatments, we conducted metric multidimensional scaling (MDS) in R. Multivariate analysis determined that treatment had a significant (Pr(>r) = 0.01) influence on invertebrate communities. Furthermore, stable isotope analysis suggests that Orthopterans are not assimilating cultivated switchgrass (C species), but are instead assimilating C plant species, such as Rubus argutus (sawtooth blackberry). Results indicate that switchgrass intercropping may be a viable land-use practice for the co-production of cellulosic biomass and forest products and the maintenance of invertebrate communities associated with loblolly pine plantations.
44318749|Stenchaetothrips gaomiaoensis sp. nov. is described from bamboo in southwestern China. Stenchaetothrips bambusicola Mound 2011, collected from Poaceae grasses, is newly recorded from China. An identification key to the twenty-one species of Stenchaetothrips from China is also provided.
44318750|The Thailand species of leafhoppers in the genus Scaphoideus Uhler that are known at this time are discussed. This includes 19 previously described species are reviewed, with descriptions of 42 new species. A key to all 61 species is included, as well as a list of the previously described species, with the distribution of each in Thailand and other countries.
44318751|The genus Hilara Meigen is reported from Gansu for the first time with 10 species. The following ten species are described as new to science: Hilara acutiprojecta sp. nov., Hilara apiciacutata sp. nov., Hilara brevicercus sp. nov., Hilara curvicercus sp. nov., Hilara diebuensis sp. nov., Hilara dingae sp. nov., Hilara gansuensis sp. nov., Hilara lazikouensis sp. nov., Hilara quadrisetosa sp. nov., and Hilara zhouae sp. nov. A key to the species of the genus Hilara from Northwest China is presented.
44318752|In May 2016, we collected ants at 16 sites in the city of Tangier, Morocco, primarily in urban gardens and parks. We found a total of 38 ant species, including eight non-native tramp species, Cardiocondyla emeryi, Linepithema humile, Nylanderia jaegerskioeldi, Paratrechina longicornis, Pheidole megacephala, Strumigenys membranifera, Tetramorium bicarinatum, and Tetramorium caldarium. These eight plus Monomorium pharaonis represent all non-native ant species known from Morocco. Two of these species are not been previously known from Morocco: N. jaegerskioeldi and P. megacephala. We found N. jaegerskioeldi at five sites, suggesting that this previously unreported species may have an expanding population in Morocco. We found P. megacephala in a single park in Tangier. Competition with native Pheidole species may limit the spread of P. megacephala in Morocco. The only tramp species from the New World known from Morocco is the Argentine ant, L. humile, which we collected at 7 sites. This species, originally from South America, is an important ecological and agricultural pest in areas with Mediterranean-like climates, including not only the Mediterranean region, but also southern California, southern Africa, and southern Australia.
44318753|Two new species are added to the genus Armstrongium (dlinza and carolinae). The genera Silvanidium, Silvanidiella, Pondoidium, and Parasilvanidium are treated as subgenera of Eremidium. The nominal subgenus Eremidium (Eremidium) appears to be comprised of five species groups, here called Group A through E. The subgenus E. (Silvanidium) is considered to included only the type species, E. (S.) armstrongi (Brown). Of the three species previously placed under Silvanidium, aculeatum Brown and peninsulare Brown are moved to Silvanidiell and margaretae Brown is moved to a new subgenus Natalium. Pondoidium trilineatum Brown is placed under Eremidium (Pondoidium). The subgenus Eremidium (Eremidium) now includes 21 species, of which two are new. The subgenus Eremidium (Silvanidiella) presently includes 17 species, of which 11 are new. The subgenus Eremidium (Pondoidium) presently includes 10 species, of which 4 are new. The subgenus Eremidium (Parasilvanidium) presently includes one species, previously placed under Parasilvanidium. A new genus Zulutettix is described to include 4 new species: unicornis, entumeni, hluhluwe, and tarranti.
44318754|Eight species of the genus Hybos Meigen are newly reported from Wanglang National Nature Reserve, Sichuan. The following 3 species are described as new to science: Hybos basiseta sp.nov., Hybos jiangi sp. nov. and Hybos nigripedis sp.nov.
44318755|The fauna of Iranian Torymidae (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea) is summarized in this paper. In total 80 species from 2 subfamilies Megastigminae (10 species within 2 genera), and Toryminae (70 species within 16 genera) are listed as the fauna of Iran. Distribution and host data of species are given.
44318756|One species of the genus Agathomyia Verrall, Agathomyia yunnana sp. nov., is described as new to science in Yunnan. The genus Lindneromyia Kessel is newly recorded from Yunnan with the following four species: Lindneromyia argyrogyna de Meijere, 1907, L. clavata sp. nov., L. nuodengana sp. nov., L. wangi sp. nov. and L. yunlongana sp. nov. A key to the species of Lindneromyia from Yunnan is presented.
44318757|African weaver ants, Oecophylla longinoda (Latreille, 1802), are conspicuous arboreal ants, well known in the humid tropics of Africa. Weaver ants build large distinctive nest structures in trees by binding together clusters of leaves using a silk-like substance. Although many regard weaver ants as pests due to their bite, local people also use weaver ants for food, medicine, and as biological control agents. Here, I mapped the geographic distribution of O. longinoda based on >500 site records from 34 countries: Angola, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo-Brazzaville, Congo-Kinshasa, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tom and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. The documented range of O. longinoda is confined almost entirely within areas with Tropical (Group A) climates as defined by the Kppen-Geiger system: rainforest (Af), monsoon (Am), and savanna (Aw). This range map based on site records corrects inaccuracies in earlier published range maps, and allows prediction of areas where O. longinoda might be expected to occur, but it has not yet been reported.
44318758|Jassus flavostriata Melichar, listed in the genera Jassus (Evans 1955: 301) and Coelidia (Metcalf (1964: 49), was overlooked in the revision of the tribe Coelidiini (Nielson 1982). The species is relegated herein to the genus Lesinda McKamey, in the tribe Equeefini sensu Theron nee tribe Coelidiini sensu Nielson, with descriptions and illustrations of the male genitalia for the first time. Lesinda Mckamey is a replacement name for Selinda Theron 1986, preoccupied by Selinda Moore 1883. Lesinda bruggeni (Theron) is herein new combination for Selinda bruggeni Theron. A male syntype specimen, Jassus flavostriatus Melichar, is herein designated lectotype.
44318759|Tetramorium lanuginosum Mayr, 1870 is reported for the first time from Morocco. This exotic species was captured in a flower pot in the old city of Marrakech, bringing the number of non-native tramp ants reported in Morocco to 10 species. With this record, T. lanuginosum, originally from tropical and subtropical East Asia, is now known from all southern Mediterranean countries.
44318760|The dark rover ant, a species native to South American, is documented for the first time in Tennessee. This invasive species was found at one of eleven survey sites, suggesting that it is not yet well established in Tennessee.
44318761|The genus Diaphorus from Oriental Mainland China is introduced. The following three species are described as new to science: Diaphorus emeiensis Liu & Yang, sp. nov., Diaphorus suae Liu & Yang, sp. nov. and Diaphorus tenebricoflavus Liu & Yang, sp. nov. A key to the species of Diaphorus from Oriental Mainland China is presented.
