20035360|The ecology of the Ivy-leaved Water Crowfoot Ranunculus hederaceus was studied in the Netherlands, especially in the area of Schoorl. The species appears to be characteristic of contact zones between more elevated oligotrophic sandy soils and eutrophic (or polluted) small streams or small artificial running waters, or of stagnant waters strongly influenced by seepage phenomena, in which the periodic fluctuations in the water table do not exceed 2 dm. In the area studied, the species prefers a substratum consisting of a layer of sediment, one to several inches thick and rich in nitrogen, deposited on a sandy subsoil, in water that is usually only a few centimetres deep, remains rather cool in summer (its temperature not exceeding about 16C) and only rarely freezes up in winter. This is in agreement with its eu-atlantic distribution. The opinion held by several workers that the Ranunculetum hederacei must be classified under the Montio-Cardaminetalia is, in my opinion, unfounded. The Ranunculetum hederacei is probably a vegetation type belonging to the Callitricho-Batrachion and fits very well into an ecological series of vegetation types that can be arranged according to a syndrome of ecological characteristics of which the fluctuation in the water table is the most important. The constant association with Callitriche platycarpa is presumably characteristic.
20035381|The Federal Government of Nigeria is constructing a dam across the River Niger at Kainji (951N, 437E). When complete approximately 130,000 hectares will be inundated. An account of the climate, hydrology, geology, pedology, land-usage and vegetation of the reservoir site is given. The terrestrial plant communities are described in outline. The aquatic and marsh plant communities are described in more detail using the floristic-ecological method.
20035649|A method of classifying phytosociological data into non exclusive groups is described. It is an agglomerative, polythetic technique consisting of two stages: in the first stage, groups are formed and in the second, the groups are classified hierarchically. Both normal and inverse analyses of a set of data from limestone grikes in Bruce County, Ontario, are presented as an example of the application of the method, which, it is suggested, is effective in handling species of wide ecological amplitude and samples containing more than one element of vegetational mosaics. The application of Fourier analysis to the problem of determining the optimum number of groups in a classification is advocated.
20036769|The present investigation is an attempt at understanding the community structure and dry matter production of seven meadowlands in and around Srinagar. A great number of species have been recorded at sites subject to some kind of biotic interference like clipping, mowing, scraping, etc., though in moderate measures only. The maximum biomass (165 g/sq.m) is also obtained at sites with high biotic interference as compared to that at protected sites (37-42 g/m). Periodic clipping which enhances the vegetative spread of many grass species and forbs, helps in increasing the overall production at various sites. A direct correlation is observed between the importance value index and biomass of plants as the dominants contribute maximum towards the overall production at each site. The effects of varying shade on IVI of the constituent species as well as on the total production at different sites are discussed. The dry matter production under medium shade with high biotic interference is comparatively higher than that at exposed sites.
20145863|In a salt-marsh, which was ungrazed from 1958 to 1971, grazing was reintroduced in 24 out of 32 ha from 1972 onwards. Vegetation changes under these conditions were investigated. The area studied is part of a larger grazed area of ca. 110 ha, grazed with a stocking rate of 1.3-1.7 cattle, ha. from May to October. This allowed a comparison between vegetation development under continued ungrazed conditions and under the reintroduction of grazing. A quantitative comparison has been made, based on sequential detailed mapping in 1971 and 1976. The ungrazed areas shows a progressive succesion. Because of the erosive coast this is not the succession of a developing salt-marsh but rather a 'recovery' succession, after grazing was stopped in 1958. Drift deposits appear to play an important role. The grazed marsh shows successional trends in some areas, but in others signs of retrogressive succession were seen. The vegetation becomes more open, alpha- and beta-diversity increase and the vegetation develops in a more intricate pattern while some vegetation boundaries seem to become more distinct, especially on the higher salt-marsh. The large extension of Saginion maritimae types is remarkable and is probably caused by a combined effect of warm, dry summers and grazing. Further investigation is required to test whether local qualitatively different changes in communities are caused by different grazing intensities. The ungrazed area becomes more rugged, a process that can be effectively reversed by grazing.
20145864|Lists were made of the vascular plant species associated with Hierochlo australis (5 localities), H. odorata ssp. odorata (79 localities), H. odorata ssp. baltica (20 localities), H. hirta ssp. hirta (17 localities), H. hirta ssp. arctica (53 localities) and H. alpina ssp. alpina (5 localities). The localities were classified by the TABORD computer program to produce phytosociological tables. An ordination of localities and of selected species was also made using the ORDINA program. Significant groups of species were distinguished by using Fisher's exact test of probability. All the H. australis localities were in mixed forests. In general, the natural habitats of H. odorata spp. odorata are fens and grasslands in the mountains and on the seashores of Scandinavia, those of H. odorata ssp. baltica are on brackish-water shores of the Baltic, those of H. hirta ssp. hirta on sandy or gravelly river banks and lake-shores, and those of H. hirta ssp. arctica are on fens and grasslands in the northern boreal forests. These latter four taxa occur, in addition, in various anthropogenic, or semi-natural, disturbed and/or unstable habitats. Their scattered occurrence in S Scandinavia and C Europe is probably more related to sporadic long-distance dispersal, than to their being glacial relicts. The natural habitats of H. alpina ssp. alpina are exposed mountain heaths. It is suggested that H. odorata ssp. odorata, and possibly H. alpina ssp. alpina, survived the last glaciation in refugia off the Norwegian coast, and that H. odorata ssp. baltica and H. hirta ssp. hirta may have arisen by polyploidy within Scandinavia during the Post-glacial period. H. hirta ssp. arctica probably immigrated into Scandinavia from the east during the Post-glacial and H. australis from the south. The results are considered in relation to the views previously expressed in the literature and the analytic techniques used are discussed.
20145868|A study is made of the dune system at Tentsmuir Point National Nature Reserve, Scotland, using transects crossing the vegetation zonation. Principal Components Analysis and tabular ordination are used to analyse the data, and an attempt is made to relate the results obtained to the dynamics of the system. The effects of different management regimes are considered, and it is concluded that the establishment of pine on the area has the largest effect on the development of the vegetation. Reduction in grazing pressure by rabbits is found to increase species diversity slightly, but has no major influence as yet on vegetation development. While some information on the dynamics of the vegetation can be inferred, the problems involved in this are considered to be large, and the study raises a number of questions to be studied in greater detail. It is concluded that permanent plots would be the most effective method to employ.
20145869|A transect study of variation in eucalypt-dominated vegetation on the dolerite of the Eastern Tiers at 42S revealed two sets of species; one set being largely confined to the high altitude stands on the relatively continental plateau and the other being largely confined to the seaward slopes of the Tiers. Within each of these sets the eucalypts have overlapping distributions that relate to moisture availability, except for E. barberi and E. ovata which occupy sites with impeded drainage. The density of the large size-class trees increases with increasing inferred precipitation. However, recent fire and grazing history affects the density of the smaller size classes. A floristic classification of the transect sites proved similar to a classification based on dominance. However, there is no exact correspondence between understorey communities and the eucalypt dominants. Treeless vegetation and closed-forest dominated by Atherosperma moschatum also occur in the Eastern Tiers.
20145870|The dynamics of oligotrophic pastures were analyzed in the area of El Pardo (Central Spain), and related with geomorphological features and time elapsed since the last ploughing. A sampling of the area was carried out regarding these two factors. The data were subjected to correspondence analysis, which showed the progressive replacement of species related to succession, variation along slopes, with a tight interaction between both phenomena. The correspondence between vegetation change and slope geomorphology is closer as succession progresses.
20145871|In the mountainous rainy climate of the Serra Geral in Southern Brazil, peat bogs have developed, characterized by a cover of Sphagnum pulchricoma over peat layers, about 2 meters thick. In one of these bogs, located in the National Park 'Aparados da Serra', 950 meters above sea-level, vegetation, stratigraphy and chemistry of the peats were examined. The physiognomy and floristic composition of the vegetation show clear relationships with the andine and subantarctic region. Grasses, often growing as tussocks, (Agrostis, Calamagrostis, Briza) on peats, rich of minerals (Table 1) alternate with types of vegetation, poor of species and characterized by wideleaved tall herbs and ferns (Table 2). On sites with up-welling groundwater a vegetation is growing which resembles that of the hollows in raised bogs of Central Europe. It consists of Mayaca sellowiana, Eryngium floribundum and Plantago gigantea (Table 3). The rosette plants Eryngium pandanifolium and Eriocaulon ligulatum as well as the low-growing tree fern Blechnum imperiale are striking in their appearance. The abundant growth of the species, the concentration of their roots in the upper 20 cm of the soil as well as the very close C/N relation and the high conductivity values of the amorphous and well decomposed peats (Table 5) allow the conclusion that there is a great micro-biological activity in spite of the permanently high ground water level, thereby mobilizing the high N-reserves of the upper peat layer. An accumulation of peat similar to that of the raised bogs, does not exist. Finally the close relationship between the bog genesis and the questions about vegetation history of this region (grass land -- Araucaria-forest distribution in Southern Brazil) is discussed.
20037022|The forest vegetation of the northern Colorado Front Range was studied using a combination of gradient analysis and classification methods. A graphical model of forest composition based on elevation and topographic-moisture gradients was constructed using 305 0.1 ha samples. To derive the topographic-moisture gradient, stands were stratified into eight 200 m elevation belts, and then ordinated by correspondence analysis using understory (&lt1 m) data. Each of the resultant gradients was scaled against a standard site moisture scalar derived from incident solar radiation and topographic position. Except for krummholz sites, the vegetation defined gradients fit the moisture scalar closely. Once scaled, these gradients were stacked vertically, sandwich-style, to create the graphical representation shown in Figure 5. Gradient analysis and ordination (direct and indirect gradient analysis of Whittaker, 1967) are frequently viewed as alternative approaches for analysis of vegetation. With gradient analysis the axes are readily interpretable, but stand placement is often difficult and at times questionable. Ordination defines an optimal arrangement for species and/or stands, but axis interpretation is often impossible. With the present combination of methods, the interpretability of gradient analysis complements the precision of placement obtained with ordination. Forest vegetation was classified by dividing the gradient model into eight series and 29 types on the basis of similar successional trends in canopy dominants. On dry, low-elevation sites above 1 700 m Pinus ponderosa woodlands dominate. With increasing elevation or site moisture, tree density increases and Pinus ponderosa, Pseudotsuga forests prevail. At middle elevations on mesic sites forests of mixed composition occur. Pinus contorta forests dominate at middle elevations over much of the central position of the moisture gradient, though these are primarily post-fire forests. With protection from fire only a small percentage of sites retain dominance by Pinus contorta. Over the lower portion of its range Pinus contorta is succeeded by Pseudatsuga, while at higher elevations Abies lasiocarpa and Picea engelmannii can eventually achieve dominance. At high elevations on all except the driest sites Picea engelmannii and Abies lasiocarpa are exclusive dominants, both after disturbance and in climax forests. Pinus flexilis dominates on the driest high-elevation sites. Above 3,500 m forests are replaced by alpine tundra, often with a transitional krummholz zone. Structure and post-fire development were examined in the context of the gradient-based classification scheme. Three generalized types of the forest development were recognized as reference points in a continuum of developmental patterns varying with both elevation and soil moisture. On favorable, middle-elevation sites, trees become established rapidly after disturbance. Rapid growth results in severe overcrowding and competitive elimination of reproduction. As a consequence bell-shaped diameter distributions develop. Diversity and productivity appear to drop while biomass remains roughly constant. Following decades or even centuries of stagnation, the forests eventually breakup through mortality of the canopy trees, thereby allowing regeneration to resume. During this period of renewed regeneration, biomass, diversity, and productivity all show dramatic changes in response to the changing population structure (Fig. 9). This type of forest development can be found in forests dominated by Picea engelmannii and Abies lasiocarpa, Pinus contorta, Pseudotsuga menzeisii, Pinus flexilis or Populus tremuloides. On highest elevation forest sites or at middle elevations on the very driest sites reestablishment rates are greatly reduced. These forests dominated by Picea and Abies or Pinus flexilis gradually approach predisturbance levels of biomass, diversity and productivity, while regeneration remains at a roughly constant level. At lower elevations in the Pinus ponderosa woodlands, regeneration appears episodic, reflecting variation in seed rain and favorable conditions for seedling growth. Here, inter-tree competition is relatively unimportant and diameter distributions show irregular humps resulting from periodic recruitment.
20037026|The method known as Analysis of Concentration (AOC) is proposed as a tool to measure the predictivity of binary data for cover data. The application of AOC to structured tables of oak forests of Central Italy has proved that binary data are more predictive for cover than cover for binary data. The ordinations produced by AOC with binary and cover data are very similar and interpretable with similar results.
20037027|PHYTOPAK, a series of computer programs that facilitates the handling and analysis of large sets of phytosociological data is described. The programs are written in FORTRAN IV, and have been implemented on both IBM and CDC computers. The programs have been developed for use in the National Vegetation Classification, currently being undertaken in Britain, where a requirement for handling very large data-sets (up to 35 000 relevs with a total of over 3000 species represented) was the major requirement.
20037029|The age structures of both native and transplanted populations of the perennial herb, 'trout lily' (Erythronium americanum), were analysed and found to have age-independent mortality rates. Cohort survival was greatest in populations growing on hardwood forested flood plains (60%), less in populations from gently sloping terraces with pit-and-mound microrelief (53%) and smallest (45%) for colonies on slopes steeper than 15. The former habitat-type is the optimum for trout lily in Nova Scotia and in it the proportion of flowering bulbs can reach 35%. The second named habitat is widespread and characterised by fewer flowering bulbs (5-10%). In the latter habitat flowering bulbs are uniformly rare. Trout lily bulbs tend to be sterile until at least their eighth year. The high mortality rates of populations on steeply sloping, hardwood forested ground ensure minimal survival of bulbs beyond their sixth year. In the other two named habitats sufficient numbers of bulbs reach ages of 8 or 9 years for some to make the translation from the sterile to the flowering form. In all the habitats studied in Nova Scotia, propagation is typically by either runners or, less importantly, daughter bulbs, with the peak of activity in the bulbs third and fourth years. The plants of flood plains showed the greatest rates of vegetative propagation, by cohort, but many of the bulbs from colonies growing on steep slopes lacked runners or daughter bulbs. As all bulbs for the transplant experiments came from a single clone it can be concluded that trout lily plants in Nova Scotia have a sufficiently large genetic endowment for them to behave in the same manner as native populations of the species in the several habitats represented in the province.
20037030|Altitudinal changes in the vegetation of the Montane Forest Belt of Mt. Elgon, East Africa, were investigated by analysis of aerial photographs and by sample plots along two transects, one on a relatively wet, and the other on a relatively dry aspect. Classifications for both tree and herb/shrub plots show that the forests along the two transects become increasingly similar floristically with altitude. The total number of tree species recorded is greater for the transect on the moister aspect. The mean altitudinal range for tree species increases on both transects with altitude, while that for herb/shrub species remains constant. It is suggested that the upper altitudinal limits of many species are determined principally by temperature-related factors, while the degree to which species extend their ranges downwards is much influenced by competition. Structural heterogeneity is particularly well marked at altitudes corresponding to the bamboo zone on the wetter slopes and, even in the absence of bamboo, tree density here is much reduced. it is suggested that thicket-forming species, including bamboo, have enhanced competitive ability in intermediate altitude montane forests. Previously advanced classificatory schemes for montane forest vegetation in eastern Africa are examined in the light of the findings.
20037033|A quantitative terrestrial vegetation model was produced which consists of: (1) A world classification of important terrestrial plant growth forms (life forms); (2) A set of predictive variables representing the main climatic correlates of these forms; and (3) Empirically obtained hypothetical limiting values defining an ecoclimatic envelope for each plant form (relative to the climatic variables). The model was applied to a world climatic data-base (1 225 sites) in order to substantiate the hypothesized life-form status of the plant types by accurately predicting their actual world distributions. Particular combinations of forms are interpreted as vegetation formation types by reference to growth-form dominance considerations. Model validation was attempted by comparing predicted and actually occurring vegetation at independent sites on all continents. Prediction accuracy of 85% for individual plant types and 50% for vegetation structure (exact combination of actually occurring dominant forms) suggests that general macroclimatic conditions are much more important than any other factors (such as complex specific interactions) in determining general ecological structure on most sites.
20037040|In general, disproportionately heavy sampling of the ends of a gradient increases the interpretability of eigenvector ordinations. More specifically, correspondence analysis (CA) and detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) best reproduce the original positions of samples in simulated coenoclines when samples are clustered toward the ends of the axis. Principal components analysis (PCA) reproduces the original sample positions less well than either CA or DCA and shows no improvement as samples are increasingly clustered toward the ends of the axis. PCA and CA show less curvature of one dimensional data into the second axis when sampling favors the ends of the axis.
20037043|Three coniferous tree species (Pseudotsuga menziesii, Tsuga heterophylla, and Thuja plicata) at Capilano Canyon, British Columbia, were studied for their epiphytic communities. Quantitative data were obtained for fourteen bryophyte species by sampling at heights of 0.5 m, 1 m and 2 m above ground level. Scapania bolanderi is an abundant and widely distributed species; Dicranum fuscescens, Bazzania denudata, Lepidozia reptans and Hypnum circinale are also common. An environmentally uniform study area was chosen to minimize the effects of factors other than bark and elevation on the distribution of epiphytes. In general, tree species are similar in terms of their epiphytic assemblages, but ordination methods using quantitative data exposed compositional variation that may be explained by differences in microclimate and bark-type. In this respect, the results point the way to further studies to examine epiphyte associations in closer detail, and to relate these associations to specific factors in the microenvironment.
20037044|In natural vegetation, individuals of different species are more often than not distributed contagiously and arranged as patches. In experimental studies on interference between plant species, this aspect has been neglected. In the experimental approach presented here the vegetation (seven plant species characteristic of woodland clearings) consists of a mosaic of hexagons of 16 m each, in such a way that each monospecific plot of the honeycomb was surrounded by six hexagons planted with other species. In addition, there were separate hexagons without adjacent neighbours. In this way the fate of plants in plots, with and without the influence of vegetatively expanding neighbours could be compared. Ecological advantages of the method applied are a) a high degree of similarity with natural patterns of vegetation, b) the opportunity for the different species to consolidate their own microhabitat, which might have repercussions with regard to succession, c) the comparability of different monocultures with the corresponding units in the mixture. The species specific plant growth (and concurrent capture of nutrients) played an important role in the mechanism of interference (and subsequent succession). Allelopathic effects cannot be excluded.
20037047|Using TABORD five Schoenus ferrugineus associations have been distinguished from the literature. They are well distinguished by differential-species combinations and most of them are described earlier under identical names, e.g., the Primula-, Oxycoccus-, Myrica-, and Trichophorum-Schoenus ferrugineus ass. The Thalictrum-Schoenus ferrugineus ass. is a new syntaxon. They are further characterized by different floristic elements according to their geographical distribution. The Primula-Schoenus ferrugineus ass. is related to Central Europe, the Primulo-Schoenetum ferruginei from Oberd. (1957) 1962. All other associations discussed have no counterparts elsewhere in Europe. The shortcoming of this classification and the impossibility of a syntaxonomical ranking are emphasized. The variation in species composition and site conditions is elucidated by RA ordination. A complex soil moisture gradient is related to the differences in species composition between the Primula-, Oxycoccus-, and Myrica-Schoenus ferrugineus ass. Wet topogenous mire sites with peat formation and a rather low pH is typical of the Myrica-Schoenus ferrugineus ass., while the Primula-Schoenus ferrugineus ass. occurs either in moist soligenous mire sites or in topogenous sites with strongly shifting water tables and with muck (Anmoor) instead of peat. The site conditions of the Oxycoccus-Schoenus ferrugineus ass. are most similar to those of the Myrica-Schoenus ferrugineus ass. The Trichophorum- and Thalictrum-Schoenus ferrugineus ass. occur on soligenous mire sites.
20037048|Experiments were carried out on the tolerance to, and uptake of, nickel by three Iberian subspecies of Alyssum serpylliforium Desf. Two of these subspecies, the serpentine-endemic ssp. lusitanicum from Bragana, Portugal and ssp. malacitanum from Mlaga, Spain, are hyperaccumulators (&gt 1000 g/g in dried material) of nickel. Their possible ancestor, ssp. serpyllifolium (from Granada, Spain) was a non-accumulator of this element. Seeds of the two serpentine-endemics germinated extensively in nickel concentrations up to 12 000 g/g (1.2%) whereas ssp. serpyllifolium only germinated in nickel concentrations below 60 g/ml. Tolerance tests involving measurement of new root lengths of excised seedlings placed in varying nickel concentrations, again showed much greater tolerance of the two serpentinophytes. In both series of experiments, the order of tolerance was: ssp. lusitanicum &gt ssp. malacitanum &gt ssp. serpyllifolium. In pot trials involving seedlings of ssp. malacitanum grown in mixtures containing varying amounts of calcium, magnesium, and nickel, the most important finding was that plants will tolerate higher nickel contents in the soil when excess calcium is added. This is achieved by lowering the uptake of nickel. There appeared to be some concomitant reduction in calcium uptake in the presence of nickel, and some increase in uptake of magnesium. The resultant lower calcium/magnesium ratio in the plant, though not symptomatic of a favourable condition for colonization of serpentine soils, probably results from a mechanism which renders nickel innocuous to the plant at the expense of calcium uptake. It is suggested that the physiological characters of ssp. lusitanicum and ssp malacitanum are sufficiently different to support arguments for promoting the latter to full specific rank as has now been done for ssp. lusitanicum.
20145877|Certain neglected concepts for studying vegetation dynamics are reviewed, particularly the incorporating of temporal and spatial heterogeneity; examples are given. Few studies have been of sufficient length to allow partition of the various types of temporal fluctuation influencing vegetation composition. Studies of changes in spatial pattern with time are similarly few. The formation of patches of vegetation and their change with time (nucleation) may determine the entire spatio-temporal structure of the ecosystem, e.g. vegetation groves in arid zones. Simultaneous study of temporal and spatial heterogeneity is required. Future studies will necessitate higher standards of evidence than previously accepted. The practice of equating a few spatially separated sites having different periods of time since a specific disturbance should not be accepted in the absence of evidence that their potential vegetation dynamics has been similar during those periods. Permanent quadrats with an appropriate experimental design are needed to overcome these problems. The requirements to be met by such a design are discussed, including the role of location, contiguity, perturbation or synthetic experimentation and demographic measurement.
20145878|There is a brief review of models of succession: these are classified as verbal or descriptive, simulation, population dynamic, and Markovian. Many facets of the latter class of models are discussed, demonstrating that there are far more disadvantages to their use than apparent advantages. However, Markovian models do appear to have predictive ability, and it is also considered that the patterns of probabilities in Markovian matrices may have a role to play in interpreting opposing views on the mechanisms of succession. Data from the Breckland grasslands (Watt, 1960b) are used as an example.
20145879|Differences in vegetation dynamics over a period of two years along an environmental gradient of shading on a lawn are examined. 'Communities' (groups) recognized by numerical classification are correlated with degree of shading, season and differences between years by means of generalized linear model analysis. More of the variance is explained if environmental position is used instead of degree of shading as spatial distribution of a strongly competitive species (Trifolium repens) is confounded with shading. Transition probabilities are related to environmental position and season. Simulation with Markov matrices for each season and position demonstrate markedly different successions for different positions. These simulations have no predictive value however as accurate estimate of transition probabilities requires knowledge of the state of adjacent quadrats, i.e. individual observations of transition probabilities are not independent. Transition matrices are unlikely to be useful for predictive analysis of succession when spatial pattern is of significance in the community.
20145880|A subset of Stephens & Waggoner's (1970) data, spanning 40 years of recording at the same site, is analysed by AOC for trends in density fluctuations. The results suggest that the recording period is sufficiently long for trends to be detected. A dominant trend depicts density changes as simple monotone functions of time. Other lesser trends signify cyclic changes of different lengths. The fact that a dominant monotone trend exists is interpreted as evidenc of succession.
20145881|Attention is drawn to canonical analysis as a plausible model for analyzing vegetation succession. An assessment of the opportunities afforded by canonical analysis for this purpose is then made by reference to two applications of the method. The applications deal with characteristics of hydroseral processes and with the dynamic status of an area of lowland tropical rain forest. On the basis of these and other studies the conclusion is drawn that canonical analysis could contribute usefully in efforts to place the study of dynamic ecosystem processes on a more analytic footing.
20145882|A review of factors governing vegetation change in heathlands and grasslands is presented, with emphasis on soil factors. Climate, microclimate, fire, fauna, grazing by vertebrates, grazing by invertebrates, disease, dispersal, establishment, competition, allelopathy, stabilization, soil formation and podzolization are discussed with emphasis on inconsistencies and lacks in our present knowledge. Examples are mainly from NW European Calluna heath and related woodlands.
20145883|Through vegetation mapping in 1959 and 1979 of the eumediterranean Adriatic island of Lokrum (under nature conservation since 1948) a progressive succession could be indicated. Progression is most pronounced on former grasslands and garrigue, the latter still being assigned to the Orno-Quercetum ilicis myrtetosum. In the S part of the island an extension of the Orno-Quercetum ilicis typicum could be indicated on areas where the first map showed Orno-Quercetum ilicis myrtetosum. For further detailed quantitative investigations of dynamics and structure, permanent quadrats were established. Degradation phases, with typical own plant species, will be maintained through adaequate human interference, such as small-scale chopping and strictly controlled burning.
20145884|The use of permanent plots in representative sites of various phytosociologically defined stages of the Quercus ilex series in NW Corsica allows us to analyse the natural dynamical process occurring in the development sequence. The regular floristic analysis of stands and transects (mainly using a linear cover measure) during 5 yr not only shows variations of composition and structure but also results in a diachronic understanding of the temporal relations between the stages. The study of forest plots (structure, number and development of seedlings) enables us to generalize the principle of ponctual and cyclic self-transformation of climatic and subclimatic stages.
20145885|From 1969-1977 an experiment was carried out in a Quercus coccifera garrigue, to follow the herbaceous species development after removal of the woody vegetation. Controlled variables are cutting date and fertilization. Flora and vegetation were regularly registrated on 18 out of 63 plots in a factorial design. Two types of results are obtained: 1. Five groups of species regarding their response to the disturbance are distinguished: disappearing, strongly decreasing, constant, strongly increasing and newly appearing species. In general, the floristic composition develops towards an equilibrium. 2. The number of species and the vegetation density are increasing with fertilization, although this increase is not proportional to the quantity of fertilizers. A method is suggested to calculate the grazing value and the corresponding sheep density, based on flora and vegetation knowledge. The results indicate that the stock can be multiplied by 3, at least, and by 7, at most, from the 3rd year after the beginning of the experiment.
20145886|To analyse the impact of fire on plants, an experiment has been set up in a Quercus coccifera L. garrigue near Montpellier. The objectives of the study were to follow the changes of the vegetation after fire in relation with different prescribed burning regimes: a fire every six years, a fire every three years and a fire every two years, lit at two different seasons: end of spring or beginning of autumn. In spite of the frequent burning, the main floristic composition remains constant on the whole. The characteristic dominant taxa remain present. The changes observed are associated both with the frequency and the season of burning. An increase of fire frequency leads to an increase of the number of taxa which cannot persist in the plots. The dates of burning essentially have an essential effect upon the number of taxa which tend to settle: the increase of floristic richness is much more pronounced for the autumn burnings. This relative stability is explained by the fact that most of the taxa present before the burnings regenerate principally by vegetative means, while taxa appearing during the year after each burn are rapidly eliminated by the plants which existed before the fires.
20145887|The results of observations and measurements on five units of steppic vegetation in the mediterranean arid zone of S. Tunisia are presented in this paper. These units were totally protected against big herbivore grazing using barbed wire fencing during seven consecutive years. The steppes in question are composed of small shrublike chamaephytes. Annual plants appear when there is sufficient rainfall. This vegetation has been subjected to extensive overgrazing and is in general, degraded. Our objective was to study regeneration of the natural vegetation of five steppe types in order to recommend an optimum period for protection: 1) a steppe on a gypseous crust resulting from overgrazing of the Zygophyllum album -- Anarrhinum brevifolium association; 2) a steppe on a sandy, gypseous, rocky-surfaced colluvium resulting from overgrazing of the Rhantherium suaveolens-Artemisia campestris association, Atratylis serratuloides sub-association; 3) a very open steppe on a deep, gypseous, sandy colluvium-alluvium (sierozem) having the appearance of a post-cultivated grazed Plantago albicans facies of the Rhantherium suaveolens association; 4) a steppe in good condition on a deep, sandy-soiled plain representative of the Rhantherium suaveolens -- Artemisia campestris association; 5) a post-cultivated facies of the Artemisia herba-alba -- Arthrophytum scoparium association on a deep piedmont, loamy, and gypseous colluvium soil, traditionally cultivated with cereals. The effect of protecting these steppes was mainly the increase in cover of the perennial species. The cover of the steppe vegetation on sandy soils increased more than that of the steppes on loamy or gypseous crusts; this must be taken into consideration for pastoral management. The results also show that a protection period of 7 yr is not sufficient in an arid zone for new species to appear nor for succession to reach a next stage.
20145888|Vegetation development following goat removal in a tropical grassland with a Mediterranean rainfall seasonality on leeward Hawaii is reported from two permanent monitoring sites. The two sites are equipped with experimental exclosures against feral goats. The sites were monitored annually for a decade (1971-80) for changes in cover by species. The vegetation changes reported relate to both inside- and outside-exclosure developments. Four dynamic categories were recognized among the grassland species following goat removal. These are the decreasers, the increasers and the persistent species. The latter were divided into stable and oscillating persisters. Attention was drawn to the oscillating persisters, as exemplified by the endemic vine Canavalia kauensis, and to the absence of any correlation of its oscillation pattern to the variation in year-to-year rainfall. It was concluded that the oscillation pattern resides in the population itself and can be attributed to its life-cycle phases. It is suggested that synchronized life-cycle dependent death in local populations is an important dynamic phenomenon in certain plant communities. This phenomenon may be considered as separate from phenology and succession, but of similar significance in understanding the processes of vegetation dynamics.
20145889|Invasion of natural vegetation in Australia by exotic species has become pronounced in the last 150 years of European settlement. Changes in the frequency and type of fire have been a major disturbance to the dynamics of natural vegetation, and this disturbance has allowed rapid spread of exotics, particularly in urban and semi-rural regions. Less obvious disturbances include changes in nutrient levels and hydrological regimes, which also allow exotic species to establish and spread, at the expense of native species. Permanent plots established in various vegetation types show a decline in diversity which is associated with an increase in invasion by exotic species. Possible management strategies, designed to maintain the natural vegetation, which can be postulated include control and change of fire regime, removal of exotic species before seed-set, and the active introduction of native plants adapted to disturbance.
20145890|The paper describes studies of post-fire succession in heathland vegetation in N.E. Scotland, dominated by Calluna vulgaris. A preliminary model (Legg, 1978) suggested good agreement between simulation of succession on the basis of a Markov chain and observations of stands at different stages of development after burning, at least in the earlier stages. Vegetation transitions are currently being recorded in permanent plots on burnt areas. First results confirm the view that (a) the post-fire succession has the properties of a Markov process, (b) this type of model remains valid when constructed from records of actual transitions, rather than data obtained by inference from evidence of transition. Comparing successional events in stands where, at the time of burning, the Calluna population was in pioneer-, building-, mature- and degenerate phases, shows that transition matrices generally agree with the Markov hypothesis, but not in the case of stands where Calluna was degenerate when burnt. The composition of establishing vegetation 1 year after fire is not confined to species normally associated with the early stages of succession, but reflects the composition of the stand before burning. Redevelopment after fire is described in terms of an initial floristic composition of species with strategies permitting early re-establishment, selected by the recurrence of the fire factor. Subsequent transitions represent changes in their relative abundance due to differing growth properties and competitive interactions. This interpretation applies only under conditions of recurrent incidence of fire (normally once in 10-15 yr). If fire does not recur, Calluna stands pass into the degenerate phase, where changes in the nature of relay floristics may come into play (e.g. with tree colonization).
20145891|The vegetation dynamics of heathlands in Brittany have been followed for three years in areas subject to fire in August 1976. The pre-fire vegetation had been analysed and mapped before its destruction. The structure of the community and the processes taking place in it (in terms of biomass, primary productivity, phenology, mineral nutrition and food value) had been examined. The redevelopment of the canopy was studied by the point-contact method along permanent line transects. This semi-quantitative study permits calculation of the relative frequency of each species and, from this, its cover. The growth form of each species and the stratification of the community are also indicated by this method. Permanent plots were also used to record changes in the vegetation, by means of a census of individuals and records of the development and growth strategy of each species. The plots were located in homogeneous areas, or on bare soil around seed parents in order to examine seed dispersal and seedling establishment. These two methods yielded detailed information on the nature of the secondary successions following fire in the heathlands of Brittany.
20145892|The main part of the heathlands in the Paimpont area (Morbihan, and Ille-et-Vilaine, France) was burnt during spring and summer 1976. The pattern development of the vegetation was followed using permanent plots. The results presented concern the three first years: 1977, 1978 and 1979. One year after burning the area was sampled along a 128  1 m transect (samples in 50  50 cm contiguous quadrats) to situate this area in relation to its general vegetational environment, and sources of recolonizing diaspores. Permanent plots were established on a 8  16 grid, with 1 m squares. In order to choose the site of these permanent plots, a 5  5 grid was situated with 10  10 m contiguous quadrats. The spatial autocorrelation index calculated from the proximity relation by block (Chessel & Gautier, 1979) was used to describe the monospecific patterns. The interspecific analysis used either a Principal Component Analysis when most data were percentage cover, or Correspondence analysis when the data were individual counts, frequencies or abundance-dominance coefficients. Analysis of vegetational development allows a distinction between two species groups: -- Ceratodon purpureus and Polytrichum piliferum have complementary densities the first year, the two species jointly occupy the whole grid in the second year, then regress in the third year, Polytrichum piliferum in small patches, Ceratodon purpureus in extensive patches. -- Polytrichum juniperinum, Polytrichum formosum, Agrostis setacea and Ulex minor establish regularly but very slowly. The first species is unstructured, the three others have a disjointed aggregate pattern whose diameter grew over the three years of the analysis. One year after burning the pattern was very strong and essentially due to the heathland species (Ulex minor and Agrostis setacea) which developed on moss in which Polytrichum formosum showed the strongest pattern. This scheme tended to be disturbed in the second and third years.
20145894|The year-to-year changes in the field- and bottom layers were studied by non-destructive recording of cover percentage on permanent plots in a young Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) stand, subjected to experimental treatment. The treatments were: control (0), daily irrigation (I), fertilization once a year (F) and daily irrigation plus fertilization five days a week (IF). The cover of the total field layer of the 0-, I-, F- and IF-plots increased during the period of study from 51, 40, 47 and 50% in 1973 to 70, 79, 86 and 92% in 1980. The bulk of this increase consisted of Vaccinium vitis-idaea with the exception of the IF-plots, where the increase especially during the later part of the period of study was due to Chamaenerion angustifolium and and to some extent, to Rubus idaeus. The cover of the total bottom layer of the 0-, I-, F- and IF-plots changed from 63, 59, 54 and 41% in 1973 to 68, 90, 37 and 36% in 1980. The most drastic change took place in the IF-plots, where the composition changed from almost exclusively lichens to bryophytes. Pohlia nutans and Pleurozium schreberi were recorded in substantial amounts filling the gap left by the vanishing lichens. There were no conclusive changes on the I-plots as compared with the 0-plots. The cover estimates, however, were generally more substantial. The overall decline in the bottom layer on the F-plots was mainly due to a decrease in the cover of Pleurozium schreberi.
20145895|It is now difficult to manage the semi-natural groupings of heathland because of the tendency for succession towards forest stages. Several experiments were conducted in the Hautes Fagnes region (Belgium). After the vegetation was mapped, plots were treated by mowing, burn-beating, and burning. The changing floristic composition was followed from 1972 to 1980 in permanent quadrats. Burn-beating is an excellent method of management for old heath, because it reestablishes the properties of the heath ecosystem.
20145896|Grassland dynamics in a degraded disclimax grassland dominated by Danthonia caespitosa Gaudich. are examined using both demographic and multivariate approaches is an experiment designed to determine the effect of grazing intensity and exclosure on pasture dynamics. The experiment ran for 20 years from 1949 to 1968, using permanent quadrats at 3 grazing intensities and within exclosures. Demographic studies of some perennial grass species demonstrated markedly different responses to grazing; Danthonia caespitosa was unaffected by grazing but responsive to seasonal rainfall differences. Enteropogon acicularis survived only on protected sites. Numerical classification of total species set (121 species) for six observation periods demonstrated that community types were sensitive to differences in winter rainfall, and time since the start of experiment. Principal component analysis of permanent quadrat observations for individual years demonstrates quadrat trajectories which confirm this and indicate progressive divergence of the successional trends of the grazed and ungrazed quadrats. Repeated analysis on grazed quadrats only, shows that three components of pasture dynamics can be recognized; these are trend (succession?) and seasonal differences, each of which account for about 20% of the variance, and differences due to soil heterogeneity in the experimental paddock (8% of variance accounted for). No effect of grazing intensity was detected. Multivariate techniques can provide a clear partitioning of types of dynamic behaviour present in grassland communities. It is concluded that partitioning of environmental heterogeneity prior to demographic studies would increase their sensitivity.
20145897| For a number of experiments on secondary succession on different soils (lasting 9-23 yr) calculations were made of: a) rates of floristic change as measured with the community coefficient of Srensen (CC), b) rates of cover-based change by the percentage similarity coefficient of Dahl & Hada (PS), c) rates of change of stages (dominant growth forms). In the calculation of CC and PS the first year of observation and the preceding year have been used as reference years for a given year. Rates of&gt 65% have been ranked as very rapid, rates of 35-65% as rapid, rates of 5-35% as slow, whereas rates of &lt5% (similarity &gt95%) indicate temporal stability. Rapid changes of CC are to a large extent confined to the first year only, rapid changes of PS may occur in the following years too. After 5 yr, in many cases CC and PS are as high as ca. 90%, but the values do not exceed 95%. The examples show that rates of change are a useful tool in the description of the succession process. 
20145898|In 1963 a set of seven treatments  three replicates, situated in East-Flanders (Belgium), was sown with a seed mixture of eight grass species and one clover species. Seven combinations of mineral fertilizers are administered annually. Samples are taken in winter applying the 25 sq. cm-frequency method of De Vries. F% is calculated for each species from presence-absence data. To allow an efficient description of the annual changes in the different treatments, some multivariate ordination techniques are applied, namely R-mode Principal Components Analysis and Analysis of Correspondences. Some aspects of diversity are considered by means of four indices as well as a dominance-diversity curve. Results obtained are discussed comparing them with the F% changes of the most important species in three treatments. Some problems on species reduction are also examined.
20145899|Results are presented of an eight year old management experiment in a wet Arrhenatherion elatioris grassland on a heavy clay soil. The treatments were different cutting dates and frequencies or N (PK) fertilizing combined with June cutting. The treatments June with or without a second cut in September or only one cut in August gave a relatively stable vegetation. Cutting in early May produced a grassy dense sward and a second cut in September stimulated, moreover, some low growing dicots. The biomass that is produced after a first cut in May or June prevents lower growing species from persisting or spreading. Cutting later than the beginning of August produces a vegetation dominated by some rougher species. The number of species increases from 52 per 100 m to 55, when the vegetation is cut in May, May and September or June; never cutting caused a decrease to 38 per 100 m. The annual dry matter production in two cuts is 5.6-6.1 ton/ha, fertilizing increased this level with 1.0-2.0 ton. Up till now, the number of species has not diminished. The results are discussed in relation to some data on growth physiology and growth strategy of plant species. The importance of a second cut or grazing in September is demonstrated and explained. Some practical implications are given for management aimed at maintaining or regenerating this grassland type.
20145900|In the valley of the Dutch brook 'Drentsche A' formerly fertilized lots came under hay-making without fertilization practices. The vegetation at the beginning of the experiments varied depending on the intensity of former agricultural practices. Clustering revealed unidirectional successional lines in all lots with relatively large changes in the first four years. Changes still occur after 30 years of unfertilized hay-making. Changes concerning vegetation types as well as increasing or appearing and decreasing or disappearing species suggest a diminishing availability of nutrients as the main environmental process. Therefore it is concluded that after a period of fertilizing some restoration of plant communities associated with former agricultural practices is possible. Variation already present within lots nearly always remained and in one lot a divarication of successional lines could be recorded, probably correlated with hydrological differences.
20145901|Experiments with rainfall on a dune grassland near Oostvoorne, the Netherlands with Festuco-Galietum as the main syntaxon are described. Both increase in rain through additional watering and decrease in rain through catchment are presented to plots belonging to the xerosere and the mesosere. Clear changes in the floristic composition are the result, even after only two years. Typical Festuco-Galietum species are promoted by high rainfall, species of open habitat such as Corynephorus canescens are promoted by drought. The results are discussed against the background of long term permanent plot observations in the area and a relation with rabbit grazing intensity is supposed.
20145902| Some diversity and niche amplitude parameters were applied to rangeland pastures of the Central Iberian Peninsula and to their succession stages after the periodical ploughing typical of the traditional management of these areas. Four different slopes within a large area of undulating terrain were selected for the monitoring of succession as they contained the characteristical geomorphological pattern of the area (denudation, transport and accumulation sectors). If we consider the total entropy theorem, H(E.P) = H(E) + H(P/E), the total entropy of the slope H(E.P) and the entropy of species H(E) increase as succession progresses. As the value of the entropy of the sampling plots conditioned by the species H(P/E) is affected by the number of plots utilized, we employed the expression A = H(P/E)/log number of plots, similar to Pielou's index for niche amplitude, W = H(P/E)/H(P). This values decreases with succession, indicating that plant species tend to occupy more definite sectors along the slope. The number of low entropy species
20145903|The thermophilous communities of calcareous rocky slopes in Radotn Valley are rather stable and present a species composition very similar to that described by Domin (1928). Some changes in their structure may nevertheless be observed due to the changing complex of human impact. The worst influence in the last 20 years is the air pollution of a cement factory. The following changes were observed on permanent plots at various distances from the source of pollution: 1. Complete disappearance of a number of species. 2. Decrease in frequency of other species and increase of frequency of a few of the most resistant species, occupying the free niche. 3. Decrease in cover of the entire community. 4. Acceleration of soil erosion, disintegration of the soil profile, enormous accumulation of Ca cations accompanied by decrease of many other mineral elements. These results show that the effect of cement factories on the environment should not be underestimated in comparison with more serious damage caused by other air pollutants.
20037054|This paper reports the results of a phytosociological and gradient analysis of the vegetation occurring along an altitudinal gradient from Turi (3100 m) to Cerro Len (4250 m) on the western flank of the Andes in northern Chile (2206-2222 S; 6815-6807 W). Along the transect, the total cover of vegetation ranges from 2.5% at the lower end to 35.7% at 4000 m altitude. Four major physiognomic zones, including six associations are recognized within the transect studied: (1) The 'Pre-Puna' belt (2700-3150 m), characterized by a sparse cover of xerophytic subshrubs, including two associations: Acantholippia deserticola-Franseria meyeniana, which occurs over the sedimentary sands around Turi, and Franseria meyeniana-Helogyne macrogyne-Helianthocereus atacamensis, restricted to ravines and canyons. (2) The 'Puna' belt (3150-3850 m), physiognomically dominated by shrubs and presenting the highest vegetational cover, including the: Fabiana densa-Baccharis boliviensis, and Junellia seriphioides-Baccharis incarum-Lampaya medicinalis, associations. (3) The 'High-Andean' belt, localized above the 'Puna', including the Fabiana bryoides-Adesmia horrida and Oxalis exigua-Mulinum crassifolium associations. (4) The 'Subnival' belt, a high mountain semi-desert with a poorly developed vegetation. Only three species occur at the upper vegetational limit (4380 m). The phytosociological scheme proposed in this paper can be paralleled with that by Ruthsatz (1977) for the eastern flank of the Andes. A marked contrast in species richness and phytosociological complexity between these Andean regions is pointed out. Lower species richness of the Chilean transect is related to the presence of the Atacama desert, which extends from the coast up to 2700 m in the study area.
20037055|To be able to describe the structure and functioning of Miscanthus sinensis grassland, its floristic composition, life-form spectra, stand productivity and dry matter allocation were studied. 43 species were to be found during the growing season of 1976. 29 species, and 345 individuals per 1 m, were observed in the sample areas in September. The values for standing crop of constituent species have been arranged in ascending order. The dominant Raunkiaer life-forms were the hemicryptophyte and geophyte. The stand was characterized by erect and tufted forms in Numata's system of growth form classification. The standing crop of the whole stand decreased from April to June, then increased from mid-July. The maximum standing crop of 3346 g
20037057|Vegetational changes over a series of geological boundaries through an area of manganese mineralization on the western side of Groote Eylandt, have been analysed using pattern analysis techniques. Hierarchical classification of data on the frequency of occurrence of plant species in the transects through each of the vegetational zones gave five ecologically identifable groups. The degree of interrelatedness between the sites was emphasized by ordination of the groups, incorporating minimum spanning analysis. The vegetational groups represent developments under different environmental conditions in which differences in water relations and the presence of an impermeable barrier in the soil profile were important. Comparison of the soil nutrient contents of the sites indicated major differences in the total manganese concentration in the topsoil. Even though manganese levels in Eucalyptus tetrodonta leaf tissue were high, no evidence could be found for an iron-chlorosis induced by a low Fe/Mn ratio. The levels of other nutrients in eucalypt foliage were similar to those measured elsewhere. In each vegetational grouping the frequency of occurrence of termite species varied according to site and food type. The role of termites in nutrient cycling needs to be further studied. The closed-forest maybe the climatic climax on the acid red earth soils since in the absence of fire it extends into the surrounding Eucalyptus tetrodonta open-forest. On the Sandstone and Manganese areas the stable state of the vegetation is likely to be composed of the Australian element of the vegetation modified to various extents by fire.
20037058|A simple graphical method, COREM, is described for the comparison of quantitative resemblance measures. The basis of the method is the ordered comparison case series (OCCAS) composed of relev pairs ranked in decreasing order of similarity. For a given OCCAS, values of given resemblance functions are calculated and plotted in COREM. Delta resemblance (DR) is defined as the rate of change between two neighbouring relev pairs in the OCCAS. High mean delta resemblance (
20037060|A survey was undertaken in S.W. England to study epiphyte differentiation between free-standing oak (Quercus petraea) and ash (Fraxinus excelsior) trunks. Epiphyte cover was measured on 23 trees in 87 15  15 cm quadrats positioned on the north, east, south and west faces of each trunk at a height of 1.52 m. Measurements of 20 environmental factors were made at each quadrat position. Analysis of the vegetation data by reciprocal averaging showed that floristic variation is continuous and corresponds only partially to phorophyte identity. Rank correlation coefficients were calculated between the floristic axis obtained by reciprocal averaging, and individual environmental factors including a variate, obtained by principal components analysis of the environmental data, which expressed the major differences between the oak and ash environments. The most significant correlation was obtained with bark pH. Values of bark pH for oak and ash samples overlapped considerably although the mean for ash (5.1) is higher than for oak (4.7). It is concluded that the epiphytic flora is responding to variations in bark acidity or some closely related factor and not to other, closely phorophyte dependent nutritional factors. Factors influencing bark acidity in oak and ash are briefly discussed.
20037061|This paper describes the application of quantitative density analysis to black and white aerial photographs for vegetation survey using a Quantimet 720 image analyser. The photometric data are analysed using both a supervised and an unsupervised classification strategy. Floristic data, collected from an independent ground survey, are used to categorise those vegetation classes of interest against which the photometric data classifications are assessed. The preliminary results obtained suggest that broad classes of vegetation types may be distinguished automatically from their grey scale distribution patterns.
20037062|An approach for deciding final clusters of a dendrogram is provided. Whether developed by agglomerative or divisive cluster analysis, decisions start at the 2-cluster level of the dendrogram. Cluster density is viewed as compactness and, therefore, is related to interindividual distances. The two clusters and the intercluster space are seen as treatments in analysis of variance with intercluster space as the control treatment. Distances in an interindividual matrix are considered measures of response to the three treatments. The F-ratio indicates if the treatment means differ; the least significant difference indicates which ones are different. The example provided explains our approach in searching for optimal clustering levels.
20037070|Forest regeneration in the vegetation complex of the submontane belt in the Southern Alps involves the active participation of Ostrya carpinifolia woods and their wood edge communities. The corresponding syndynamical processes are described by employing phytosociological, phytogeographical and ecological methods. It is concluded that: (i) The communities of the grassland-wood transition are of major importance in the successional developments in this man-made vegetation complex. (ii) Many species occurring in the region of the deciduous forests of Eurasia find their refuge in such transitional communities and are supposed to play an important part in the succession. (iii) Ostrya carpinifolia is considered as an early successional tree species.
20037072|Certain of the problems associated with the use of size-class ordinations to identify successional pathways are explored. Examples of such ordinations, where it was attempted to minimize a number of the interpretational dangers noted by Austin (1977), are presented for two tropical rainforest types from Papua New Guinea. By limiting the analysis to groups of sites which show a high degree of homogeneity, and by using the non-linear ordination method Continuity Analysis (Noy-Meir 1974) a simple successional interpretation of the species-in-size-class data was possible. As heterogeneity increases so does the number of possible interpretations of the resultant size-class-in-space pattern.
20037073|To study secondary successional sequences and mechanisms, denudation experiments were conducted in Central Japan with the removal of dominants, laying burned soil on the surface, and turning over the top- and subsoil. The early stages of secondary succession were predictable as to species and life-form composition. The biomass -- the degree of succession (DS) relationship and the DS-isopleth showed phasic changes within a seral stage. The rate of succession (RS) was also calculated. In the establishment of weed communities with crops, the critical time for weeding, the allowable limit of weeds, etc. were found in relation to the distribution pattern, adaptive strategy of species, interspecific and intraspecific density regulations. In seasonal denudation experiments, the month of denudation affected the regular phenological pattern of weedy species, although normal replacement of summer annuals by winter annuals was usual. The population dynamics of buried-seeds in the soil, the adaptive strategies of the dominants and the role of allelopathy were discussed as the main forces of secondary succession in its early stages.
20037075|Considerable changes in the vegetation can be observed in the altitudinal and latitudinal gradients in central Chile, from 400 to 3400 m above sea level and from arid to subhumid regions (31-34 S). The composition of the vegetation, the relative proportions of life forms, and seasonal activities of the species, help to define bioclimatic areas where climatic data are scanty. The presence or absence of certain species is also useful in the evaluation of human impacts on mountain ecosystems. Woody species decrease in number and size toward higher elevations, where they tend to have more restricted distributions. Cold adapted deciduous forms predominate at high altitudes. The replacement of species is generally gradual; abrupt changes observed at certain elevations might be related to the duration of the snow cover. At the northern latitudinal limit the vegetation is mostly formed by small drought adapted deciduous shrubs. The number of species increases towards the South, where several cold adapted deciduous trees are found. Human impact is especially conspicuous on the foothills of the mountains. Nevertheless, though no real timberline exists in this area, evidence suggest that small forests did once exist, at least in some sites at higher elevations.
20037077|Principal components analysis and trend surface analysis have been applied to a transition mire with the aim to characterize the vegetation pattern and reveal the major trends of variation. The first three PCA axes were ecologically interpretable, viz. the 1st and 2nd as a complex soil moisture gradient and the 3rd axis as a gradient in the amount of peat in the soil. The ecological interpretability of the 1st axis of PCA after VARIMAX rotation, is unclear because some outlier samples caused a reorientation of the axis. TSA appeared to be useful for the clarification of joint patterns of species groups, which were major contributors to ordination axes in terms of component loadings. The smooth effect of TSA was briefly discussed in connection with the influence of extremes upon the outcoming trend structure. The use of four-variable TSA including a time series is emphasized for the study of spatial-temporal relations and ecological succession.
20037080|The variation in species composition of plant communities has been described by means of the Gaussian distribution (relations between plant populations and environmental variables) and by linear equations (mutual interference between mixed populations). An important presupposition is the existence of a theoretical population, covering 100% of the soil surface. A numerical approximation of the parameters can be obtained by means of an iterative procedure. This technique has been applied to heath vegetation. A small sample has been used to demonstrate the algorithm. The cover of Calluna vulgaris, Erica tetralix and Molinia caerulea could be explained to a large extent from phosphate and ground water table. A comparison of the results with those of experiments by other authors showed a reasonable similarity. The linear coefficients of interference as means to describe relations between mixed plant populations in a local area have been evaluated by means of dynamic simulation.
20037091|A method is described for fitting a model in which site characteristics are represented by a set of orthogonal axes, while the probability that a particular species will be present, and its quantity if it is present, are each related to the axes of the system by symmetrical hypersurfaces with an optimum, decreasing asymptotically to zero as conditions depart from the optimum. The method needs initial estimates of the positions of the sample sites within the axis system. Given these starting points, they can be progressively improved by an iterative procedure. Results are reported of an extensive series of tests using artificial data, and of an analysis of field data from brigalow woodland in Queensland.
20037092|The long term effect of tourist trampling on a high altitudinal grassland (Caricion curvulae) in the Tyrolean Alps was investigated. Even under slight trampling the frequency of sensitive species decreases. The most sensitive species were found to be fruticose lichens, followed by mosses, some forbs and broadleaved grasses. Tolerant to trampling are the dominant species Carex curvula, and Ligusticum mutellina, which do not disappear completely even at a tourist frequency of 150 tourists per metre per day. Trampling increases soil bulk density moderately but has no marked effect on the soil water content. Comparison with high alpine sedge heath vegetation in North America shows a surprising uniformity of this vegetation type in response to trampling and also indicates that the common generalisation that alpine ecosystems are fragile and sensitive to disturbance does not hold true in this context. Furthermore these results represent evidence against the theory that ecosystems with low diversity are much more sensitive to arteficial impact than ecosystems with high diversity. However, if even the most resistant plants which are the dominant sedges are destroyed completely the rate of recovery is very low and may last for a long time. In the case of Carex curvula this is supported by the fact that it has very low seed production and grows mainly vegetatively. The rate of spread of the rhizome system of this species is 8 mm in 10 years. Similar figures may apply for the sedge species dominating in the alpine vegetation of North America. Thus fragility of this vegetation in regard to trampling does not mean low tolerance but low regeneration.
20037095|Two radiometers measuring reflectance factors have been used at a height of 1.50 m above some grasslands in C. France. The results show that both spectral data are sensitive to the photosynthetic activity of the grassland. Measurements made in April, May, June and July show that grasslands have quite different spectral behaviour according to soil conditions or to grazing level. Grasslands on dry or wet soils may be separated from those of normal soils for which overgrazing and trampling affecting the growth of species, are shown by the different spectral values. Such 'on the ground' remote sensing measurements may then be proposed for evaluating the range of growth and development of different grasslands.
20037096|A survey is given of the floristic composition and geographical distribution of limestone grasslands assigned to the Mesobromion erecti, in Western Europe. This survey is based upon 800 vegetation relevs from various investigators throughout the area. Relevant tables have been summarized into a synoptic table with 30 columns. Each column represents a community described as an association or a subassociation. The synoptic table shows a division into a NW European group (Ireland, England, Denmark, and South Sweden) and a Central-W European group (Germany, The Netherlands, Belgium, France, and Switzerland). Associations belonging to the former have, as a rule, a smaller distribution area than the latter. In the latter group only two associations can be distinguished: Mesobrometum erecti and Antherico-Brometum ass. nov. The Mesobrometum is widespread and includes many subassociations. The Antherico-Brometum shows a transition towards the Xerobromion erecti. According to Barkman et al., (1976) the often used name Gentiano-Koelerietum has to be seen as a not-correct synonym for the Mesobrometum erecti. The Mesobromion grasslands can, in general, not be divided based upon their agricultural management system. An attempt is made to interpret the gradual transition in floristic composition of the limestone grasslands from NW to SE, with climatological data.
20037097|A diagram of the vegetation structure of Khakasia, made up with the use of a generalized large-scale map, shows the main variety of the phytocoenoses. It is particularly important for the analysis of the vegetation of mountaineous regions. Differentiated areas of phytocoenoses are used to distinguish the region borders in fractional geobotanical regionalization. Khakasia belongs to three geobotanical provinces of the Altal-Saijan geobotanical region -- provinces of Minusinsk depression, West Saijan and Kuznetsk Alatau. In Khakasia, geobotanical districts are distinguished by altitudinal zonation and phytocoenotic structure. The vegetation cover is comprehensively described in a special monograph.
20037100|Structure and productivity of a Primulo-Caricetum curvulae on the S slope of the 'Hohe Tauern' range (Austrian Central Alps) were studied in the course of the Austrian M A B-6-Programme. The study site showed no distinct relief, and its vegetational cover, rich in lichens, is characteristic of large areas of the region. The vegetational pattern and the snow melting figures of the site were mapped 1:200. The maps as well as the phytomass yields revealed clear correlations between snow cover and distribution of phanerogamic species. Even a few days' difference in the time of snow melting caused a significant separation of species with different environmental claims. Rosette plants, including some Nardetalia species, prefer snow cover in winter and a humid and relatively favourable microclimate in summer, whereas the bunch grasses dominated on windswept ridges with shallow soils. Carex curvula was distributed very homogeneously all over the study site. A surprising result concerns the phytomass distribution of the lichens: Although the degree of cover of Cetraria and Cladonia species seemed to be higher on ridges with 'open' cover of phanerogams, their phytomass store was positively higher at sites with good snow shelter in winter.
20037101|Data on the occurrence of species with fleshy diaspores and on breeding birds were collected in three abandoned orchards, resp. 8, 11 and 24 years after abandonment. Most of the 41 phanerophytes and vines with fleshy diaspores are also found in the borders of the orchards, the more so if the number of years since abandonment increases. Most species have small seeds and red or black coloured diaspores, most of which ripen in autumn. The frequent species show a characteristic distribution pattern in relation to the distance of the fruit trees: high densities near the trunk and uniform decrease with distance. This is explained by the behaviour of frugivorous birds. No correlation was found between distribution patterns and soil conditions. Age structure of colonizing species shows a distribution conforming an inversed J curve in the more recently abandoned orchard. The main conclusions are: 1. Pioneer trees are attractive for frugivorous birds and may act as nuclei. This supports the facilitation model. 2. The distribution of diaspores by birds helps to homogenize the species distribution on the regional level but at the site level individual differences in nucleation cause a heterogeneity.
20037102|The ruderal communities of the orders Sisymbrietalia and Onopordetalia from the western part of Slovakia have been subjected to numerical classification and ordination. The ordination techniques proved to be a useful tool in the elucidation of the cluster pattern as well as in the detection of the main environmental variation underlying the floristic variation within the data. Results obtained with numerical techniques and traditional syntaxonomical classification have been compared. The similarity between these results is low at the level of the orders. This incompatability is explained by the differences in the weighting of the species in the course of the classification process and by the addition of non-floristical criteria that often occurs in syntaxonomical classification according to Braun-Blanquet. The highest value has been observed at the 3-clusters level (both orders and the Malvion neglectae). High similarity among the results of the numerical techniques have been observed, particularly in the group of space-dilating clusterings (Ward's method, Complete linkage clustering and McQuitty's similarity analysis). Average linkage clustering produces the most diverse result. The Malvion neglectae appeared as a separate group in all numerical techniques adopted. This suggests the upranking of its syntaxonomical position. The Bromo-Hordeion murini turned out to be a very heterotoneous syntaxon.
20037118|The extensive salt marshes in the plains and depressions of the western Mediterranean desert of Egypt were classified into three habitat types: A with shallow water table and high salinity, B with relatively deep water table and high salinity, and C transitional habitats in which salinity and water table are no controlling factors. Fourteen vegetation types were distinguished, each dominated by one or two species. The dominating life forms are chamaephytes in sites of high salinity, and therophytes in sites of low salinity. Spatial and temporal variations in the standing crop biomass were pronounced. The accumulation of material started during spring and reached a maximum in autumn, when photosynthetic activity was maintained to account for transpiration losses. There was a general trend of increasing salinity and concentration of different ions from habitat type A to habitat type C through habitat type B. The periodical variation in the water table was insignificant, while a significant drop in salinity and the concentration of different ions was detected in spring, which was attributed to the diluting effect of rain water during that season. Most species exhibited clear distribution patterns and their abundance varied significantly along gradients of different factors. Simple correlations between the compositional gradients or the distributional behaviour of species and salinity or the concentration of individual ions were generally low, while correlations with combinations of ions in the form of ratios (notably sodium and potassium adsorption ratios) were higher. During the early stages of succession the building up of soil and the decrease in salinity are the most important factors while at more advanced stages, soil texture and calcium carbonate content become more decisive.
20037121|Numerical classification methods can simulate strategies of intuitive classifications. This paper considers two different intuitive syntaxonomic schemes suggested for stagnant eutrophic fresh-water communities with a view to identifying which among the commonest numerical methods of classification fits the two intuitive schemes best. Comparison of classifications using an information function and discriminant analysis revealed that the different numerical methods simulate different intuitive schemes, but the results of the numerical classifications are always judged superior. Two new syntaxonomic schemes optimizing the sharpness between the syntaxa are proposed.
20037124|The development and current status of mapping the vegetation of Brazil is discussed. This includes the manner of portraying the vegetation on maps, especially with regard to physiognomy and structure, the floristic composition and ecological relations. A slow beginning has given way to a rapid though uneven development. Recent government efforts tend to correct this.
20037125|A computer program package of six programs for vegetation classification is described. The package includes raw field-data input, automatic and user sequencing modes, final table and synoptic table preparation which are 'camera-ready' and also allows the user the option of ordinating by means of DECORANA.
20037127|A method of sampling and analysis is proposed to detect pattern parameters in plant populations from two-dimensional data. The use of aerial photographs to find the coordinates of trees and the measurements of plant-to-all-plants distances yields conditioned probability spectra which can be interpreted in terms of pattern parameters. Two artificial populations and a set of real data have been analysed to test the accuracy of the method.
20037129|Using 48 permanent, 0.52.0 m quadrats, changes in species composition and cover were followed in an oldfield abandoned after plowing in the spring of 1960. Twenty years of data collected since then show the succession to be individualistic, that is, composed of broadly overlapping population curves through time. In general, the population curves exhibit long, persistent tails, indicating that, through this time span, succession is a process in which species that are present for much of the time become dominant at different times. Invasion and extinction are not the major mechanisms of community change. Bi- or multi-modal peaks were discovered in some species, but there is no clear explanation of such patterns yet. Many species which are important later in the sequence invade early. Information on the biologies of representative species from early, middle, and late portions of the sequence are correlated with the population patterns. In particular, the mode of dispersal, life cycle, germination behavior, and assimilation requirements are related to species positions. However, there is need for coordinated, comparative study of species strategies as well as experimental study of species interactions in order to more fully understand the mechanisms of this succession. The patterns discovered in this oldfield are compatible with contemporary concepts of succession as an organism-based phenomenon, in which probabilistic gap creation and filling are critical.
20037135|Pattern analyses were made in several limestone grasslands of Belgium. Vegetation has been sampled in continuous transects. Monospecific patterns are defined by means of two non-parametric indices; multivariate analysis (reciprocal averaging) completed the analysis. The following kinds of pattern are described and explained: random, aggregate, clump, gap, stationary density variation, non-stationary density variation, gradient and many complex patterns. The multivariate analysis leads to a careful phytosociological study of the transects and to the definition of floristically homogeneous regions. Some particular points of pattern analysis, the problem of vegetation sampling and some perspectives are discussed.
20037137|Major dimensions of ecological segregation of tree species in cool temperate Europe and E North America appear related to (a) soil pH, (b) large scale 'succession' including topographic sequences of changing moisture stress, and (c) intolerance versus tolerance of canopy competition as involved in 'gap-phase' dynamics. Genera tend to have similar average positions along these dimensions in the two subcontinents. E North American genera that were probably never present in Europe, and the few opposites, tend to be southern and are concentrated on dry or basic soil. The cause of this trend may involve the isolated expansions of dry climatic areas since the early Tertiary. E North American genera that became extinct in Europe after the mid-Pliocene are typical of habitat intermediate between dry-acid and moist-basic, though generally more moist-acid than dry-basic. These genera also have few species and little overall habitat width. Severe restrictions of their habitats may have occurred. Also, difficulties of migration to and from refugia are suggested by the generally heavier seed of extinct genera and those with strongly southern ranges in Europe or with few species compared to E North America. This relationship is apparent within small winged, medium fleshy and large nutty fruit classes. However, there is little difference in geographic restriction between these classes. Carpinus, Alnus, Corylus, Taxus, Pyrus and Sorbus reach 100-1000% greater height in Europe. There are no opposing differences of this magnitude. These trees may be ecological substitutes for extinct Liriodendron, Liquidambar, Carya, Tsuga + Thuja, Diospyros, and a group with smaller fleshy fruits, respectively. There are other intrageneric differences in height, seed weight, niche width, longevity, etc., that deserve further attention.
20037139|Phenological observations were made on 122 tree species in a subtropical humid seasonal forest in north-eastern India. The forest had a high proportion of evergreen compared to deciduous species. Leaf-fall of most of the tree species coincided with the dry season. Flushing started towards the end of the dry season for a majority of the tree species, the degree and period of leaflessness varying with the species. Leaf production in the overstorey species extended over a longer period compared to the understorey species. For most of the species, flowering coincided with leaflessness. Proportionately more overstorey species flowered during the dry season and wet season flowering was more characteristic of understorey species. A majority of the species produced fleshy fruits during the wet season. Fruits, produced during the dry season, were mostly dry.
20037141|Spectra on life form, leaf size, leaf persistence, flowering season, and shade tolerance of trees in different vegetation types occurring within the north-western catchment of the river Gola in Kumaun Himalaya are presented. The flora of Quercus leucotrichophora, Quercus lanuginosa and Quercus floribunda forests is phanerophytic, that of Pinus roxburghii and mixed forests therophytic. The grassland vegetation is characterized by the largest percentage of hemicryptophytes. The flora of the whole area, is therophytic. The biological spectrum for the entire Kumaun Himalaya is characterized as therohemigeophytic. Among the various altitudinal zones, the tropical has a preponderance of phanerophytes, the temperate and the alpine of hemicryptophytes. The observations on leaf size indicate that with the exception of Pinus roxburghii forest, in all vegetation types, the species with microphylls are greater in number. In this region, the vegetation expression is evergreen, although the tree flora has a considerable content of deciduous elements. In all the forests, the flowering period in most of the trees is vernal. On the basis of relative density, the greatest proportions of adult trees in the Pinus roxburghii and Quercus lanuginosa forests are shade intolerant, while in the mixed and Quercus leucotrichophora forests maximum trees are intermediate in shade tolerance. With the exception of the Pinus roxburghii forest, all the forests exhibit the dominance of trees which are shade tolerant at the seedling stage. On the basis of relative density, all forest types, except for Pinus roxburghii forest, have 74.5 to 100% trees with the potentiality of vegetative reproduction.
20037152|The present study provides preliminary assessments of the effect of protection and controlled grazing on the vegetation composition and phytomass in a Mediterranean desert ecosystem, 80 km W of Alexandria. Plots were fenced in 1974 and 1977, and different degrees of grazing pressure (no grazing, 25 and 50% of the grazing pressure freely practiced by the inhabitants) were applied. Changes in density, cover, frequency, phytomass and the phenological sequence of species were recorded and compared to those of the same species outside the fenced plots. Density and cover of perennials, frequency and presence of annuals, and total phytomass increased as a result of protection and controlled grazing. The arrangement of stands along ordination axes correlated with the degree of grazing pressure, which indicated that the distribution of species in the study area was more related to overgrazing than to the factors of the physical environment.
20037154|The plant communities on serpentine are named, classified and briefly described. Vegetation specific for serpentine belongs to the Violetea calaminariae, the class of communities on heavy metal soils. Other individual associations occur on serpentine soils but these are part of more general classes. The relationship of the separate vegetation units with the soils and their range in climate are outlined.
20037155|A study of the floristic composition of the plant communities of the Lomas was carried out in the Coastal Range of Arequipa, Peru. Data on the seasonal and elevational variation of those communities was obtained by monthly censusing a 20-meter circle sampling stations established at 100 m intervals from 300 to 1 000 m of elevation. The 80 recorded plants belong to 60 genera and to 20 families. Dominating life forms are Therophytes and Chamaephytes. Four vegetational zones (xeric, subxeric, mesic, and submesic), are separated by significant differences in the number of plants of each zone. Considering the entire Lomas transect, no significant statistical differences among the seasons were found. The floristic relationship among the altitudinal samples was found to be a reflection of a moisture pattern. The persistence in the Lomas of a mesophytic flora could be the result of a continuous adaptation to the fogginess and reduced solar radiation of this particular zone in a desert area.
20037158|In the first part, an overview of the history of palynological research in Switzerland and particularly in the Grisons is given, with a map showing all investigated areas in the Grisons. The second part deals with the significance of the pollenanalytical research in the Grisons, namely, the history of vegetation during the Late and Post Glacial, climatic fluctuations and applications in geomorphology, archaeology and forestry research. Finally, some results concerning the history of vegetation during the Late and Post Glacial are discussed.
20037159|Editing of community data matrices is complementary to analyzing data by multivariate techniques of classification and ordination in the overall task of data analysis. A computer program, DATAEDIT, is described that can perform numerous editing functions, including data transformation, deletion of certain species or samples, deletion of rare species, deletion of outliers, separation of disjunct sample groups, reordering of the species or samples of a data matrix, and the formation of composite samples or of sample subsets. DATAEDIT can use the information in a nonhierarchical or hierarchical classification, and includes its own internal routine for reciprocal averaging ordination.
20145908| This paper reports on a detailed phytosociological analysis of forests in the NW catchment of the Gola River in Kumaun Himalaya, 29 19-29 27 N and 79 32-79 42 E. Fourteen sites and 56 stands at elevations ranging from 1 200 to 2 523 m and covering the following five forest types were investigated: Pinus roxburghii, mixed, Quercus leucotrichophora, Q. lanuginosa, and Q. floribunda. The basal cover of the forests differed according to slope position and aspect. The three oak forests had more basal cover than the other two, and Q. lanuginosa had the most. The performance of individual tree and shrub species and the number of saplings and seedlings differed according to slope position and aspect. The mixed forest had the greatest tree diversity, and among the others diversity increased with increasing basal cover. The diversity of trees, saplings, and herb layer was greatest on aspects with intermediate temperature and moisture conditions; whereas that of shrubs and seedlings increased towards the cooler (and wetter) and warmer (and drier) exposures. There was a positive relation between the diversity of shrubs plus seedlings and trees plus saplings in P. roxburghii and mixed forests; whereas this relationship was inverse in the three oak forests. In general, the dominance-diversity curves for the tree layer followed a geometric series conforming to the niche pre-emption situation in communities of low diversity. Among the forests, the regeneration was best in Q. lanuginosa and worst in Q. leucotrichophora. 
20145909| The study area is at the southern limit of the beech area, between the rivers Rhne in France and Ebro in Spain. From an analysis of the occurrence of beechwoods in this region and the pluviometric climate, it appears that part of the beechwood is found in a dry climate, which is still mediterranean. This argument seems sufficient to justify the existence of a 'mediterranean' beechwood, at least on a climatic level. Beechwood when occurring in a dry climate has special characteristics: -- The development of the wood differs with the climate. Young beeches need shadow in a dry climate; they can grow in full light in a moist climate. -- The floristic composition is different. -- The understorey of dry woods is less structured than that of moist woods. -- The genetic structure as measured in the enzymatic system Px is polymorphic in the dry and monomorphic in the moist conditions studied. It would be interesting to verify if the characters noted in a dry mediterranean climate are also present in dry atlantic or continental beechwoods. Since the mediterranean climate is drier and more unfavorable to beech than other climates, the particular characters of 'dry' beechwoods will be more pronounced near the Mediterranean. 
20145910|Ecosystem succession and development of biological turnover are analyzed in a succession series from solonchakous meadow to meadow steppe in the forest steppe zone of Western Siberia. Characteristics of flow processes, biological turnover, and functional and structural diversity of ecosystems are considered. From the initial stages of succession to the final ones the intensity of abiotic flows drops, the degree of openness of the ecosystem decreases sharply and the role of biological turnover grows. The reserves of chemical elements in biomass, net primary production and biogeocenotic activity are maximal at the intermediate stages of succession. Humus reserves in soil increase from the initial stages of succession to the final ones. The diversity of soil processes is maximal at the initial stage of succession, the diversity of life form types, cenotic groups and ecological types of plants at the intermediate stages, and species diversity -- in the final stage.
20145912|The essence of the contradiction between traditional ecological complexity-stability hypothesis and recent theoretical results is clarified. The distinction between resilience and resistance is stressed. The possibilities of field verification of May's model are discussed. No satisfactory method for estimation of connectance and mean interaction strength in plant communities has been found. Relation between these parameters and stability in real communities remains an open question. The relation between connectance and stability (resilience) in purely competitive model communities is more complicated than May's rule predicts. The certain value of connectance having been achieved, stability increases with increasing connectance. We assessed the positive relation between species diversity and resistance, and negative relation between species diversity and resilience in plant communities during old-field succession in xeric habitat. But there is no causal relationship between species diversity and both kinds of stability. Resistance and resilience of the plant communities studied were determined primarily by life history strategies of constituent species. The results are interpreted in terms of Grimes' life history strategies and imply the validity of Gleasonian, population-centered explanation of community phenomena.
20145918|This study reveals disjunct distribution patterns of certain plant species on zinc-rich soils in the Zawar mines region near Udaipur. Ten plant species have high constancy and fidelity values on zinc-rich soils in comparison to normal soil. The plant community composed of these species has been named Impatiens balsamina-Triumfetta pentandra association. As Impatiens balsamina is the most characteristic species on metal dumps, it can be considered as a local indicator for the metal zinc.
20145919|Editing and other manipulations of phytosociological data are considered parts of a more comprehensive data management program. The topic is reviewed against the background of an increasing number of presentations in Vegetatio. It is observed that the newer editing programs do not add anything new to the already existing battery of programs. Yet, there is a need for further discussions of some risks in data manipulations, notably a priori deletion of relevs and species transformation of field scores, and incorporation of suitable devices in the packages available. Also, the evaluation of classification results and the allocation of new material to existing classification systems need more attention. So do the problems concerning the production of structured phytosociological tables, as outcomes of multivariate data treatments.
20145920|Current methods for the determination of the minimal area of a phytocoenosis are compared. A new method is described. It is based on the increase in average quantitative similarity between plots in series of nested plots of increasing size in relation to species richness and dominance relations. A simulation model composed of coenotic molecules sensu Moravec is developed from which these relations can be deduced. Both a quantitative and a qualitative minimal area are derived in this way. The analytical minimal area is then defined in relation to the largest of the two minimal area values, because in this way both the species richness and the dominance relations will be represented. Some examples of grasslands and heathlands are presented. Some further investigations are suggested to improve the approach and to link it with pattern and dominance-diversity studies.
20145922|This paper gives a description of the vegetation of the Boyd Plateau, an area of relatively high altitude at the western edge of the Blue Mountains and 180 km w of Sydney, New South Wales. The plateau is approximately two hundred metres higher than the main mass of the Blue Mountains. The vegetation, which is mainly forest, with small areas of heath, mallee, exposed granite and bogs, is described in detail. The forest vegetation was observed to contain seven different groupings or units of eucalypts. It was observed that these units are almost always dominated by two species of Eucalyptus. The units can be distinguished by total floristic composition in varying degrees from the other units. The species and vegetation units found on the Boyd Plateau are compared with nearby areas of Australian vegetation as described in the literature. It was found that most of the descriptions that are available lacked comparable detail and that there has been little uniformity in the application of a phytosociological system of vegetation classification by Australian plant ecologists. The physiography, geology and climate of the plateau are described and the distribution patterns of the vegetation broadly related to these key habitat features.
20145925| Different parameters of diversity and spatial niche amplitude (Pielou, 1975, Pineda et al., 1981 b) have been used to describe the spatial organization of mediterranean grasslands in Central Spain. A slope sampled by 480 contiguous 8  8 cm quadrats proved to have a homogeneous floristic distribution when it was divided into 160 parts and maximum heterogeneity when divided into 4 sectors. These sectors corresponded to different geomorphological zones of the slope. The complexity of vegetation distribution on the slope was reflected by differences in organization -- measured by diversity parameter A = H(P/E)/log N (number of plots) between the parts obtained by division. The presence of low-entropy species -- specialists -- and high entropy species -- generalists -- was related to the different scales of slope organization. The spatial distribution of plants was compared for different successional stages. Multivariate analysis of sampling plots confirmed previously identified organizational characteristics and clarified the nature of transitions between communities of different floristic composition or structure. 
20145934|IAHOPA, an overlay program package performing intersection analysis and information analysis has been applied to a large data set of relevs of beech woods in the Apennines (Italy) completed by several authors following the Braun Blanquet approach. The results have been treated by several numerical methods testing classification efficiency and predictivity. Ecological indicator values have been used to test for predictivity. The classification proposed by Gentile has been confirmed in its main lines. However 2 new associations (Polysticho-Fagetum and Digitali-Fagetum) and 12 new subassociations are described. Furthermore the Veronico-Fagetum Montacchini 1972 has been recognized also for the Apennines. The clusters corresponding to the association level could be classified in two main alliances: Geranio nodosi-Fagion and Geranio striati-Fagion as suggested by Gentile, however their syntaxonomical justification should be based on numerical comparisons of the data from the entire area of European beech woods.
20145936|A comparison is made between floristic and structural-physiognomic classifications of a tropical dry, semi-evergreen forest and thicket vegetation of south-eastern India. The classifications are strikingly similar in their main groupings which are ecologically meaningful; the differences between the classifications are virtually limited to allocation of some stands to different subcommunities. It is concluded that the use of structural-physiognomic criteria allows a detailed and ecologically significant classification of vegetation. Fairly advanced calculation facilities are necessary, however, to reach such a classification, since the structural-physiognomic differences between the resulting groupings are largely of a quantitative and not of a qualitative nature. This is a consequence of the general occurrence in all stands of the vegetation of the very great majority of the characters used in this study.
20037169|The use of mathematical methods based on Shannon's entropy function is proposed for the evaluation of the consequences of sampling unit size and for the study of vegetation succession. The concept of diversity is extended to sets of phytosociological relevs under the term florula diversity. It is shown that Shannon's entropy as well as two other related characteristic functions can express the local behaviour and overall relationships of species. Characteristic areas are defined in terms of the maxima and minima of these functions. Several study areas yielded the data which are used in the examples. Some theoretical problems of the methods are discussed and a computer, written in FORTRAN, is described.
20037170|A model of a 1/12th ha forest stand, FORET, generated 10 000 years of simulated species succession. Approximately the first third of these results were analyzed by principal component analysis as if they were collected field data to give the trajectory of the community particle in a collapsed species space. The ordination axis orientation was performed on a dispersion matrix and correlation matrix between species. In both cases, however, the eigen vectors were applied to the data matrix which had not been transformed to unit species variance. This facilitated comparison of species dispersion and correlation structure; it emerged they were very different. Correlation structure gave large weights to understory species while dispersion emphasized the dominant overstory species. This implies a decomposition of simulated stand behavior into overstory and understory, even though such decomposition was not formally built into the model. This decomposition would seem to pertain to real vegetation. Principal component analysis was able to express insightful differences between data structure with and without the unit variance transformation implicit in the correlation matrix. This flexibility of the ordination method proved valuable in uncovering unsuspected ordering principles in the model. Complex simulated data allow the ordination technique to demonstrate its capacity to generate new hypotheses, which hypotheses can then be simply validated by a return to the structure of the model but with the hindsight of the analysis. The generation of new hypotheses is not possible if the simulation is of a simple coenocline; on the other hand, ordination of test field data does not allow the simple validation of new hypotheses, for in the field there is not a defined algorithm to which the researcher can return.
20037172|Three approaches to the description of eucalypt forest vegetation are described. Using presence/absence data (81 sites, 129 species) an agglomerative, hierarchical classification method based on information analysis produced ecologically meaningful groups. Quantitative measures of the dominance of the principal trees were back-plotted onto the two-way classification table to define communities in terms of their canopy composition. A good relationship was found and variations in this are discussed. Direct gradient analysis of communities was done by plotting the classified sites onto altitude/aspect axes. This proved useful in interpreting the groups as mappable units. The environmental range of the main trees was defined by plotting their importance as relative basal area on these axes. Indirect gradient analysis by principal co-ordinate analysis of sites and species using presence/absence data proved disappointing. Whilst emphasizing the inherent continuum character of several classification groups, the analyses appeared to suffer from non-linear distortion and did not suggest unambiguous relationships with any direct environmental gradients or resource gradients. The vegetation communities of Tidbinbilla Nature Reserve are briefly described and related to the local climate and geology. Classification and direct gradient analysis emerged as the most valuable aids to mapping and the hierarchical nature of the first may allow systematic simplification at smaller scales.
20037174|Old field succession in Oklahoma has been reported to involve four stages of development: pioneer weeds, annual grass, bunch grass, and mature prairie. This sequence has been the basis for a number of analyses of grassland structure and function, but has never been documented on a single site. We used multivariate techniques to study succession on three permanent plots with different initial plowing treatments in a central Oklahoma grassland. Only two of the four hypothesized stages could be identified: pioneer weeds and mature prairie. The intervening vegetation development was heterogeneous and unpredictable. Convergence was evident in only a general manner in that all plots are currently being invaded by shrubs and some tree species. Thus, succession on these plots has advanced beyond prairie to shrub-grassland and we predict that upland forest trees may eventually dominate the site. Succession from pioneer weeds beyond prairie to shrub-grassland has been very rapid. Fire suppression may have contributed to these rapid vegetation changes. Finally, no trends in diversity, evenness, or total number of species were evident during succession.
20037179|A survey of the xeric shrublands of Pacific coastal North America from San Francisco to El Rosario (Mexico), including the inner Channel Islands, was conducted using 99 sample sites of 0.063 ha size. TWINSPAN classification and DECORANA ordination confirmed the existence of two plant formations, distinguishable physiognomically: coastal sage scrub and coastal succulent scrub. Within coastal sage scrub, four floristic associations were recognized: Diablan, Venturan, Riversidian and Diegan. Within coastal succulent scrub, two floristic associations were defined: Martirian and Vizcainan. These associations occur in distinct geographical regions following the coastline, with the Riversidian association occurring in the basin inland from Venturan and Diegan regions. Their locations are strongly correlated with differences in evapotranspirative stress regimes. The Channel Island sites show affinities to several of the mainland associations. The Venturan association can be further subdivided floristically into two subassociations, dominated by Salvia mellifera and S. leucophylla respectively. These subassociations which are coextensive geographically at a regional scale, typically do not intermingle at a local scale but often meet along sharp boundaries in the landscape. The dominant species segregate by moisture preference, S. mellifera preferring coarser-texture soils and more southerly aspects than S. leucophylla. Richness and equitability of these sites are depressed relative to other xeric shrubland sites, reflecting the fact that the two subassociations partition the Venturan flora into substantially non-overlapping subsets of species. This segregation of associates between the two Salvia dominance types strongly suggests biotic influence of the dominants on subordinate species, perhaps mediated by allelopathy. This biotic interaction, leading to relatively strong floristic subassociations segregating independently in the landscape, would provide an example of the holistic community structure referred to by Clements and his followers, embedded within a larger pattern of continuity in species distributions.
20037181|Distributional patterns of C plants were investigated in 4 study areas located in se Arizona: granite slopes in the Mule Mountains, limestone slopes in the Mule Mountains, calcareous bajada (alluvial plain) below the Mule Mountains, and limestone slopes in the Huachuca Mountains. Cover data for all vascular species were obtained from 238 0.1 ha (20  50 m) sample quadrats located over ranges of elevation and topographic position within the study areas. Overall, 69 C species representing 6 angiosperm families were encountered. C species accounted for 13.5% to 22.3% of vascular species within the study areas. C species frequency in quadrats (on the basis of all species or of grasses only) increased from mesic to xeric community types in all study areas except the calcareous bajada. Similar, but less consistent, trends were evident in the relative cover contributed by C species. In two of the study areas (granite slopes in the Mule Mountains, limestone slopes in the Huachuca Mountains) regression analyses revealed statistically significant trends of C species frequency and relative cover along environmental (elevation/ solar-irradiation scalar) and compositional (reciprocal averaging ordination) gradients. A lack of consistent trends on limestone slopes in the Mule Mountains may be the result of grazing and/ or recent invasion of low-elevation limestone areas by a Chihuahuan Desert flora dominated by C dicot shrubs. The calcareous bajada below the Mule Mountains was studied less intensively, but its flora was found to contain the highest frequency of C species of the 4 study areas. In contrast, C cover on the bajada was low, presumably as a consequence of heavy grazing pressure on the grasses. The results of the present investigation support the prediction that C species should be proportionally more successful in habitats characterized by high temperatures, high irradiance and low moisture.
20037182|Seasonal changes in cold-resistance in five Proteaceae: Gevuina avellana, Lomatia hirsuta, Lomatia dentata, Lomatia ferruginea and Embothrium coccineum were studied in the Botanical Garden, Universidad Austral de Chile in Valdivia, Chile. All species presented such changes in relation to the minimum air temperatures but not in relation to rainfall. Cold-resistance increased together with the temperature decrease from March to May. Maximum resistance was observed in winter (June to August). The spring temperature increase caused a decrease of cold-resistance, which reached its maximum from spring (November) to summer (December to February). The results obtained for cold-resistance correspond to the weather conditions found in natural biotopes of the species.
20037183|Woody plants in an African Burkea africana-Ochna pulchra savanna on deep sandy soil were found to have characteristically bimorphic root systems. The shallow lateral root component was often well developed and roots extended up to seven times the extent of the plant canopy in several species. Exponential tapering of lateral roots was found in Terminalia sericea. The wide-ranging roots, together with the high degree of multispecies root system interpenetration, result in the so-called, open grassy areas in the savanna mosaic often containing a competitively significant woody plant component. Root systems of Ochna pulchra were found to be relatively specialized and included: negatively geotropic, superficial roots; sinker roots to bedrock; high suckering response to damage in roots; belowground lignotuber-type organs; and sustained subterranean interconnections between some aboveground stems. These features are likely to contribute substantially to the resilience of this plant species to various climatic and veld management stress factors. Root/ shoot mass ratios averaged unity but depended on plant size and aboveground growth form in Ochna pulchra. The dependence of these ratios on sizes of plant also applied to plant clones. Initiation of root tip growth occurred in early summer in one year and late spring in another. Main root tip growth occurred in late summer and early autumn, well after completion of most growth of leafy shoots in spring. It is suggested that some active uptake of water and nutrients by non-extending roots allows this form of phased growth in the plant. In an analysis of the seasonal growth of individual root tip systems, it was clear that transitory states of rest occur in fine root development but that these are far more frequent in the branching (and hence proliferation) of roots than in the continuing development of any root axis.
20037188|A method is introduced to compare results of a clustering technique at different levels of abstraction, or of different clustering techniques. The method emphasizes within cluster homogeneity as well as discontinuities between clusters. It has been derived from Hogeweg's method with some important changes. First each cluster is handled separately to determine the ratio between homogeneity and similarity to the nearest neighbour cluster. For a given clustering a weighted average value is computed over all clusters. This average value is standardized using an expected average value for a cluster configuration with the same number of clusters having the same sizes. A low level of the ratio between expected and observed values is supposed to indicate an optimal clustering. A derivation of the criterion is given and results from three sets of data with different properties are evaluated.
20037190|Niche differences in four species of Galium were quantified by using discriminant function analysis (DFA) of site characteristics including biotic variables. Data were analyzed separately for a mesic hardwood site and cedar barrens. Significant differences in niche centroids were also determined for 17 co-occurring herbs in the mesic hardwood site using similar variables. Variables used in the analysis included site characteristics such as aspect and percent slope, biotic variables such as total woody basal area and litter composition, and soil characteristics (for the seventeen species) including pH and texture. Biotic variables were included as indicators of environmental variables and possible allelopathic influence. In the Galium data, variables highly correlated with discriminant axes included canopy density, litter type, and overstory type. In the co-occurring species data, litter composition, slope position, soil pH and texture, and steepness of slope were most correlated with discriminant axes. Discriminant axes derived from the Galium cedar barren data set proved a poor predictor of species occurrence in the mesic hardwood site. The utility of DFA in plant niche analysis is discussed.
20037192|Some aspects of vegetation structure in two chalk grasslands were studied throughout the year in relation to the occurrence of some short-lived plant species per life-cycle stage. Whereas the main growth period is in May - June, there is another relatively important growth period in less productive stands in August. When the species are arranged in the order of their tolerance for less to more productive micro-sites during the adult life phase the following sequence emerges considering a generally weak significance in the results. Carlina vulgaris, Euphrasia officinalis, Gentianella germanica, and Scabiosa columbaria, Linum catharticum, Anthyllis vulneraria, and Daucus carota. In some species this preference was found to shift from seedling to vegetative and reproductive phase. Each life phase usually has its special abundance with regard to vegetation density.
20037193|Kwongan vegetation (sclerophyllous shrublands) growing on a single soil type was surveyed over a 5 000 km area centered about Eneabba, Western Australia. All samples were on laterite, a deeply weathered, infertile soil developed since the Tertiary over much of the ancient, subdued landscape of south-western Australia. The vegetation was rich in angiosperm plant species and, although quite uniform in structure, highly variable floristically, suggesting the existence of a complex mosaic of species distributions. Of the four floristic groups defined using both ordination and classification techniques, the group including the Mt Lesueur area was the most distinctive. Site groupings were predominantly regional although the influence of climatic factors, particularly potential evaporation, was significant. Biogeographic patterns of each of the major plant families were not coincident. The geographic arrangement of the floristic groups does not correspond with existing vegetation maps complied primarily on the basis of physiognomy.
20037199|New data are reported, and literature data compiled, for species richness in 0.1 ha plots in Australian vegetation. We conclude that on present evidence the same vegetation types are rich, and the same types poor, at a 0.1 ha scale, in Australia as elsewhere. Tropical rainforest averages 140 species per 0.1 ha in permanently humid types. Temperate sclerophyll shrub-dominated types on low-nutrient soils are generally in the range 50-100 species, with open woodlands somewhat richer than scrublands. Warm semi-desert shrublands can have 50-80 species, counting ephemerals both of summer and of winter. Temperate closed forests generally have fewer than 50 species per 0.1 ha. For none of these types is there clear evidence that they are richer or poorer in species at a 0.1 ha scale than types in similar environments with similar growth-form mixes on other continents. We give data for grassy woodlands and sclerophyll scrublands in the monsoonal tropics; the fragments of data on such types available from other continents suggest there may be a wide range of species richness in sub-types of this very broad grouping. Generally, available data do not support the idea that floristic evolutionary history is a strong influence on the species richness of vegetation at the 0.1 ha scale, relative to the influence of the present-day climatic and soil environment.
20037200|A transect in grassland vegetation in the southern part of the Netherlands, showing both a very gradual and a more marked transition in species composition, was sampled as regards species frequency and a number of soil variables. Clustering (TABORD) and Principal Component Analysis revealed the two types of vegetation boundaries, a strong, rigid and a weak, gradual boundary, and the gradient situation in the transect. Species performance curves were tested for Gaussian form, but less than half of the species showed this form even though limits for acceptance were mild. The few species showing a Gaussian response curve clearly illustrate the two types of vegetation boundaries in this transect in agreement with Whittaker's model for such boundaries.
20037201|The process of succession after release from grazing by giant tortoises was investigated in three different vegetation types on Aldabra atoll. After four years there was very little change in two vegetation types: a tall mixed scrubland and an open single-species grassland. Probably in the former case grazing had no effect and in the latter case soil nutrients were limiting sward growth and establishment. In the third vegetation type, a patchwork of scrub and low vegetation, analysis of transition matrices showed that the succession was non-independent, non-stationary and depended on more than one past state (high order). This succession was extrapolated by simulation. The results suggested that other vegetation types studied were discrete associations, not merely different stages in the same grazing-mediated sere. The transition matrix approach proved useful in helping to generate initial hypotheses, but became too cumbersome for a realistic model of this succession. An experimental approach will be better for dealing with problems identified from the transition models.
20037203|A detailed pattern analysis has been undertaken in a savanna vegetation, at several scales, using statistical and other data analytical methods. Monospecific patterns were studied at 11 different scales: five scales within the relevs and six starting with the relev scale. The examination of the connection between the monospecific patterns and the results of multivariate analyses reveals the phytosociological properties of these latter methods. Conclusions about a future design are drawn.
20037205|During the last decades chalk grasslands lost their agricultural importance in the greater part of their distribution area in W Europe. Due to their botanical richness a number of chalk grassland sites were established as Nature Reserve. As a consequence of the semi-natural character of these grasslands an appropriate management is necessary to maintain or to re-create this vegetation including a great number of rare and endangered species. This paper deals with the results of three different management practices, viz. mowing in autumn, sheep grazing and abandoning, of a medium term (8-11 yr) permanent plot experiment. Sheep grazing was considered the best management since it resulted in the highest number of species, phanerogams as well as bryophytes, and the highest number of characteristic chalk grassland species. Abandoning resulted in a decrease in species number and a dominance of a few species only. The changes in species number are related to the above ground biomass. Under the canopy in the abandoned plot light intensity and the Red/Far-red ratio are very low, which partly explains the decrease in species number as such conditions are not favourable to seedling emergence and survival.
20037206|Four relatively homogeneous field data sets were analyzed, representing boreal, heath-like forest-floor and rock vegetation in Finland, corresponding to Finnish Calluna and Cladina site types. The methods used were principal component analysis (PCA) of covariance matrices, orthogonal correspondence analysis or reciprocal averaging (RA), detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), and linear and nonmetric multidimensional scaling (MDS). RA and DCA gave ordinations in which every species had nearly equal weight. MDS and PCA gave results determined mostly by a few dominant species. MDS and PCA ordinations were very similar to RA and DCA ones when the original data were standardized so that for each species the mean of positive occurrences was the same while quantitative differences within species were retained. RA and PCA were generally very good and reliable, providing that the impact of rare species and outlier relevs was removed in RA. DCA was slightly less reliable than RA. MDS was sensitive to uneven sampling patterns and was the least reliable method compared.
20145945|A resemblance function (COCHIS) based on the probability of species association and correlation is proposed. It is a development of the underlying idea of association analysis and can serve to produce similarity matrices for polythetic classifications and ordinations. Examples are given utilizing field and simulated data.
20145948|The regional distribution of mangrove species along the tropical NW coast of Australia is closely related to climate. In subhumid regions with rainfall &gt1 000 mm/yr mangals have 12 species which are recurring and common. The climate becomes more arid southwards and species richness decreases: 8 species are common in mangals in semiarid regions and 5 species are common in arid regions. Rainfall influences the distribution of species across tidal flats because of direct recharge to groundwater systems and also because of subsurface seepage along the hinterland edge. Much of the increase in species diversity is located along high parts of tidal flats and along the edge of the hinterland. At the local level stratigraphy forms an important part of the hydrology by determining the distribution of aquifers and aquacludes. Fresh water seeps into the tidal lands via buried, discrete aquifers and dilutes the highly hypersaline groundwater. Mangroves inhabit these local areas above the less saline groundwater. The influence of rainfall and freshwater seepage on mangals is presented as a unifying theme which helps to explain distribution and diversity of mangroves at both a regional and local level.
20145950|The present study gives an assessment of the environmental factors and their effect on the pattern and distribution of the plant communities in the area along the road from Medina to Badr, Saudi Arabia. The road crosses the Hejaz mountains and the study area presents three main ecogeomorphological systems which are differentiated into various habitats. Rainfall and plant cover show wide variation, both in quantity and distribution in the different sectors of the study area. Also, the wide variations in topography, rock types and soil characteristics, have a marked influence on the water resources and consequently on the vegetation. Twenty-three communities, recognized by species dominance and habitat features, have been distinguished. These include ten communities dominated by trees and shrubs; five of them are dominated by one of the Acacia spp. growing in the area. Seven communities are dominated by suffrutescent species and six are dominated by ephemeral species. The latter communities appear only during the wet season and disappear at the beginning of summer. The floristic composition and the habitat features are described and the ecological relationships between the communities are briefly discussed.
20145952|Calluna-dominated heathlands are widespread in N. Britain, especially in the eastern and central part of Scotland. The plant communities of these heathland ecosystems are influenced by regular burning as a land management practice. In a well-controlled fire, regeneration takes place both vegetatively (from surviving stem bases or underground rhizomes) and from seed. But there is always a post-fire succession taking place even in this brief period of vegetation recovery. In order to understand the biological mechanisms operating in the post-fire succession, the present work was carried out to examine regeneration behaviour of different species. Three 'regenerative strategies' were identified: I. Woody low-shrubs with slow bud development to begin with, followed by vigorous and profuse branching, becoming dominant after two years; II. Small herbaceous hemicryptophytes; sprouting not as prolific as in plants of group I, but more vigorous than in plants of group III; III. Geophytes with rapid development, important in the first 2-3 years.
20145960| The phytomass structure of the evergreen lowland forest vegetation (Tall Amazon Caatinga) supported by tropaquods near San Carlos de Rio Negro, Federal Amazon Territory of Venezuela was studied in 13 10 m  10 m plots. The plots were laid out subjectively to cover a low topographical gradient along which the forest on tropaquod is grading into a low woodland (Bana, or Low Amazon Caatinga). The phytomass was estimated by destructive sampling. The total living phytomass (dry matter) varies between 199 t/ha in one plot including a natural gap, to 822 t/ha in a plot located near a blackwater creek draining the 10 ha study site in which the vegetation was surveyed. Dead aboveground phytomass (dry matter) varies between 2 and 37 t/ha. The average leaf area index is 5.1. Leaves are sclerophyllous. The mesophyll leaf size class is dominant. Compared with other Amazonian rainforests the Tall Amazon Caatinga is lower in aboveground phytomass and wood volume, respectively, but its root average proportion is 2.4 times greater. One hundred and thirty species (dbh1 cm) were recorded in all plots. 14-45 species per plot composed the aboveground phytomass. 20 species each had a relative frequency of 50 or more percent. 7 of these species plus 10 less frequent ones each represented 10 or more percent of the basal area in at least 1 plot. Sixteen species each contributed 10 or more percent to the aboveground phytomass, in at least 1 plot. There is only 1 species (Micranda sprucei, Euphorbiaceae) which was observed in all plots. Its contribution to basal area and aboveground phytomass is considerable. M. sprucei is also the dominant species of the top canopy layer. Eperua leucantha, Caesalpiniaceae, is subdominant. 
20145961|Transects of contiguous one square meter quadrats were sampled across the marl and peat mosaic of the Byron-Bergen swamp, a rich fen in western New York. The data were analyzed by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). Ordination of species and samples produced arrangements reflecting a complex environmental gradient of hydrology, soil organic matter and soil carbonate-carbon concentration. They successfully separated fens underlain with peat from those underlain with marl and showed a physiognomic gradient associated with hummock development.
20145963|Flower colour spectra were initially used in India to characterize the flora of urban localities (Nagrathna, 1968; Oommachan, 1973), but only on a presence -- absence basis. In order to have a quantitative appraisal of the flower colour spectrum of the vegetation at a particular locality, the density of the species and the number of flowers on each plant should be taken into account. Only this gives the actual number of flowers of a particular colour per unit area: the flower density.
20145965|Actively frost-heaved polygon ground in an alpine area of nutrient-poor shrub heaths, had a large number of basophilous vascular plant species and cryptogams. The soils of the polygons had much higher concentrations of extractable plant nutrients and higher pH values than the surrounding stable ground, probably due to mixing of soils, intense weathering of the raw soil and lack of podzolization under conditions of high frost activity. Plant distribution was correlated to the intensity of frost-heaving; basophyte dominance was consistent with high pH and high extractable nutrient levels on the most actively upheaved polygon centres, whereas heath vegetation became increasingly dominant towards polygon borders with weaker activity, and on polygons with weak recent activity. Empetrum-heath species, usually distributed at sites with thin snow cover during winter, seemed better adapted to weak frost-heaving than species characteristic of communities normally developed in places with medium snow cover.
20145966| In 1969 N and P fertilizer experiments were carried out on the Westerheide (The Netherlands) to investigate the growth of Calluna vulgaris. In 1981 the floristic composition of the experimental plots was analyzed. Repeated nitrogen treatment of 28 kg  ha  yr resulted in dramatic replacement of Calluna vulgaris by Festuca ovina as a dominant. Phosphorus treatments did not result in such a change. The amounts of nitrogen applied in this experiment are similar to those that will be available during the first years following the dying off of Calluna vulgaris as result of a heather beetle infestation. It is hypothesized that a heather beetle infestation alone may result in a similar replacement of Calluna vulgaris by grass species. 
20145967|The relationship was studied between shoot biomass, nutrient concentration in the soil and number of species per unit area. The study was carried out in two different parts of the Netherlands, the Gelderse Vallei (east of Amersfoort) and the Westbroekse Zodden (northwest of Utrecht). Four series of vegetation and soil samples were taken: one series in grassland and wetland communities, one series in grassland communities, one series in fen communities and one series in only one wetland community. The two series in grassland communities show a negative correlation between shoot biomass and species number and a positive correlation between shoot biomass and nutrient concentration in the soil. The opposite was found in the series in the fen communities: there was a positive correlation between species number and shoot biomass and a negative correlation between shoot biomass and nutrient concentrations. The series of samples that had been taken in only one wetland community showed an optimum curve for the relation between shoot biomass and number of species. It is concluded that in the plant communities studied the species richness per unit area increases with increasing productivity at low production levels (&lt400-500 g/m) and decreases with increasing productivity at higher production levels (&gt400-500 g/m).
20145973|An analytical method for the detection of multi-species spatial patterns in grasslands was investigated. Several data sets of grasslands from the granitic pediment of the Sierra de Guadarrama (Central Spain) were used. The application of correspondence analysis to sequential abundance data of several species allowed the ordination of quadrats in an axis of floristic variation. Coordinate data were then subjected to pattern analysis through the use of variance tests, the results showing the existence of multi-species patches having variable dimensions.
20145974|The development of the vegetation of a brackish sand flat with scattered embryo-dunes on one of the West Frisian islands, Schiermonnikoog (The Netherlands), was recorded over a ten-year period. Some persisting trends, as well as pronounced annual fluctuations, were observed. Therophyte populations are especially vulnerable to environmental fluctuation. The behaviour of various species populations is discussed in relation to environmental instability and life-forms. Special attention is paid to the shuttling of populations of short-lived species on the dune slope. The zonation of the latter may vary, which could be ascribed to their reaction on abiotic conditions as affected by specific life-history characteristics, viz. the germination period, the duration of the life-cycle and the mode of reproduction. Some concluding remarks are made about succession and the role species of different life-forms play in this process.
20145976|Four methods of pattern analysis were compared using simulated data. Simulated transects were of five types: 1) equal patch--equal gap, in which gap and patch length were equal, 2) unequal but fixed patch--fixed gap, in which patch length was approximately one sixth gap length, and transects in which 3) the length of the patch, or 4) gap, or 5) both varied randomly. The first peak of the variance-block size graph was used to identify patch size, instead of the more commonly used highest peak. The random pairing method estimated patch size more accurately than hierarchical ANOVA, two-term local variance, or spectral analysis. The average position of the first peak (calculated from eight replicate random pairing analyses) detected correct average patch size, even when simulated patches were randomly placed or patch size followed a uniform distribution with a range twice the mean. Hierarchical ANOVA and two-term local variance confounded patch and gap lengths and therefore overestimated the patch size. The highest peak of spectral analysis detected the full cycle (patch + gap) of the pattern but was unable to partition the components of grain. The expected variance of an independent, random pattern is suggested as a reference point for identifying meaningful peaks and troughs in random pairing analyses of field data. The method is illustrated by analysis of a transect through submersed aquatic vegetation.
20145977|Patterns in the relative importance of structural attributes and growth forms along fynbos and non-fynbos coenoclines were studied to test the hypothesis that there would be less structural variation in the former because the overriding influence of low levels of soil nutrients would be manifest in a great deal of structural convergence in fynbos. The coenoclines were ranged along identical environmental gradients of increasing altitude, rainfall and soil moisture and decreasing climatic variability. Results showed that along the entire fynbos coenocline vegetation was structurally a small-leaved sclerophyllous shrubland with a graminoid understorey and, usually, a large-leaved (proteoid) shrub overstorey. Fynbos structure was interpreted largely as a response to low levels of soil nutrients. Non-fynbos vegetation ranged from mixed succulent-sclerophyllous and spiny large-leaved thicket at lower altitudes to tall mesic forest at the upper end of the gradient. Non-fynbos structure was explained in terms of variations in soil moisture and climate. An analysis of the biogeographical affinities of sample floras at sites along the coenoclines showed that fynbos vegetation was dominated by taxa endemic to the Cape phytochorion, although phytochorological mixing was pronounced at the lower altitude sites. The level of local endemism in the fynbos coenocline was relatively high; nearly all endemics were Cape fynbos taxa and their incidence increased with increasing altitude. These data indicate that fynbos vegetation has had a lengthy history in the southeastern Cape and that high altitude sites would have comprised a refuge for Cape taxa during unfavourable climatic periods. Non-fynbos vegetation ranged from dry subtropical Tongaland-Pondoland thicket with a strong Karoo-Namib component to temperate Afromontane forest. Levels of endemism were lower than the fynbos coenocline and decreased with increasing altitude. The high number of karroid endemics found in both coenoclines at low altitudes suggests that karroid vegetation would have been more widespread in the past, probably during the last glacial which was considerably drier than the present Holocene interglacial.
20145978|Plant diversity and its components was studied on four chalk grassland sites in southeast England over a fourteen-month period. The sites were almost adjacent, and each faced one of the major compass points, N, S, E and W. Aboveground vegetation was recorded at monthly intervals by cover repetition, using a point quadrat technique. Seasonal patterns in the development of leaf area, bare ground, number of species present and diversity were similar on all sites. The N and W facing slopes and the S and E facing slopes resembled each other in several characteristics, while these two pairs of slopes differed markedly from each other. Thus, (i) there were more grasses but fewer forbs on the N and W slopes, (ii) overall diversity and forb diversity were lower on the N and W slopes but grass diversity was higher, (iii) equitability was lower on the N and W slopes, (iv) percentage similarity of vegetation present was high when the N slope was compared with the W and when the S slope was compared with the E; other comparisons gave lower percentage similarity. It is proposed that the greater abundance of Carex flacca on the N and W slopes is important in causing these differences, and that it results in lower diversity on these slopes by occupying part of the habitat of the species-rich forb community which occurs on the S and E slopes. Dominance-diversity curves range from lognormal to geometric in form; some interpretation of changes they display can be made by assuming that the community is in a non-equilibrium state caused by seasonal environmental fluctuations each winter.
20145984|The aquatic and riparian vegetation of a small Belgian stream is used as a first example for a phytosociological system based on multi-scaled pattern analysis. Surveying is continuous, the stream being divided into ecologically homogeneous sections. Some sections were sampled meter by meter. A pattern analysis of the whole stream and of some of its reaches was then performed. This defined the preferential scales of analysis. The multivariate analyses were carried out on several scales, but on any one scale, only the species structured in the analysis are considered. The vegetation is described. Some concrete and theoretical points are discussed.
20145985|The distribution of plant species and vegetation types in the Prairie provinces of Canada can be related to climatic phenomena. The ratio of summer/spring precipitation appears to be especially important, with temperatures of less importance. Climatic areas can be outlined; within these areas differences in soils are important.
20145987|The development of non-linear ordination techniques has stemmed in part from work suggesting that species behave non-linearly to changing environmental factors or gradients. Developments in this area can be seen in two related phases: new algorithms, and the incorporation of new resemblance measures. Emphasis in this paper is placed on resemblance measures incorporated into a method of multi-dimensional scaling. The results show that a resemblance measure which reflects the non-linearities of the data can produce significant improvement in ordination, if the standardizations have not been too 'severe'.
20145989|This study was conducted to describe the age structure and variation in annual radial growth in populations of Pinus strobus, Larix laricina, and Prunus serotina as a means of characterizing tree establishment in the Oswegatchie Plains, a shrub barren surrounded by forest in the Adirondack Mountains of northern New York. Population age structure was determined in 10 m wide transects established perpendicular to the plain-forest border. Age of individual stems was determined by counts of internodes for pine seedlings, counts of growth rings on cut larch seedlings, and counts of growth rings in increment cores extracted from larger stems of all three species. Variation in tree annual radial growth was described by measuring the width of individual growth rings on increment cores and analyzing the data in relation to climatic and historical records of the site. The populations of P. strobus and L. laricina were about 100 years old. The P. serotina population in the open and at the forest margin was only 50 years old. P. strobus and L. laricina had a discontinuous age structure marked by an age gap of about 30 years which occurred between the 1910's and the 1940's in the two populations. Seedlings of P. strobus and L. laricina were more abundant and older at the forest edge than under the forest canopy. Pattern of age distribution in seedlings of P. strobus was described equally well with a negative exponential model as with a power function model. In all three species tree age was poorly related to the tree diameter at breast height. Variations in annual radial growth throughout population life-history were more marked in L. laricina than in P. strobus or P. serotina. Monthly rainfall and monthly mean temperature and snowfall explained 94% of variation in radial growth of P. serotina, 67 to 78% of variation in radial growth of P. strobus, and 54 to 55% of variation in radial growth of L. laricina. P. serotina growth was best correlated with weather conditions during the first half of the growing season. In contrast, P. strobus growth was better correlated with weather conditions toward the end of the season. Major variation in L. laricina growth was more closely related to past outbreaks of the larch sawfly, Pristophora erichsonii, than to climatic conditions. Tree establishment through time has been episodic in all three species, with little or no establishment during the intervening time periods. Age structure data do not support the hypothesis that a significant advance of the forest edge has occurred over the past several decades. Successful establishment of trees may occur at times but because of the severity of site conditions and the vulnerability of forest stands to natural disturbances, the vegetational characteristics of the Plains will probably remain very different from the surrounding forest.
20145995|The effect of a forest reserve establishment on the natural forest ecosystem recovery and on the protection of valuable indigenous woody species in Jebel Marra, the Democratic Republic of the Sudan, is described. The following hypothesis is formulated: The vegetation of the southwestern slopes of Jebel Marra, when protected from periodic disturbance, may recover to almost fully regenerated hill woodland. Empirical stratified transect sampling methods were applied to both natural forest ecosystems within the reserve and the surrounding artificial systems. Frequencies, densities and diversities for all woody species were estimated by standard ecological indices. It was found that the establishment of the forest reserve has dramatically reshaped the distribution of woody species and a slow process of regeneration to Anogeissus hill woodland is taking place.
20145996|Evidence is presented for dynamic successions in the Provence on the basis of a multivariate analysis, of a very large sample. Different phases in the Quercus suber series on silicious substrate are shown. Also the evolution of the vegetation groupings on Ventoux and Sainte-Baume mountains on calcareous substrate and at different levels in the zonation is specified. The succession of the grasslands is as follows: Isoetes and Nasturtium groupings, Serapias, Lotus and Trifolium, then Vulpia and Aira groupings, and finally Helianthemum guttatum grasslands, preceding the shrub groupings: Cistus ladaniferus, then Cistus albidus and Cistus monspeliensis. Then follow either Erica and Calluna maquis or Quercus suber formations. On Mont Ventoux, the stages of degradation of the Quercus pubescens forests are Aphyllantes and Thymus vulgaris grasslands, and Buxus sempervirens and Genista scorpius scrubs. On the oromediterranean level, the transition from Avena setacea and Galium villarsii grasslands, then Ononis caenisia grasslands to Pinus uncinata forests is demonstrated. The development of reforestation is predicted on the basis of the floristic composition of the previous stages. On Sainte-Baume Mountain, the Quercus pubescens supramediterranean series is formed by the following stages: low scrubs of the Lavandulo-Astragaletum, and Prunus mahaleb and Phillyrea media, Acer monspessulanum groves, and forests with prevailing Quercus pubescens. The succession on rocky traverses and crests is slightly different. The first stages are Sesleria grasslands and the later ones are woodland groupings of Tilia platyphyllos, Acer opalus and Ilex aquifolium.
20145997|Computer simulation and statistical theory indicate that estimation of species distribution is difficult when species reach maximum abundance near one end of the sampled portion of a gradient or when they have wide ecological breadth. Relative to balanced sampling of the whole gradient, concentration of sampling effort near the ends increases accuracy in estimation of distributions of truncated species more than it decreases accuracy for other species. Hence, overall accuracy in the estimation of distributions for a collection of species with modes scattered about on a gradient is greatest when sampling is somewhat more intense near the extremes of the gradient.
20145998|This paper investigates, and seeks explanations for, the diversity relations of Cape shrublands (fynbos and renosterveld), subtropical thicket and Afromontane forest, in the biogeographically complex SE Cape. Global comparisons of richness at the 0.1 hectare scale, of communities in the study area and elsewhere in South Africa with analogous vegetation on other continents, were largely inconclusive. Reasons for this are the unexplained variability of richness within vegetation types, problems associated with the scale of diversity used, and difficulties in defining analogous vegetation types. Diversity comparisons within the Cape Region and within the study area communities showed that alpha diversity of fynbos was not consistently higher than other vegetation types. In the study area highest richness was recorded in renosterveld and highest equitability in subtropical thicket; the most species-poor communities were Mountain Fynbos and Afromontane forest. The results of a correlation analysis showed that an index of phytochorological diversity was the factor most strongly correlated with richness in all vegetation types. Soil nutrients did not emerge as significant correlates of diversity except in fynbos where low levels of available nutrients were associated with low values of phytochorological diversity and low species richness. The diversity of fire-prone and grazed communities could be partly explained by non-equilibrium models of species diversity. Ecological and historical hypotheses were presented as explanations for the richness of communities having island-like distributions in the study area. It was generally concluded that historical and ecological factors should be given equal weight in descriptive studies which seek regional and global explanations of the evolution and maintenance of species diversity.
20146004|A new procedure for measuring compositional change along gradients is proposed. Given a matrix of species-by-samples and an initial ordering of samples on an axis, the 'gradient rescaling' method calculates 1) gradient length (beta diversity), 2) rates of species turnover as a function of position on the gradient, and 3) an ecologically meaningful spacing of samples along the gradient. A new unit of beta diversity, the gleason, is proposed. Gradient rescaling is evaluated with both simulated and field data and is shown to perform well under many ecological conditions. Applications to the study of succession, phenology, and niche relations are briefly discussed.
20146006|The spatial pattern of species and microhabitats in a dry grassland mosaic in a Central Alpine valley was studied by a variance / mean analysis. In addition, the water-usage strategies of the dominant species were investigated. A significant correlation between species pattern and microhabitat pattern was found for the grass species. Grasses, with their homorhizal root system, are unable to exploit sources of water in deep rock crevices, and are therefore dependent on the water-storage capacity of the particular soil layer. Dwarf shrubs and succulents (with one exception) are independent of this latter water source. The common chamaephytes exhibit contradictory types of stomatal behaviour. Artemisia alba is characterized by a water-conservation strategy, whereas Helianthemum nummularium spp. obscurum and Teucrium chamaedrys are not. The careful usage of the water reserves by Artemisia alba would seem to represent an adaptation to dry grassland conditions. The other dwarf shrubs, in contrast, with their 'water-wasting' strategy, have a root system like that of Artemisia and are unable to compensate for the higher rate of water loss. Thus, the observed ecophysiological differences cannot be interpreted as being 'different solutions to the same problem', as a result of divergent evolution. Two alternative interpretations are: a) the stomatal behaviour of the chamaephytes is a characteristic of their respective genera and which is not particularly adaptive here; b) the dry grasslands studied are the remnants of a former vegetation type, which had a low level of competition.
20146008|Three strip transects, each ca 100 contiguous 0.5  1 m quadrats, were sampled during the spring bloom of March 1981 across four surface structural units of a Negev Desert research watershed at Sede Boqer, Israel. Presence of all vascular plants was recorded. Data were subjected to detrended correspondence analysis (DCA ordination), and resulting spatial patterns of species distribution and abundance were compared. Large-scale gradients of vegetation were related to differences in soil moisture availability among the four structural units. Where micro-scale vegetation patterns were important, these correlated with rock and crevice microtopography. Species richness was influenced by high numbers of therophytes on the dry upper slope of the watershed and their reduced importance on the lower three units. Relationships between vegetational patterns and known ecosystem properties of the watershed are discussed.
20146010|The Galapagos vascular plant species are divided into two groups, showing preferences for dry and wet habitats. This division is based on the results of a phytosociological study and is not influenced by such factors as island area, elevation, climate or soil types. The different distribution patterns of the dry and wet species are discussed and it is concluded that habitat diversity offers a better explanation for species numbers and distribution patterns than do island size and isolation. Claims that a dynamic MacArthur-Wilson type equilibrium has been reached for vascular plants in the Galapagos archipelago seem premature.
20146012|For a mycocoenological study of macromycetes in Mediterranean evergreen forests in the Sienese province, five stands belonging to the Quercion ilicis have been observed during more than two years. The phytosociological analysis of these evergreen oak woods, situated at the limit of the geographical distribution of the alliance, reveals them as intermediate between the typical Mediterranean vegetation and the sub-Mediterranean deciduous broad-leaved forests. 181 fungal species were recognized and assigned to seven ecological groups on the basis of substratum, habitat, forest management and/or particular mycorrhizal relationship. Our results have been compared with those obtained in some European deciduous forests. Such a comparison shows the occurrence of 16 thermophilous fungal species in the Siena woods which are missing or very rare in the European deciduous forests. On the basis of our present knowledge, five of these species (Boletus lepidus, Hygrophorus dichrous, Hygrocybe nigrescens, Inocybe similis, Phellinus torulosus) may be considered as strictly tied to the evergreen oak woods. Five others, which have been reported for several European phytocoenoses, seem to be 'preferential taxa' of our evergreen oak woods, namely: Cortinarius calochrous, C. sodagnitus, Hygrophorus arbustivus, H. russula, Lyophyllum immundum. On the whole the highest similarities have been found with the more xerothermophilous European forests (Querco--Lithospermetum and Sorbo--Quercetum). The presence in the Quercus ilex woods of numerous more mesophilous fungi, some of which are widespread in beech forests, underlines the transitional nature of the phytocoenoses studied.
20146018|On ecological vegetation maps, the distribution of vegetation is related to one or more features of the environment. Tolerance, competition, map scales and the environment are discussed with regard to their bearing on the geographical distribution of phytocenoses and their portrayal on maps. There are two types of ecological vegetation maps: those relating the vegetation to one environmental quality, and those with two or more such qualities. The interpretation of ecological vegetation maps is relatively simple when plant communities are related to a single quality of the biotope and difficult but usually more useful when related to several qualities. Perfection is not possible but can be approached asymptotically.
20146019|The conceptual framework of direct gradient analysis (DGA) is discussed in relation to the functional, factorial approach to vegetation. Both approaches use abstract simplified environment gradients with which to correlate vegetation response. Environmental scalars based on physical process models of environment and/ or known biological growth processes can be incorporated to make analyses less location specific. An example of an environmental scalar (radiation index) for converting aspect and slope measurements to the more biologically relevant radiation input at a site is given. The problem of the shape of species response curves to environmental gradients is examined using a sample of 1 286 plots from eucalypt forest in southern New South Wales. An important conclusion is that skewed or bimodal response curves may be due to unsatisfactory distribution of observations and/ or unrecognized environmental factors. The use of Generalized Linear Modelling (GLM) as a method for providing a statistical basis for DGA is presented. Analyses using GLM, and presence/ absence data are presented for a range of eucalypt species (Eucalyptus rossii, E. dalrympleana, E. fastigata etc.). Successful prediction of species distributions (realized niches) can be achieved with mean annual temperature, mean annual rainfall, radiation index and geology. Quadratic terms are required in many cases, indicating bell-shaped response curves. The major variability associated with species niches is shown to be related to a limited number (4) of environmental factors. DGA with biologically relevant scalars and appropriate statistical methods is suitable for studying many problems of species' realized niches and plant community composition.
20146021|The values of nitrogen phosphorus ratios measured in green parts of evergreen sclerophylls, seasonal dimorphic, deciduous and herbaceous plants found in Mediterranean-type ecosystems of Greece, form a homogeneous group, which is comparable only with those of analogous ecosystems of California but not with Mediterranean systems of the southern hemisphere.
20146023|The need for rigorous methods of interpreting indirect site ordinations is discussed and the problem of oblique habitat and phytosociological trends is emphasized. A sequential approach, termed integrated interpretation, is introduced to overcome this problem. It first involves a technique termed rotational correlation, a linear form of trend surface analysis, which locates the best fit between a habitat variable and the coordinates of a pluridimensional ordination. The coordinates at positions of best fit are then used to produce two-way site-species tables (seriation arrays) which summarize floristic variation in relation to each major habitat trend. The seriation arrays can also be used to identify groups of differential species. Integrated interpretation is demonstrated using semi-arid vegetation from Murcia Province, SE Spain. A two-axis site ordination of vegetation data by non-metric multidimensional scaling is shown to have two oblique trends related to aspect-induced topoclimates and types of past anthropogenic disturbance. Rotation of the configuration to maximum linear correlation achieves very high levels of explanation for each factor. Rotated ordination coordinates from the correlation analysis are used to obtain two seriation arrays and floristic noda which relate directly to the two underlying habitat trends. A floristic discontinuity is revealed on the topoclimate continuum and it is hypothesized that temperature conditions are a major determinant of floristic composition, but that moisture partly determines vegetational cover and phytomass. Several patterns of past cultivation are detected and associated with five main kinds of geomorphological unit, together with some evidence that the rate of succession is partly determined by topoclimate. The integrated approach to interpretation is compared with visual methods and other multivariate techniques. A case is made for increased interpretational rigour in site coordinate studies, especially the discontinuation of trend-seeking using individual unrotated ordination axes.
20146025|Three associations of the Nanocyperion teneriffae Lebrun 1947 (Sporoboletalia festivi Lebrun 1947) are described. They are physiognomically and ecologically similar to associations of the Mediterranean Isoeto-Nanojuncetea Br.-Bl. et Tx. 1943 and Helianthemetalia guttati Br.-Bl. 1940. They are rich in very specialized therophytes and resurrection plants.
20146029|A study of 24 years of secondary succession was based on data from semi-permanent quadrats from investigations in 1952, 1955, 1968 and 1976, involving two exclosures, the first in a meadow grazed for hundreds of years but now abandoned, the second in a meadow mowed for hundreds of years and grazed for the last 50 years. A first order classification of quadrats produced units, which formed distinct spatial patterns indicating similar gradients, but also differences in response to the ceased grazing, in the two exclosures. A second order classification of units into groups revealed a rather simple structure of spatial and temporal relations. Eleven groups of species with similar behaviour could be recognized within a system of spatial and temporal species distributions. The vegetation in both exclosures developed towards an increased differentiation and heterogeneity or patchiness. The border between two soil types was clearly reflected in the spatial pattern of units. Rates of change were greatest in the beginning and were shown to closely follow logarithmic functions of time. The average number of species per m decreased in all plots, in some cases as much as 50%. It was concluded that the diversity had decreased as a consequence of decreased species richness, decreased evenness and decreased pattern diversity. Many individual species distributions showed a pattern of nuclei surrounded with marginal belts. Differences in rate of change and persistence of spatial patterns between the plots, could be attributed to the differences in management history. These differences have disappeared as the succession has proceeded. The two exclosures have instead both conformed to the same floristic gradient, in turn based on a similar pattern of environmental gradients, primarily moisture. In the observed changes the emphasis was on the shifting importance of competing species populations, as some gained in importance at the expense of others. Competition has so far been a more important process in the vegetation development than immigration/extinction rates.
20146030|Multivariate models based independently on the floristic and environmental attributes of sample quadrats from an escarpment woodland, were constructed. They were used to interpret the ecology of plant species distribution and to investigate the size structure of tree populations. Site instability, soil water status, and past management and grazing pressure were found to exert major influences on the composition and structure of the woodland. It is suggested that early mortality associated with site instability, plays an important role in maintaining the floristic diversity of vascular plants in the woodland ground flora, by increasing the frequency of tree replacement. This may have the effect of preventing canopy closure and any associated, detrimental effects of low light intensities. The relevance of the work of the conservation management of escarpment woods in Northern Ireland is discussed.
20146031|A set of forest vegetation-environment data consisting of 110 plots from subalpine spruce-fir forests in southeastern British Columbia was analyzed with multivariate methods. The aims were to describe and compare relationships among plots using species composition data from four strata of the forest (trees, shrubs, herbs, bryophytes), and to compare patterns in the separate strata with patterns in the environmental data. Weak but statistically significant correlations were detected among PCA axes from all four strata, with a tendency for correlations to be stronger between axes of adjacent strata. Relationships between stratal patterns and environmental variation were examined by correlating PCA axes with environmental variables separately, and jointly with canonical correlation analysis. Linear composites of the environmental data identified by the first canonical axis were similar for shrub, herb, and bryophyte strata implying similar responses to environmental variation in understorey strata; however, &lt16% of the total variance was explained. No clear relationships emerged between tree stratum and environmental variation. Probable determinants of pattern in the tree stratum include historical events such as fire and winter snowpack, as well as possible interactions between species. Collectively, these events bear little resemblance to existing environmental conditions in the forest.
20146032|By means of ordination and classification techniques, the relationships between climate, soils, human activities and vegetation along an altitudinal gradient of the Venezuelan pramos are analyzed and interpreted. The altitudinal gradient chosen is characterized by decrease of temperature, precipitation, soil fertility, soil water-holding capacity, and plant cover as altitude increases. The ordination results suggest vegetation changes to be primarily related to environmental changes occurring with altitude, and secondly to disturbances caused mainly by grazing. Some results point toward a disjunction in the vegetational gradient occurring at ca. 3 500 m.a.s.l. and separating low and high pramo. This disjunction might have been caused by the glacial history of the pramos and the occurrence of frequent night-frosts.
20146038|In constructing models of species and community distributions along environmental gradients in the Great Smoky Mountains, R. H. Whittaker (1956) focused on old-aged, apparently stable, natural communities. More recent studies indicate that disturbance gradients potentially influence and are influenced by the complex environmental gradients of Whittaker's original models. Using primarily fire and exotic species invasion as examples, this paper shows: 1) disturbance parameters vary along the topographic, elevation and moisture gradients in the Great Smoky Mountains in much the same way as temperature, moisture and solar radiation change; 2) species composition at different locations along the major environmental gradients is partially determined by the disturbance parameters; 3) species characteristics such as mode of reproduction are often correlated with specific disturbance parameters; 4) functional aspects of ecosystem response to disturbance vary along environmental gradients; and 5) man-caused disturbance may vary along environmental or biotic gradients. Since disturbance gradients may parallel physical environmental gradients, the two may be difficult to distinguish. Modification of disturbance frequencies along major environmental gradients may result in slow shifts in the distribution of both individual species and whole communities.
20146040|Small-scale community gradients and patterns in four grassland communities in the Serengeti National Park, Tanzania, were analyzed by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and percentage distance ordination (PD). The main goals of the study were (1) to describe the vegetation patterns in the communities, (2) to identify the potential underlying causes of the patterns, and (3) to rank the communities by their relative levels of patchiness. Species cover in a small number (16-32) of discontinuous plots was estimated and soils were collected. DCA successfully identified community gradients and phases of discrete mosaics, and PD identified the relative heterogeneity of the sites. Results suggested that the two most arid sites were composed of weakly or strongly differentiated vegetational mosaics and the two most mesic sites were essentially homogeneous. Termite modification of water infiltration properties of the soils and clonal growth of dominant species were identified as two factors possibly causing the mosaic vegetation patterns.
20146042|An initially uniform Holcus lanatus-dominated sward came partly under hay-making and partly under sheep-grazing. Preferential grazing by sheep resulted in grazing at different intensities giving rise to a macro-pattern of various plant communities. Besides this macro-pattern a micro-pattern developed in the grazed area, which was absent under hay-making. In the micro-pattern short, heavily grazed areas alternated with taller, lightly grazed patches, both having the same species composition. The heavily grazed area was characterized by equal amounts of monocots and dicots. The lightly grazed patches were dominated by Agrostis tenuis, and had a large amount of litter which probably causes the absence of mosses. The protein percentage of green material is higher in the heavily grazed areas than in the lightly grazed patches. Sequential charting indicated that the micro-pattern was more or less stable. An interaction between the vegetation micro-pattern and grazing patterns is suggested. Heavy grazing results in forage with a high protein content and hence attracts animals. Light grazing results in forage with a relatively low protein content, animals avoid the area and litter accumulates.
20146044| Fire-maintained, species-rich pine--wiregrass savannas in the Green Swamp, North Carolina were sampled over their natural range of environmental conditions and fire frequencies. Species composition, species richness, diversity (Exp H, 1/C), and aboveground production were documented and fertilization experiments conducted to assess possible mechanisms for the maintenance of high species diversity in these communities. Although savanna composition varies continuously, DECORANA ordination and TWINSPAN classification of 21 sites facilitated recognition of 3 community types: dry, mesic, and wet savannas. These savannas are remarkably species-rich with up to 42 species/0.25 m and 84 species/625 m. Maximum richness occurred on mesic, annually burned sites. Aboveground production, reported as peak standing crop, was only 293 g  m on a frequently burned mesic savanna but was significantly higher (375 g  m) on an infrequently burned mesic site. Production values from fertilized high and low fire frequency sites were equivalent. Monthly harvest samples showed that savanna biomass composition by species groups did not vary seasonally, but within groups the relative importance of species showed clear phenological progressions. The variation in species richness with fire frequency is consistent with non-equilibrium theories of species diversity, while phenological variation in production among similar species and the changing species composition across the moisture gradient suggest the importance of equilibrium processes for maintenance of savanna diversity. 
20146046|Shoot regeneration after prescribed burning or following the freezing temperatures of winter was monitored for nineteen heathland species present in an Arctostaphyleto--Callunetum community in northeast Scotland. Species whose renewal buds were near the surface of the ground started to grow earlier in the spring than species with renewal buds above the surface, but grouping species according to the position of their renewal bud (i.e. their life-form) did not account for all of the interspecific variation apparent. In the case of shoot regeneration after fire, species whose renewal buds were destroyed by fire because they were aboveground started to regenerate about the same time as species with belowground buds, protected from fire, but reached their maximum frequency of occurrence later. Grouping species by life-form was of limited value as a means of interpreting this interspecific variation in the timing of shoot regeneration after fire. It would be unwise to use plant life-form as the sole basis for interpreting or predicting a species' response to temperature stress when extreme temperatures occur regularly, as they do in heathland. The possible use of other plant traits to interpret and predict interspecific variation in the regeneration rate of heathland plants is discussed.
20146052|The paper describes the thornbush invasion (bush encroachment) found in the savanna at Olifants Drift in eastern Botswana. Overgrazing by cattle is responsible for the opening up of the grass sward and has enabled woody species to establish. A quantification of this process between 1950 and 1975 in an area of ca. 100 km is given in terms of plant density as well as aboveground biomass. The loss of herbaceous biomass which generally accompanies bush encroachment and the possibilities for pasture restoration are mentioned.
20146054|The vegetation in the Coironal arid steppe consists of grasses and shrubs. The objective of this paper was to test Walter's hypothesis that woody vegetation and grasses compete for water in the upper layers of the soil, but woody vegetation has exclusive access to a source of water at deeper levels. Analysis of root profiles and patterns of leaf and soil water potential led us to accept the hypothesis for this arid steppe. Additional information on phenology and on the ability of the major grass species to respond to watering permitted to identify two ecological strategies corresponding to grasses and shrubs. Grasses behave as opportunists having always leaves ready to grow as soon as water becomes available. They have a shallow root system and are able to respond very rapidly to increases in soil water availability. In contrast, woody species have a clear-cut periodic pattern of growth and dormancy. They possess thick horizontal roots running below 35-40 cm and utilized water stored in lower layers of the soil. A diagrammatic model summarizes the role of periodic and opportunistic species upon water circulation in the ecosystem. The effect of changes in the proportion of the two groups upon water dynamics is also discussed.
20146056|Data on the presence of a number of vegetation 'states' (defined in terms of species dominance in areas of 10  10 cm) and transition probabilities were derived from permanent quadrats in a number of recently burned heath stands. Data were taken from a species-rich community, a species-poor type and a high-level Calluna-Eriophorum bog. Simple Markovian models were constructed using these data, and the model predictions were compared with known or expected trends. Models for species-rich heath yielded poor simulations of expected trends since matrices derived from data for the first years after fire did not contain sufficient information on transitions to states important later in the developmental sequence. Model results for the simpler species-poor and bog communities were more satisfactory and simulated expected trends. In these types all species recovered quickly after fire and less rearrangement of species abundances took place. Maximum likelihood statistics carried out on the transition matrices produced inconclusive results for the species-rich and species-poor types, but indicated that the data from the Calluna-Eriophorum bog approximated a first-order time-homogeneous Markov chain. It was concluded that Markov models lack predictive ability except in relatively simple systems, but that they may be useful in illustrating variations in short-term community dynamics.
20146057|A simple Markov model is used to test the hypothesis that the floristic composition of vegetation colonizing bare ground immediately after burning is the major factor influencing post-fire development in heathland vegetation. Data are taken from stands of different ages at time of burning in a species-rich Calluna--Arctostaphylos heath in NE Scotland. It is shown that variation in the initial floristic composition of the stands is not, in itself, sufficient to produce model simulations which match observed trends, although altering the probabilities of transition from bare ground to other states allows more successful simulations. The model supports the hypothesis that stand age before burning influences the post-fire development through the process of colonization of bare ground. After a very severe fire post-fire development may initially depend on the formation of a moss cover, although this requires further study. It is concluded that simple Markov models can provide the basis for examining successional processes when used in a comparative way.
20146059|A plant community analysis and classification were done for an integrated ecological study, in the lake Abitibi region, Quebec. Two levels of vegetation analysis were used: the ecological group level and the community level. Species were first grouped according to their sociological affinities. The ecological significance of those groupings was studied by principal component analysis, with the inclusion of abiotic variables, and by the study of ecological profiles. Secondly, the concurrent use of ecological groups permitted the definition and characterization of noda. The relationships between the noda, in the space defined by the ecological groups, were analyzed by principal coordinate analysis on which is superimposed the shortest spanning tree. Those combined analyses permitted the identification of 35 community types which vary mainly according to surficial deposits (organic or mineral), drainage, relative richness of soils in bases, flooding, presence of bedrock outcrops, fire perturbations and microclimate. Those variations are discussed according to the exlusive or non-exclusive character of the ecological groups.
20146064|Many Cape Proteaceae store seed reserves in closed cones on the plant and rely entirely on these reserves for episodic recruitment after fires. Population size is sensitive to intervals between fires but also to fire season. Populations can be nearly eliminated by successive winter or spring fires. Three hypotheses explaining seasonal variation in recruitment were tested: (a) seeds germinate immediately after fire but seedlings die from summer drought; (b) seeds remain dormant over summer but the longer the delay between seed release after fire and germination 1) the greater the competition between seedlings and resprouts, or 2) the greater the seed losses to predators and/or decay before germination. Drought-avoiding dormancy occurred in 9 of 11 Cape Proteaceae studied, all of which delayed germination to autumn or winter. Seedling emergence and survival was not significantly increased after removal of competitors by methyl bromide poisoning. Seed predation, measured by exclosures, however, significantly reduced seed reserves before germination and also number of seedlings emerging. Post emergence seedling predation was negligible in the burn in contrast to adjacent mature vegetation where seedling predation was very heavy. The role of germination cues and rodent behaviour in controlling population recruitment is discussed and it is concluded that a knowledge of both is essential for predicting vegetation dynamics in this system.
20146065| Two-dimensional spectral analysis is a general interrogative technique for describing spatial patterns. Not only is it able to detect all possible scales of pattern which can be present in the data but it is also sensitive to directional components. Four functions are described: the autocorrelation function; the periodogram; and, the R- and [aitch or fancy theta]-spectra which respectively summarize the periodogram in terms of scale and directional components of pattern. The use of these functions is illustrated by their application to a simple wave pattern, a wave pattern with added noise, and patterns simulating competition and invasion processes. 
20146067|The effect of canopy trees on understory seedling and sapling distribution is examined in near-climax hemlock--northern hardwood forests in order to predict tree replacement patterns and assess compositional stability. Canopy trees and saplings were mapped in 65 0.1-ha plots in 16 tracts of old-growth forests dominated by Tsuga canadensis, Acer saccharum, Fagus grandifolia, Tilia americana, and Betula lutea in the northeastern United States. Seedlings were tallied in sub-plots. Canopy influence on individual saplings and sub-plots was calculated, using several indices for canopy species individually and in total. For each species sapling and seedling distributions were compared to those distributions expected if saplings were located independently of canopy influence. Non-random distributions indicated that sapling and seedling establishment or mortality were related to the species of nearby canopy trees. Hemlock canopy trees discriminate against beech and maple saplings while sugar maple canopy favors beech saplings relative to other species. Basswood canopy discourages growth of saplings of other species, but produces basal sprouts. Yellow birch saplings were rarely seen beneath intact canopy. Since trees in these forests are usually replaced by suppressed seedlings or saplings, canopy--understory interactions should influence replacement probabilities and, ultimately, stand composition. I suggest that hemlock and basswood tend to be self-replacing, maple and beech tend to replace each other, and birch survives as a fugitive by occupying occasional suitable gaps. This suggests that these species may co-exist within stands for long periods with little likelihood of successional elimination of any species. There is some suggestion of geographical variation in these patterns.
20146072| Two-dimensional spectral analyses of spatial patterns are made using (i) the autocorrelation function, (ii) the periodogram, and its polar summary (iii) the R-spectrum and (iv) the [aitch or fancy theta]-spectrum. Together these give a sensitive analysis of both the complete range of scales of pattern and directional components which exist in data sets and we illustrate how the significance of observed spectral features can be assessed. We investigate the spatial pattern of Calluna vulgaris in a regenerating woodland and of Epilobium angustifolium spreading in a woodland following the thinning of trees. Evidence in the spectra is found for directional, clumping and inhibition patterns, and is discussed in relation to spectra obtained from simulations of known pattern generating processes. Hypotheses about the important biological, environmental and management influences on the structure of the communities are examined. 
20146081|The flowering period and flower colour spectrum of 170 aromatic plant species are studied in 18 representative regions in Greece. The duration of the early to late flowering of the species is recorded for each region and for Greece as a whole. The basic flower colours (green, yellow, red and violet) are defined and the colour spectra for each region and for the whole country are given by converting absolute to relative values. The Srensen similarity coefficient is applied to compare regions and the relationship among them as well as with a control region (Athos peninsula). Conslusions are drawn as to the time of maximum flowering and the decrease in the proportion of flowering species from north to south. In addition, interpretations are given for the symmetrical flowering curve of Greece as a whole, compared to the skewed curves of the islands.
20146083|In a eutrophic peat bog impregnated with mineral springs in the Carpathians, where the glacial relics Swertia perennis and Pedicularis sceptrum-carolinum have earlier been shown to occupy different microhabitats, an analysis of the relationships of these species with accompanying species has been made on the basis of numerous quadrats and a correlation method. The closest floristic associates of the two species are quite different, and the results of this analysis are broadly in agreement with subjective assignments made earlier by phytosociologists.
20146085|Data transformation is seen here as an aspect of scaling such that we are less interested in the quirks and properties of each transformation but are more concerned with the general scaling properties and trends of suites of transformations. Over two years of daily phytoplankton abundance data for 30 species from a temperate lake (Llyn Maelog, North Wales) were subjected to a series of scale-ordered transformations. Two major classes of transformation were systematically varied: binary and smoothing. Binary transformation scaled the cutoff threshold between 'presence' and 'absence' of a species to various levels of abundance. With successively smaller universes and smoothing windows and successive species exclusion, ordinations of sample dates revealed smaller scaled structures in the order: annual cycles of species turnover, seasonal areas of attraction and uniqueness of individual sample dates. Gradual increases in the length of the smoothing window resulted in gradual shifts in the positions of points in sample date ordination, but not necessarily in the species ordinations. Thus sample data structures are more stable with change in scale than are species data structures. These differences in stability are discussed in the context of filtering characteristics of data collection and data analysis. Transformations producing similar species statistics (means, variances and skews) did not generally give similar ordination results, while some transformations giving similar ordinations differed in species statistical parameters.
20146086|Ranking methods represent a means of giving weight to species according to their measured or perceived importance. Stepwise methods, such as Orlci's (1973) yield a small list of species which can effectively describe groups and gradients in the data. These lists often include species which are difficult to use and the method does not allow incorporation of internal information in the analysis. The present method overcomes these problems. It uses Orlci's (1973) ranking as a basis, but allows the user to reject species if undesired on ecological or practical grounds. The method is illustrated on a set of 34 relevs from peat bogs, and interactive ranking proves only slightly less efficient than unbiased ranking.
20146087|The scientific classification of meadow vegetation (mesophilous grasslands) was already available in the 1930's due to A. P. Shennikov who suggested to apply new classification principles, on the basis of species dominance. This classification became subjected to criticism, as the criteria proposed did not correspond to the nature of the classification object and as meadow community dominants were instable. In 1971 the Soviet phytocenology was influenced by the ideas of the Braun-Blanquet classification, but before completely adopting it, the Soviet geobotanists employed the so-called dominant-determinant principles of classification, when differential species and dominants were simultaneously used for association determination. In the seventies phytocenoses on the floristic basis, were used though their syntaxonomic analysis was not performed. In 1981, the All-Union conference on vegetation classification was held in Ufa. This conference gave careful consideration to the problem of the floristic classification in the USSR, stated that impressive progress had been achieved in meadow classification on the floristic basis and recommended to use more strict principles for phytocenosis determination alongside with syntaxonomic analysis and subordination of the existing higher syntaxons of the Braun-Blanquet system. The perspectives for implementation of the Braun-Blanquet principles in the USSR are elucidated and a tentative question is raised on the necessity to develop some new classes in order to reflect the specific character of the meadows in the USSR.
20146088|Wild-rice (Oryza perennis Moench) populations were introduced into abandoned lowland fields (and a ditch) at five sites in Taiwan. The weeds arising after clearance and tillage of the fields were observed with regard to various attributes of the community during three years. Among a total of 84 identified species, Leersia hexandra had the highest relative frequency. With secondary succession, the percentage biomass of perennial species, particularly of grasses, gradually increased and the dominance index
20146095|The Bougainville Peninsula is formed of basalt capped with mesaform remnants of a bauxitic duricrust. On the plateau so formed there is little soil and the vegetation comprises scattered stunted eucalypts with grasses and hummock grasses or an understorey of Acacia and other shrubs. Locally there are patches of woodland of Eucalyptus nesophila and E. miniata. On the basalt country below the plateau there is deciduous vine thicket in the less accessible parts, a patchy mixture of vine thicket and savanna elsewhere including communities of vine thicket with scattered emergent eucalypts. The Osborn Islands are similar except that the mesaform capping is generally of sandstone. It is concluded that fire is the principal factor regulating the balance between vine thicket and savanna. Up to 40 years ago the area was populated by aborigines and regularly burnt off but this has now ceased so that colonisation by vine thicket is in progress, in spite of the low rainfall of the area.
20146097|The floristic and structural differentiation of vegetation along the altitudinal gradient in four subalpine forests of different developmental stages on Mt. Fuji has been studied. Near the forest limit a micropattern of vegetation corresponding to the altitudinal zonation has been observed which elucidated the mechanisms of development of the vegetation zonation. As to early stages of vegetation development only two types can be distinguished: the volcanic desert above 1500 m and the pioneer forests below. As to later stages a differentiation of subzones includes from higher to lower altitudes: the Alnus maximowiczii, Betula ermanii, Abies veitchii and Tsuga diversifolia forests. Larix leptolepis and Sorbus americana ssp. japonica, appear as co-dominants in ecotonal communities between the principal subzones and are also important pioneers in early stages. Similarity analyses reveal that the upper subalpine Alnus--Betula forests can be regarded as early successional phases of the climax Abies--Tsuga forests of the lower subalpine zone. The regular arrangement of A. maximowiczii--B. ermanii--A. veitchii is studied along the gradient from the margin to the interior of the forest growing near the forest limit where locally favourable conditions prevail. Growth form, height growth, photosynthetic activity, seed supply, and seedling distribution of the three principal species have been compared, as well as biomass and production relations in contiguous forests of these species. The marginal Alnus type community is productive and disturbance-tolerant, and has a wide ecological and sociological amplitude along the gradient, while the central Abies community is accumulative and disturbance-intolerant, and has a narrower tolerance range, but is superior in competition under stable habitat conditions. A vegetation organization, 'temporal multi-storeyed structure', is suggested which means that a zonal pattern of vegetation within a climax region develops by successive replacement of successional species along an environmental gradient.
20146098|Gower's (1977) method for the canonical analysis of asymmetric matrices (CAA) where the same entities index both the rows and the columns is described. This technique displays the indexing entities in a series of orthogonal planes of decreasing importance in such a way as to preserve the pattern of the asymmetry between them. The analysis is applied to a half-diallel experiment and to some leaf-overtopping data, both from a study of the control of relative abundance of perennials in chalk grassland. The results suggest a common source for the asymmetry in the very different interference and overtopping data, namely that of leaf height. It is concluded that relative abundance in the field may be determined, in part, by leaf height through aboveground interference between plants.
20146107|Tallgrass prairie vegetation, persisting as numerous small relics scattered across central North America, exhibits a complex pattern of community structure and composition. We sampled vegetation from 11 prairie preserves in Iowa and eastern Nebraska spanning three physiographic regions and a wide variety of upland habitats. Numerical classification and partitioned ordination revealed a complex pattern of both local and geographical variation in the vegetation. The primary coenocline is a complex topographic-moisture gradient. Secondary factors influencing the vegetation include subsoil permeability, chorological differences, and local peculiarities of stand history and dynamics. Local patterns of interaction between the primary and secondary environmental factors vary among Quaternary landscapes resulting in regional vegetation complexity.
20146108|Carex aquatilis spp. aquatilis grows in mesotrophic fens and has a boreal circumpolar distribution. The species is most frequent in areas north of the 66 N line. In Europe the southern limits of its distribution is ca 53 N. Here Carex aquatilis is found in eutrophic flood plains. However, mesotrophic communities of C. aquatilis have been reported from these areas as well. Nowadays the peripheral populations in NW Europe appear to be relics of former mesotrophic communities which at present are under heavy pressure from human activities such as drainage and fertilizing. In the northern part of the Netherlands C. aquatilis stands are restricted to areas with a steady supply of cool groundwater. A decreased groundwater discharge has a negative influence on the development of inflorescences. It is expected that further interference with the hydrology will promote a further decline of the peripheral populations. The species will not be able to survive in drained, eutrophic, warmed up habitats.
20146110|Cover data for plant species on eight environmentally similar sites that were each burned in a different year (from 2 to 36 years ago) were used to construct a composite sequence of vegetational change after fire on Artemisia-grassland sites in southeastern Idaho. Some species were early successional such as Lithospermum ruderale, and some late successional: Artemisia tridentata, A. tripartita, and Gutierreza sarothrae. But many species: Purshia tridentata, Symphoricarpos oreophilus, Amelanchier alnifolia, Chrysothemnus viscidiflorus, Achillea millefolium, Agropyron dasystachyum, and A. spicatum were present in both early and later stages. Shannon and Simpson indices of diversity and species richness indicated little change in alpha diversity through time. This was attributed mainly to the limited change in species composition from early to later stages. The general pattern of succession is compatible with the tolerance model of Connell & Slatyer (1977) in most respects. Species traits relating to persistence through a disturbance or re-establishment on the site, and tolerance of competition shape the course of succession on a site. Perennial grasses and forbs which sprout from the base after fire are the first species to dominate the sites. Sprouting shrubs, which require some years to regrow to their pre-fire form, are prominent by the sixth year. Shrubs which rely on dispersal become co-dominants in later stages, at which time some herbaceous species are reduced or eliminated. The pattern of succession can differ due to presence or absence of species with particular traits.
20146112|In a permanent plot experiment started in 1971, the effects of several management regimes on diversity of a Dutch chalk grassland have been investigated and the results have been compared to existing models predicting general trends in diversity. Treatments included grazing, mowing, and leaving untouched; in the mown plots, the effects of fertilizing and sod cutting were also studied. Grazing resulted in the highest diversity, leaving untouched in the lowest (ca. 42 and 15 spp. per m, respectively). Within the mown plots, fertilizing decreased diversity. The effects of sod cutting disappeared after some years. The results conform best with the response surface model of Huston (1979) relating diversity to frequency of population reduction and rate of competitive displacement, but a slight modification of the shape of the surface is suggested.
20146116|Californian coastal sage scrub has floristically distinct subassociations with sharp boundaries in the Santa Monica Mountains. This mesoscale biogeographic pattern has been variously attributed to the timing and pattern of fire and to differences in the moisture availability on sites. An examination of the actual fire history of sites reveals that recent fire events are unlikely to have caused the observed patterns. Sites with similar fire histories are not as similar in vegetation as sites with different fire histories but similar aspect. Single short fire intervals do not result in dissimilar communities; fires are unlikely to recur with the same boundaries as these two subassociations. A simulation of shrub response to fire interval and intensity indicates that long-term fire trends are also unlikely to have caused the distinction or the sharp boundaries of the two subassociations. Both subassociations include species with life history characteristics adapted to short and to long fire intervals. The subassociations exist without regard to fire history.
20146117|Studies on a long-term experiment on Calluna-Eriophorum bog indicate that the length of time between management fires affects the post-fire development. A short rotation (every 10 years) results in increased dominance by Eriophorum spp. while a long rotation (every 20 years) results in greater abundance of Calluna vulgaris after fire. Variations in post-fires species abundances are related to pre-fire stand composition coupled with the patchy distribution of regeneration centers of rhizomatous species. The usefulness of burning this vegetation type in management for herbivore grazing is questioned.
20146118|Diversity, similarity and dominance in plant communities are usually assessed from data collected at a single date. Herbaceous species have differing periods of growth, making phytomass or cover-weighted indices of diversity, similarity or dominance highly dependent on the timing of data collection. A new way of mathematically expressing residence time is presented. Average seasonal phytomass values can be used to better express dominance throughout a growing season. A similar approach could be used for cover or any other dynamic property of plant growth. These values could then be used in dominance-weighted indices of community similarity and diversity.
20146121| Results of a one-year evaluation of aboveground production of four dominant salt-marsh angiosperms show a distinctly higher level of production as compared with reported results for similar studies of salt-marsh vegetations in The Netherlands. Net aboveground production estimates based on production of both living and dead matter varied considerably depending on how the data were computed: Spartina anglica: 1162 to 1649 g m yr; Triglochin maritima: 568 to 783 g m yr; Halimione portulacoides: 790 to 1434 g m yr; Elytrigia pungens: 474 to 878 g m yr. Aboveground production estimates, using a paired plot method, are also strongly dependent on the computation of the data and ranged for Spartina anglica from 2 139 to 2 659 g m yr and for Elytrigia pungens from 1416 to 1787 g m yr. Evaluation of the results of the production estimates suggested that the actual aboveground production is best approached using a paired plot method. 
20146122|Big Muskellunge Lake, a softwater lake (pH 7.5-8.0, alkalinity 0.36 meq/L) in northern Wisconsin, harbors a diverse (25 species) submersed macrophyte vegetation. The present submersed flora combines species generally thought distinct in their ecological affinities, and is very similar to that reported in 1935. The only differences are the apparent loss of three previously infrequent Potamogeton species, and the addition to the flora of two infrequent Potamogeton species and the now abundant Elodea canadensis. Dramatic differences in composition and pattern of the vegetation occurred between sites of contrasting exposure and sediment type. Substantial compositional variation, at scales ranging from tens of centimeters to tens of meters, occurred along transects of contiguous quadrats at uniform depth and exposure. Analyses of species sequences along line transects detected significant segregation of species that is most plausibly explained by biotic factors such as colonization, clonal growth, and competition. Heterogeneity at small scales of a few meters or less is common in Big Muskellunge Lake. Such pattern has been neglected in macrophyte ecology, in spite of its significance for neighbor relationships which may critically influence growth and reproduction of aquatic plants.
20146124|The application of indicator species analysis has proved useful in classifying stands into groupings coinciding with topographic variations. 41 indicator pseudo-species are identified in the vegetation along a phytosociological gradient: some are characteristic of specific habitats, and the others indicate transition between groups of habitats. The use of qualitative estimations (transformed density records) in multivariate analysis in the present study indicates that they may be more preferable than quantitative estimations, because of their easy and fast recording in the field, and the less comprehensive computations, while yielding precise results. The X-axis of the reciprocal averaging ordination is related to the salinity and fertility gradients, while the Y-axis reflects soil texture. The phytosociological gradients of the canonical variate axes reflect essentially contrasts between groups of species, each correlated with one or the other of the environmental gradients. Comparing the results obtained by the two ordination methods (reciprocal averaging and canonical variates) we find that the first method detects the overall phytosociological changes along strong environmental gradients which would be helpful in studying large surveys. On the other hand, the second technique, which is mainly predictive, is more sensitive to changes within both the phytosociological and environmental gradients and can detect the impact of these changes on the overall variance of each gradient.
20146126| Leaf renewal of two species of Graminae under natural conditions was followed during 1980 in the Lamto savannas (5 02 W, 6 13 N; Ivory Coast) by using a marking method. A demographic analysis of the leaf populations is presented: fluctuations during the year of birth, mortality, survival curves and life expectancies of successive cohorts, age structure of the populations. The conclusion is that except rainfall and soil moisture other factors are important, such as the physiological conditions of the plant, annual burnings, and architectural features. 
20146133|This paper interprets plant community dynamics within three major vegetation regions -- the Sonoran desert, the Encinal and coniferous forest -- which extend from 700 m to the summit (2 766 m) on the south slope of the Santa Catalina Mts., Arizona. On the bajada, Larrea tridentata and disturbed desert scrub communities have been degraded by overgrazing and Carnegiea gigantea reproduction is failing on many sites. In the Spinose, suffrutescent desert scrub on protected lower mountain slopes Carnegiea is reproducing but mature populations are periodically decimated by freezing temperatures. In the desert grassland, graminoids or Agave schottii dominate, the former favored by fire, the latter by fire protection. In the Encinal above 1 220 m an open oak woodland dominated by Quercus oblongifolia is transitional to the pine, oak woodland where fire and drought result in several community segregates. A relict Cupressus arizonica forest is restricted to certain canyons. Above the Encinal (2 100 m) a Pinus ponderosa-Q. hypoleucoides forest is replaced by a less xeric P. ponderosa forest. In the latter a dense pine understory develops with fire protection and savanna-like pine stands are favored by fire. At higher elevations a mature Pseudotsuga menziesii, Abies concolor forest dominates the north-facing slopes where fire plays a significant factor in its perpetuation. An even-aged subalpine Abies lasiocarpa stand on the north slope below the summit suggests post-fire origin. In the Pinaleno Mts. to the northeast, mixed conifer and spruce, fir forests complete the vegetation gradient typical of these southwest mountain ranges. Here fire and windthrows interact in maintaining a mosaic of pure or mixed even or uneven-aged stands. Although Shreve's (1915) description of this mountain vegetation is still valid after more than half a century, the role of grazing and freezing at lower elevations and fire at higher elevations adds a new dimension to those factors operative in this series of relatively stable yet highly dynamic communities.
20146134|In the context of a simple mathematical model, we derive several mechanisms whereby plant species can coexist in a community without differing in their trophic niches (their relations with habitats, resources and exploiters). The model is based on the dynamics of species turnover in microsites, and incorporates localized competition, non-uniform seed dispersal and aspects of spatiotemporal environmental heterogeneity. These factors, which are not included in most standard competition models, allow stable coexistence of trophically equivalent species due to: (a) Differences in life-history 'strategy'. (b) Input of seeds from nearby habitats (spatial Mass Effect). (c) Differences in demographic responses to environmental fluctuations (temporal Mass Effect). (d) Turnover in species composition between different habitat patches. Quantitative descriptive studies are presented, demonstrating the occurrence of vegetation patterns predicted on the basis of the hypothesized mechanisms. We also review previously proposed mechanisms that would allow trophically equivalent species to coexist, and explore the theoretical and methodological implications of recognizing coexistence mechanisms independent of trophic niche differentiation. In particular, we propose that these mechanisms contribute to the dissimilarity of within-community replicate samples and the maintenance of many rare species in plant communities.
20146141|This study deals with the regeneration status of certain tree components of forests in the northwestern catchment of the river Gola in Kumaun Himalaya and explores possible compositional changes in time. Pinus roxburghii, Quercus floribunda and Quercus lanuginosa in their respective forest types had a stable population structure with a large percentage of young individuals (seedlings) and relatively few old ones, indicating that these species are frequent reproducers. The girth class distribution of the individuals of Quercus leucotrichophora in the Quercus leucotrichophora forest suggests that this species is likely to disappear gradually. In this forest, although forest composition will remain unchanged for some time, a complete absence of seedlings of any species shows the possibility of its complete replacement by a scrub or a grassland vegetation. In the mixed forest, the dominant species, viz., Quercus leucotrichophora, Persea odoratissima and Bauhinia retusa did not have saplings/seedlings, indicating a possible change in forest composition in the near future when Sapium insigne, Cocculus laurifolius, Celtis eriocarpa and Acer oblongum are likely to gain dominance. Finally, suggestions are made to explain the poor regeneration of Quercus leucotrichophora.
20146143|The string fen at Newdegate Pass, Mt. Field, Tasmania consists of dams composed of bolster heath and peat derived from bolster heath, and flark ponds with concave sides and usually rocky floors. The bolster heath has a smooth surface which consists of a complex mosaic dominated by Donatia novae-zelandiae, Carpha rodwayi and Dracophyllum minimum. The floors of the ponds usually support no macrophytes. The ponds situated on strong flow lines have shallower dams which are more often breached than those where flow is more diffuse. The ponds ultimately drain by tunnelling through the humified peat below the live roots of the bolster heath, and the exposed floors are colonized by bolster heath species. The underlying block stream has a topography partly independent from that of the string and flark features, which shift in both time and space.
20146144|Increasing structural changes of weed communities are to be observed in all countries with highly developed cropping techniques. This paper deals with results of investigations concerning one main source of those changes: the application of herbicides under long-term conditions. The course of changes is characterized by distinct developmental phases depending on intensity and continuation of herbicide stress. It is suggested that an evaluation of the structural changes on the community level has to be based on the analysis of changes on the population level.
20146146|The woody vegetation and associated soil-site variables from a range of upland to swamp sites were measured using 480 0.04 ha plots from Little Black Slough, Goose Pond and Horseshoe Lake in Illinois, and Mingo Wildlife Refuge, Missouri. Multiple regression, correlation, and factor analysis were used to relate soil-site data to vegetation structure and composition. Coenoclines of both the understory and overstory were constructed to represent the upland-swamp vegetation gradient of the region near the northern terminus of the southern floodplain forest. Percent sand, depth of flooding, and silt content were variables most strongly related to the understory coenocline. Depth of flooding, and clay content were most strongly related to the overstory coenocline. Beta diversities of the understory and overstory coenoclines were 5.8 and 6.9 HC. Understory density and overstory basal area increased and species richness and heterogeneity decreased along the upland-swamp gradient. Classification techniques identified three or four major overstory vegetation types within each study area. The 15 overstory types were ordinated and environmental characteristics summarized for each. Mingo Wildlife Refuge had the least flooding and lowest soil clay content. Classification of all 480 plots from the four study areas identified three major understory groups (mesic, floodplain and swamp) and eight overstory groups. These eight include a Quercus velutina--Q. alba, Quercus rubra--Q. alba, Liquidambar styraciflua--Ulmus americana, Quercus phellos--Q. palustris, Quercus lyrata--Acer rubrum, Acer rubrum--Nyssa aquatica, Nyssa aquatica--Taxodium distichum and a Taxodium distichum--Nyssa aquatica type arranged from upland to swamp.
20146147|Previous studies have provided phytosociological descriptions and classifications of the communities of the Taisetsu mountain range, Hokkaido. Here, the authors give an account of the establishment, development and maintenance of Pinus pumila stands and describe the dynamic balance between the pine and its habitat factors, particularly snow depth and wind exposure. The establishment of P. pumila stands was dependent on the degree of wind exposure and snow depth. The dominancy of P. pumila diminished gradually on wind-exposed sites but reduced drastically on snow-depositing sites.
20146149|Previous authors have suggested that cyclical succession takes place in Calluna-dominated heathland, and is determined by the different growth phases of the dominant. Characteristic species are said to invade at different stages of the life cycle of Calluna, particularly in the initial and pioneer phases and in the degenerate phase. In the last phase, gaps are formed due to separation and dying of the oldest frame branches. This paper aims to analyze in which microhabitat and in which phase of the Calluna life cycle seedling emergence and establishment is possible. More seedlings appear in pioneer Calluna than in mature Calluna stands in experimentally manipulated micro-sites. In pioneer Calluna establishment is affected only by application of litter, in mature Calluna by increased illumination. The differences between treatments disappeared after three years, but not the difference in establishment between stands. Seedling emergence from species sown experimentally was different in the successive phases of Calluna. Highest emergence was in the pioneer stand. In a seedling survey also most seedlings appeared and established in the pioneer phase. The number of recently germinated seeds was high in all phases. However, seedling survival was very low, except in the pioneer stands. This study does not of itself show evidence for cyclical succession in Calluna-dominated heath vegetation. Colonization of gaps by seedlings of Calluna in mature or degenerate phases is possible, but must be an infrequent occurrence.
20146155|The vegetation succession on the dunes near Oostvoorne, The Netherlands has been followed by means of a novel combination of repeated large-scale vegetation mapping and air photograph interpretation. Vegetation units have been discerned on the formation level because these could be distinguished fairly easily on the photographs and because the rates of change are appropriate to the time interval chosen. Nineteen formations were distinguished. Five 1:6250 maps were constructed, reflecting the formation pattern in 1934, 1943, 1959, 1972 and 1980. An overlay with 2736 grid points at 25 m field distance was used to quantify changes in the formation pattern. The results suggest a pronounced multiple pathway succession with nevertheless three principal trajectories of succession from pioneer to woodland vegetation. The outer dunes, which have originated since 1910, are distinct in successional characteristics from the inner dunes, which already existed but were released from heavy grazing pressure in 1910. The rate of change in the outer dunes was high in the beginning and is slowly decreasing eversince. In the inner dunes it went the other way around. Through visual extrapolation the likely formation patterns in 1910 and in 2000 were estimated. Transition frequencies proved highly variable for most formations. Moreover, strong spatial dependence was found. Limitations in the use of Markov models in cases of long-term succession in heterogeneous environments are discussed.
20146156|The vegetation of a 150 ha coastal dune area in the SW Netherlands was carefully analyzed and mapped at a scale of 1:2500 in 1959 and 1980. About 600 relevs were treated numerically. 127 vegetation types were distinguished, the overlap in community composition between the two years was very small. An intermediate level between this community level and the level of the structural-physiognomic formation was adopted. 56 so-called subformations, in which floristic and structural characters are combined, have been recognized and the overlap was then considerably larger, at least in number of types. Ordination results suggest that in each subset: grasslands, dune slacks, woodlands + scrubs, the first axis reflects floristic differentiation along with progression. The ordination of the entire material shows moisture as the main factor underlying the first axis, zonation as the second and nutrient status as the third factor. Change in vegetation was detected through a network overlay with 2 300 points for each of which the transition between 1959 and 1980 was scored. The pattern of change between 1959 and 1980 is apparently multiple pathway in type. This would be one of the few examples of such a pattern to be established on the medium term level of change, which is considered as succession sensu strictu. On an areal basis the change in vegetation is extremely large; even on the subformation level only 15% of the area was found to be unchanged, and on the community level only 4%. The overall trend is progression with a strong increase in the area of tall scrubs and woodlands. Retrogression also occurs, partly as a result of disturbances such as fire, partly due to local death of a dominant woody species. This latter phenomenon is interpreted against the background of the starting point of the succession; a sudden release of the inner dune area from overgrazing by cattle and a subsequent rapid dune development (outer dunes) on the beach in front of the inner dunes. Both species and community diversity increased, which is related to both differentiation under progression and to retrogression.
20146165|This study is based on the analysis of the chorological spectra from 19 vegetation types obtained from a numerical classification of ca. 400 phytosociological relevs taken during a vegetation survey in the Yukon Territory (NW Canada). All vegetation types are well characterized in terms of their chorological features. This allowed an ecological-historical interpretation of the vegetation in the study area. The distribution of the various chorological categories within the vegetation types is strongly correlated with the main environmental influences, whose action led to the present floristical and vegetational characteristics of the area, such as glaciation, fire, permafrost and water availability. The results show how the phytosociological approach constitutes an effective methodological tool for clarifying the phytogeographical aspects in the historical-ecological interpretation of a large area.
20146166|The problems and tasks arising from chorological phenomena in plant communities may be summarized as (a) the recognition and description of syngeographical changes and their causes with the aid of vegetation tables comparing communities over large regions and of a study of the environmental conditions; (b) the identification of analogous or vicariant communities and the detection of synonyms; (c) the classification of these communities within the phytosociological system. These phenomena will be demonstrated with spruce and beech communities as examples. In Table 1 the floristic similarities and differences of the European spruce communities are depicted. Table 2 compares the most important spruce communities that have been described up to now and shows the large number of synonyms for communities which are closely related from the sociological and ecological points of view. Their systematic position is briefly discussed. In Tables 3-5, chorological phenomena of the suballiance Eu--Fagenion are described, viz. the association groups of beech woods on limestone and of beech communities rich in species on rich siliceous substrate in the montane and submontane zones. Tables 7 and 8 contain a survey of how chorological phenomena have been treated in phytosociological systematics by various authors. Usually regional classification is carried out at the level of the alliance or suballiance, or, more frequently, at the level of the association.
20146167| The 10 Fagion associations bound to the western part of Czechoslovakia are conditioned both ecologically and chorologically in their species differentiation as well as geographical distribution. The division of the alliance into suballiances follows primarily the ecological phenomena. Within the Eu-Fagenion the associations form 3 groups conditioned by ecological factors. The Tilio platyphylli--Fagetum, Tilio cordatae--Fagetum, Melico--Fagetum and Carici pilosae--Fagetum represent associations of the submontane belt. The Tilio platyphylli--Fagetum is characterized by overlapping of Fagion and Carpinion species and by the absence of any Dentaria species due to chrological causes. The Tilio cordatae--Fagetum does not show any chorological phenomena in the species composition, however, it is limited to central, southern and western Bohemia only. The Melico--Fagetum is characterized by dominant Melica uniflora which is absent in the western and southern part of Bohemia. The Melico--Fagetum has even a more limited distribution occurring in northern and eastern Bohemia and in northern and central Moravia only. The Carici pilosae--Fagetum is characterized by Carex pilosa (dominant), Cephalanthera longifolia and Euphorbia amygdaloides; it is confined to the Carpathian province. The Dentario enneaphylli--Fagetum, Dentario glandulosae--Fagetum and Violo reichenbachianae--Fagetum represent a group of vicarious associations of the montane belt. The Dentario enneaphylli--Fagetum occurs mainly in the geographical province esk vysoina. Its eastern limit lies in the westernmost part of the Carpathian province where it forms a special subassociation and contacts the Dentario glandulosae--Fagetum. The latter association is characterized primarily by Dentaria glandulosa, a Carpathian endemic species. The Violo reichenbachianae--Fagetum is conditioned chorologically by the absence of any Dentaria species; it occurs in the mountains Krun hory and Doupovsk hory only. The Festuco--Fagetum is the single representant of the third group conditioned mainly by ecological factors. 
20146168|Because of its geographical position the Morvan region has certain peculiar climatological conditions which, despite the distance from the sea, permit the development of a characteristic Atlantic vegetation. Forest communities of Quercion robori-petraeae and Carpinion betuli are described and compared with the associations already distinguished for France. A chorological synthesis of the Quercion robori-petraeae and Carpinion betuli communities is made for a considerable part of France and the phytogeographical importance of the Morvan region is revealed.
20146169|Dense scrub of Juniperus communis is assigned to many associations, ungrazed lowland juniper scrub on level, dry, poor, acid sandy soil in NC Europe to two vicarious associations, the Helichryso-Juniperetum in Poland and the Dicrano--Juniperetum occupying an area from E Germany (Rgen) and S Sweden (Blekinge) to the central Netherlands. The former is characterized by 20 differential species, mostly xerophytic herbs, the latter by 25 species. The shares of cryptogams are 20% and 44% respectively. The Dicrano--Juniperetum is clearly differentiated into a NE group of two subassociations (vicariants) and a SW group of six subassociations. The differential species and the area of distribution of the eight subassociations are discussed. The two associations, as well as the two subassociation groups of Dicrano--Juniperetum are found in similar habitats and are obviously controlled by climate alone. The eight subassociations of the DJ, however, also differ, at least in part, by soil factors. Finally, the geographical variation of the constancy (presence degree) and abundance (cover degree) of a number of species within the two vicarious associations throughout the European area is given (Tables 1,2). It is shown that within a narrowly delimited habitat and group of plant communities the geographical indicator values of species may become much greater than if only their geographical occurrence is considered, irrespective of habitat.
20146170|Four aspects of the synchorology of plant communities along the European coastline are treated: (1) with examples from sand dunes (Agropyreta and Ammophileta) and salt marshes (Puccinellieta maritimae) synvicariance is elucidated; (2) The increase in synvicariance towards the inner sand dunes is discussed as a result of an increasing effect of autochthonous climatic features; (3) with examples from sand dunes and cliffs the concept of synendemism is elucidated; (4) synvicariance at the landscape (geosigmetum) is discussed with examples from the French coastline.
20146171|Chorological phenomena are very important for the differentiation of the Mesobromion erecti associations in western and central Europe. We recognized several associations of grasslands specific of calcareous brown-soils (on marl) in a range from the southwest of France to Switzerland and the Boulonnais, which correlated with a floristic impoverishment. Beyond the north and the east of France, the characteristic species disappear: the associations of marl grasslands cannot be differentiated. Chorological phenomena are also important for the differentiation of the semi-dry grasslands in a range from England to Germany, with four greater associations (Cirsio--Brometum, Festuco--Brachypodietum, Festuco lemanii--Brometum, Gentiano--Koelerietum) and several local communities and minor associations. Three association groups are recognized in the Mesobromion erecti: in addition to the northwest European and the centralwest European association groups (Willems, 1980), we distinguish a southwest European group very rich in subatlantic and submediterranean species.
20146172|On the basis of three selected examples chorological phenomena in waterplant communities of central, east and southern Europe are represented. Species of the Atlantic-oceanic floral element of the order Juncetalia bulbosi, like Pilularia globulifera, Eleocharis multicaulis and Deschampsia setacea are growing in markedly secondary sites near their eastern border, i.e. in the Lusatian district of central Europe, especially in sand, gravel and clay pits as well as in residue lakes of opencast mines. As a result of intensive recent human activities numerous new sites are being established now causing an expansion of their distribution area. With decreasing oceanity from the central part to the eastern border of the area a change in the floristic-sociological structure of the relevant plant communities and in the hydrochemical composition of the respective water bodies takes place. In western Europe the species grow in soft water poor in minerals, in the eastern part (central Europe) in mineral-rich, hard water with calcium and sulphate. At present Ceratophyllum submersum has a high frequency in the northeastern area in Mecklenburg. The sites are morainic lakes (kettle holes) and small waters and ponds near settlements, which are enriched in minerals and nitrates in consequence of the intensive agricultural use of inorganic fertilizers. Moreover the waters are alkaline and rich in minerals, especially bicarbonate and possess a high range of total hardness. The example of eight different sites of Aldrovanda vesiculosa illustrates a striking change of its diagnostic value in its disjunct north--south distribution. In the northern part of central Europe Aldrovanda is found in the communities of the Utricularietea intermedio--minoris, both in waters with a low acidity rich in sulphate and in alkaline waters rich in bicarbonate (Sphagno--Utricularion and Scorpidio--Utricularion respectively). In southern central Europe and in southeastern Europe Aldrovanda occurs in Lemnetea and Potametea communities. In northeastern Poland Aldrovanda is found together with Hydrilla verticillata, Chara tomentosa, Myriophyllum verticillatum and Scorpidium scorpioides.
20146173|Forty Molinietalia communities were analyzed from the phytogeographical point of view in order to establish their distribution tendencies in Czechoslovakia in relation to the floristic regions of Hercynicum, Pannonicum and Carpaticum. Only few moist meadow communities of the Molinietalia order are found in the whole area under study; most of them have their distribution center in one of the floristic regions mentioned above. Eleven Calthion and two Molinion associations are confined to the Hercynicum, eight of them strictly. It is only in the Moravian and Slovak Pannonicum that all associations of the alliances Cnidion venosi and Veronico longifoliae--Lysimachion occur; they appear there together with two Molinion communities, the distribution of which is, however, a little wider. Three Calthenion communities show a still wider distribution, extending into the adjoining areas. One Calthenion community occurs in the Bohemian Pannonicum and its surroundings, two Calthenion associations have their distribution center in the Carpaticum, but they are not strictly confined to it.
20146174| Two types of Nardus-rich communities may be distinguished in Europe according to their geographic pattern: I. Communities of high mountains showing discontinuous variation. Different florogenesis in island-like high mountains results in a number of alliances characteristic for particular mountain systems: Trifolion humilis Quzel 57 (Atlas, N Africa), Plantaginion thalackeri Quzel 53 (Sierra Nevada), Campanulo--Nardion Rivaz-Martinez 63 (mountains of the central Iberian peninsula), Nardion Br.-Bl. 26 (from Pyrenees, Auvergne to W and E Carpathians), Potentillo ternatae--Nardion Simon 58 (S Carpathians, Pirin, Rila), Jasionion orbiculatae Lakui 66 (Dinarids), Trifolion parnassi Quzel 64 (S Greece), Nardo-Caricion rigidae Nordhagen 37 (Iceland, Scotland, Scandinavia, W Sudeten). II. Communities at lower altitudes with continuous variation, where particular syntaxa are difficult to distinguish. Along the climatic gradient from a subatlantic to a subcontinental climate, a cline in floristic composition of the communities under discussion is found. Towards the eastern borderline, the communities are poorer in characteristic species. Here only one alliance is considered -- Violion caninae Schwickerath 44. A similar situation occurs along the altitudinal gradient in mountains. Only in mountains with a belt of alpine communities the montane Nardeta are saturated with alpine species. This type of communities was described as Nardo--Agrostion tenuis by Sillinger (1933). 
20146175|Two geographical races have been established within the Berteroetum incanae in Europe. The Galium mollugo race of the Berteroetum incanae is characteristic of the western part of the distribution area of the association whereas the relevs from the eastern part of Europe are classified as the Acosta rhenana race of the Berteroetum incanae. Adventitious Berteroetum incanae from the Netherlands has been shown to be a separate subunit within the Galium mollugo race of the Berteroetum incanae.
20146176|On the basis of superregional constant-species combination and edaphic-ecological subdivisions according to trophic status and moisture regime the following synchorological phenomena are discussed; distribution of associations, areal boundaries, relation to vicariant neighbour units and syngeographical division, with the Papaveretum argemones as a model. With the regional ass. Chamomillo--Papaverenetum and Myosotido--Papaverenetum as examples a new rank for vicariant associations is proposed.
20146177|Barkman's similarity coefficints have been calculated for twelve ecologically related communities of southeast Greenland (SEG) and alpine Scandinavia (SCA). Comparisons were made between corresponding saxicolous lichen communities, dwarf shrub communities, snow bed communities and herb and Salix shrub communities. The corresponding SEG and SCA communities of extreme habitats have the same faithful taxa or the same dominant taxa, relatively few or no area-differential (ArD) taxa and they are floristically strongly related. They should be classified in one single association; the geographical variation is expressed in terms of geographical races. Corresponding vegetation types of mesic habitats have low floristic similarity coefficints, many ArD taxa and the same dominant taxa, or different faithful taxa. The geographical variation should be expressed here on the association level.
20146178|The alliance Caricion bicolori-atrofuscae comprises plant communities of more or less wet calcareous fens on shallow peat with a high base saturation, occurring in arctic as well as alpine, more seldom subalpine areas. The characteristic species are presented and compared with those from communities of the Caricion davallianae growing in lowland and mountain sites of temperate and boreal calcareous fens. An abbreviated ecological characteristic is given and the contact communities of the different community complexes are pointed out. The regional floristic differences within the communities are shown, and the geographical distribution and regional frequency of the differentiated associations are given. The synsystematic ranks of three central European mountain to alpine associations are discussed in detail (Caricetum frigidae, Juncetum alpini, Equiseto--Typhetum minimi). They should be excluded from this alliance. Generally, the alpine phytocoenoses are more often invaded by species from neighbouring communities, presumably as an effect of competition in sites less favouring fen development in comparison to the oro-arctic and arctic sites, especially those with an oceanic to suboceanic climate. We conclude, that the observed floristic differences are mainly caused by historical processes and not by the different ecology of the sites in question. This must be taken into consideration when discussing the synsystematic delimitation and rank of the corresponding communities.
20146179|Three Dutch Calthion palustris communities, situated in different phytogeographic districts which vary in climatic conditions, are compared with respect to vegetation structure and microclimate. The three Calthion stands which are similar in soil, management and hydrology, differ slightly in total aboveground biomass in the period just before cutting, but there is a larger difference in the biomass contributed by phanerogams, bryophytes and litter. The structure of the Calthion communities varies in vertical distribution of biomass and leaf area (LAI), and growth form and leaf size composition. These differences are interpreted in terms of climatic differences such as length of growing season, temperature and wind. Profiles of decreasing light intensity within the vegetation canopy are related to the vertical distribution of biomass, LAI and leaf inclination of the various Calthion communities. Temperature and saturation deficit of the air on the different sites show profiles of a similar shape which suggests that in such ecologically comparable plant communities, vegetation structure differs under influence of the macroclimate in such a way that the resulting vegetation canopies modify the microclimate within the vegetation to become homologous.
20146180|Several central European species have failed to reach the British Isles because of the early separation from the continent. The two tree species Fagus sylvatica and Carpinus betulus reached southern England but were unable to spread much further. Other species, such as Acer pseudoplatanus, were only relatively recently introduced. Recent distribution maps for Fagus and Acer show an almost uninterrupted distribution in the whole British Isles. The beech must be considered to be an important element of the present potential natural vegetation; it has been planted widely and regenerates freely. The woodlands of Brittany may provide a model to enable us to visualize the possible species composition and appearance of these potential Atlantic beech woods.
20146181|Studies of the beeches and beech woods of eastern central Europe revealed, that in the postglacial period not only Fagus sylvatica (L.) emend. reimmigrated from the refugial territories in the SE - as has generally been accepted, but also the 'transitional taxa', which originated from hybrids with F. orientalis Lipsky. The NW area limit of these intermediate taxa must be revised. The presence in central Europe of these taxa - which form own Fagion alliances and associations in the SE (Fagus intermedia ssp. moesiaca and ssp. taurica) as well as the presence of other southeastern species in central European beach woods shows, that their postglacial development is parallel to, but different from other areas. The taxon Fagus intermedia (ssp. neglecta and ssp. transitus) became differential taxa of a central European region of the Fagion medioeuropaeum. Plant sociologists are therefore requested to make new and critical analyses of the beech woods in Europe, with special attention to the Fagus taxa, in order to establish in detail the geographical distribution and phytosociological significance of Fagus intermedia. The author offers to determine or revise Fagus material (herbarium collections).
20146182|The initiatives adopted in Rumania for conserving the native flora pointed out the importance of identifying syntaxa which contain endemic and relict species. The Dacian endemic plants, form the most representative phytoelement in the flora of the Rumanian Carpathians. They include the species whose extension is limited to the Carpathian-Pontic-Danubial area (Pax, 1898). On the basis of caryological information some considerations concerning the origin of certain Dacian plant species as well as the vicarious relationship with species in other mountain-mass of Eurasia are presented. In order to contribute to the protection of the Dacian and Dacian-Balkan phytoelement within the natural reserves, the sociological affinity of these species and the specification of the alliances where they find their sociological optimum, are persued.
20146183|Aquatic macrophytes with oceanic and suboceanic distribution occur in the G.D.R. mainly in Littorelletea, Isoeto--Nanojuncetea and Montio--Cardaminetea communities. Within the Potametea they are almost entirely confined to the Ranunculetum fluitantis and to the group of Batrachium communities within the Nymphaeion. Within the territory of the G.D.R. several of these species are reaching the eastern border of their distribution areas. Nearly all of them are more or less endangered or even threatened by extinction.
20146184|Five plant communities contrasting in successional status and human impact from the southern part of the 'Wienerwald' (Austria) are analyzed using vegetation relevs, spectra of area types and a newly proposed disjunction quotient. A climax community (Asperulo-Fagetum), a subclimax community (Querco--Carpinetum s.l.), an anthropogenous substitute community (Mesobromion) and two natural, non-climax permanent communities (Euphorbio saxatilis-Pinetum nigrae and Fumano--Stipetum eriocaulis) are recognized. The disjunction quotient is defined as the number of partial (discontinous) areas divided by the size of the total area of distribution of a species. In particular, the average disjunction quotients of the species in the first two communities reflect relatively stable environments only slightly influenced by man, with many ancient, stable taxa. These communities are characterized by species with well-delimited, stable distribution areas. The species in the Mesobromion community have very low average disjunction quotients as its component species are widely and continuously distributed and are often promoted by man. In contrast to these communities, the species linked to the natural permanent, non-climax communities of extreme habitats, have high distribution quotients i.e. small, discontinuous areas; this illustrates the relic character of these plant communities and of the eastern edge of the Alps as a whole. Using the highly variable disjunction quotient of all species and communities examined, the concepts of climax and permanent communities (of different origin) are discussed with regard to European conditions.
20146185|Basiphilous pine forests and related birch forests are herb- and grass-rich forests on calcareous substrate. These forests are complex communities with floristic/ecological elements from different vegetation types occurring in a subtle micromosaic. These elements are e.g. species from acidophilous conifer forests, thermophilous forest-rim communities, calcareous shallow-soil and steppe communities, eutrophic wet meadows and fens, and in northern Fennoscandia also species from alpine Dryas heaths. Four associations are recognized in Fennoscandia: Convallario--Pinetum, Melico--Piceetum pinetosum, Peucedano--Pinetum and Epipacto atrorubentis--Betuletum. The main association is the Convallario--Pinetum, a widespread community in Fennoscandia and Estonia with a considerable floristic variation between the different regions. Examples of the floristic variation along west--east profiles and south--north profiles in Fennoscandia are presented. The basiphilous pine forest complex can be divided into a number of ecological types along the moisture and nutritional gradients. A further subdivision into geographical types (races) is presented.
20146186|The forest vegetation of Japan can be classified into three major regions: (1) the Camellietea japonicae evergreen broad-leaved forest region, e.g. Laurel forest which can be compared with the sclerophyllous gorest (durilignosa sensu Rbel, 1930), in the Mediterranean region, (2) the Fagetea crenatae summergreen broad-leaved forest region, (3) the Vaccinio--Piceetea japonicae subalpine and subboreal conifer forest region. The distribution of these forest types on the Japanese Islands is related to both the warmth index, WI, and to the coldness index, CI, after Kira (1945). The borderline between the evergreen Camellietea japonicae and the summergreen Fagetea crenate in Japan almost coincides with the 85 C line of WI. The chorological variation of the forest vegetation in Japan and Korea shows a close correlation with the amount of warmth in the actual vegetation season. The evergreen broad-leaved Castanopsis cuspidata var. sieboldii forests can be classified into three major alliances; Quercion acuto-myrsinaefoliae, Maeso japonicae-Castanopsion sieboldii, and Psychotrio-Castanopsion sieboldii. The distribution limit of these three alliances on the Japanese Islands is again related to temperature. Changes in temperature and latitude correspond closely to changes in the Evergreen Broad-leaved Forests along the Pacific Ocean coast of the Japanese Islands. The three forest alliances differ in their number of evergreen and deciduous broad-leaved woody species, secondary forest types and syndynamic processes.
20146187|A short outline of the history of the description of Batrachium communities with special regard to taxonomic reliability is given. Own investigations concern firstly the distribution of Batrachium taxa in Lower Saxony (north Germany). Some taxonomical problems are discussed. The Batrachium species are classified with regard to growth form into two structural groups and the different distribution of these groups within a drainage area is mentioned. The problems arising from the classification of the communities dominated by small Batrachium species with floating leaves are discussed in more detail using a distribution map of characteristic and associated species. With regard to a wider geographical area (central Europe), 3 types of Batrachium communities are distinguished and characterized floristically. The great complexity of the problem is pointed out. Finally, the phytosociological behaviour of the 7 most frequent Batrachium species is discussed with special reference to the different types of waters that are colonized.
20146188| The aquatic macrophyte communities of southern Bohemian fishponds were analyzed during 35 years (1941-1976). From 61 vegetational units 26 communities may be characterized as being well adapted to modern fishpond management, 4 units are on their way to extinction and 18 units are in regression. Our long-term observations evaluated the following types of destruction: destruction of the community, in which one dominant species retreats and another regenerates (Potameto natantis--Nymphaeetum candidae  Potamogeton natans comm.); destruction of the community, in which only one stratum regenerates (synusia) (Glycerietum aquaticae utricularietosum australis  Utricularia australis comm.). The development of the pleustophytic communities followed two pathways: transformation of more complicated forms into simpler ones (Utricularietum australis  Lemmo--Spirodeletum); development of complicated forms from simpler ones (Lemnetum minoris  Lemno--Spirodeletum). 
20146193|Along ria shorelines mangrove assemblages are closely related to habitat types and there is a recurring pattern in their distribution that is linked to the origin and history of the geomorphic units. The coastal geomorphology is related to ancestral landforms developed prior to the post-glacial transgression, as well as to tidal levels, aspect, modern shore-forming processes, and types of hinterland/tidal flat contacts. These historical and process patterns develop distinct geomorphic units which dictate the distribution of habitats and their mangrove assemblages. Mangrove assemblages are classified according to their habitat: main tidal flat, hinterland fringe, alluvial fan, spit/chenier, tidal creek bank, tidal creek shoal and rocky shore. Within a given habitat there are various physico-chemical gradients which are instrumental in developing zonation within the assemblages. The variety of internal zones within an assemblage is related to the richness of species within the regional species pool which in turn is related to climate.
20146195|The relationship between secondary succession, soil disturbance, and soil biological activity were studied on a sagebrush community (Artemisia tridentata) in the Piceance Basin of northwestern Colorado, U.S.A. Four levels of disturbance were imposed. 1: the vegetation was mechanically removed and as much topsoil as possible was left; 2: the vegetation was mechanically removed and the topsoil scarified to a depth of 30 cm; 3: topsoil and subsoil were removed to a depth of 1 m, mixed and replaced; 4: topsoil and subsoil were removed to a depth of 2 m and replaced in a reverse order. Plant species composition, dehydrogenase and phosphatase enzymatic activity, mycorrhizae infection potentials, and percent organic matter were the variables measured. Treatment 4 drastically altered the pattern of vegetation succession. Treatments 2, 3, and 4 started with Salsola iberica as the dominant species but six years later, 3 and to lesser extent 2 changed in the direction of the species composition of 1, dominated by perennial grasses and perennial forbs. Treatment 4 developed a shrub dominated community. The rate of succession was not decreased by the increased levels of disturbance. Both dehydrogenase enzyme activity and mycorrhizae infection potential (MIP) increased with the change from Salsola iberica to a vegetation dominated by either perennial grasses and forbs or shrubs. The intensity of disturbance in 2, 3, and 4 reduced drastically dehydrogenase activity and MIP, but in six years they recovered to levels comparable to 1. Phosphatase enzyme activity and organic matter were unrelated to species composition but related to treatment and time elapsed. In both cases a significant decrease was observed throughout the six-year period.
20146196|The aggregated effect of cattle and sheep grazing on Puccinellion maritimae and other salt-marsh vegetation has been studied together with changes in species composition, the percentage cover of each species, total cover and the percentage of bare ground, six years after grazing had been prevented by construction of experimental exclosures. The results of these experiments are discussed in relation to the natural development of the vegetation that occurred in a permanent plot in the ungrazed part of the salt marsh. Six years without grazing caused a marked increase in total cover and a dramatic reduction in the amount of bare ground. The species composition of the Puccinellia maritima community did not change during these six years, but all species increased in cover. Whereas Artemisia maritima migrated into the Festuca rubra community and only two species Festuca and Halimione portulacoides, increased in cover, all other species showed reduced cover and Salicornia europaea disappeared from the plot after six years without grazing. During the same period of time, three species, Salicornia europaea, Suaeda maritima, and Glaux maritima, disappeared from the plot in the ungrazed marsh as a result of natural development. During thirty-five years the vegetation originally dominated by Puccinellia maritima and Salicornia europaea has changed into a community dominated by Halimione portulacoides, whereas the grazed salt marsh is still dominated by Puccinellia maritima and Salicornia europaea. These results are discussed in relation to the literature on the effect of cattle and sheep grazing on salt-marsh vegetation.
20146197|Multiple discriminant analysis is a useful multivariate technique in vegetation studies that can be employed for several purposes, even if the underlying statistical assumptions are not satisfied. An example of application of this method is discussed: multiple discriminant analysis was successfully used for evaluating the predictivity of forest types defined by numerical classification of vegetation data with respect to soil variables.
20146201|Along a microtopographic gradient in a heathland, five types of plant distribution were recognized: (i) Pyrola type, restricted to the crest of the rise; (ii) Vaccinium type, mainly on the steeper slopes and thin soil; (iii) Arctostaphylos type, ranging widely from the top to the bottom of the slope; (iv) Erica tetralix type, in the waterlogged wet places; and (v) Calluna type, showing the most extensive occurrence across the ranges of all the foregoing types. A clear separation of habitat was found between Erica cinerea and Erica tetralix. The stomatal transpiration of Calluna was the most active among five species studied. However, the cuticular transpiration rate is rather low. These facts all have a bearing on the widely dominant occurrence of Calluna in heathland. Vaccinium vitis-idaea and Arctostaphylos uva-ursi showed the lowest transpiration rates in the present study. Their cuticular transpiration rates are also low. These facts may be in accord with their inability to overcome Calluna under conditions of adequate water supply. However, they may become dominant in some sites, such as the terrace of thin soil. The buds of Erica tetralix are very susceptible to drought, because their lethal water deficit is very small. It may be a main cause of the restriction of this species to very wet places.
20146203|This paper is a survey of the vegetation of the southeastern departments in the Province of Santa Fe (Argentina). The vegetation was analyzed following Braun-Blanquet's approach modified by Mueller-Dombois & Ellenberg (1974). The most relevant species of the region were placed in 25 groups according to their requirements or general behaviour. Most of the communities are herbaceous, and apart from the woody and some other miscellaneous ones they were grouped into three ecologically and floristically defined sets. The first set, the Stipa grasslands and related communities, which are characterized by the more or less abundant presence of Stipa hyalina, Stipa neesiana and Stipa papposa, comprises five different communities. The second, the halophilous communities, comprises five communities, the two Spartina ssp. grasslands, the halophilous prairies of Distichlis spicata, the short sedge Scirpus americanus communities and the 'peladales'. The third, the hygrophilous communities, comprises nine communities which are not so well defined as the ones in the other sets. Besides, two further communities have been included, the Paspalum quadrifarium and the Melica macra tall grasslands.
20146204|The phenology of tree components of natural forests occurring between 350 and 2150 m in Kumaun Himalaya is described. All forests had more evergreen than deciduous taxa. The degree of evergreenness increased with increasing elevation and decreasing summer dryness. For most species (including all dominants) concentrated leafdrop and simultaneous leafing occurred during the warm-dry period of the year. About half of the species showed multiple leafing. All species had a sharp flowering peak in April. Wet-season flowering was rare. Most of the species flowered synchronously. In the sal- (Shorea robusta) and pine (Pinus roxburghii) forests a single peak of fruit maturation occurred in summer, while in other forests there also was a secondary peak in autumn.
20146206|A discriminant model was produced that predicts North American plant formations with basic climatic variables (monthly mean temperatures, monthly precipitation, and latitude). The model is based on data from 176 weather stations. Climatic variables from 30 additional randomly-selected weather stations were used to test the model. The predicted formation and actual formation at each site were compared; four sites were classified into the wrong formations (87% accuracy). This predictive model indicates a strong correlation between climate and formations in North America. Vegetation--climate models produced by canonical discriminant analysis may be useful in detecting geographical localities where non-climatic factors are particularly influential.
20146212|A method is proposed to analyse the dispersion profiles of species in classes of environmental variables, based on the decomposition of the expected frequencies in contingency tables with many interacting species. The method has been applied to data of dominant or very frequent graminoid species in grasslands of the Natisone Valley (Friuli, Italy). It allowed to make predictions by removing the random component of variation.
20146213|Fire is an ancient ecological factor influencing the Mediterranean vegetation of southern France. The study was carried out on three areas to determine the phenological behaviour of plants with regard to fire. First we studied the flowering responses of perennials in relation to the time since fire: in a Quercus coccifera garrigue most species flower during the year following burning. In comparing species by species between burned and unburned areas most species did not show major differences in the phenological stages. However, fire did increase the number of inflorescences of grasses. A phenological synthesis showed that differences at the community level existed for the flowering stages between the burned areas and the unburned control sites during the first and second years following fire. The growth of some woody species was also studied; the elongation and growth of the plants were biggest during the first or second year after fire. The lack of differences in phenological response between burned and unburned plants may be an adaptive trait to fire.
20146214|An analysis of the vegetation of four islands of the Krakatau group (Rakata Besar, Rakata Kecil, Sertung and Anak Krakatau), Indonesia, was conducted based on our two expeditions of 1982 in centennial commemoration of the great explosion in 1883. Pioneer communities on lava flow, ash fields, beaches, cliffs and on a scoriaceous slope were quite different from each other. Forest communities were grouped into nine types using Morisita's index of similarity,
20146217|Several plants invade the cushions of Laretia acaulis in the high Andean communities of central Chile. Humus develops among the rosettes, and 42 different species settle on the cushions. Most of these species are also found outside the cushions. Semi-woody chamaephytes, hemicryptophytes and cryptophytes have a similar cover on both substrates, while the cover of woody chamaephytes and therophytes is smaller on the cushions. The diversity and cover of invading plants, which vary with altitude, result from interactions among the environmental conditions, cushion morphology and the surrounding vegetation.
20146228|The halophilous vegetation in the Po Delta region (north Adriatic) has been studied with the Braun-Blanquet method. Vegetation types have been defined by numerical classification of vegetation data. Their ecology has been studied by indirect gradient analysis. The following three main groups of phytocoena have been recognized. (1) Perennial halophytic vegetation (class Puccinellio--Salicornietea) including 7 associations: Spartinetum maritimae, Puccinellietum palustris, Salicornietum radicantis, Salicornietum fruticosae, Agropyro--Inuletum crithmoidis, Halimionetum portulacoidis, are quoted according to an approximate gradient of decreasing soil moisture. The Juncetum maritimi is conditioned by soil erosion. (2) Therophytic vegetation settled on soils subject to natural or artificial disturbance (class Thero--Salicornietea), including 3 associations: Suaedo--Kochietum hirsutae, Salicornietum herbaceae s.l. and the Aster tripolium--Suaeda maritima community. (3) Halotolerant vegetation (class Artemisietea vulgaris), including only the Atripliceto--Elytrigietum pungentis settled on soils with a low salt content.
20146229|On the French Mediterranean seashore, the essential environmental factors are: salinity, humidity, human activity, instability, and nature of the soil. Each of these factors presents a large range of variation. According to the values and the rhythm of changes presented by each of them a hierarchy of impacts has been established. As a consequence one ecological impact or another may be the result of the occurrence of mosacs in the plant cover. Thus, to explain the structures observed, it is necessary to distinguish between homogeneous systems in the landscape characterized by a similar hierarchy of impacts of the master factors. Analyses prove that vegetation units are either independent of each other (they are the reflection of a geomorphological structure, of climatic differences or of human influences), or organized into more or less complex phytoecological systems in which the mosaic of plant associations is governed by the activity of plant interactions. Some examples from salt ponds and sand dune systems explain these conclusions.
20146230|Succession of plant communities on a salt marsh at the Boschplaat, Terschelling (The Netherlands) is described on the basis of relevs from permanent plots in three transects, covering a period of almost 30 years. All relevs were clustered, using a hierarchical fusion technique. Succession has been quantified in terms of transitions between clusters over time in all plots. Analysis of the results showed four clearly distinct successional trends, each restricted to a particular altitudinal zone of the salt marsh. Between zones there were only few interconnections. This implies that zonation does not represent succession, at least not on the time scale of this study. It is suggested that initial differences between zones in the processes that change the abiotic environment, form the basis of vegetation zonation at the Boschplaat.
20146231|Limonium vulgare and Plantago maritima are growing together over large areas and in varying proportions on the Boschplaat salt marsh. The question is how both species interact and which environmental factors play a role in those interactions. There are indications of different measures of niche differentiation in the Plantagini--Limonietum association related to differences in flooding frequency and substrate. Interactions between both species are described according to three models (related to de Wit's competition model). Mechanisms that may cause niche differentiation are: differences in growth rhythm, in salt tolerance, in rooting depth, in preference to types of substrate, in morphology, in mycorrhizae and diseases. On a small scale (spatial heterogeneity in the marsh and variation in subsequent seasons) Limonium can achieve a bigger portion in the vegetation by occupying open sites faster than Plantago. On a larger scale (the whole marsh, decades) the impossibility of Plantago to germinate and rejuvenate after sedimentation of silt and salinisation of the soil is the determining factor causing an overall decrease of this species (compared with Limonium) and increase of Limonium. The life cycle of both species, criteria for scale in space and time, and the question whether the Plantagini--Limonietum should be considered a syntaxon, are discussed.
20146232|Details are given of a preliminary study of salt marshes near Sullom Voe, Mainland, Shetland, using 50  50 cm quadrats placed systematically along transects. Computer-generated clusters are shown to match well against generally accepted syntaxa, whilst high-similarity clusters in certain alliances possess internal structure related to dominance and to effects of freshwater irrigation. The syntaxa provisionally identified are the Eleocharion uniglumis, Armerion maritimae, Puccinellion maritimae, and grazed cliff top grasslands showing affinity to the Puccinellio--Spergularion salinae. Computer clusters with Puccinellia maritima and much Fucus muscoides are associated with active pioneer grass growth and with slumping and erosion on wet marshes, whilst more species-rich clusters reflect a loss of vigour in Puccinellia maritima at higher elevations. Drier stonier marshes also display depositional and erosional features, the former being associated with active Puccinellia maritima growth at lower levels on the marsh. It is suggested that most of these processes involve the recycling of local marsh sediment material.
20146233|In the proposed nature reserve Vinjekilen the vegetation types have been studied by means of transects and vegetation samples. The transects have been levelled, their altitudes related to the National Zero Altitude, NN54. The study area, ca 5 ha, constitutes a bay where a small brook built a delta. Puccinellia maritima was found dominating in different zones from --8 to 40 cm NN54. On gently sloping marshes the Puccinellietum maritimae forms a pioneer vegetation in the lower geolittoral zone, descending towards the hydrolittoral mud flats. At higher altitudes, 30-40 cm NN54, Puccinellia was found in local depressions and associated with Juncus gerardii. The mean lower limit of the Puccinellietum corresponds with the mean annual water level, and forms a 'zero altitude'. The 6 transects also show the horizontal and vertical distribution of Zosteretum marinae, Ruppietum maritimae, Salicornietum strictae, Bolboschoenetum maritimi, Bolboschoeno-Caricetum paleaceae, Juncetum gerardii and some other communities which have been described in a synoptic table.
20146234|A table is presented of the most important species of the fore-dune complex in various parts of the world, representing all continents. The complex is divided into six zones or habitat types, which have proved to be widely applicable for this purpose. The zones are briefly described in terms of floristics, geomorphology, ecology (sand movement, salinity, organic matter) and climate. A major division is indicated between tropical (including subtropical) and temperate (including cold) regions. The former are subdivided into those with humid and those with arid climates, the latter into those with cool to warm-temperate and those with boreal to subarctic climates. The highest, most extensive and most complicated dune areas occur in those regions where the effects of disturbance by wind and fixation by plant growth are about equally strong. A number of species show the 'retraction phenomenon': a shift from a certain zone towards a more sheltered zone in an area with more harsh conditions (e.g. a shorter vegetation period). The filling of empty niches by introduced species (e.g. in connection with the scarcity of native tidemark species in temperate Australia) is also quite common. Most communities are rich in (sub)cosmopolitan species.
20146235|A 4-axis Reciprocal Averaging ordination of phytosociological tables of Dutch plant communities revealed environmentally interpretable gradients: (1) overall moisture, (2) salinity, (3) soil fertility, and (4) structural complexity of vegetation. The quantitative occurrence of all species along these gradients has been computed. Some examples of the distribution of species from coastal communities are given, to show how these data may help to summarize and visualize existing knowledge and how they can form a basis for further study.
20146236|Ecologically the former isle of Voorne is very varied. This is reflected by an exceptionally high number of plant species and vegetation types. Many data regarding flora and vegetation have been collected during more than 25 years. A comparison of the early and the later data show that in this period many changes have taken place in flora and vegetation. The changes are partly the result of a natural development of the vegetation, but to a considerable extent they are due to human activities in the coastal area itself and in its surroundings. Examples of changes produced by natural developments and by human activities are given. The effects on flora and vegetation of the area are illustrated by comparing flora inventories, vegetation maps and permanent plot studies. In addition, the future development in the region which will strongly affect its natural value, is discussed.
20146237|Foredunes, white-, grey- and brown dunes have an important function in coastal protection. Although a close syngenetic connection exists between these neighbouring ecosystems, they are considerably differentiated phytosociologically and ecologically. Whilst on foredunes and white dunes the predominating plant species are characteristic of Ammophiletea, on the grey dunes, species characteristic of the Festuco-Brometea and the Sedo-Scleranthetea are found, and on the brown dunes species of the Nardo-Callunetea. Going through the white-, grey- and brown dunes, the salt and lime content and the pH are decreasing. In grey- and brown dunes the formation of humus starts and a lower pH develops. On the grey dunes, which are sparsely vegetated, the air temperature, soil moisture, air moisture and evaporation are extremely fluctuating daily. The climate values in the brown dunes are relatively constant. There is a close connection between the ecology of the dune types and their specific function in coastal protection.
20146238|Coastal dunes in western Europe have long been under grazing and recreational pressure, but the vegetative cover appears to be remarkably resilient. In a series of experiments on Ynyslas Dunes, Cardigan Bay (Wales, U.K.), trampling, protection, fertiliser, and herbicide treatments were monitored using non-destructive and destructive sampling methods. This paper discusses the behaviour of 12 important species after these treatments on three major dune habitats: Agrostis tenuis, Ammophila arenaria, Bellis perennis, Festuca rubra, Galium verum, Leontodon taraxacoides, Ononis repens, Plantago lanceolata, Poa subcaerulea, Thymus praecox, Homalothecium lutescens, Tortula ruraliformis. Although stability is usually thought of as a feature of the community, a reductionist approach suggests that grasses react quickly but temporarily, dicotyledonous forbs often show slower reaction times, each species reacting in its own way to changes in the environment. A tentative classification of our study species is possible.
20146239|Coastal salt marshes are heterogeneous spatially but predictable temporally. Genetic differentiation between populations on different parts of a marsh in response to this combination of circumstances has been well documented in several perennial species; differentiation has been evident in certain features of the life cycle that contribute to overall fitness. Our studies of the annuals in the marshes of the north Norfolk coast of Britain have shown that there are distinct populations, that have particular micro-habitats and different vegetational affinities, within the annual species Suaeda maritima and within the complex of several closely related species of Salicornia. Consequently, three sequential questions about these annuals may be posed: 1. What is the extent of genetic differentiation? 2. What features of the life history show differentiation? 3. Can any of this variation be demonstrated to have adaptive value? This paper reviews evidence for the upper- and lower-marsh populations of (diploid) Salicornia europaea agg. at Stiffkey, U.K. The six main approaches described comprise collateral cultivation, perturbation of the field environment, isozyme analysis and three types of reciprocal transplantation. The value of these complementary methods is discussed, and they are used to demonstrate that there is considerable genetic differentiation between the two populations; it is manifested in the phenology of growth, mortality and density-dependent fecundity. In terms of the ability of individuals to leave descendants, there is a dramatic reduction in fitness of each population when it is grown in the reciprocal environment. This finding indicates that the genetic differentiation has clear adaptive value.
20146240|1. The population dynamics of two Salicornia species from the Bergen op Zoom salt marsh (south-west Netherlands) was examined. Based on the results of several field studies three preliminary life tables were constructed, two for S. procumbens agg. populations growing respectively on the mud flats and in the salt marsh, and one for S. europaea agg. living in the upper marsh. 2. The life cycles are described and quantified in terms of eight phases and the transition probabilities between them, starting from a notional individual representative of each population. 3. The models depicting the life cycle of S. procumbens show a mean offspring number of 4.26 individuals per parent for the mud-flat population and 0.18 for the salt-marsh population. The S. europaea model gives an output of 0.44 individuals per parent. These results reflect the fluctuations in population size observed in sample plots over the years 1976-78. 4. Comparison of the transition probabilities reveals that on the mud flats most S. procumbens individuals die during pollination and seed germination, while the population in the salt marsh proper is thinned especially during the seed phase in winter time and during the growth from established seedlings to maturation. S. europaea behaves in a similar but less pronounced way to S. procumbens in the salt marsh. 5. Probabilities for one flower or one seed to produce a mature flowering plant were calculated, and were compared with those found in the literature. They are roughly of the same order of magnitude as the probabilities for other annual species, but much higher than those reported for biennial species.
20146241|One of the annual species of the genus Salicornia from the Mediterranean coast, Salicornia patula presents a seed dimorphism. This morphological seed dimorphism is linked with a physiological 'dimorphism' with regard to some requirements for germination. Central seeds, in the inflorescence, are larger, are dispersed attached to the perianth, have no light requirement for germination and seem to have a low germination response to salinity. The lateral seeds, which are free from perianth envelopes, require light and cold pretreatment and seem to have a high sensitivity to salinity. Salicornia patula colonizes unstable transition zones between permanently flooded muds and perennial vegetation. These zones have a winter flooding period. The beginning of the flooding period and of the dry period may vary from year to year, depending on the erratic distribution of autumn and winter rains on the Mediterranean coast. So, in some years, a seedling population may be destroyed before reaching the stage of seed production. Seed dimorphism might cause germination to the more distributed in time, thus reducing the chances of extinction of a complete generation. In the present paper salinity and temperature response are described more precisely, are investigated, some aspects of the longevity of the two types of seed, and the adaptative significance of the corresponding dispersal and germination syndromes are discussed in more detail.
20146242|The paper presents the results of a long-term investigation on the population structure and dynamics of Salicornia patula Duval-Jouve. The studies concern the phenotypic variability, density, distribution in space, dry matter production and seed production in relation to some habitat conditions. The studies elucidate some mechanisms controlling the plasticity of plants and confirm a number of rules reported in the ecological literature on the development of the structure and dynamics of populations of pioneer annual species.
20146243|Demographical studies of Plantago maritima along a 60 m long gradient, from waterfront to terrestrial meadow, revealed a correspondence in population dynamics. The gradient can be seen as a transition from dominance of density-independent mortality factors, mainly flooding, to a dominance of density-dependent mortality, mainly due to competition for light. In lower parts the variation in density of plants varies greatly between years, the flowering and seeding are good as well as the establishment of seedlings, i.e. there is a high turnover rate. In upper parts the flowering, seeding and establishment are poorer but the life expectancy is longer which results in a low turnover rate. The establishment of seedlings is mainly controlled by the access to light, in lower parts now and then dominated by the effects of flooding. Population characteristics change along the gradient so that reproductive effort, in terms of produced seeds per rosette, and allocation of biomass into reproductive organs is higher in lower parts but the reverse in upper, specimens in lower parts also start to grow and flower earlier.
20146244|1. Aster tripolium is a very variable species of which a number of types have been described both on a morphological and ecological level. 2. In permanent plots along the height gradient in the salt marsh it appeared that differences in the A. tripolium subpopulations occur. 3. In the lowest zone of the marsh, dominated by Spartina anglica (Spartinion), the mean life expectancy of individual adult plants is relatively high but it is relatively low for seedlings. 4. In the higher zones of the marsh the mean life expectancy is relatively lower, but for the seedlings it is higher (Puccinellion maritimae). 5. In the Spartina-zone individual A. tripolium plants have about twice the number of shoots as the plants from the other zones. 6. The plants from the Spartina zone produce per individual more generative shoots (absolute) but these have less capitula than elsewhere in the marsh. The number of ripe seeds per head is almost constant everywhere in the marsh.
20146245|Comparisons were made of niche breadths and niche overlaps of halophytes growing in two emergent salt-marsh communities differing in the number of their constituent species and in diversity. Niche parameters were calculated along the major niche dimension of tidal inundation which was assessed using three related measurements, namely height on the marsh, number of submergences per year, and longest period of continuous exposure. This reduces the danger of measuring niches on one resource dimension along which species exhibit non-linear responses. Results obtained using these three measurements were very similar. Mean niche overlaps were significantly smaller, and most species had lower niche breadths, on the marsh with more diverse vegetation. These results agree with Pianka's (1974) niche overlap hypothesis; they indicate that competitive interactions between species are acting with different intensity on the two marshes, and that such interactions are important in determining the distribution limits of both low- and high-marsh species in the emergent salt-marsh community.
20146246|Perennial species invading the early stages of primary successions face constant, and often rapid, change in their biotic and abiotic environment. The relative abilities of different species to adapt to this change is reflected in the zonation patterns which characterize coastal vegetation. Variation in those species with wide ecological amplitudes, particularly in populations near the boundary of the realized niche, is likely to be particularly revealing. The pattern of heritable variation in Puccinellia maritima on salt marshes indicates directional selection for traits increasing plant vigour and 'competitive ability'; presumably the effect of increasing plant density. Adaptation is by both genetic differentiation and phenotypic flexibility, the former being evident in adjacent grazed and ungrazed marshes and the latter in a mosaic of tall and short vegetation types. By contrast variation in Ammophila arenaria on dunes exhibits high levels of phenotypic flexibility, growth in a range of environments indicating that plants from fore-dune populations are higher 'responders' than those from mature dunes. Among the implications of these results, and by comparison with other species, is the fact that, ironically, niche expansion for some salt marsh perennials may require the evolution of an annual strategy, and that a Darwinian selection model may help to explain variation in Ammophila's apparent vigour in dunes of different age.
20146247|Populations of short-lived pioneer species from brackish primary dune slacks and beach plains usually have to cope with unpredictably fluctuating abiotic conditions. Life history parameters play a major role in adaptation to temporal environmental heterogeneity. A population's susceptibility to fluctuating salinity levels may be largely determined by seed dormancy characteristics (e.g. seed variability, degree of enforced dormancy imposed by salinity) and juvenile salt resistance rather than by adult salt resistance.
20146248|In order to study the genetic differentiation between Festuca rubra L. individuals growing in a heterogeneous environment, indices of salt tolerance, mean relative growth rates and the numbers of tillers formed by plants grown in a Hoagland solution, were determined. It was found that plants from salt marsh sites have a high index of salt tolerance, a high mean relative growth rate and numerous tillers; plants from coastal sand dunes are less tolerant, grow slowly and form few tillers; plants from the inland polder sites are rather salt sensitive, fast growing and form a high number of tillers. The heritability of the mean relative growth rate and the tiller number appeared to differ from zero. Apparently, these characters have been under recent selection and thus give a picture of the adaptations of individual plants to the different environments encountered. An indication of gene flow has been found, although the effect of gene flow seems to be small in the face of the force of selection. It was concluded that the distinction of three ecotypes within the species F. rubra is insufficient to describe the differentiation found. Considering the differences observed, it seems more reasonable to speak of ecotypic variation.
20146249|Variation in growth habit between British populations of Ammophila arenaria, and its intergeneric hybrid, x Calammophila baltica was investigated. Competition between the two species was examined with a de Wit type competition experiment. The morphology of the species was found to be significantly different in terms of flowering, leaf dimensions, and tillering and branching patterns. It was found that they competed for the same space, except when nutrients were added and there was space for rhizome extension. These results imply that when planting for sand dune conservation, both species should be utilized in a mixed sward, with fertilizer added in a mulch.
20146250|This study is a follow-up of medium-term succession studies based on a vegetation map, scale 1:2 500, of the dunes near Oostvoorne made in 1959 and 1980. The area has a marked zonation with partly very young dunes and inner dunes at a distance of &gt1200 m from the beach which are 800 yr old. The overall succession trend is a development from a largely open vegetation (resulting from overgrazing in the 19th century, which ceased 1910), to a scrub/woodland complex with locally dying off of patches of woody vegetation. To understand the processes of change, the age structure of most of the major woody species was determined. Two transects were followed in the area running from the seaward coastal ridge towards the inner dunes. 86 plots were analyzed as to represent the vegetation types distinguished in 1980. In each plot all trees and shrubs were estimated on age by means of increment boring and counting of annual rings. The abundance of seedlings and saplings (&lt4 yr old) of all woody species was estimated in all plots. The most important woody species are Betula (most B. pendula + some B. pubescens). Crataegus monogyna, Rhamnus catharticus, Sambucus nigra, Alnus glutinosa, Quercus robur, Salix (most S. cinerea + S. aurita and their hybrid S. multinervis). Hippophae rhamnoides, Ligustrum vulgare, and Salix repens, three important early successionals, could not be aged easily. Age distribution curves show a marked stand-still in development in the 1960s. Some species stopped rejuvenating at all. Cumulative development curves for different zones show a clear change in growth rate over the zones for Crataegus and a simultaneous rapid development for Crataegus. Two examples of species sequence within a community type are shown. An explanation of these results includes three main factors: (a) overall changes in the whole area related to disturbance and relaxation, (b) soil moisture and (c) rabbit grazing. Two main events in the development of a population are considered: germination and early development of the seedling, and untimely death of a dominant.
20146251|The seed germination behaviour of a number of coastal species suggests that they can be separated into three categories, whose response to salinity shows some correlation with habitat. All but two germinated well in fresh water. After immersion for several days in , full, and 1 strength seawater all recover at least partly. Dune species are more adversely affected by salinity than those from shingle, driftline or salt marsh. Several species, mostly from salt marsh, exhibit 'salt stimulation'. The final germination on transfer to fresh water of these species is greater the higher the salinity during pretreatment.
20146252|Growth rate and salt accumulation were investigated in experiments on Halimione portulacoides with seven sodium chloride treatments, in water culture. The growth of Halimione was found to be stimulated by moderate, 85-170 mM NaCl, levels of salinity, but increasingly depressed by salinities from 410-690 mM NaCl, which is comparable to salinities in salt marshes during the growing season. Using the same technique, growth rate, chloride and nitrogen uptake experiments at four different sodium chloride and nitrate treatment levels were conducted, in order to study the effect of nitrogen and salt. At 8 mM NaCl in the growth medium growth was depressed at 16.2 mM nitrate treatment levels. At 137 mM, 410 mM and 684 mM of NaCl growth was stimulated by increasing levels of nitrogen. The results of these experiments are discussed in relation to the nitrogen and salt conditions prevailing in Halimione portulacoides salt-marsh communities.
20146253| It was shown for Cochlearia anglica roots in comparison with Phaseolus vulgaris, roots that: (a) the cell walls of the halophyte are heavy; (b) they have a high Ca content; (c) they may be a convenient means of transfer for Na. In Aster tripolium as well as in Atriplex littoralis NaCl alters the composition of the various pectic fractions and maintains a low pectinemethylesterase activity and a great cellulase activity. This effect may be responsible for the great plasticity of the cell walls which allows an increased cell growth and leads to the formation of succulent organs, therefore to the dilution of salt within the cells. 
20146254| Young and old leaves of twenty-three mangrove species from northern Queensland (Australia) were investigated for their mineral ion and organic solute content. With a few exceptions, the Na and the Cl concentrations calculated on the basis of plant water (p.w.) were close to that of seawater and showed little age-induced changes. In some species, especially in Ceriops tagal, SO accumulated with increasing leaf age. The most widely distributed organic solutes were pinitol and mannitol, which were stored up to 280 mM plant water. A negative correlation between pinitol and SO was found in the case of Ceriops tagal. Other compatible solutes known for halophytes, such as proline and methylated quaternary ammonium compounds (MQAC), were present only in a few mangrove species. Proline occurred in two Xylocarpus species, while MQAC were accumulated by Avicennia eucalyptifolia, A. marina, Acanthus ilicifolius, Heritiera littoralis and Hibiscus tiliaceus. In all other species, low molecular weight carbohydrates (LMWC) were the main organic solutes. 
20146255|Salt-tolerant Agrostis stolonifera ecotypes commonly grow on upper salt marshes, environments regarded as having a limited nitrogen supply. The interaction between salinity and nitrate supply limitation was studied in two ecotypes of A. stolonifera, one isolated from an upper salt marsh and one from an inland habitat. The ion, amino acid, glycine betaine and sugar contents of the two ecotypes were determined over a range of external salt concentrations and levels of nitrate supply. In vivo nitrate reductase activity was also measured. Several low molecular weight nitrogenous compounds accumulated in the salt-stressed plants. Nitrogen supply limitation had a great effect on the way in which the plants responded to salt stress. In particular, the concentrations of the soluble organic nitrogenous compounds were reduced. The results are discussed with respect to the salt marsh environment, and possible models for cytoplasmic osmoregulation are presented.
20146256|The inland distribution of Plantago maritima in Ireland and Britain is strongly western and generally associated with base-rich soils or with flushes in more acidic upland soils. Plants from an eastern Irish salt marsh and from an inland population growing on shallow calcareous soils in east County Clare, Ireland, were grown in culture solutions with a range of seawater dilutions (10-100%) and nitrogen (2.8-140 ppm N) concentrations added as ammonium nitrate. A low nitrogen supply (2.8 ppm N) resulted in very low dry matter production but with increased nitrogen, plant growth increased, even of inland population plants in 50% seawater. Some inland plants survived 100% seawater, but growth was much reduced. The relatively high salinity tolerance of this inland population is discussed.
20146261|The stress metabolites proline, glycine betaine and sorbitol were accumulated in the leaves of some angiosperms from sand dunes and shingle. Chloride, where it was measured, was not accumulated to high concentrations in leaves suggesting that these soils are not saline. Sand dunes and shingle soils have low water-holding capacity, so it is possible that solute accumulation was a response to drought which could be of adaptive significance. In sand dunes low water availability could be associated with increased leaf temperatures because of reduced transpiration rates and high soil temperatures. The role of stress metabolites in heat tolerance was considered. Proline, betaine, sorbitol and mannitol increased the heat stability of glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutamate: oxaloacetate aminotransferase from Ammophila arenaria. For GS the effect increased with solute concentration. The polyols were more effective at high temperatures. The heat stability of GS from the moss Tortula ruraliformis and the brown alga Fucus vesiculosus was increased by mannitol. The effect of the solutes was independent of plant species and type of enzyme. It is suggested that the accumulation of solutes may have ecological importance in protecting sand-dune plants from heat damage during periods of drought.
20146262| The effect of sulphide on the growth of several species of salt-marsh plants was investigated. Relative growth rates were significantly reduced in two upper-marsh species, Festuca rubra and Atriplex patula, and in the lower-marsh species Puccinellia maritima. However the growth of Salicornia europaea, a species frequently associated with sulphide-containing sediments, was unaffected. In a separate experiment the wide ranging halophyte Aster tripolium, also appeared to be tolerant of sulphide at a concentration frequently encountered in salt marshes. Sulphide pretreatment inhibited the activity of two metallo-enzymes, polyphenol oxidase and external phosphatase, in plants from the upper marsh, but had no effect on enzymes from P. maritima or S. europaea. The rate of respiration by root tissue was significantly reduced in all of the species investigated but whereas the uptake of rubidium was markedly inhibited in the other three species, uptake by S. europaea showed a significant stimulation. Similarly, whereas sulphide-grown plants of F. rubra, A. patula and P. maritima had a considerably reduced tissue iron content, the total iron concentration in S. europaea tissues was comparable to that of the controls. When the sulphide-tolerant species A. tripolium was grown in sulphide-containing media there was no significant effect on the tissue concentration of any of the elements investigated. These results are discussed in relation to possible mechanisms of sulphide toxicity and resistance. 
20146263| The plant available manganese concentration (Mn) of salt-marsh sediments was compared to that of acidic and neutral soils. The mean soil-manganese concentration was higher in the top 1 cm of salt-marsh soil than in the neutral soil and comparable to that of the acidic soil (0-5 cm). A peak in the soil-manganese concentration in the upper marsh was observed one week after the spring tide but this effect was not evident in the lower marsh. Despite these differences, there was no correlation between mean manganese concentration and position on the marsh. The response to manganese of salt-marsh halophytes was studied by measuring growth and root elongation in a range of Mn concentrations with and without sodium chloride. Although there was a differential response to manganese between salt-marsh species, manganese resistance was not related to position on the marsh. Most of the species investigated were tolerant of Mn at concentrations higher than normally recommended for plant growth. Moreover a salt-marsh ecotype of Festuca rubra was found to have a higher manganese resistance than an inland ecotype of the same species. When sodium chloride was included in the growth medium, salt-marsh plants had a greatly increased resistance to manganese associated with a reduced uptake. This effect is reflected in the tissue-manganese concentration which was lower than in Deschampsia flexuosa although both groups of plants were exposed to a similar range of Mn concentrations. It is concluded that sodium chloride markedly reduces the phytotoxicity of manganese in salt marshes. 
20146264| Salt-marsh plants of the lower, middle and upper marsh were compared in their response to iron and manganese. The species studied showed differential sensitivity to high concentrations of Fe (1 000 M) and Mn (10 000 M) in hydroculture experiments, species of the lower marsh being more resistant than species of the upper marsh. Fe and Mn concentrations in the root were higher than in the shoot, which was also found in plants inundated with seawater. High Fe and Mn concentrations in the root are probably the result of the oxidizing power of plant roots with a subsequent low translocation of Fe(II) and Mn(II) to the shoot. At high (toxic) Fe and Mn levels in the nutrient solution, Fe and Mn concentrations were much higher in the shoots of sensitive species than in resistant species. The P content of roots and shoots was not influenced by increased Fe and Mn concentrations. Fe and Mn resistance in Spartina anglica and Juncus gerardii, may be in part due to a high root porosity. Other species, however, that are similarly resistant to Fe and Mn lack a well-developed aerenchym. Root porosity, radial oxygen loss and Fe(II) and Mn(II) exclusion by oxidation to Fe(III) (hydr)oxides deposited on the roots form part of the resistance mechanism of hygrohalophytes to Fe and Mn; the differences in this respect between the species may also be due to other metabolic aspects. 
20146265| Suaeda maritima L. var. macrocarpa is a halophytic species distributed in the lower parts of salt marshes of the French coasts. The influence of salinity on nitrogen nutrition and on levels of the key enzymes involved in nitrogen assimilation is analyzed by growing Suaeda under experimental conditions. Use of N-labelled
20146266|The major factors thought to control the distribution of associations on the sea cliffs in Britain are discussed in relation to the zonation of cliff vegetation, and some experiments to investigate the effects of these factors are described. The seeds of the maritime cliff species are able to germinate in higher salinities than those of closely related inland species. Relative growth rates of maritime cliff species indicate stimulation at low salinities over non-saline conditions, and less reduction in growth at higher salinities than those of closely related inland species. Increasing salinity reduces both photosynthesis and dark respiration in Lavatera arborea. Mesophyll and stomatal resistances are increased while transpiration is reduced. The distribution of ions within Lavatera arborea grown at different salinities indicates differential accumulation between young leaves, old leaves and roots.
20146267|Factors which affect the vegetation of strandlines on sandy shores were investigated with particular attention to the growth of four annual species Atriplex glabriuscula, Atriplex laciniata, Cakile maritima and Salsola kali which are widely distributed around the coasts of North-West Europe. The response of these species to increases in salinity and sand accretion are reported from laboratory experiments. Field observations were also made of photosynthesis and the availability of, and the response to, nitrogen. The results are used to discuss the adaptation of these plants to growth on strandlines in an attempt to explain their restriction to this habitat.
20146268|The 'Bois des Riges' woodland occurs on the relic littoral dunes in the National Reserve of the Camargue. Although surrounded by brackish ponds and saline lands with very salt groundwater close to the surface, the dunes are covered with non-halophytic vegetation of herbaceous shrubs and trees, including the dominant shrub Juniperus phoenicea. This is due to the presence of a freshwater lens beneath the dunes supplied by rains, and floating in hydrodynamic equilibrium upon the saline aquifer. The importance and duration of the freshwater stock depends on the precipitation--evapotranspiration balance as well as on the size of the dune. From the end of the spring to the autumn rain period this freshwater stock is considerably reduced, while the capillary potential in the zone of aeration of soil and the osmotic potential of the soil solution, influenced by capillary rise of the brackish groundwater, decrease. In summer the vegetation is thus subjected to severe drought caused by lack of water or salt excess, to which it must adjust its biological activity. The water relationships in the soil--plant system have been studied along a transect between the top and the borders of a dune surrounded by saline lands. Using simultaneous water potential measurements of the sunny and shady sides of Juniperus trees daily and seasonal transpiration regulations were studied. The preliminary results indicate that trees on the border of the dune as well as on tops are absorbing water from the same freshwater lens in the middle of the dune.
20146269|Decomposition of Spartina anglica, Elytrigia pungens pungens and Halimione portulacoides was studied for 20.5 months in situ in two habitats on a salt marsh in The SW Netherlands. Litter bags of three different mesh sizes were used to exclude meio-and/or macrofauna. The middle-marsh habitat was flooded more frequently than the plant-debris habitat in the highest marsh zone. Decomposition of the three species followed an exponential pattern of decay: instantaneous decay rates varied from 0.0026 to 0.0054 per day. Decay rates were significantly influenced by habitat factors and fauna, while there was a significant interaction between plant species and habitat. In case of a significant meio- and/or macrofauna effect, this became noticeable 12-16 weeks after the start of decomposition and resulted in a difference of 5-10% ash-free dry weight remaining after 20.5 months. Nematodes were the dominant microfaunal group in the plant litter. Densities were influenced by habitat conditions but not by resource quality, season and meio- and/or macrofauna. Only initial C/N and C/P ratios were correlated with differences in decomposition rates between the plant species. During the later stages of decomposition N and P concentrations of the plant litter were higher in the plant-debris habitat than in the middle-marsh habitat, probably as a result of fluctuating detritivores densities. The course of the decomposition process differed per plant species and per habitat. The result of this study underline the importance of knowledge of long-term decomposition rates.
20146270| The potential nitrogen sources for the primary production in the intertidal area are nitrogen compounds obtained from mineralization in the sediment and the water column, nitrogen fixation, outflow from rivers and groundwater seeping from the mainland. The available inorganic nitrogen in the adjacent coastal waters decreases from 50-80 mol
20146271|The total root strength of two plant species (Spartina anglica and Limonium vulgare) is related to salt marsh cliff erosion in the Krabbenkreek (Oosterschelde). A ranking order in cliff stability is predicted on the basis of these root strength calculations. It turns out that the S. anglica root system is more effective in reducing lateral cliff erosion than the root system of L. vulgare. Also the establishment of S. anglica by germination of seeds is studied in relation to the erosion/deposition rates at an accretion site in the Krabbenkreek. The percentage of seeds washed away depends on the mobility of the superficial sediment which increases with decreasing height above N.A.P. (Dutch Ordance Level). Above 0.90 m + N.A.P. a germination of 20% is measured, but seedlings survive the winter period only in the zone where a patchy vegetation already exists. It is concluded that generative spread of S. anglica in the Krabbenkreek is not very likely under the present hydrodynamic conditions.
20146272|Studies of tidal flows in salt-marsh creeks in Essex, England, show large variations in water velocity during different tidal cycles, particularly between tides below, at, and above marsh level. Water level, velocity and suspended sediment concentration have been monitored at 5-min intervals during 700 tidal cycles during the year March 1982--March 1983, and the data are being used to calculate sediment budgets for the creek system studied. Completed analyses for two of the tidal cycles show a large positive sediment flux. Because of the importance of velocity in controlling total discharge through a creek cross-section, and hence its effect on total sediment movement, we cannot extrapolate from these two below-marsh tides to any general conclusions about marsh erosion or accretion. We use these preliminary data both to demonstrate our methods and to indicate some of the complexities involved in the analysis.
20146273|A moving experiment is carried out at eight sites, situated at different levels in a Baltic salt meadow. The plots have been analyzed and mown with a scythe each year in August since 1979. The response of the sites to mowing is expressed as qualitative and quantitative changes in composition of the vegetation. So far, the most distinct changes in composition have been changes in relative importance of species already present in the initial vegetation. The resistance is found to be highest in the upper parts of the geolittoral, and lowest in the Phragmites australis swamp.
20146274|Grazing an abandoned salt marsh causes retrogressive succession, since mid salt-marsh communities change into lower salt-marsh communities. Grazing and mowing are compared in detail. Both management practices enhance species diversity in an abandoned salt marsh. This can be attributed to the removal of litter. The finding that lower salt-marsh species appear more with grazing than with mowing or abandoning is not related to a higher soil salinity as compared to mowing or abandoning, but probably to locally baring of the soil by grazing animals. Only species of pioneer or unstable environments seem to have a persistent seed bank, for other species seed dispersal seems to be a limiting factor for their establishment.
20146275|In the annual stage of a primary plant succession on desalinating sandflats of the Lauwerszeepolder, N Netherlands, grazing by waterfowl is a dominant factor, as is illustrated by exclosures. It is concluded from population dynamical data, that both the removal of biomass and the predation of seeds sustain the annual species and retard succession towards the next stage of a perennial grassland by several years. Yearly mowing in September slightly enhances succession by selectively affecting the dominant annual Salicornia species. The recurrence of high salinities in the upper soil layer of bare, c.q. grazed surfaces is expected to limit the invasion of grass species and other perennials.
20146276|In 1971 the Grevelingen estuary was embanked. In the newly created lake Grevelingen the tidal movements stopped and a few thousand ha of sandflats fell permanently dry. Ca 40% of the surface of those flats was immediately afterwards sown with rye and other grasses to prevent wind erosion. This fixation of a rather uniform environment resulted in a monotonous vegetation cover. Grazing with domestic animals is now applied as management practice to create more environmental variation and thereby a higher species diversity. The present study gives the results of eleven years of comparing vegetation development under various management practices, including non-interference in the spontaneous and sown vegetation. Sequential vegetation mapping, repeated inventories of selected areas and studies in permanent plots are the main techniques used. On the unsown shore zones interesting vegetation types are developing where species diversity is higher than in the sown areas. In the shore zones not only a faster succession occurred compared with the sown areas, but also a shifting of environmental gradients, e.g. in moisture and salinity conditions, encouraged vegetation changes. After 10 yr grazed areas had a higher number of species than ungrazed equivalent areas. The results also indicated that grazing slows down the establishment of (tall) woody species and shrub development.
20146277|Presently a storm-surge barrier is under construction in the mouth of the Oosterschelde. After its completion tidal conditions in the estuary can be controlled. In order to indicate the limiting conditions for conceivable uses of the storm-surge barrier a number of the most prominent salt-marsh species were tested in their various life stages against immersion times of 2, 4 and 8 days. Most of the species were able to withstand an extended immersion fairly well, although some of them showed reduced growth during- and after immersion. No evident relation was found between the position of the species on the salt-marsh ecotone and their inundation tolerance. Only one taxon from the upper marsh, Festuca rubra ssp. litoralis, showed a total die-back after an 8 day summer inundation. Most of the species involved showed a decreasing immersion tolerance with increasing water temperatures. Limonium vulgare and Juncus gerardii, however, exhibited a significant growth increase after extended immersion, even at a temperature of the inundation water of 36 C. In contrast herewith flowers and flower buds started to decay after as little as a 2 day immersion. For Aster tripolium prolonged immersion reduced seed weight and germination capacity of the seeds. Germination and seed weight of Salicornia dolichostachya were not affected by prolonged immersion. It is concluded that prolonged summer inundations will cause an overall negative effect on the salt-marsh vegetation.
20146278|This paper describes environmental research necessary for a large coastal engineering project like the Delta project in the south-west Netherlands. Special attention is paid to environmental aspects concerning salt marshes in the Oosterschelde. A short description is given of the Delta region, the whole Delta project and the Oosterschelde project in particular. The main stages are described that can be distinguished in large-scale engineering projects, and the scale of approach during these project-stages. A brief indication is made of the problems linked with the evaluation of several alternatives. Finally the knowledge needed with regard to the salt marshes is explained and some types of research, that have been, resp. are carried out in behalf of this project are briefly worked out.
20146279|The invasion of roadsides by coastal species is a response to the use of de-icing salt. The most widespread species on Britain's roadsides, Puccinellia distans, occurs in the north and east of England and Wales. This distribution is due to the varying use and effects of de-icing salt which are related in turn to regional differences in climate and traffic density. On roadsides, seed dispersal is greater in the direction of traffic flow and the smaller seeds of Puccinellia distans are carried further than the larger seeds of Plantago maritima. Species on roadsides occur in distinct zones with the coastal species confined to the saline road margin. The causes of this zonation were investigated by examining seedling establishment in experimental plots. Seedlings were only able to establish in grass plots when the salinity was sufficiently high to kill the competing glycophytic grasses. On bare soil, the halophytes established and grew satisfactorily when salt was added but grew very poorly in the absence of salt. After two years Plantago maritima overcame this apparent requirement for salt on bare soil but Puccinellia distans and Spergularia marina did not.
20146280|A brief review of mowing and grazing of sand dune vegetation introduces the first results of the use of these management techniques at Newborough Warren National Nature Reserve, Anglesey, north Wales. In the mowing experiments, plots are mown one (May), twice (May and July), three times (May, July and September) and five times (May, June, July, August and September). The grazing experiment has the equivalent of one or two animals to three-quarter acre paddocks (0.3 ha) which are grazed for one third, two thirds or for the whole year. Mean numbers of species per plot, and Lotus corniculatus have increased in both sets of experiments whereas Arrhenatherum elatius has declined. Other species do not show clear-cut changes. Both methods provide practical means of maintaining a short turf, but the long-term effects of mowing may not be beneficial to the vascular plant flora. Grazing can however provide a crop as well as a desirable flora although manpower and capital costs may limit its use by conservationists.
20146281|The inner-dune zone between the villages of Bakkum and Egmond in the North-Holland Dune Reserve is one of the few remaining examples of the semi-natural boundary between the dunes and the polders. For several centuries this area has been used for various purposes, in particular for grazing. Large-scale excavating, especially after about 1900, has encroached upon the dunes. Vegetation and land-use history were studied and a provisional scheme on the vegetation development is presented. Management policies discussed are non-intervention, mowing in order to start natural processes such as rabbit grazing, and the continuation of traditional livestock grazing. Proposals for external management policies were made in order to maintain or enhance the original transition zone, based on comprehensive physical-geographical studies of the whole inner-dune zone.
20146282|Changes are reported of Crataegus-Betula dune woodlands between 1950-1980 from Meijendel, a calcareous coastal dune system near the city of The Hague, The Netherlands, which is used as a water catchment area. It concerns both woodlands in degradation stage and, more common, woodlands on the increase. Changes are recorded with help of successive vegetation maps, air photos and permanent plot observations. Woodland increase usually occurs on places with groundwater at or near the surface, either because of natural circumstances or as a result of artificial groundwater recharge through infiltration as part of the water catchment activities. The management of both types of woodland is discussed.
20146283|The paper deals with some views on the phytocoenose in relation to the functioning of vegetation and its plant-species populations in space and time. From these viewpoints the study of vegetation is seen as a field of tension between the organismic and reductionistic approaches. Both have their value, provided any dogmatism is avoided and either can be applied to the other. In the field of vegetation structure characteristic features of life-form spectra and species distribution, inversion phenomena in zonation, and community architecture in relation to production and decomposition are discussed. In this connection some remarks are made on habitat and niche differentiation with respect to the phytocoenose concept. Vegetation dynamics are discussed in relation to the introduction of Spartina anglica, the frequency of flooding by the tides, different environmental disturbances caused by heavy winter frost, rainfall and hot and dry periods, as well as to human interferences for agricultural and civil-technical purposes. It is suggested that salt-marsh plants may have found refuge areas in inland habitats as well as on more southerly coastal sites during glaciations.
20146284|Annuals represent a significant component of the vegetation of coastal salt marshes and sand dunes. From many points of view, the two habitats might appear to have little in common. Yet both are characterized by episodes of low water potential, marked spatial and temporal heterogeneity and a zonation which, within certain limits, reflects successional change. There are also similarities of distribution. Annuals are dominant usually in the pioneer stages; the Salicornia-dominated low marsh areas are perhaps analogues with strandline ephemeral populations (e.g. Cakile maritima) on the fore-dunes. In mature stages, annuals are associated with small gaps in the matrix of perennials, at least some of these arising from drought or disturbance. Nevertheless populations can reach very high densities. The most striking contrast is phenological; only summer annuals are found on marshes, whereas winter annuals predominate on dunes (except for the strandline). Similarly there is a difference in species richness. Rather few species of annual are typical of marshes while a great many are found on dunes. Properties of the seed bank, survival, reproduction and population regulation are compared in marsh and dune annuals, with special reference to Cakile, Salicornia, Rhinanthus and Vulpia. Interpretations are suggested which take account of environmental predictability and heterogeneity. Finally, the general applicability of simple mathematical models of these populations in the different coastal habitats is considered.
20146285|Ecophysiological strategies of coastal halophytes from foredunes and salt marshes are discussed. A comparison is made of the factors that limit growth in salt marshes and sand dunes. In salt marshes, zonation and succession are primarily governed by variation in soil salinity, which strongly depends on inundation with sea water. Results are described of experiments which aim at separating salinity and inundation effects on growth, osmotic and mineral relations in a comparison of salt-marsh halophytes. The growth response of plants cannot simply be correlated (and causally explained) with the concentration of Na, Cl, and K in the tissues. Also, the compatible osmotic solutes proline and methylated quaternary ammonium compounds may accumulate both in species with a positive response to increased salinity and in species with a growth reduction under seawater inundation. More likely inadequate adaptation of the plants water potential with these components is partly the cause of retarded growth. Disfunctioning of the plant in this respect may be at three levels: (a) total water potential of the plant, (b) (loss) of turgor pressure potential; (c) regulation at the cellular level. The ecological importance of some factors in seawater other than sodium chloride is considered. In coastal sand dunes airborne rather than soil salinity limits plant growth, together with the effects of abrasion, sand accretion, drought and the poor nutrient status of the dune sand. Adaptations of sand-dune species to these factors may consist of: large seeds with storage tissue germinating in the dark and seedling growth enough to emerge through the accreted sand. Aerial parts must be resistant to mechanical damage (high wind speed and abrasion), possibly by a sclerophyllous and tough structure. Efficient nutrient uptake, translocation and retranslocation seem to help survive sand-dune species in a nutrient-poor rooting medium.
20146286|The general environmental characteristics of West European coastal dunes and those of salt marshes are outlined. It is pointed out that the dynamical character of the dune system with its interaction between plants and sand in building and degeneration phases has been known for a much longer period of time than generally believed. As to the salt marshes the special significance is discussed of ungrazed marshes; the majority of the marshes having been under a grazing regime for a long time is elucidated. The distinction between internal management is mentioned, i.e. the measures taken to maintain or improve the qualities of an area, versus external management, i.e. the measures to prevent or counteract negative influences from outside the area.
20146287|Ecophysiological studies of plant species in wet saline habitats have been one-sided in the past, emphasizing sodium chloride only. More emphasis should be given to anaerobiosis, to mechanical factors, to the effects of a surplus of other nutrients in seawater and coastal ecosystems and their metabolic impact as well as to aspects of nutrient (re)allocation. Research should incorporate theoretical models on plant strategies (maximizing yield, minimizing risk). At the population level, a new operational parameter for ecological optima and ecological stress is presented considering normal and skewed distributions of plant parameters in relation to growth and the concentration of mineral nutrients. Some considerations on the ecological effects of phenotypic plasticity and genetic variability are given by emphasizing the aspects of diaspores. Future investigations of coastal vegetation should consider the interaction of populations within plant communities, including the regulating effects of animals.
20037212|Wood and total litter fall were measured in five forests of the Kumaun Himalaya situated along an altitudinal gradient from 329 m to 1850 m. Total annual wood litter fall, which ranged from 93 to 197 g m, was inversely related with altitude and positively related with forest basal cover. Total litter fall ranged from 405 to 839 g m yr and was positively related with forest basal cover. Wood litter fall was highest in the rainy season and that of total litter in the summer season. Abscissed litter accounted for a maximum proportion of seasonal wood fall in summer. Monthly non-abscissed wood fall was positively related to the monthly rainfall on each site. The fractions in lower diameter classes (0-5 to 5-10 mm) dominated the annual wood fall in all forests and accounted for 59 to 78% of the total. Fractions in &gt10 mm size class fall maximally during the rainy months.
20037213|Bana, or Low Amazon Caatinga is an evergreen sclerophyllous woodland. It occurs on bleached quartz sands in the lowlands of SW Venezuela, where it occupies relatively small 'islands' amidst Tall Amazon Caatinga which is exclusively developed on tropaquods. There is an outer vegetation belt about 20 m in width in which trees over 10 m in height occur (Tall Bana); its structure and floristic composition resemble Tall Amazon Caatinga. Low Bana (maximum tree height usually below 5 m) follows next. The central part is occupied by Open Bana in which even lower trees are very widely spaced. Destructive phytomass sampling was carried out for chemical analyses in seven plots along a 150 m line across the zonation. The total dry matter of living plants including roots of Tall Bana (30-32 kg/m) compares rather well with 41 kg/m in Tall Amazon Caatinga. This is only 9-14 kg/m in Low Bana, and 4-6 kg/m in Open Bana. The average root % of total phytomass increases from 41% in Tall Bana to 63% in Low Bana, and is 88% in Open Bana. Average total dry dead above-ground phytomass (including standing trees and stumps) declines from 1 kg/m in Tall Bana to 0.2 kg/m in Open Bana. An accumulation of dead matter in Low and Open Bana, relative to the above-ground phytomass of living plants, is noted and this contrasts with the general absence of raw humus in the soil. Eighty-two species of woody plants (dbh  1 cm) were recorded on the total plot area (640 m); 90% of the species are also known to occur in Tall Amazon Caatinga. The species number declines from 59 in Tall Bana to 18 in Open Bana. Mesophylls sensu strictu dominate in Tall Bana, while notophylls are dominant in Low and Open Bana. Herbaceous species are less numerous: most of them belong to the Araceae, Bromeliaceae, Orchidaceae, Droseraceae, Eriocaulaceae and Xyridaceae.
20037214|In order to determine the effect of prior land use on secondary succession, woody plant species abundances were determined on the Lake Erie Islands in 21 sites 20-90 yr post-abandonment: 11 former vineyards, 8 former orchards, and 2 former quarries. Detrended Correspondence Analysis ordination was used to compare the relative abundances of woody plants in the 21 successional sites to each other and to 5 mature upland forests and 3 mature lowland forests. Vineyards 20-45 yr post-abandonment had closed canopies 2-4 m tall and were dominated by the same mix of species dominating mature forests at similar elevations. Abandoned orchards 20-45 yr post-abandonment supported species common in mature forest floras as well as many shade-intolerant, pioneer tree and shrub species not found in mature stands. These differences in successional patterns seem to be related to differences in the suite of colonization sites presented upon abandonment, with orchards being dominated by open, bare ground, and vineyards by shaded ground receiving ca. 20% of full sunlight. Newly abandoned vineyards had appreciable 'advanced regeneration' of saplings of shade-tolerant species 3-7 yr old growing among the grapes. While former quarries remained open, marginal habitats with sparse, open canopies dominated by species typical of rocky cliff edges, the community structure of former vineyards and orchards converged toward each other and toward the composition of mature forests at similar elevations. Thus patterns of secondary succession varied with prior land use and were determined by the suite of colonization sites available at the time of abandonment.
20037221|Gradients, zones and boundaries can be recognized on the basis of biotic, abiotic, field and experimentally-determined attributes along transects through isolated patches of Eucalyptus wandoo trees. The patch zone (corresponding to the tree canopy) could be defined on numerous environmental grounds. The suppression zone (with few shrubs) which embraced the patch zone, could only be distinguished from the surrounding scrub zone (with a dense shrub cover) on vegetation grounds. Site relationships, including identification of boundaries, were analyzed with the aid of a range-standardized dissimilarity measure and metric multidimensional scaling. Differences in availability of nutrients and phytotoxic substances from wandoo leaves, roots and litter had some effects on growth in pot trials but it is concluded that their role in explaining understorey suppression in the field is negligible. Competition for water at depth between the extensive lateral root system of wandoo trees and the roots of adult shrubs is shown to be the most likely explanation for genesis of the suppression zone and location of its boundary. Factors affecting seedling establishment, mainly surface water availability, are more concerned with maintenance of the suppression zone once it is formed.
20037222|Cool temperate rainforest in Australia is commonly dominated by Nothofagus species. In Victoria and Tasmania, Nothofagus cunninghamii dominates old rainforest on optimal sites and is able to regenerate continuously. Size structure analysis of the major lowland tree species in this forest suggest that no major changes in species composition or dominance are occurring. This contrasts with the status of Nothofagus in lowland rainforest in New Zealand and rainforest below about 1 000 m a.s.l. in south-central Chile. N. cunninghamii is a relatively light-demanding species, and is maintaining its dominance by seedling regeneration in canopy gaps created by the death of old individuals. The dynamics of the cool temperate rainforest in northern New South Wales are more complex. These forests are dominated by Nothofagus moorei, and size structure analysis indicates that persistence of this species within the rainforest is dependent on vegetative regeneration. On some sites this rainforest is being actively invaded by warm temperate and sub-tropical elements from lower altitudes. In these areas N. moorei in unable to regenerate beneath the canopy.
20037223|This paper describes some methods that can be used to compare the phytosociological structure of plant communities using some graph theoretic properties of the directed graphs that represent them. In such a graph, the species are represented by points and the association of species A with species B is represented by a directed line segment going from B to A. Two communities can be compared using simple indices to measure the similarity of their species-lists (point similarity) and of the species associations in them (line similarity). A more sophisticated and informative measure of line similarity is the probability that, given the number of points shared by two graphs, they have at least as many lines in common as they are observed to have. A formula for calculating that probability is given here. The graphs of community structure can also be compared with respect to the homogeneity of the distribution of the lines among the points, a property related to the number of species that are important in determining the composition of the community. These techniques are illustrated using the graphs of the phytosociological structure of intertidal seaweed communities on the southeast coast of Nova Scotia.
20037224|Communities containing bolster (hard cushion) plants are widespread in alpine and subalpine treeless plant communities in Tasmania. Numerical analysis of species presence/ absence data from 227 quadrats defined thirteen communities, the distributions of which proved strongly related to a southwest to northeast edaphic gradient and altitude. The high altitude communities and those on oligotrophic soils are most likely to be dominated by bolster species, whereas the eastern communities are more frequently dominated by shrubs or graminoids.
20037229|Spectral vegetation index measurements derived from remotely sensed observations show great promise as a means to improve knowledge of land vegetation patterns. The daily, global observations acquired by the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer, a sensor on the current series of U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration meteorological satellites, may be particularly well suited for global studies of vegetation. Preliminary results from analysis of North American observations, extending from April to November 1982, show that the vegetation index patterns observed correspond to the known seasonality of North American and cultivated vegetation. Integration of the observations over the growing season produced measurements that are related to net primary productivity patterns of the major North American natural vegetation formations. Regions of intense cultivation were observed as anomalous areas in the integrated growing season measurements. These anomalies can be explained by contrasts between cultivation practices and natural vegetation phenology. Major new information on seasonality, annual extent and interannual variability of vegetation photosynthetic activity at continental and global scales can be derived from these satellite observations.
20037230|Subalpine forest succession was studied on Mt. Fuji, Japan, where various types of forests in different successional phases occur owing to volcanic action. Ninety stands were subjected to ordination using an index (SI) defined by the relative basal area and the life span of component woody species, and the cover of canopy layer of the sample stands. Two different sequences of sample stands were found. One was from deciduous scrubs, Larix kaempferi forests and Abies forests, to Tsuga diversifolia forests, and the other from Abies-Tsuga thickets to Abies forests. Through analyses of the forest structure and composition, soil survey and identification of fallen logs, the former sequence was recognized as the primary sere and the latter as a regeneration sere following gap formation. During forest succession, basal area reached a maximum in the seral phase with a multi-layered structure. The Tsuga forests, whose understory is restricted to a moss layer, were regarded as the climax. The death or fall of Tsuga stems resulted in gaps, which were subsequently occupied by Abies-Tsuga thickets. The second Abies forests were distinguished from the ones in the primary sere by the occurrence of Dryopteris and Cacalia and the lack of Rhododendron in the understorey. Both Abies forest types included Tsuga saplings. Thus, a cyclic relation is supposed between Abies and Tsuga.
20037231|An investigation of spatial pattern in relatively sparse Pinus ponderosa-P. Jeffreyi stands showed that a simple Poisson model of random distribution described the pattern at 5 to 50 m scales in the denser stands examined when allowance is made for inhibition between nearest neighbors. There is evidence for a clumped distribution in large quadrats for the sparsest stands, which concurs with prior work where a mixed Poisson model was fit to the data. The technique used was innovative in that it involved digitally recording tree locations from high resolution aerial photos, which allowed for the automatic application of several statistical techniques in order to determine how pattern varies with plot density and scale. Point locations were recorded for six 11.3 ha plots in three density regions of a 340 ha study in northeastern California, USA. The inter-event distance distribution, and one-and two-dimensional power spectra were calculated, and variable quadrat analysis was performed for the data sets. The second order and spectral analyses showed no evidence of a distinctive clumped pattern at any scale, and all analyses showed that the pattern was regular at the scale of the average inter-plant distance in the denser stands. For the sparser stands, the counts in large quadrats did not fit a Poisson distribution, but were better fit by a mixed Poisson model describing aggregated pattern.
20037232|Compositional stability in forests has traditionally been evaluated by comparing understory with overstory composition. Such comparisons have generally been qualitative. Transition probability analysis has recently allowed quantitative prediction of future community states. We used transition probability analysis of an undisturbed spruce-fir forest to evaluate the sensitivity of the overstory/understory comparison to underlying assumptions. The predictions of future composition differed widely depending on understory size class used, ecological situation (gap versus forest plots), and stand description (density versus frequency). Species longevities and interactions between understory and overstory species also affected the predictions. Understory data generally led to a predicted increase in importance for the most tolerant species (Abies fraseri) and the conclusion that a previous disturbance allowed the least tolerant species (Betula lutea) to become established. Inventory of stems in gaps led to a predicted increase in importance for the least tolerant species (Betula) and the conclusion that disturbance frequency was increasing in the stand. Data incorporating more detailed observations of the gap capture process led to the inference that this old growth stand was in compositional equilibrium. In this community, the species that was densest in the understory species (Abies) had the shortest lifespan and thus, the fastest canopy turnover rate. This lead to counter-intuitive behavior in the models; in some cases Abies had a 40% higher relative density in the understory that in the overstory at equilibrium.
20037240|Decomposition of branch litter of four angiosperm and one conifer species was studied over a two-year period. Litter species and the corresponding forest type are: (i) Shorea robusta, sal forest at 329 m; (ii) Lyonia ovalifolia, mixed-pine broadleaf forest at 1 350 m; (iii) Pinus roxburghii, pine forest at 1 750 m; (iv) Quercus leucotrichophora, mixed oak-pine forest at 1 850 m; and (v) Quercus lanuginosa, mixed oak forest at 2 150 m. The weight loss ranged from 44-89%. Litter moisture and air temperature had significant positive effect on decomposition. The decomposition rate decreased with an increase in altitude and was inversely related with lignin content. Linear combinations of lignin content with rainfall and with temperature indicated significant interactive influence on decomposition.
20037241|Gradient analyses were done for three sectors within the clay belt section of western Quebec, in order to study the differences in plant community distributions caused by macroclimatic conditions and disturbance dynamics. Firstly, indirect ordinations were performed for the data collected in each sector representing a latitudinal and longitudinal gradient within the whole region. The interpretations of these ordinations showed that variations in moisture gradient, trophic level and surficial deposits explained the distribution of plant communities within the three sectors. In contrast to sectors located further south, neither altitude nor exposure have a significant effect. Secondly, direct ordination based on surficial deposits, moisture gradient and trophic level allowed the study of the differences in vegetation distribution and diversity between each sectors. Differences are observed mainly along south to north and west to east gradients: increase of Abies balsamea and Picea mariana dominance, concurrently with a decrease in tree species richness, especially with regard to post-fire successional species.
20037242|Seminatural deciduous woods associated mainly with basaltic escarpments were surveyed in northeast Ireland to investigate the relationships between soil physical and chemical characteristics and community composition. Gradients of floristic composition in the sample stands pointed to soil acidity, soil mineral nutrient status and the degree of soil waterlogging as principal factors influencing the ground flora. The physico-chemical characteristics of the woodland soils showed distinctive differences which were correlated with community composition, confirming the considerable effect of the soil environment. Soil texture was shown to be a key factor influencing the ground flora, mainly through its influence on soil water status and acidity. Better drained soils subject to minimal disturbance by people or physiographic processes, were found to have the highest content of water soluble nitrogen, available phosphorus and exchangeable potassium. An interaction between soils, site geomorphology and land use suggested that the value of the woods as controls against which the effects of agricultural land use on soils can be monitored, is limited.
20037243|The aim of this paper is to describe the changes of Mediterranean pasture phytomass and their dependence on succession, slope geomorphology and herbivore consumption. Four neighbouring slopes of similar aspect and steepness, located in a pasture area of Central Spain, were chosen for sampling. The slopes had not been cultivated for 1, 3, 8 and 40 years respectively. On each slope both the upper, erosion zone and the lower, accumulation zone were sampled during the months of plant growth (April to July), phytomass being recorded in plots where herbivore consumption was avoided with protection cages and in unprotected plots. Results from the protected plots show that the upper and lower parts of slopes undergo a different development during succession. The highest values of phytomass reached, tended to decrease during succession in the upper zones, the same being true for production. However in the lower zones both parameters tended to increase in time. The ratio P/B, widely known in ecology to decrease with time, did not seem to behave as a usual index of succession in the studied ecosystem. In the upper zone this ratio tended to decrease but in the lower zone it increased with succession after the first years. Phytomass consumption by herbivores was progressively concentrated during succession in the slope sectors of greater production, mainly in the lower zone, which increased its productivity as the slope-talweg system became functional. The evolution of the ecological structure of a slope should be interpreted not only as a result of the tolerance of species to phsysico-chemical factors. It may also reveal the existence of an important interaction between the pasture and the grazing behaviour of exploiting animals. Multivariate analysis of phytomass records revealed a trend of temporal variation which should be identified with the progress of succession.
20037244|Seven grassland treatments representing different disturbance regimes were sampled within a large area of mixed-grass prairie in southwestern Oklahoma, USA. Species diversity was low on the undisturbed and most severely disturbed grasslands. The results also indicate, however, that grassland diversity was not a simple function of disturbance rate, size or intensity. Instead, species diversity was maximized under a combination of natural disturbances. To some extent, the increase in species diversity was the result of increased habitat diversity associated with a type of disturbance. That is, disturbances such as grazing and wallowing have a cumulative effect one grassland diversity. Overall, the structure one grassland communities can not be accurately determined without considering the structure of the natural disturbance regime.
20037245|Analysis of vegetation response to environmental gradients should take into account the spatial complexity of the environmental property itself. Whether a gradient exists on the landscape or in abstract space, the spatial variability of environmental factors often invalidates the implicit assumption that the gradient is continuous. There is a need to know how variable the spatial pattern of a gradient is and how much deviation from the general trend may be expected. Geostatistics is shown to provide a useful method for analyzing spatial variability. If the assumptions for its use can be met, the fractal dimension can be used in combination with geostatistics to provide a quantitative index of gradient complexity. An example is given, showing that an hypothesized gradient of shoreline erosion disturbance along Delaware Bay either does not exist or is so complicated by short-range, local factors that any longer-range gradient is relatively unimportant. Such complex environmental patterns are thought to be common in nature. Geostatistics, fractals, or similar spatial methods can be utilized to detect and measure such complexity.
20037246|To determine the effects of tephra (volcanic aerial ejecta) on forest understory plants, six sites were chosen along a tephra depth gradient (23 to 150 mm) northeast of Mount St. Helens, USA. All sites were in old forests beyond the limits of direct blast damage from the volcanic eruption. At each site, 150 one m plots were permanently marked; all tephra was removed from 50 of these in 1980. Cover and density of plant species were recorded during 1980, 1981, and 1982. Tephra 23 mm deep had almost no effect on cover and density of vascular plants, and reduced bryophyte cover for only two years. Tephra 45 mm deep destroyed almost all bryophytes. Although damaged by 45 mm tephra, deciduous herbs recovered by 1982, but some evergreen species did not. Tephra 75 mm deep reduced herb cover in 1982 to 32% and density to 26% of that in cleared plots. At two sites with an average tephra depth of 150 mm, almost all herbs were eliminated except in microsites where tephra was thin, but shrub abundance was greatly reduced only where snow had been present during tephra deposition. Almost all cover was contributed by plants established previous to the eruption; seedling cover never exceeded 0.2%. Refugia with thin tephra, resulting from erosion, were vital to the survival of many species, especially bryophytes.
20037247|In many limestone beechwoods of Germany and neighbouring countries acid indicator plants, e.g. Luzula albida, Avenella flexuosa, Maianthemum bifolium and Mnium hornum, are found frequently in the area around the base of Fagus sylvatica trunks. An example of a beechwood stand on limestone in the northern Spessart (FRG) shows, that there are not only floristic but also large ecological differences between the trunk base area of Fagus sylvatica and the remaining forest area. A strong correlation between the direction of rainwater flowing down the trunk, soil-pH, and the pattern of species distribution was found. Since floristic and ecological uniformity are important criteria for the selection and delimitation of a relev plot, it may be advised to exclude the trunk base area from the overall relev of the forest community and make a separate relev of the trunk base area.
20037248|A checklist of the currently-known C4 species which occur in Europe was compiled, and the number of these found in European territories was ascertained. Their contribution to the local floras range from 4.35% in the Azores to 0% in Svalbard. Subsequently, a stepwise multiple regression analysis was used to correlate the relative abundances of four subdivisions of C4 species with climatic variables derived for each territory from meteorological tables. The four subdivisions were: (a) total number of C4 species; (b) number of native C4 species; (c) C4 monocots and (d) C4 dicots. These values were expressed as percentages of either the total flora, (a), or the native flora ((b), (c) and (d)) for the regressions. The abundance of each C4 subdivision was found to be strongly correlated with temperature, and to a lesser extent, negatively with precipitation. Habitat information about the European C4 species was also analysed and it was concluded that their apparent preference for maritime and ruderal habitats indicates some form of competitive advantage of the pathway under saline or disturbed conditions. A small number of European C4 species was identified whose distribution appears to be anomalous with respect to temperature and/or soil moisture content.
20037249|Microtopography was quantified and related to plant microdistribution in an assemblage of bryophytes on granitic rocks in the inland chaparral of San Diego County, California, U.S.A. The dominant species, Grimmia laevigata, grew mostly on north-, east-, and west-facing surfaces with slope less than 60. Other bryophytes tended to grow on steep, concave, north- and west-facing surfaces. Occurrence of these latter species was strongly associated with shade, as estimated from microtopography. The relationship of microdistribution to microclimate and ultimately to plant physiology can probably be successfully defined in systems such as this.
20037257|The indicator value and ecological amplitude of a species with respect to a quantitative environmental variable can be estimated from data on species occurrence and environment. A simple weighted averaging (WA) method for estimating these parameters is compared by simulation with the more elaborate method of Gaussian logistic regression (GLR), a form of the generalized linear model which fits a Gaussian-like species response curve to presence-absence data. The indicator value and the ecological amplitude are expressed by two parameters of this curve, termed the optimum and the tolerance, respectively. When a species is rare and has a narrow ecological amplitude -- or when the distribution of quadrats along the environmental variable is reasonably even over the species' range, and the number of quadrats is small -- then WA is shown to approach GLR in efficiency. Otherwise WA may give misleading results. GLR is therefore preferred as a practical method for summarizing species' distributions along environmental gradients. Formulas are given to calculate species optima and tolerances (with their standard errors), and a confidence interval for the optimum from the GLR output of standard statistical packages.
20037258|Seeds of mountain birch (Betula pubescens Ehrh. ssp. tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman) were sown on permanent plots in three contrasting habitats close to the birch tree-limit in Central Sweden. The habitats differed mainly in regard to the length of the growth period, as determined by the pattern of local snow-accumulation. Germination success, seedling demography (1981-1983) and related aspects of the early stages were studied. Germination was found to start shortly after snowmelt in the year after ripening, in all three habitats. The conclusion is that germination is not the crucial phase of the life-cycle. In the habitat with the longest growth period, and where spontaneous birch stands are present, mortality mainly occurred in summer, evidently caused by soil drought. With shortening of the growth period, however, mortality during the winter became increasingly important. Survival was clearly correlated with the length of the growth period and the autumn height of seedlings. Factors which affect ecesis determine the altitude of the tree-limit and the long-term stability of the mountain birch forest ecosystem.
20037259|Factors suppressing the growth of Tsuga heterophylla, western hemlock, (40-200 cm tall) were separated into aboveground and belowground components. Canopy manipulation by creating gaps produced approximately a 30-34% increase in the overall amount of light available. Growth of the previously suppressed T. heterophylla was increased by minimizing root competition by trenching around individuals and to a much lesser degree by altering the canopy. The combination of the two manipulations did now show a strong synergistic effect.
20037260|Woody vegetation, soils, age-diameter relationships and historical development are described for 18 gallery forest stands on Konza Prairie, a tallgrass prairie reserve in northeast Kansas. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) coupled with the importance values of dominant species was used to identify four stand types in these forests: Quercus muehlenbergii, Q. muehlenbergii -- Q. macrocarpa, Q. macrocarpa -- Q. muehlenbergii, and Celtis occidentalis -- Q. macrocarpa. Location of these groups on the first DCA axis was correlated with decreasing slope and increasing percent silt (i.e. a moisture gradient from xeric to mesic). Shrub cover increased with droughtiness and decreased with both stand basal area and total reproduction. Original Land Office Survey suggest a dramatic expansion of gallery forests along the stream channels and ravines during the period from 1859-1939. Further expansion occurred through 1978. Increases in woody vegetation were attributed to decreased fire intensity and frequency since European settlement. Q. macrocarpa and/or Q. muehlenbergii were the oldest and largest trees in each stand, but were poorly represented as young trees and seedlings. In contrast, Celtis occidentalis, Cercis canadensis and Ulmus spp. were well represented as young trees and were vigorously reproducing singly or in combination in all stands. The growth of these species into trees occurred 10 to 30 years after the major recruitment of Q. macrocarpa and Q. muehlenbergii into the tree size class. It is suggested that the oaks will be replaced by C. occidentalis on the more mesic sites and by C. canadensis on the more xeric sites. The potential of Ulmus spp. as an overstory dominant is probably limited by the Dutch Elm Disease.
20037261|Various types of grasslands in the Netherlands were catagorized by their structure: phytomass and leaf area were measured in arbitrarily chosen vegetation layers with width intervals of 2.5, 5, 10 or 20 cm, depending on the height of the sward. Data were standardized for fixed width of layers (layer width set), and for equal numbers of layers of varying width (layer number set). Data were clustered by Ward's method as well as ordinated by Principal Components Analysis (PCA). The cluster method revealed 6 groups; those of the layer number sets could be contrasted in their vertical built-up of leaf area index (LAI) -- and phytomass profiles and could be characterized ecologically. The ordinations confirmed the findings of the cluster analyses. In our data grassland structure varied mainly along a gradient from constant and sufficient to strongly varying soil water supply during the growing season, and a gradient in soil nutrients from rich to poor. Sites with constant water supply appeared more often nutrient-rich and those with a varying water supply more often poor in nutrients.
20037262|In The Netherlands the decline of some phanerogamic species cannot be readily explained from obvious factors such as lowering of the groundwater table, eutrophication or land reclamation. For a number of species the hypothesis was tested that the decline is partly due to air pollution. A two-factor model was made in which decline is accounted for by (a) habitat destruction assessed from topographic maps and (b) air pollution measured as the SO 95-percentile over the winter period 1978/1979. Effects of both factors were assumed to follow a sigmoid dose-effect curve. For a number of species decline proved to be significantly correlated with air pollution. These are notably species from the syntaxon Violion caninae. A comparison was made with results obtained for epiphytic lichens. It appears that for some phanerogamic species sensitivity is about the same as for moderately sensitive lichens.
20037263|In Dutch coastal dunes the relation was studied between the composition of the vegetation on the banks of pools and the nutrients supplied by the groundwater. Areas infiltrated with eutrophic river water were compared with non-affected areas. The floristic composition was interpreted according to classification systems of ruderal, 'nitrophilous' tall hemicryptophytes and the conservation parameters richness and rarity. Of the three main macro-nutrients (orthophosphate, nitrate and potassium), the orthophosphate load shows the highest correlation with the vegetation variables. It is suggested that a reduction of orthophosphate during pre-purification of the infiltration water would reduce the dominance of the ruderals to the extent that the original dune slack species could return locally.
20037269|The semi-mobile coastal sand dune system El Morro de La Mancha at the Gulf of Mexico was studied phytosociologically and ecologically. The floristic gradient resulting from a relev ordination was correlated with the amount of sand movement occurring on the site of each relev, and the topography of the dune. The gradient manifested in the ordination represents the transition from the more mobile parts of the dunes to the more stable ones. It can be interpreted as a progressive stabilization during which sand movement decreases. Chamaecrista chamaecristoides, Palafoxia lindenii and Croton punctatus were found to inhabit the sites with considerable sand movement. The first species tolerates both erosion and accretion; the other two were only found in sites of sand accumulation. On the other hand grasslands and scrub were found on sites without any sand movement. Sand movement should be considered among the most important factors that affect the distribution of communities in sand dunes.
20037270|The 64 most abundant species (10 cm dbh) in a 400480 m plot of predominantly kerangas forest in Sarawak were individually investigated for two-dimensional pattern by spectral analysis using the basal areas of trees in 20  20 m contiguous quadrats. All species had individuals in the upper canopy. 30 species showed pattern with clumps. The most frequent scales of clump size were between 35 and 55 m across. Patterned species were less abundant in the plot, had a greater proportion of smaller (10-20 cm dbh) trees and had a lower ratio of upper to lower canopy trees than species without pattern. Trend across the plot between dipterocarp and kerangas forest types matched the change in soil from red-yellow podzol (oxisol and ultisol) to medium gleyic and bleached sand podzols (spodosol). However, soil differences and small scale (ca. 50 m) changes in topography did not account for patterns. The scale of pattern matches the size of gaps produced by windthrow. It is suggested that patterned species are light-demanding and grow from seeds in gaps, whereas non-patterned species are shade tolerant, growing within closed forest to sapling size and eventually maturing by filling smaller single tree gaps.
20037271|A computer program is described for producing site-species tables termed seriation arrays. Sites can be ordered according to sequences in direct habitat gradients, indirect site ordination axes, and trends oblique to the axes of an indirect site ordination. A  technique is used to filter species for restriction to segments of each site sequence, retaining only accepted species in the construction of arrays.
20037272|Gradients in beta diversity and species richness cause different forms of distortion in reciprocal averaging ordinations. Detrended correspondence analysis largely removes the beta diversity effect and reduces, but does not eliminate, the influence of species richness.
20037273|A transect study of coastal forest vegetation on a lateritic peninsula in the Northern Territory revealed four distinct communities; eucalypt forest, mixed eucalypt forest -- monsoon thicket, pure monsoon thicket and fringing coastal mangrove forest. The mangrove forest occurred in saline mud, the mixed and pure thicket on red earths and the eucalypt forest on both red and yellow earths. The eucalypt forest had less moisture in the surface soil than the other communities on the gentle slope above the mangroves. Evidence of past fire occurs in all the terrestrial communities, but the pure thicket is associated with a topographic position better protected from fire down-slope from the mixed community. Eucalypt regeneration in the mixed forest may be maintained by fires that have penetrated it from the frequently burnt eucalypt forest. It is possible that the mixed community is a fire sere occupying a site otherwise capable of supporting a pure thicket. However the pattern of vegetation has changed little in the recent past.
20037274|An ordination study of 20 Eucalyptus tetrodonta forest stands growing on deep earths in monsoonal Australia revealed two major gradients in understorey vegetation type. The first axis reflected both floristic and structural understorey variation, where litter and shrub cover were inversely related to grass cover. This axis is thought to reflect a complex fire-vegetation type interaction, where vegetation is primarily determined by the saturation of the soil profile in the wet season, as measured by the colour of the iron rich soils. On the second axis of the ordination, floristic composition but not vegetation structure, and stand height were found to vary with the intercorrelated measures of soil gravel and moisture supply. E. tetrodonta is able to regenerate in the absence of fire, but firing appears to stimulate regeneration. All stands contained some advance growth, which occurs in distinct clumps, probably reflecting these plants clonal origin. Sapling presence in the stands is variable and the recruitment of advance growth into this size class appears to be related to over-wood competition. The size class distribution of trees was found to be similar amongst the stands, therefore stand structure appeared to be independent of understorey type. In comparison to general models of temperate eucalypt regeneration processes the tropical eucalypts have evolved different regeneration strategies, possibly in response to the severe annual drought.
20037275|Differential profiles are used to describe a pattern of vegetation change across the boundary between annual grassland and coastal sage scrub in southern California. Several techniques for deriving differential profiles are compared; profiles derived from multivariate ordination are found to be most informative. Quantitative description of the vegetation boundaries by differential profiles permitted their classification into two categories of abrupt boundaries and three categories of gradual transitions. Differences between these boundary types appear to be the result of differences in soil texture and compaction, degree of disturbance, and spatial distribution of disturbance.
20037284|All living trees ( 30 cm gbh) were enumerated in 135 80  80 m plots, each subdivided into four 40  40 m subplots, and arranged along four 5 km transect lines in the Korup Forest Reserve, Cameroun. For each plot altitude, slope and the extent of permanent and seasonal swamps were recorded. Four hundred and eleven taxa were recognized of which 66% were identified to species. Mean tree density was 471
20037285|All living trees ( 30 cm gbh) were enumerated in 104 80  80 m plots arranged along four transects in the Douala-Edea Forest Reserve Cameroun, a system of low-lying ancient coastal sand dunes interspersed by numerous streams and swamps. The extent of permanent and seasonal swamps was recorded for each plot. Two hundred thirty taxa were recognized of which 63% were identified to species. Mean tree density was 376
20037286|A fine-resolution, spatially explicit, stochastic model was developed to simulate the dynamics of species cover abundance and pattern in a single vegetation layer wherein neighbouring individuals are assumed to compete for growing space. Each species in the model is characterized by a small number of morphological and life-history parameters, which enter into equations that stand for a minimal set of vegetation processes. The model performed well in reproducing post-fire successional trends among the three codominant dwarf shrubs in a Dutch heathland community as recorded in an annually mapped permanent quadrat. Program inputs, outputs and an example of sensitivity analysis are illustrated. With suitable changes, the model could potentially describe any plant community in which the vertical structure is simple and community dynamics are determined by spatial interactions among neighbouring plants.
20037287|An analysis of the Relative Importance Value Index (RIVI) of later successional tree species and the Shannon diversity index H of all tree and shrub species was undertaken on previously mined sites within a sparsely forested area in central Florida, USA. A comparative analysis of the distance to a seed source and the age of a site suggested that the distance to a seed source was the best predictor (R = 0.85) of the regeneration of the later successional species and a good predictor of species diversity. Both the RIVI of the later successional species and the diversity index decreased with the distance from the seed source. The lack of a seed source containing climax species resulted in arrested succession at some sites. It is suggested that biological information is the causative means of succession and the dispersal of this information entails spatial dependency while its introduction and development are time dependent processes.
20037288|Measures of four components of resilience are developed and used to quantify the response of coastal sage scrub to fire in southern California: (1) elasticity (rate of recovery following disturbance), (2) amplitude (threshold of disturbance beyond which recovery to the original state no longer occurs), (3) malleability (extent of alteration of the new stable-state from the original) and (4) damping (extent and duration of oscillation in an ecosystem parameter following disturbance). Vegetation and soil properties measured before fire, and for the first 5-6 yr after fire on four coastal (Venturan association) and four inland (Riversidian association) sites of coastal sage were used to follow changes. In addition, results from a simulation model of post-fire succession in Venturan coastal sage scrub (the FINICS model of Malanson) were used to examine resilience behavior over a 200 yr period. Resilience behavior of coastal sage scrub is critically influenced by the presence of a competitive mix of inherently strongly and weakly resprouting species. Sites dominated by weak resprouters exhibit lower elasticity and less damping of year-to-year fluctuations in composition in the early post-fire years. Sites with a mixture of weak and strong resprouters have a lower threshold of disturbance (amplitude) before species extirpation occurs, a result intensified by a higher frequency of disturbance. Malleability is also greater in these systems under higher disturbance frequency.
20037292|The vegetation of the mountains of the Fynbos Biome is classified and described, mostly on the basis of vegetation structure and higher taxa. Various gradients can be recognized. A gradient in soil conditions runs from coarse textured, nutrient-poor soils in non-grassy fynbos (Mountain Fynbos) through grassy fynbos and grassy non-fynbos (Eastern Fynbos and Grasslands &amp; Grassy Shrubland) to finer textured and less nutrient-poor soils in the non-fynbos Karroid &amp; Renoster Shrubland. Another gradient of significance can be likened to the tropical gradient running from the dry conditions of hot semi-deserts to savannas or grasslands to woodlands. At the dry extreme an open shrubland occurs (Karroid &amp; Renoster Shrubland, Asteraceous Fynbos), at intermediate positions a herbland occurs (Restioid Fynbos) and at the wet extreme another type of shrubland occurs (Ericaceous Fynbos). This kind of moisture gradient occurs on individual mountains with the xeric end being at the base of the north slopes, and the mesic end being on the upper south aspects. Soil characteristics are closely linked to this gradient; the better developed soils being found on the south aspects. Another moisture gradient is apparent in the vegetation. This gradient runs from the mesic southern coastal mountains to the north west where summer droughts are extremely severe although total rainfall may be similar.
20037293|Life history and population dynamics were examined for an annual halophyte, Atriplex triangularis Willd., in an inland salt marsh at Rittman, Ohio. The effect of salinity and precipitation on survival, growth, and reproduction of Atriplex triangularis under field conditions was determined. Early germination enhanced the possibility of survival and reproduction of this species. No distinct ecotypes were found, but various populations demonstrated different degrees of phenotypic plasticity in response to salinity, indicating that genetic selection for plasticity in growth response is taking place along the salinity gradient. Most seeds fell directly below the parent plant, but a small number was found in traps up to 0.5 meter from fruiting individuals. High temperature, salinity, and darkness individually, and in combination, inhibited the germination of small seeds more than large seeds.
20037294|This study is an attempt to interpret a mediterranean climatic gradient. It is based on 5-year observations of the dynamics of young plant communities dominated by Pinus pinaster in the hills of Provence, on permanent plots set up after the destruction of the pine forest by the introduction of Matsucoccus feytaudi. After a short description of the transect, including a classification of the plant communities and their relationship with environmental factors, we discuss the diversity pattern in relation to the niche concept. It is useful to explain diversity with the concept of resource distribution in order to construct models for the productivity of the communities and possible changes in the process of dominance. However, the acquisition of dominance by some species, the variation of habitat-niche breadth and the level of productivity of an environment are inferences from the models rather than the result of a process. As an alternative, we interpret the diversity gradient on the basis of the morphological and demographic characteristics of the species. We here consider Raunkiaer's life forms, including vegetative or offspring regeneration, leaf size and morphology as type of adaptive resistance to limiting factors such as frost, drought, competition, and as strategies used by the species to colonize or to survive.
20037295|A method of quantifying community spatial patterns, community pattern analysis, is described. It is proposed that ordination analysis is used to obtain an integrated score for each quadrat from transect data. For the data presented here, separate ordinations were made of both floristic and environmental (soils) data. The ordination axis scores are then analysed using two or three-term local variance analysis to quantify the scales of community pattern. Correlation analyses allow the relationship between the vegetation and soils data (as represented by ordination axis scores), and other environmental data to be investigated at defined scales. The advantages of this method, that employs the joint application of conventional methods, are that it includes the influence of all species in the analysis, and that multiple uncorrelated scales of pattern within a community are identified.
20037296|Multivariate methods of classification and ordination were used to examine changes in plant composition over a three year period on a calcareous shrubby grassland grazed by rabbits and cattle in central Australia. In a site-time ordination of the data for all years, the season and amount of rainfall was the most important influence, followed by several soil factors and rabbit density. In a site ordination of each year, rabbit density was a minor influence for the pretreatment data but increased in importance over the three years until it was highly correlated with vector one in the final year. This was a result of the exclosure treatments diverging from the controls with extremely high rabbit populations at two of the eighteen plots. When site-time trajectories were plotted through species space, most sites tended to move with season over the three year period towards a common domain. The two heavily grazed sites exhibited a different trajectory; this was due to the behaviour of seven plant species under grazing. In multiple regression analysis, rabbit density, cattle presence and yearly rainfall explained 66% of the variation in total standing biomass. In general, total cover was not affected by grazing treatment, although short term utilisation effects were usually visible in the late dry season. Given its present degraded state, this arid vegetation type is seen as reasonably resilient, requiring extremely heavy rabbit grazing to prevent the plant community responding to the dominating influence of season.
20037306|This study investigates lightning density in relation to burning frequency in five South African biomes. Data from automatic lightning flash counters distributed throughout South Africa are used to estimate the range and mean values of annual lightning ground-strike density in each biome. The lowest average lightning frequencies were recorded in the karoo and fynbos biomes, while the highest values were obtained in the 'sour' and inland mountain divisions of the grassland biome, with intermediate values computed for the savanna-woodland and forest biomes. These results were compared with published findings on the effects of different burning frequencies on plant communities in each biome. In general, plant communities occurring in areas experiencing the highest annual lightning densities (e.g., 'sour' and 'mixed' grassland, and moist savanna-woodland) tolerate and require more frequent burning than those typical of areas subject to lower lightning densities (e.g., fynbos, forest, 'sweet' grassland, and arid savanna-woodland). These findings suggest that the constituent plant populations in each biome have adapted to burning frequency according to the local probability of ignition by lightning in the areas they inhabit, and that present day responses of plant communities to burning reflect their ancestral exposure to fire in the course of their evolutionary development under pre-existing, 'natural' fire regimes.
20037307|This paper emphasizes the contribution of remnant trees to the establishment of woody species during succession on abandoned fields and pastures in the Mexican rain forest area, Los Tuxtlas, Veracruz. Remnant trees, original large forest trees left in the clearings by traditional farmers will become natural perching sites for both passing and resident birds. Frugivorous birds drop or regurgitate seeds and fruits which fall under the canopies of remnant trees during their stay, thus contributing to an accumulation of species, which make these remnant trees into 'regeneration nuclei'. The species transported into these sites belong chiefly to older stages of successional development and reach these otherwise isolated areas, counteracting the depauperization of tropical land, brought about by both intensive and extensive clearing. In a study of seven remnant trees, 29 woody species and two climbers were found, 86% of which are bird dispersed. The total number of species per tree varied from 6 to 15 and was higher under remnant trees with fruits attractive to birds. Floristic variations of the understorey as detected by detrended correspondence analysis was correlated with the relative amount of shade-tolerant primary and late secondary trees versus light dependent pioneers and early successional trees.
20037308|We investigated the effects of total (TR) or partial (PR) removal of the above-ground biomass of the dominant species on early successional trends in two oldfields in central New Jersey, USA. Our objective was to assess the occurrence of facilitation, tolerance, or inhibition as mechanisms of species replacement in the fields studied. In a 2nd-yr oldfield dominated by Ambrosia artemisiifolia, floristic composition and distribution of species cover changed markedly between the 2nd and the 3rd yr, regardless of the removal treatment. In both TR and PR plots and in control plots dominance shifted from an annual (A. artemisiifolia) to a biennial (Erigeron annuus). This indicates that the presence of the annual dominant is not necessary to promote this successional replacement, and therefore facilitation can be ruled out. Most species present in the 3rd-yr community were late summer and fall invaders which were not initially present. In a 7-yr oldfield dominated by Solidago canadensis, a clonal perennial, very little change in the distribution of species cover could be detected between years. Overall physiognomy remained the same, but there was a gradual change in floristic composition. In this field, TR and PR treatments enhanced vegetational change by allowing the increase in cover of suppressed understory species. Both inhibition and tolerance mechanisms may be involved in the pattern of vegetational change in this field. Finally, we stress that the mechanisms of species replacement operating in early secondary succession are dependent on structural and life history characteristics of the species assemblage on a particular site.
20037309|Peat samples, 3015 from 103 boring points, on two mires (khult mire, Store Mosse mire) south Sweden, have been subjected to macrofossil analysis. Based on plant remains, 9 peat groups were distinguished in the field. A further classification using phytosociological methods revealed 29 peat types. The affinities between the peat types were determined from TABORD classification and a Reciprocal Averaging ordination. The primary floristic differentiation is correlated with a gradient from treeless -- to wooded stands, which coincides largely with the mire expanse -- mire margin gradient. The poor -- rich gradient seems to parallel the treeless -- wooded gradient as well and may reflect the natural conditions in this mire before it was affected by man. The hummock -- mud-bottom gradient is easy to distinguish in peat, formed by bog communities, but is not distinct in peat formed by fen communities and impossible to detect in peat dominated by wood remains. The amount of identifiable remains depends on the decomposition, which is determined by (1) the period of time the plant litter stays in the acrotelm, and (2) the nutrient status. The decomposition is greatest in fen-peat with abundant wood remains. This probably depends on a good supply of oxygen caused by greater horizontal water movements and better nutrient status.
20037310|In the Breckland heaths of East Anglia large patches of Calluna are often killed by adverse climatic conditions or insect attack. This paper studies one site, Cavenham Heath, where large areas of Calluna were killed between 1976-1979, and shows that older stands were most affected, and recovery was slowest compared to either younger stands, or stands with an uneven-aged structure. Moreover, where Calluna death was most severe, directional succession to birch woodland was accelerated. At this site, although Calluna regeneration has been previously assumed to be initiated by endogenous factors (i.e. by the life cycle of the Calluna), it is also clearly interrupted by exogenous factors. The implications of these results for heathland conservation are discussed, and it is suggested that intervention management by cutting and burning, to maintain large areas of Calluna in the building phase, may be the most appropriate long term strategy.
20037322|Fuzzy set theory is an extension of classical set theory where elements of a set have grades of membership ranging from zero for non-membership to one for full membership. Exactly as for classical sets, there exist operators, relations, and mappings appropriate for these fuzzy sets. This paper presents the concepts of fuzzy sets, operations, relations, and mappings in an ecological context. Fuzzy set theory is then established as a theoretical basis for ordination, and is employed in a sequence of examples in an analysis of forest vegetation of western Montana, U.S.A. The example ordinations show how site characteristics can be analyzed for their effect on vegetation composition, and how different site factors can be synthesized into complex environmental factors using the calculus of fuzzy set theory. In contrast to current ordination methods, ordinations based on fuzzy set theory require the investigator to hypothesize an ecological relationship between vegetation and environment, or between different vegetation compositions, before constructing the ordination. The plotted ordination is then viewed as evidence to corroborate or discredit the hypothesis.
20037323|An area of dry eucalypt forest on dolerite in southeastern Tasmania with comparable sites that were a) unlogged, b) clearfelled, c) clearfelled and slash-burned, was monitored over a 24 month period. Detailed records were made of plant species composition and cover on floristically similar fenced and unfenced permanent plots in two major vegetation types. Mammal faecal pellets were cleared from each of the unfenced plots and subsequently counted and attributed to species of origin. For the six combinations of treatment and vegetation type pellet deposition rate was highly correlated with differences in the rate of change of species cover between fenced and unfenced plots and the lifeform composition of the vegetation. The greatest changes were observed in the clearfelled, burned area, while there was relatively little change in the undisturbed forest. Grass and herb species were generally disadvantaged by mammal exclusion while shrubs and graminoids generally grew faster in the fenced plots.
20037324|The distribution and branching morphologies of four species of columnar cactus species in tropical deciduous woodland in Jalisco, western Mexico, are examined. Two species, Stenocereus marginatus and especially Pachycereus pecten-aboriginum, are taller and extend through the woodland canopy, and only these two species occupy habitats where the woodland vegetation is taller, on N- and NE-facing aspects where incident radiation levels are lowest. Two species, Stenocereus standleyi and Cephalocereus purpusii, are shorter, subcanopy species, and are more restricted to low-angle slopes and slopes with S- to W-aspects, where the woodland vegetation is shorter and more open, with a greater penetration of radiation into the vegetation. Branching morphology is affected by the vegetation cover in all species, but in different ways between the two taller and the two shorter species. Ecological segregation in these four species is achieved apparently by differences among the light regimes of subhabitats correlated to the morphology of the cacti. This contrasts to segregation in Sonoran Desert columnar cactus species, which segregate by different strategies of water uptake and utilization, and in columnar cacti in woodlands in Oaxaca further south in Mexico, where adult individuals are very similar in branching morphology, but the younger individuals differ in this respect and presumably become established in different sorts of light gaps.
20037325|A classification is presented of community types found in the coastal sand dune systems along the Gulf coast and the Caribbean Sea of Mexico. Twenty-eight dune systems were sampled along transects using the Braun-Blanquet approach. A total of 4444 relevs were subjected to agglomerative classification and table arrangement (program TABORD). Synoptic species values were calculated for the 396 clusters obtained. They were arranged in two new data sets, one comprising the material from Tamaulipas and Veracruz and the other Yucatan and Quintana Roo. These data sets were again subjected to classification and ordination (detrended correspondence analysis) programs. Final community types are based on the basic clusters, 59 types for the Gulf area and 31 for the Caribbean. Their geographical and ecological distribution is interpreted. The description of types includes information on differential and dominant, as well as frequent accompanying species, and also on some structural characters. The results were compared with a parallel study of the central Gulf area, including Tabasco and Campeche. Six main distribution patterns of the community types were found: 1) along the coast (mostly pioneer communities), 2) northern section of the Gulf, 3) northern section of the Gulf and the Caribbean, 4) mainly restricted to the Gulf, 5) intermediate patterns within Tabasco and Campeche and 6) restricted to Yucatan and Quintana Roo. The ordinations showed both local zonation patterns directly related to dune physiography and regional patterns produced mainly by soil and climate differences. Both for the Gulf and the Caribbean material axis 1 reflects a sea-inland gradient from pioneer types towards thickets on the fixed dunes. Axis 2 shows a geographical transition from Tamaulipas to Veracruz types in the Gulf material and from Yucatan to Quintana Roo types in the Caribbean case. The Gulf types can be grouped into: 1) Tamaulipas types with species in common with Texas and the southeastern United States, (Uniola paniculata). 2) Veracruz and Tabasco types, with many thicket species in common with inland vegetation types (Randia laetevirens, Coccoloba barbadensis and Citharexylum berlandieri). The Caribbean types can be grouped into: 1) Yucatan types with species from drier habitats and characterized by the endemic Enriquebeltrania crenatifolia, Agava angustifolia and halophytes like Bravaisia tubiflora, Pithecellobium keyense and Suaeda linearis; 2) Quintana Roo types with typical Caribbean communities with Erithalis fruticosa, Coccoloba uvifera, Ernodea littoralis and the palms Pseudophoenix sargentii and Thrinax radiata.
20146291|A floristic-sociological and production study of the grassland vegetation on the central plateau of Shewa, Ethiopia, is described. Six communities are distinguished and interpreted as expressions of variation in moisture status of the soil, grazing conditions, agronomic activities and altitude. The study indicates that the prevailing poor grassland conditions on the central plateau of Ethiopia with production levels ranging from 73.4-839.7 g/m are largely due to high livestock density, and other related problems rather than adverse physical conditions.
20146292|The dynamics of a population of the stoloniferous Potentilla anserina was studied during four years. The mortality of established ramets followed a log-linear pattern superimposed on a seasonal fluctuation with an increased mortality during the period of vegetative spread. The major external mortality factors were unfavourable weather conditions such as drought and freezing. The turnover rate of the population was slow (31.6 yr). Vegetative spread dominated the recruitment to the population. Seedlings occurred but were exposed to a much higher mortality than vegetative daughter ramets. The juvenile period of seedlings is at least 4 yr in the field. This contrast to vegetative daughter ramets which are potentially flowering and stoloniferous the year after they are established, even if age affects both reproduction and vegetative spread. The density of most of the population is below the level where intraspecific regulative effects operate. However, in very dense stands both stolon and flower production were negatively density dependent.
20146293|Changes in plant community structure are identified as a result of grazing in grasslands of the flooding pampa which evolved under supposedly light grazing conditions. The effect of excluding grazing upon total leaf area index was an increase of 30%. The largest response was observed in the distribution of leaves in the canopy. In the grazed areas, most of the green material was concentrated in the 0-5 cm layer while in the ungrazed treatments the largest portion of the leaf area was in the 10-30 cm layer. Grazing exclusion resulted in a small change in total basal area but a larger change in its distribution, from many small tussocks to less numerous large ones. The effect of grazing upon leaf area and basal area was accounted for by changes in vigor as well as by changes in species composition. The major effect of excluding grazing upon species composition was the disappearance of some native planophile species and most of the exotics. The species composition of grazed area of both communities was very similar while there were large differences between the ungrazed areas and between the grazed and ungrazed areas of the same community. It is suggested that there is a group of species which responds to the coarse-grained 'signal' of grazing and its presence can cause dissimilar communities to converge under grazing conditions. The other group of species responded to the fine-grained 'signal' of the environmental conditions associated with topography.
20146294|Morphological characteristics related to spatial occupation, reproduction and adaptations to grazing were used to characterize the most frequent species in a therophytic pastureland of Central Spain. Periodic ploughing is a traditional practice in these pastures and allows observation of successional change. In the present study, four neighbouring slopes of differing time since last ploughing were chosen. Species biomass was measured at different times during the annual growing season for two different slope positions. Grazing pressure is an important environmental factor affecting ecosystem organization, the most palatable plants tending to show increasing biomass with succession. In the most mature stages, there is a predominance of species characterized by horizontal occupation of space and sprouting after mowing or grazing. During succession segregation of the different morphological characteristics occurs in slope sectors related to geomorphological dynamics. Similarly, phenological development tends to be later in pastures in the lowest slope zones, due probably to their greater summer soil moisture content.
20146295|The study deals with the annual cycles of biomass, productivity and necrosis of the perennial wetland species Carex vesicaria and Phalaris arundinacea, and with the main growth parameters during the first part of 1979. The amplitudes of biomass variation differ, but other features of the development are largely the same. To detect the various climatic factors which determine the above-ground biomass dynamics, a procedure of multiple stepwise regression has been used. Regressions for annual trend and variation in production were obtained. They provide coarse models, which may be improved by including translocation to below-ground organs.
20146307|This study, as many other current investigations in palaeoecology is focused on the long-term dynamics of vegetation and the extent to which they are controlled by climate change. Climate and classes of climate change are defined and reviewed, and examples cited of vegetation response. The concepts of vegetation, plant community and equilibrium are examined, with particular emphasis on theories on short term dynamics developed by ecologists working with temperate and boreal forests. Vegetation response to climate change can be modified by anthropogenic factors, topographic diversity and soils, life-cycle characteristics and hysteresis.
20146308| Current methods for estimating past climatic patterns from pollen data require that the vegetation be in dynamic equilibrium with the climate. Because climate varies continuously on all time scales, judgement about equilibrium conditions must be made separately for each frequency band (i.e. time scale) of climatic change. For equilibrium conditions to exist between vegetation and climatic changes at a particular time scale, the climatic response time of the vegetation must be small compared to the time scale of climatic variation to which it is responding. The time required for vegetation to respond completely to climatic forcing at a time scale of 10 yr is still unknown, but records of the vegetational response to climatic events of 500- to 1000-yr duration provide evidence for relatively short response times. Independent estimates for the possible patterns and timing of late-Quaternary climate changes suggest that much of the vegetational evidence previously interpreted as resulting from disequilibrium conditions can instead be interpreted as resulting from the individualistic response of plant taxa to the different regional patterns of temperature and precipitation change. The differences among taxa in their response to climate can lead a) to rates and direction of plant-population movements that differ among taxa and b) to fossil assemblages that differ from any modern assemblage. An example of late-Holocene vegetational change in southern Quebec illustrates how separate changes in summer and winter climates may explain the simultaneous expansion of spruce (Picea) populations southward and beech (Fagus) populations northward. 
20146309|Pollen records for American beech (Fagus grandifolia) and eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis) compiled from 50 sites in Michigan and Wisconsin, USA, show that both species entered the Upper Great Lakes region about 7000 yr B.P., reaching their western and southwestern boundaries between 2000 and 1000 yr B.P. Fagus advanced northward into lower Michigan as a continuous front, except where Lake Michigan posed a geographic barrier. Colonies were established on the far side of the lake after a 1000 year lag, implying that long-distance dispersal across a 100-km wide barrier can occur. The Fagus range may not have been in equilibrium with climate for one or two thousand years before this time, when seeds were dispersed across the lake to Wisconsin. Tsuga seeds may have been dispersed 150 km or more from Ontario to reach Upper Michigan. Scattered colonies were established 6000-7000 yr B.P. on either side of Lake Michigan, which did not pose a significant barrier to this wind-dispersed species, Tsuga spread rapidly over a large region prior to 5000 yr B.P. Subsequent expansion to the west occurred more slowly, and may reflect gradual climatic changes in northern Wisconsin during the second half of the Holocene. Tsuga's range may have been limited by dispersal, rather than climate, for an unknown length of time prior to 5000 yr B.P. During this period Tsuga was expanding its range rapidly. The study shows, however, that it is difficult to devise rigorous tests to distinguish between dispersal limitations and climate as factors limiting range limits in the past.
20146310|In areas such as parts of Britain where many closely spaced sites have been investigated, between-site diversities prevent any simple correlation between vegetation response and climatic variables. These diversities reveal the influence of other factors in modulating this response. Analysis of profiles of allochthonous lake sediments has provided evidence for the importance of soil factors. The otherwise inexplicable spatial variation in the response of trees, in Britain and neighbouring parts of the European mainland, to the climatic warming (inferred from faunal evidence) at the most recent glacial termination, can be explained by the postulated spatial differentiation of raw skeletal soils. Differences in particle-size, composition and drainage, consistent with the spatial differentiation of pre-arboreal vegetation, would affect the water-retaining capacity of immature late-glacial soils and hence the reproductive success of tree birches. The lag in response of these to climatic amelioration appears to have varied from 500 to 1 500 yr, and it seems likely that a similar lag may have characterised the early warming period of each interglacial. The conclusion must be that in this situation the degree of success of trees measured by pollen values is not a reliable indicator of palaeotemperatures. Secondly, it appears from evidence in northern Scotland that at an ecotone between forest types, the relation between vegetation and climate is likely to be obscured except in regions of uniform soils. In areas of differentiated bedrock, the vegetation pattern is likely to have been influenced most by the effects of soil maturation processes in developing a soil mosaic.
20146311|The influence of climate on the population dynamics of trees must be inferred from indirect sources of information because the long lifespans of trees preclude direct observation of population growth and decline. Important insights about these processes come from 1) observations of the life histories and ecologies of trees in contemporary forests, 2) evidence of recent treeline movements in remote areas unaffected by human disturbance, and 3) results of experiments performed on forest simulation models. Each line of evidence indicates that tree population responses are influenced by many factors: including lifespans, seed productivity and dispersibility, phenotypic plasticity, genetic variability, competition, and disturbance. Some population characteristics should allow rapid changes in population sizes, while others should confer stability in times of environmental fluctuation. Interactions between controlling factors should result in a wide array of possible responses to climatic change. Interpretations of late-Quaternary forest dynamics must be based on an understanding of the biological processes involved in population responses to environmental variations.
20146312|Vegetation responses to climatic change can be studied retrospectively by utilizing the Quaternary fossil record. There has been controversy over the extent to which major changes in vegetation patterns at the continental scale lag behind the climatic changes that drive them, and to what extent vegetation can ever be said to be in equilibrium with climate. The equilibrium question has no single answer. The predominant mode of vegetation response to climatic change depends on the space and time frame and resolution of the data set in which the response is observed. Vegetation (as observed on particular space and time scales) can be in dynamic equilibrium with climate if its response time is sufficiently fast in relation to the rate of climatic change to which it is observed to be responding. Several processes can be involved in the response: successional, migrational, edaphic, and evolutionary. Successional response times can be deduced from forest succession models. The other processes are less well understood and different ideas exist concerning their rates. According to one hypothesis, migrational lags caused delays of thousands of years in the postglacial dynamics of forest composition. The alternative hypothesis explains these changes as dynamic equilibrium responses to changes in climatic seasonality and climatic anomaly patterns. Neither hypothesis need be universally true; gradient analysis and forest succession models are among the techniques that can be used in inferential tests of these hypotheses for particular space-time regions. Dynamic equilibrium may often be a reasonable approximation for the responses of the broadest continental-scale forest patterns to orbitally induced climatic changes. But as spatial and temporal frames of observation are diminished and resolution increased, biotic processes must eventually come to dominate. At sufficiently fine scales the main observable phenomena are successional responses to natural disturbance events. The late-Quaternary record of vegetation change allows a choice of observation scales and thus provides a continuum of possibilities for study, ranging from long-term dynamic bioclimatology to more conventional vegetation dynamics.
20037329|Sixteen vegetation types were described from a north-south transect in the western Kalahari. Pronounced differences were found between communities on the nutrient poor red Kalahari sand, covering most of the area and those on fine soils and white calcareous sand. Syntaxa resulting from severe overgrazing by livestock were in most cases clearly distinguished from the less disturbed vegetation. The communities on red sand consisted mainly of shrub savanna dominated by perennial tufted grasses, whereas in the vegetation on calcareous material and on overgrazed land, forbs, dwarf shrubs and shrubs played a more important role. The major communities on red sand showed a clear geographical zonation roughly corresponding to the gradient in mean annual rainfall and its interannual variation. In the northern and central Kalahari these syntaxa were dominated by species of Sudano-Zambezian origin and in the southern Kalahari by species showing Karoo-Namib affinities.
20037330|Quantitative data on the morphology of leaves and canopy in a high elevation desert stand on Tenerife have been analyzed by multivariate methods. The results show a trend in morphological variation that is related to plant height. An interpretation of this trend in terms of the adaptive values of different character combinations suggests that this could be related to a vertical microclimatic gradient. Three main groups of species have been identified, which have evolved different adaptive strategies to different niches within a single stand. The functional values of the character combinations of each species group are discussed.
20037331|The mass effect determinant of species richness proposed by Shmida &amp; Wilson (1985) was empirically tested at the interface of undisturbed, native vegetation with recovering vegetation on a reclaimed surface mine. The observed decrease in native species richness with distance away from the source area was consistent with the predicted pattern based on Shmida &amp; Wilson's (1985) model.
20037332|Multi-species patterns were analyzed in three stages of ecological succession in oligotrophic pastures in Central Spain using a new method of analysis. The method is based on plotting the species coordinates of principal components analysis undertaken at different block sizes. It allows the detection of any heterogeneity present and reveals both microtopographical and macrotopographical trends in species patterns.
20037333|Multivariate methods were used to examine epiphytic species composition on the lower trunk of Acer macrophyllum at five sites in south-coastal British Columbia, Canada. Differences in species composition and abundance between sites were attributed mainly to variation in relative humidity and light conditions. Bark chemistry differences accounted for only a small portion of the observed variation in epiphytic composition between sites. Within sites, compositional variation was examined over 0.5-5 m from ground level on the upper, vertical, and lower trunk surfaces of leaning trees. Compositional variation of the epiphytic vegetation with height and inclination tended to be more strongly developed at drier sites. Furthermore, at all sites compositional variation tended to be greater on upper (wetter) than on lower (drier) surfaces. Particular epiphytic species tended to occur in similar locations on the trunk surface at different sites, suggesting that some microhabitat specialization has occurred. Observed distributional shifts of epiphytic species appeared to be greatest among sites differing widely in prevailing microenvironmental conditions.
20037334|The ecology and distribution of Quercus aegilops ssp. brantii and the associated Pistacia atlantica var. mutica and P. khinjuk are examined as a basis for explaining the Late Quaternary history of the forest in the Zagros mountains. The three species are tolerant of aridity and low temperatures but sensitive to heavy snowfall. In most of the area, summer rain does not occur. Forest expansion is generally limited by the inability of seedlings to survive the four-month summer drought. Pollen diagrams from Lake Zeribar, Kurdistan show the absence of trees during the last glacial period and the migration of forest into the region between 10 000 and 5 500 B.P. This has been interpreted as indicating aridity during the Pleistocene with gradually increasing precipitation in the late glacial and Holocene. However, the sensitivity of these species to snow and their tolerance of low overall precipitation implicate higher snowfall rather than lower precipitation as the cause of absence during the Pleistocene. The inability of seedlings to survive the present summer-dry conditions suggests that summer rainfall, and not higher total precipitation, was the factor that finally allowed migration. These conclusions are supported by independent evidence of increased winter precipitation during the pleniglacial and a period of summer rainfall but low annual precipitation during forest expansion.
20037338|The floristic composition of the macrophyte vegetation of Lake Kainji was investigated and compared with the vegetation of the river Niger before impoundment. Of 18 hydatophytes, 40 tenagophytes and 57 trichophytes listed for the Niger, 18 tenagophytes, 12 trichophytes and 7 hydatophytes were found growing in the lake 17 years after impoundment. Fourteen new tenagophytes, 3 new hydatophytes and 1 new trichophyte were recorded. The hydatophytes which were expected to colonize the lake are limited in number and range. The failure of the hydatophytes to colonize the lake, as predicted by Cook (1968), is discussed in relation to the inflow-to-volume ratio of the lake.
20037339|Aboveground plant biomass was examined in a tall virgin tropical lowland evergreen rain forest dominated by Dipterocarpaceae in Sebulu, East Kalimantan, Indonesia, with special reference to the gap-, building- and mature phases of the forest growth cycle. From the records of dimensions of sample trees examined by the stratified clip technique and DBH inventory data of trees in a study plot, the biomass of larger trees (DBH  4.5 cm) was estimated by the allometric correlation method. The biomass of smaller plants (DBH &lt 4.5 cm) was estimated by harvesting the plants in small quadrat plots. Although large differences were found between aboveground-biomass-estimates in different patches of different growth stages, the aboveground biomass in a 1.0 ha plot was 509 t/ha, and the one-sided LAI was 7.3 ha/ha. These values seem to result from the tall forest architecture with huge emergent trees (over 70 m high) and a moderate packing of plant mass indicated by the basal area value of 38.8 m/ha for trees with DBH  4.5 cm.
20037340|The assumption that landscapes dominated by mature vegetation are presently in carbon steady state with the atmosphere is challenged. Evidence suggests that the vegetation and soils of these landscapes are frequently disturbed and over short time periods (&lt 300 yr) slowly sequester atmospheric carbon. The critical consideration in this argument is the time interval used to evaluate a steady state. Current models of carbon flux through the terrestrial biota limit their time considerations to 120 yr, a short and inadequate time interval for realistic assumptions about steady state in the carbon cycle of vegetation.
20037341|Flowering and fruiting phenological patterns at the individual-, population-, and community level were studied in a southern Spanish scrub community composed of 30 shrub species. Few individuals of any species produced a high number of flowers. Intrapopulation deviation in the peak time of flowering showed a strong and positive skewness. Relative flowering duration, however, displayed a virtually normal distribution. Generally, species flowering in spring have a short flowering time, while species flowering earlier or later in the year show significantly longer flowering periods. Species were in bloom throughout the year, but there was a major peak during spring and two lesser ones in autumn and early summer. Shallow rooting taxa in typically mediterranean genera displayed a strategy of spring flowering and summer fruiting. Summer and autumn flowering occurred among heath-like shrubs of relatively wet places, and forest-associated, vertebrate-dispersed species which commonly have underground storage organs. Species with ripe fruits presented two peaks, the major one during the summer including the majority of taxa with seeds dispersed by non-vertebrate agents. There was a minor fruiting peak in autumn dominated by taxa that rely on vertebrates for dispersal. The complex seasonal patterns observed are interpreted in relation to environmental conditions and physiological constraints on species living in a highly seasonal climate.
20037342|In a physiognomically uniform Leucobryo-Pineteum phytocoenose the spatial pattern of point diversity was determined and the effect of quadrat size on the assessment of alpha diversity (in Whittaker's, 1977, sense) was analysed. In both cases the Shannon index of total species diversity and the evenness index were used to measure diversity. A contagious spatial pattern of point diversity and a high variation of point diversity values, as well as a strong non-linear dependence of H and J values on quadrat size, and also a decrease in H and J variation with an increase in quadrat size were found.
20037343|A method for characterizing tree form is developed by linear regression of the age of the trunk on the average branch age at different heights. This relationship holds for a wide variety of situations, including both theoretical models and observed tree samples. The intercept of the regression, a, the 'index of trunk distinctness', reflects the branching pattern inherent to the species and indicates whether the trunk is erect or not. The slope, b, is termed the 'crown thickness coefficient', because it indicates a branching pattern. Tree forms can be classified into nine theoretical groups; three of these are physically impossible. The method was applied to real trees and a and b are shown to be useful tree form characteristics. Possible applications of the method are briefly discussed.
20037344|Canopy gap area/age distributions and growth mechanisms were examined in a virgin subalpine forest in the White Mountains, New Hampshire, USA. The gap area distribution was negative exponential in form. Whithin gap tree ages varied widely in response to stepwise gap expansion caused by windthrow of peripheral trees or death of standing mature Picea rubens at gap edges. As a consequence, the density of small gaps may have been underestimated and the density of large gaps overestimated. The estimates of canopy turnover time, 303 yr, and of patch birth rate on an area basis, 3.3 
20037345|Valley floor beech/hardwood forests in northern Fiordland, New Zealand are dominated by Nothofagus menziesii, Weinmannia racemosa, and several species of subcanopy hardwoods. Population structures and replacement patterns, as determined from size- and age-structure and spatial pattern analysis, reflect the effects of periodic disturbances. The differential expression of aspects of species life history resulted in several regeneration strategies for Nothofagus and Weinmannia. Frequent minor treefalls allowed sporadic regeneration of N. menziesii and W. racemosa on logs in canopy openings resulting in all-aged stands. Infrequent catastrophic landslides and extensive windthrow (e.g., 0.2-0.5 ha) resulted in even-aged stands of N. menziesii or N. menziesii/W. racemosa with little subsequent regeneration. Other hardwoods, although rare on the forest floor in dense-canopied even-aged forest, were numerous on fallen logs and in the Nothofagus canopy crowns of all-aged forests. Establishment above competing dense fern understoreys on the forest floor and outside the browse zone of introduced deer and wapiti appeared critical for the regenerative success of many species, especially subcanopy hardwoods. The gap-phase replacement pattern for N. menziesii parallels that of N. cunninghamii in the rainforests of Tasmania but contrasts with a continual replacement pattern for N. menziesii in many pure beech forests of New Zealand.
20037353|Paradigm change (organismic-continuum) in Soviet phytocoenology occurred in the 1960s, though the idea of a continuum is well known in the Soviet Union since L. G. Ramensky's works, written at the beginning of our century. This change has been influenced by American continuum-ecologists from the Schools of J. T. Curtis and R. H. Whittaker. The organismic approach in Soviet phytocoenology has never had an extreme character, and for this reason paradigm change appeared gradually. The impact of vegetation classification on the paradigm succession is emphasized: whether an investigator admits 'real', discontinuous communities or considers them part of a continuum, in either case he must reduce continuity to discontinuity to achieve a classification. Nevertheless, the dominant classification systems typical of the organismic period in Soviet phytocoenology were mostly of an organismic character, because they were based on the idea of the organizing role of edificators-dominants in the community, rather than on environmental conditions. The classification system based on the Braun-Blanquet approach which is widely spreading now in the USSR corresponds better to the idea of a continuum, because the floristic-sociological classification criteria reflect habitat conditions, rather than coenotic interrelations. Organismic and continuum paradigms are compared according to ten principal aspects, the most important of which are: the nature of the plant community, estimation of population differences within a community, synmorphology, syndynamics and relation to the classification problem.
20037354|A two-step method for the classification of very large phytosociological data sets is demonstrated. Stratification of the set is suggested either by area in the case of a large and geographically heterogeneous region, or by vegetation type in the case of a set covering all the plant communities of an area. First, cluster analysis is performed on each subset. The resulting basic clusters are summarized by calculating a 'synoptic cover-abundance value' for each species in each cluster. All basic clusters are then subjected to the same procedure. Second order clusters are interpreted as community types. The synoptic value proposed reflects both frequency and average cover-abundance. It is emphasized that a species should have a high frequency to be used as a diagnostic species. The method is demonstrated with a set of 1138 relevs and 250 species of coastal sand dune vegetation in Yucatan treated with the programs TWINSPAN and TABORD. Some problems and perspectives of the approach are discussed in the light of hierarchy theory and classification theory.
20037355|Ecological gradients in the field layer of southern boreal forests in South Finland were studied in relation to the dominant tree species and the age of forest stands. The data are from a systematic sample of 529 plots from an area of 150  200 km, collected in the Third National Forest Inventory in 1951-53. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was applied to log-transformed species cover values. It revealed three main gradients: fertility, moisture, and the effect of cattle grazing in forests (still extensive in the early 1950's). The fertility gradient dominated the first axis and the two latter sources of variation confounded with it in a complex manner in the first two axes of DCA. The second DCA axis was associated with canopy effects on understory pattern, with Pinus and Picea having opposite and Betula intermediate effects. These results were compared with an ordination model of Cajander's forest site types, based on DCA of independent, ideal data of 107 indicator species. The fertility gradient recovered by the model was almost identical to that obtained from the field data. The gradient was also stable from intermediate-age (40-69 yr-old) to older forests. The forest site types showed rather large overlaps with main neighbouring types in composition of ground vegetation or nutrient status of the humus. Competitively efficient feather-mosses, which are dependent on nutrients released from the tree crowns, are considered important regulators of the understory vegetation. Accordingly, alternative approaches to the forest site type classification to be used in boreal forests treated by modern intensive forestry should give more weight to the effect of the canopy trees.
20037356|The survivorship and reproduction of the annual halophyte Spergularia marina was studied during four years on three different sites on a Baltic seashore meadow. The survivorship showed variation both between years and between sites. The mortality rate was not density-dependent in spite of very high densities in some years. At two of the sites the seed output was related to density, but individuals differed in their reproductive capacity. Limitation of the flower production was the main reason for this difference. At the third site the length of the flowering season determined the reproductive output.
20037357|The population dynamics of the annual Spergularia marina was studied during four years on three different sites on a Baltic seashore meadow. The population density varied significantly both between years and between sites. At one of the sites the average population density was higher than at the two other sites. Both differences in reproductive capacity and in density-independent mortality caused differences in population size. Variation in population seed yield or loss of seed or both, between years, to a large extent determined the variation in the population density between years.
20037358|Along the west coast of South America mangroves are found only outside the area influenced by the cold Peruvian Current. At 6 S (near 'Cerro Illescas') the current turns west to the open sea in the direction of the Galapagos Islands. Dense mangrove vegetation with a tree height up to 15 m occurs only north of 3 35 S from the delta of the river Tumbes (Peru). At 3 44 S some small individuals of Rhizophora and at 5 30 S a small stand of Avicennia can be found. In the transition zone between 3 35 and 6 S no mangrove forest occurs. The reasons for the lack of mangal in the transition zone are: (1) Evapotranspiration and atmospheric humidity show significant differences between the mangrove region and the transition zone. In this zone soil conditions like salinity, water and organic matter content and the geological structure can also be considered as inhibiting mangrove growth. (2) Topographic conditions in this zone are not suitable for mangal and the lack of a regular annual flow from rivers provides a sharp limit for the existence of mangal in the delta of the river Tumbes. Nevertheless, cultivation of mangrove species south of the mangrove region is possible and seems promising.
20037359|Pollen diagrams from seven lakes with annually laminated sediments sampled at 40-year intervals are analyzed to isolate the climatic effects from other effects on the long-term dynamics of vegetation during the past 1000-2000 years along a transect from Maine to Minnesota. Principal components analysis is used to reduce the dimensionality of the pollen data. The pollen records from all lakes show long-term trends, medium frequency oscillations, and higher frequency fluctuations. The long-term trend is associated with the neoglacial expansion of the boreal forest. The mechanism causing this replacement is a change in frequency of air masses in the area. The medium-frequency oscillations are also associated with climate changes, the most recent of which is the 'Little Ice Age'. The climate-related mechanism causing the medium-frequency changes may be changes in disturbance frequency. The higher frequency fluctuations may also be related to disturbance. This analysis of pollen diagrams into time scales of variation has enabled the separation of climate from other factors affecting vegetation dynamics. By comparing the principal components across a transect of sites it proved possible to interpret the climatic effects on vegetation at most sites and not only at range boundaries and 'sensitive' sites.
20038098|Relations between community theory and community analysis are elucidated from a historical viewpoint. Four groups of relevant aspects are distinguished. This paper concentrates on aspects of spatial variation in species composition and species distribution relations. Three major elements of community theory are discussed: the response of species to habitat conditions, interactions between species (competition, facilitation), and chance and random processes, both in the environment (disturbance) and in populations (dispersal). The debate island biogeography is used as a starting point for reviewing some theories about vegetation in terms of the elements they involve. Early community theories are discussed with emphasis on Clements ('competition', 'facilitation') versus Gleason ('chance'), and Braun-Blanquet ('habitat') versus Du Rietz ('habitat', 'competition', 'chance'). Du Rietz's theory of vegetation is manysided and well ahead of its time. Then the development and significance of quantitative plant ecology for community theory is treated with emphasis on Whittaker ('habitat', 'competition') versus Goodall ('habitat', 'facilitation'). The potential use of objective and quantitative methods of analysis for hypothesis testing should be explored much further. New theoretical ideas are summarized, including the role of the regeneration cycle of individual plants and neighbour interactions. Both interaction experiments and models for community dynamics will contribute to the general theory of plant communities. Perspectives for the development and testing of null hypotheses in vegetation science are discussed in view of the mutual relationships between community theory and community analysis, and the relations with dominance -- diversity studies and multi-species pattern analysis indicated. The simplest hypothesis, i.e. that species combinations occur in sites independently and at random, is of little value. The next step would be that observed co-occurrences are determined by the overlap of species distributions over habitats. Then hypotheses on interaction and facilitation become relevant.
20038099|Vegetation is the consequence of the interaction of a series of widely differing processes, each uniquely scaled. Extensive slow processes pertain to high levels of organization, while fast local processes pertain to lower levels. Curvature in ordination gradients is often not artefact, but the result of interference between different levels. As straight gradients are lengthened by the inclusion of more heterogeneity in the data, the nature of relationships change between species and their environment and each other at distant places in environmental space. With change in these relationships, movement down the gradient does not always mean the same thing, and this causes curvature. In plotting a noneuclidean space onto a euclidean reference, the change in metrics causes apparent curvature. The technical causes of curvature (bimodality, double zeros, beta diversity) fit this model. Data transformations scale the analyses so that different levels are reflected in results. Between levels, when the processes of the lower level are not local enough to be trivial, the pattern from new upper level processes cannot assert a new straight gradient with coarser grained criteria. Thus transformation and the emergence of curvature followed eventually by new straight gradients allow the linking of different levels in an orderly fashion.
20038100|A dynamical systems perspective is employed to develop a simple conceptual model of vegetation and environment as coupled dynamical systems. The conceptual model characterizes the influence of environment on vegetation, the effect of vegetation on the environment, and the subsequent response of vegetation to the modified environment. Vegetation and environmental dynamics are modeled as trajectories in complementary state spaces, with the trajectories jointly determined by the position of a given site in both spaces. The vegetation and environment state spaces are coupled by the physiological requirements of the component species and the modification of environment by vegetation. From a dynamical systems perspective, current vegetation theory and analyses overemphasize environmental determination of vegetation composition and neglect the effects of vegetation on environment. A dynamical systems perspective is capable of synthesizing previous concepts of vegetation; the continuum and community type concepts are possible consequences of site specific differences in vegetation metabolism and environmental plasticity.
20038101|A procedural model for vegetation analysis is presented. Suggestions are made that analysis methods can test theory as well as examine vegetation-environment correlations. Gauch and Whittaker's propositions regarding species behavioural properties expected for an individualistic continuum are tested on a eucalypt forest data set. The data set is carefully stratified to control environmental heterogeneity. The shape and distribution of species response curves are then examined along a temperature gradient using 750 sites. The conclusions are: (1) Bell shaped response curves to environmental gradients are not universal (2) Positive-skewed curves are characteristic of major canopy species in eucalypt forest in southern New South Wales (3) Species richness increases with temperature along the gradient (4) Tests of other propositions regarding species modes and ranges are confounded by the change in species richness along the gradients (5) More rigorous statistical analysis and analyses on other vegetation types are needed.
20038102|This study reformulates the community-unit and individualistic concepts of plant communities as hypotheses concerning the distribution of species' boundaries along a gradient. These hypotheses are tested by an analysis of deviance on data derived from a direct-gradient analysis of a freshwater marsh plant community in Breckenridge, Quebec, Canada. Boundaries are clustered at certain intervals along the gradient (p&lt0.001), contradicting the individualistic hypothesis. Upper boundaries are not consistently clustered at the same intervals as lower boundaries (p&lt0.001), contradicting the community-unit hypothesis. Thus, neither of the two usual models of community structure explain the patterns found in Breckenridge Marsh, suggesting that the historical dichotomy is too limited. Hypotheses of pattern should be tested using inferential statistics. Hypotheses of mechanism should be tested by experimentation. The way out of the community-unit vs. individualistic community debate is to deny the dichotomy and to consider multiple working hypotheses of community structure.
20038103|The robustness of quantitative measures of compositional dissimilarity between sites was evaluated using extensive computer simulations of species' abundance patterns over one and two dimensional configurations of sample sites in ecological space. Robustness was equated with the strength, over a range of models, of the linear and monotonic (rank-order) relationship between the compositional dissimilarities and the corresponding Euclidean distances between sites measured in the ecological space. The range of models reflected different assumptions about species' response curve shape, sampling pattern of sites, noise level of the data, species' interactions, trends in total site abundance, and beta diversity of gradients. The Kulczynski, Bray-Curtis and Relativized Manhattan measures were found to have not only a robust monotonic relationship with ecological distance, but also a robust linear (proportional) relationship until ecological distances became large. Less robust measures included Chord distance, Kendall's coefficient, Chisquared distance, Manhattan distance, and Euclidean distance. A new ordination method, hybrid multidimensional scaling (HMDS), is introduced that combines metric and nonmetric criteria, and so takes advantage of the particular properties of robust dissimilarity measures such as the Kulczynski measure.
20038104|Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) is introduced as a multivariate extension of weighted averaging ordination, which is a simple method for arranging species along environmental variables. CCA constructs those linear combinations of environmental variables, along which the distributions of the species are maximally separated. The eigenvalues produced by CCA measure this separation. As its name suggests, CCA is also a correspondence analysis technique, but one in which the ordination axes are constrained to be linear combinations of environmental variables. The ordination diagram generated by CCA visualizes not only a pattern of community variation (as in standard ordination) but also the main features of the distributions of species along the environmental variables. Applications demonstrate that CCA can be used both for detecting species-environment relations, and for investigating specific questions about the response of species to environmental variables. Questions in community ecology that have typically been studied by 'indirect' gradient analysis (i.e. ordination followed by external interpretation of the axes) can now be answered more directly by CCA.
20038105|Two methods for estimating ecological amplitudes of species with respect to Ellenberg's moisture scale are discussed, one based on weighted averaging and the other on maximum likelihood. Both methods are applied to phytosociological data from the province of Noord-Brabant (The Netherlands), and estimate the range of occurrence of species to be about 4 - 6 units on the moisture scale. Due to the implicit nature of Ellenberg's definition of moisture, it is impossible to improve the indicator values in a statistically sound way on the basis of floristic data only. The internal consistency of the Ellenberg indicator values is checked by using Gaussian logit regression. For 45 out of the 240 species studied the indicator value is inconsistent with those of the other species. The same method is used to estimate the optima and amplitudes of species considered moisture-indifferent and of some species not mentioned by Ellenberg. Some of these 'indifferent' species show a remarkably narrow amplitude. It is concluded that the Ellenberg indicator values for moisture form a reasonably consistent system.
20038106|Simulated vegetation data were used to assess the relative robustness of ordination techniques to variations in the model of community variation in relation to environment. The methods compared were local nonmetric multidimensional scaling (LNMDS), detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), Gaussian ordination (GO), principal components analysis (PCA) and principal co-ordinates analysis (PCoA). Both LNMDS and PCoA were applied to a matrix of Bray-Curtis coefficients. The results clearly demonstrated the ineffectiveness of the linear techniques (PCA, PCoA), due to curvilinear distortion. Gaussian ordination proved very sensitive to noise and was not robust to marked departures from a symmetric, unimodal response model. The currently popular method of DCA displayed a lack of robustness to variations in the response model and the sampling pattern. Furthermore, DCA ordinations of two-dimensional models often exhibited marked distortions, even when response surfaces were unimodal and symmetric. LNMDS is recommended as a robust technique for indirect gradient analysis, which deserves more widespread use by community ecologists.
20038107|Questions of successional pattern and causality have been central concerns in vegetation ecology. In this paper we address the limits of the overextended models of Connell and Slatyer by discussing problems encountered in field tests. To help prevent such problems, we define the essential concepts needed to understand succession: pathway, cause, mechanism, and model. We then suggest a more complete enumeration of successional causes, and place them in a three-level hierarchy. The highest level in the hierarchy defines the general and universal conditions under which succession occurs: (1) availability of open sites, (2) differential availability of species, and (3) differential performance of species at the site. To provide a more detailed understanding of succession, each of these causes is decomposed into ecological processes. A further decomposition results in the third level of the hierarchy, which is required to elucidate the mechanisms of succession at particular sites and to make detailed predictions. The hierarchy allows the appropriate causes to be chosen to answer questions about succession at the desired level of generality or level of organization. Recognizing the appropriate level(s) in the hierarchy is critical for the successful explanation of succession, design of experiments, statement of predictions, construction of models and development of general theory.
20038108|An area of artificial intelligence known as experts systems (or knowledge-based systems) is being applied in many areas of science, technology and commerce. It is likely that the techniques will have an impact on vegetation science and ecology in general. This paper discusses some of those impacts and concludes that the main effects will be in areas of applied ecology especially where ecological expertise is needed either quickly (e.g. disaster management) or across a wide range of ecological disciplines (e.g. land management decisions). Expert systems will provide ecologists with valuable tools for managing data and interacting with other fields of expertise. The impact of expert systems on ecological theory will depend on the degree to which 'deep knowledge' (i.e. knowledge based on first principles rather than on more empirical rules) is used in formulating knowledge bases.
20038109|Since communities change as a result of their successful invasion by new species it seems logical to attempt to predict future vegetation change by focussing on the invasion process. Several such invasion models are reviewed, and one particular model, based on dynamic game theory is developed further. This model can be used as an alternative to linear (e.g. Markov chain) models for the prediction of vegetation dynamics, and also to compare invasive abilities of species and resistance to invasion of communities. The main advantage of the model lies in the fact that it operates at a sufficiently high level of integration to allow for model calibration (in spite of the large number of underlying processes), and yet has an obvious population biological interpretation (in terms of the success of invading populations). The model can be calibrated using either time course data or experimental data, and it may be helpful in understanding what determines the fate of an invading population. It is used here to analyze two published vegetation dynamics data sets.
20038110|An analysis was made of vegetation phenomena associated with cyclic river delta building and abandonment in the Mississippi River deltaic plain, Louisiana. Markov models of vegetation succession were completed for the new Atchafalaya delta and for the abandoned Lafourche delta. Transition matrices representing different flood conditions in the Atchafalaya delta (1979-1984) were used separately and in combinations based on long term river discharge data. Effect of grazing was introduced into the model as a special transition matrix. Succession during active delta building is heavily dependent on a particular sequence of flood conditions and, apparently, on the intensity of grazing. Natural vegetation changes and land losses in the abandoned Lafourche delta were simulated using a transition matrix based on air photographs from 1945 and 1956. A general flow diagram of long cyclic vegetation changes in the Mississippi deltaic plain was completed.
20038111|We present a computer model which simulates population processes and spatial patterning in response to gopher disturbance in an annual grassland community. The model includes the processes of seed production, dispersal, germination and seedling survival of four main grassland species. Runs show that soil disturbance by gophers affects both short-term spatial patterning and long-term species composition. The main determinant of species behaviour is their relative seed dispersal distances, and the model is relatively insensitive to initial species distribution or abundances. The model adequately simulated short-term community patterning, and provided predictions of long-term dynamics which can now be tested using longer-term field experiments.
20038112|A structural description of a 0.5 ha stand in the primaeval coniferous forest of Fiby in central Sweden is reported, and a simulation model is used to test the hypothesis that the diameter and height distributions of the two most important tree species Pinus sylvestris L. (shade-intolerant) and Picea abies (L.) Karst. (shade-tolerant), are the outcome of simple successional processes following storm-felling 190 yr previously. The simulation model, FORSKA, is a 'gap model' treating light and other resource availability as homogeneous within patches. Simple formulations of dimensional relationships, vertical leaf area distributions within trees, light attenuation through the canopy and net assimilation as a function of light intensity allow FORSKA to simulate the species mixture, size distributions and vertical canopy structure of mixed-age, mixed-species forests. Parameters of the model were estimated from literature and from field data on height-diameter relationships, establishment rates and maximum ring-widths. The simulation generated a stand description similar to the real one in all essential characteristics. FORSKA allows vertical overlap between the crowns of nearby trees. The present simulation also differed from many gap model simulations in that the patch size was much greater than the maximum crown size, consistent with field observations that single treefall gaps have little effect; the persistence of shade-intolerant species in boreal forests generally depends on larger-scale disturbance events, such as large storm-gaps and forest fires.
20038113|Field layer vegetation in four transects across a rising seashore of the island Skabbholmen (5947N, 1912E) in the Stockholm archipelago, estern central Sweden, was sampled at the beginning and end of a six-year period. The data were analyzed by canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) with two external predictor variables, year of sampling and elevation (a proxy for the longer-term trend of change). During the sampling period, the vegetation changed in the direction of the longer-term trend at a rate consistent with the known rate of land uplift. However, a major part of the observed change was in a different direction, reflecting a shorter-term response to disturbance. The analysis effectively separated different types of floristic dynamics related to processes with different time-scales. A comparison with (unconstrained) correspondence analysis (DCA) illustrated the interpretive advantages of multivariate direct gradient analysis over conventional floristic ordination.
20038114|A conceptual model of the regeneration of beech (Fagus crenata) forests in Japan is presented; stand structure, tree population dynamics and characteristics of gap formation are summarized. Beech forest can be recognized as a regeneration complex, and three phases: gap, building and mature, are distinguished through the structure of regenerating populations. The mean return interval is 100 - 200 yr. Disturbances by typhoons and dwarf bamboos (Sasa) on the forest floor may greatly affect the synchrony of regeneration and, hence, the stability of beech forests in Japan.
20038115|Contoured maps of pollen percentages from eastern North America illustrate that the vegetation changed continuously during the past 18 000 years. The maps show that the geographic distribution for selected pollen types from 500 years ago parallels the major patterns in the vegetation, and that the correspondence is good enough to justify using maps of fossil pollen to interpret the patterns and composition of the broad-scale vegetation from earlier times. Data for Artemisia, Cyperaceae, Picea, Betula, Alnus, Abies, and Pinus pollen illustrate how the changing location and abundance of their plant taxa and populations altered the spatial pattern, local composition, and the overall structure of the vegetation and thus led to the disappearance as well as appearance of major biomes and ecotones. For example, the Picea parkland biome that existed from 18 000 to 12 000 yr B.P. within a broad region south of the ice sheet disappeared within 2000 years after 12 000 yr B.P., and the modern boreal forest biome began to develop across a large area of central Canada only after 6000 yr B.P. On a time scale of 10 to 10 yr, these types of vegetation changes involve a continual overlapping and separation of the abundance distributions for different taxa. Such changes are likely to have been a feature of vegetational dynamics for millions of years.
20038116|This paper investigates, with predictive models, the utility of ecophysiological responses to climate as predictors of plant distribution. At the global scale responses to extreme minimum temperatures and to the hydrological budget effectively predict the distribution limits of the major vegetation types of the World. A minimum temperature of -15C, for example, appears critical in controlling the poleward spread of vegetation that is dominated by evergreen broadleaved species; however, the presence or absence of more frost resistant species, such as those that are deciduous broadleaved, is not obviously explained in terms of extremes of climate. In such cases, predicting the competitive relationships between species is necessary and dependent on the climatic sensitivity of population dynamics.
20038117|Environmental fluctuations can in theory allow the coexistence of ecologically similar species by 'time-sharing' a niche, as envisioned by Hutchinson. The evolution of this situation is studied in a competition model, using as an example the evolution of seed germination strategies. Coexistence occurs via the evolution of 'low-risk' and 'high-risk' strategies for dealing with the variability by different species. Coexistence is promoted by intermediate levels of variability or disturbance, and by a trade-off between seed yield and seed survivorship. These results may be applicable also to other low vs. high risk life history options in unpredictably varying environments, such as: stress resistance vs. potentially rapid growth, high adult survivorship vs. high reproductive output. The model's predictions differ from those obtained without consideration of life history evolution in response to environmental variability, and are consistent with some recent studies of plant strategies in intermittently stressed communities.
20038118|Recent progress in plant population biology is often used to argue that most questions in community ecology should be answered using a reductionistic approach. This progress may, however, be attributed to at least two other factors: (1) greater emphasis on clear questions with testable alternatives, and (2) greater agreement upon the important variables which describe the systems of interest. In plant community ecology there has been a tendency to collect data rather than pose clear questions, and there is lack of agreement on which community properties are most useful to measure. As a consequence, there is sometimes a tendency to debate concepts instead of posing clear questions. Other more productive avenues for community level ecology exist.
20038119|This paper presents some models which show that small variations of the human exploitation of a natural forest can give rise to dramatic changes in the forest biomass. Two simple mechanisms for catastrophes, already pointed out for other ecosystems, are briefly discussed at the beginning of the paper. A more interesting mechanism for catastrophes is then presented. It is based on a model of the dynamics of forest biomass and soil nutrients and on the fact that mortality may become very high when soil acidity exceeds a threshold. In particular, it is shown that an increase of the exploitation may give rise to a catastrophic collapse of the forest if the exogenous nutrient inflow, which brings about also acidic deposition, is sufficiently high. Moreover, such a catastrophe is irreversible, i.e., regeneration is not possible, if the nutrient inflow is too high.
20038123|Single- (33-37
20038124|Populations of the obligate-seeder, Banksia ericifolia, were even-aged. Seedling recruitment occurred only after fire. Mean genet size (height + canopy diameter; H + D) increased progressively with elapsed time since fire in stands last burnt 2 - 23 years before 1981. Populations of a co-occurring resprouter, B. oblongifolia, were mixed-aged. Genet size varied significantly between stands, but this variation was not explained by regressions of H + D on years since fire. In addition B. oblongifolia seedlings were recruited both after fire and in patches of heath unburnt for 16 years. Most flower and seed production in B. oblongifolia occurred in the stands last burnt less than 10 years previously. More than 30% of genets had not produced cones since the last fire, irrespective of how many years had elapsed. In contrast, few B. ericifolia genets had produced cones five years after fire, but by 16 years after fire nearly 100% had. Overall, about 51% of B. ericifolia inflorescences and about 28% of B. oblongifolia inflorescences set seed. The number of seeds in seed-bearing cones was not significantly different between species. Resprouting B. oblongifolia genets began flowering sooner after fire, but B. ericifolia subsequently overtook them in accumulating a bank of serotinuous seeds. In the stand unburnt for 23 years the largest B. ericifolia genets had more than twice as many cones as the largest co-occurring B. oblongifolia. However, when accumulated cone production was compared for genets of equal H + D over all stands, there was no difference between species.
20038125|The primary production and below-ground biomass of angiosperms were measured in four almost monospecific vegetation stands situated on a salt marsh along the Oosterschelde estuary, The Netherlands. Maximum below-ground biomass values found for Spartina anglica, Elymus pycnanthus, Halimione portulacoides and Triglochin maritima, were very high relative to values reported from other European salt marshes: 12586, 9717, 17737 and 16121 g
20038126|Four species of heath, occurring in the heathlands of Brittany, are compared regarding their water relations: Calluna vulgaris, Erica ciliaris, E. cinerea and E. tetralix. E. cinerea is unable to establish itself in wet heathland because of its intolerance of prolonged waterlogging. It is the Erica species best adapted to dry habitat conditions in Brittany. E. ciliaris cannot establish itself in dry heathland and is less tolerant of waterlogging than E. tetralix. E. tetralix is the species best adapted to wet heathland, being tolerant of waterlogging, but can also establish itself in dry heathland. Of the three E. species it has the widest ecological range. Calluna is tolerant of both wet and dry conditions and has a wide ecological range. E. cinerea is typical of dry- and E. tetralix of wet heathland. Although both species did best in moist aerated soil in experimental cultures, neither is abundant in mesophilic heaths where E. ciliaris is dominant. One explanation may be competition for aerial space. E. cinerea and E. tetralix both have an upright growth, whereas E. ciliaris rapidly adopts a straggling bushy habit, with long rooting branches. E. ciliaris thus establishes large interpenetrating clumps. With increasing dryness E. ciliaris disappears and may be replaced by E. cinerea and, with increasing wetness and especially waterlogging, E. tetralix will take over.
20038127|This paper describes early secondary succession on an old field on limestone released from cultivation four years previously. Seasonal changes in plant composition after spring grazing by sheep are compared with those in ungrazed controls. Grazed and ungrazed paddocks were laid out in Latin squares. Plants were sampled before and several times after grazing in April, at several spatial scales. Major changes in plant abundance and sward characters such as height and density persisted throughout the growing season. Annual herbs increased after grazing, but annual grasses declined, as did short-lived perennial herbs. Effects on perennial herbs were weak; perennial grasses usually increased but this depended on the species. This pattern confirms that sheep grazing affects the direction, as well as the rate of succession. Some effects, such as increases in biennial herbs and in species richness, were only evident at large scales of sampling, suggesting that they arose from changes in rare and widely dispersed species. Other species were affected at different spatial scales, and no one sampling method detected the full range of effects. These results indicate the potential power of manipulating grazing early in secondary succession for directing the course of community change, for conservation or other purposes.
20038128|The effect of soil moisture, orange matter content, and texture on annual species diversity and aboveground phytomass was studied along a gradient of mobile to stabilized sand dunes in the northern Sharon Plains, Israel. 138 vegetation samples of 30 by 30 cm and 22 soil samples, each of four layers (soil surface, 10, 20 and 30 cm), were chosen along this gradient. Field capacity was found to be highly influenced by organic matter. Species diversity showed a positive correlation with soil moisture and aboveground phytomass increased together with soil moisture and organic matter. The relation between number of species and aboveground phytomass is described as an arched curve, with a broad range (ca. 150-350
20038129|Patterns of revegetation on natural and human-caused disturbances in grasslands and savannas of the Serengeti National Park, Tanzania, were investigated by recording species compositions on all disturbances, in the undisturbed vegetation, and in unique microhabitats in 51 sites along a north-to-south transect through the park. The 487 resulting samples were ordinated by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and classified by two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN). Natural disturbances were, in most cases, ordinated near or classified together with the climax sample from the same site but human-caused disturbances were classified separately. Human disturbances from all regions of the park were classified together in one group, while natural disturbances were divided into communities associated with different rainfall regimes. Natural disturbances were revegetated by species growing in the surrounding undisturbed communities while human-caused disturbances were revegetated by a set of ruderal species not found in the undisturbed communities nor in natural disturbances.
20038130|The variance test, originally proposed for testing species associations, is used to test whether species richness is more or less variable than expected under the null model of no species interactions. Species richness is more variable than expected in some fields, and less variable than expected in other fields at the Cedar Creek Natural History Area in Minnesota. High variance in species richness may be caused by variability in competitive exclusion rates or small-scale environmental heterogeneity. Low variance in species richess may occur if the community is saturated with species, or if species-rich areas have high local competitive exclusion rates. Results of the variance test depend somewhat on quadrat size, and can be used to select study sites and quadrat sizes for further research on the nature of variation in species richness.
20038134|A semi-detailed first approximation study of the vegetation of an heterogeneous area, located in the Caribbean region is presented. Field information on vegetation structure and function, flora and environmental factors was collected in a systematic way in order to reduce subjective decisions as much as possible. Independent physiognomic and floristic classifications were developed through the analysis of field data. The physiognomic classification is artificial, easy to understand by a wide variety of users. It facilitates the identification and description of land units, as well as the monitoring of vegetation changes. The floristic classification, based on dominance-types, was obtained from tabular comparison. The relationship between both classifications is analyzed. In order to disclose the temporal and spacial relationships among vegetation units, and to allow for extraregional comparisons, the results were translated into Beard's formation series. The relations between the physiognomy- and dominance-types and the formations are analyzed. The vegetation is described in terms of Beard's formations. The relationships between vegetation pattern and environment are discussed. The results are compared to those of previous studies.
20038135|The size hierarchy and mineral concentrations of adult plants in flower and their seed crop have been investigated in three populations of Rhinanthus angustifolius under a grassland management regime consisting of haying without fertilization. The effect of this type of management on the nutrient budgets of soil or Rhinanthus plants was shown to be small initially, i.e. up to the twelfth year of changed management. Although the mean biomass of plants significantly diminished by 30% in this period, their nutrient concentration was not strongly affected. Small plants consistently had lower concentrations of N and Na than large plants. Prolongation of this management regime beyond twelve years let to a general reduction in the phosphorus concentration of the plants. An observed increase in the concentrations of K, Mn, and Cu, especially in small plants, is tentatively ascribed to an imbalance in mineral nutrition.
20038136|In order to characterize the canopy structure of different grassland types 50 stands, representing 15 syntaxonomically distinct types, were examined by harvesting the standing crop during the main flowering period. The types differ in water and nutrient conditions and vary largely in aboveground phytomass (
20038137|The influence of thermal disturbance and site characteristics on distribution of herbs was studied in portions of a 3020 ha wetland in the southeastern USA. Presence-absence of 52 species in 130 0.25 m plots was determined from four sites with different disturbance histories and from an undisturbed site. Data from the four disturbed sites were ordinated by detrended correspondence analysis. Differences in species composition among sites (coarse scale) were associated with water depth, light, and substrate type. Within a site (at a fine scale), correlation of environmental variables with ordination scores at a chronically disturbed site was weakly correlated with light (r = 0.50). At two sites with episodic disturbance, species composition correlated significantly and positively with substrate and water depth. At a recovering site, vegetation patterns were moderately correlated with water depth (r = -0.52). Species richness was correlated with substrate type along the disturbance gradient. Our results are consistent with the intermediate disturbance hypothesis and the subsidy-stress gradient concept.
20038142|Seasonal variation in standing crop, litter, pH and relative light intensity was measured in the field layer of two riverine forests near Bruges, Belgium. At each site the living fraction in 10 randomly selected 0.25 m quadrats was separated into various components and graphed in relation to the environmental variables. The effect of the environmental variables on standing crop was assessed using path analysis, based on the standardized partial regression coefficients obtained in separate stepwise multiple regressions. In order to linearize the relation between the standing crop and the environmental variables, and to meet other statistical assumptions, a log-transformation was applied to the standing crop data. On an annual basis, 44% of the total variation in log-standing crop was explained by the variables litter, relative light intensity and pH, while seasonally the coefficient of determination ranged from 0.23 (November) to 0.72 (April). A general path diagram, based on all data, indicated predominant direct effect of litter (path coefficient: -0.55) and pH (0.26). Relative light intensity had only an indirect effect through its impact on litter and pH. Considerable seasonal changes occurred in the importance of litter, relative light intensity and pH.
20038143|New methods of weather analysis accompanied by microhabitat 'bioassays' have been applied in several case studies to demonstrate effects of atmospheric processes on patterns of community composition and structure and potential species evolution. Average spatial and seasonal airmass dynamics which determine regional and elevational patterns of relative microhabitat favorability, were found to vary between a recent global warming trend (ca 1900 to 1940) and the subsequent global cooling trend (ca 1940 to 1970). These apparently systematic spatial and temporal shifts in weather were related to plant establishment patterns and community composition and structure. The proposed causal mechanisms function, in part, through regional shifts in microhabitat size. These effects are similar to larger scale, longer term shifts deduced from the late Quaternary fossil record. By modifying the spatial approach, month-to-month and year-to-year variability of weather has been examined for the last 130 years at individual points in southwestern North America. Three climatic regimes (the end of the Little Ice Age, the recent warming trend and the recent cooling trend) exhibited distinct year-to-year patterns of weather that can be related to the establishment of different kinds of plants (e.g., C grasses versus C shrubs). Oscillations between different temporal climatic regimes appear to promote the episodic establishment of different life forms, but not necessarily their local extinction. The two methods of weather analysis have been combined in a regional assessment of climatic controls of different biomes in space and time with a primary focus on the Chihuahuan desert. Natural ecotones between the Chihuahuan desert and neighboring biomes are clearly related to large scale airmass dynamics associated with seasonal oscillations in jetstream position. The weather patterns controlling ecotonal positions result from seasonal topographic influences on the general circulation of the atmosphere. The apparent stability of these patterns allows causal hypotheses of biogeographic dynamics and the evolution of physiological traits and life history characteristics.
20038144|The applicability of traditional models of life-history evolution is restricted because models assume constant environments without density-dependence. In these models the geometric growth rate () of a lineage is the natural choice for the fitness criterion. Because in growing populations  is very sensitive to changes in generation time, biennials appear at a disadvantage when compared to species with annual reproduction. We propose an alternative fitness criterion for the situation in which recruitment is limited by both the availability of seeds and the (constant) rate at which 'safe sites' for establishment are created by small-scale disturbances. Under the assumptions of the model the evolutionarily stable strategy is to maximize expected seed production, irrespective of the length of the life cycle. For monocarpic plants, this implies that delay of flowering is favourable if the increased seed production compensates for the death of rosettes.
20038145|Fifteen common native British plants were each sampled at a range of sites in Great Britain and green tissues analysed for several inorganic nutrients. Sampling criteria are discussed. The inter-site variation of each element within a species is assessed as a frequency distribution of raw data. Sample values of parameters including arithmetic mean, variance (coefficient of variation), skewness and kurtosis are presented. Their stability is assessed from nitrogen in sub-samples of Pteridium. This suggested sample sizes were adequate but some distributions had sufficient kurtosis to affect the variance. These parameters showed distinctions between macro- and micro-elements and between species. Some mean values sharply distinguished between species and may help to assess current theories of strategy and adaptation but a wider range of species is needed to clarify trends. Coefficients of variation are discussed and were relatively low for a nation-wide survey after allowing for sampling constraints. Coefficients of skewness and kurtosis showed two-thirds of the sample distributions were non-normal. Ecological aspects of the distributions are discussed and are relevant to studies along environmental gradients. Published hypotheses linking positive skewness to stress in the field are considered and two other postulates discussed. Distribution bounds such as those confining 95% of the values are discussed in relation to possible critical levels of nutrients.
20038146|An ecological hypothesis concerning the relative importance of factors governing the success of Oxalis acetosella on mesic upland forest sites in southern Finland was formulated and tested statistically by means of a multivariate linear model. The data consisted of a stratified random sample of 40 plots with biological measurements and associated observations on environmental variables. The covariance matrix between the incorporated variables was computed and the model parameters were estimated using the method of maximum likelihood provided by the computer programme LISREL V. The results supported the hypothesis based on previous observations and experiments: Oxalis acetosella benefits from a high nutrient level of the soil, but is decisively dependent on the shelter provided by the tree stand. When both spruce stands and well-lit pine stands on mesic and relatively rich forest sites were considered simultaneously, only a weak correlation was found between light availability and site fertility. Accordingly, the presumed value of Oxalis acetosella as an indicator of site fertility appears to be questionable. The adequacy of linear modelling in an ecological context is discussed. The kind of models applied in this study have only a limited application range in non-experimental ecological research. However, linear modelling may contribute to solving particular ecological problems in cases where short environmental gradients are considered so that nonlinearity is not a dominant feature.
20038153|Growth forms are considered from two viewpoints: a descriptive and a functional one. Mono-character growth forms and their biological spectra were used to test whether they can characterize certain underlying processes in Quercus ilex coppice in southern France. Correspondence analysis of 35 mono-character growth forms of 203 described taxa shows that location of renewal buds is a good integrating indicator of plant adaptations to the environment. Two of these characters (renewal bud location, i.e. Raunkiaer's main life forms, and leaf consistency) appear to vary significantly along a gradient of increasing environmental constraints, especially climatic ones.
20038154|The vegetation of a dune slack at Mason Bay, Stewart Island, New Zealand was found to comprise a mosaic of communities. Although the broad vegetational patterns could be correlated with the depth of the water table, the patterns were far from simple. Species diversity over the whole slack was lower than values reported from European dune slacks; even the most diverse communities did not reach European mean values.
20038155|The ecobiological structure of vegetation syntaxa is determined by summarizing the phenology, chorology, growth forms, and life history attributes of the component species. This approach to vegetation analysis is illustrated by a study of the mediterranean petrophyte steppe (Thymo callieri-Stipetum lithophilae) of the southern coast of Crimea. On the basis of long-term studies, average yearly patterns were determined for such dynamic ecobiological attributes as maximum number of species initiating flowering, maximum flowering, and maximum fruiting. The intensity of biological processes was highest from mid-spring to early summer, but declined sharply in July and August as a consequence of hot, dry climate conditions. Considerable reduction of these processes was noted during winter. Static ecobiological properties of the syntaxon are also summarized. The perspectives of a wider application of the ecobiological approach to the study of world vegetation are discussed.
20038156|External control processes cause continual compositional and structural readjustments of Mediterranean pasture ecosystems. Such control processes include herbivore grazing, meteorological fluctuations and traditional management activities, which determine the "stable" environment where the succession occurs. Traditional management in this ecosystem frequently involves periodic ploughing or controlled fires. Experimental disturbances were applied to pastures of different maturity. Recovery was studied by relating information gathered for each disturbed system to successional age. The boundary between original systems of differing ages and the newly created systems was studied to compare the space-time evolution of therophytic communities. Permanent transects perpendicular to the disturbance boundaries and containing many small plots were sampled during consecutive years. Sampling plots located on both sides of the boundaries were classified into communities, in order to detect the space-time pasture evolution in successive years. Annual conditional probabilities were calculated for transitions between the recognised communities. During succession different strategies were detected in response to meterological variations. In pioneer successional stages, substitutions of one community by another in the same space seem to be random. However, greater determinism was detected in more mature pastures, where, in addition, communities' abundance does not respond to meteorological change.
20038157|Non-centred Principal Components Analysis (NPCA) ordinates sites and species simultaneously, and can be solved either by direct iteration or by eigenvector calculation. The weight of sites and species in the analysis is proportional to their overall abundance. Because of this, the method is not susceptible to distortion by rare species, as is the case with Reciprocal Averaging (RA). Detrending techniques can also be applied to this method to eliminate arch effects. When NPCA was tried with field data, it produced ordination axes that were significantly associated to independently measured environmental variables. In contrast, RA failed to produce axes related to environmental factors, even after the main rare species had been eliminated from the analysis.
20038158|The Pinacate region is part of the Gran Desierto, one of the driest deserts in North America. The presence-absence of perennial plant species, together with soil and landform characteristics, were registered in 110 sampling sites within this region. A classification and ordination of plant communities showed soil and landform units to be good predictors of plant variation. Plant distribution and species richness were also strongly related to altitude and rockiness. A Generalised Linear Model was used to fit the response curves of individual species. The environmental factors related with plant distribution are indicators of the water regime within a given site. Plant communities repeat along topographic gradients the large-scale biogeographic variation of the Sonoran Desert. Microphyllous shrubs colonise the drier bajada slopes, while more diverse communities, dominated by cacti and drought-deciduous trees, grow on the wetter pediments and in pockets within rocky soils.
20038164|Most of the common and dominant tree species in gaps of a climax Japanese beech (Fagus crenata) forest have large seedling banks on the forest floor. These seedlings were classified into "true seedlings" and "seedling sprouts", each of which was further classified into two and three subtypes, respectively. Each species had a characteristic seedling form spectrum. The seedling bank of beech was composed almost solely of true seedlings, whereas, seedling sprouts predominated in the seedling banks of lower tree species such as Prunus grayana Maxim. and some species of Acer. The age structures suggested that seedling sprouts had longer life spans and had been recruited more constantly than true seedlings. The habit of sprouting and creeping seemed to enable seedlings of these species to persist for long periods, thus increasing their chance for eventual success in canopy gaps.
20038165|A method is proposed for selecting points at random from a Cartesian grid and computing the distance and direction from the center of the field to the chosen point. This represents a convenient method for locating quadrats for vegetation surveys in the field. Two variations of this principle are discussed. One of these selects points from a square array, while the other selects points only from within a polygon of specified dimensions.
20038166|A total of 141 vascular plant species were recorded from 20 quadrats on five isolated granite outcrops in southern Western Australia. The distributions of common plants, rare plants, trophic guilds, and the complete data were analysed with respect to substrate (on sheet granite or scree), location (on granite outcrops), and a broader classification of locations into two western and three eastern outcrops. Most of the observed correlations were in accord with an hypothesis of environmental control that predicts distributions reflecting spatially autocorrelated environmental parameters. However, plant guilds were very strongly correlated with substrate and relatively weakly correlated with location, a result that can be explained by coexistence through geographic replacement and contingent exclusion. Rare plants were more likely to grow on either substrate than were common plants, which contrasts with the supposition that rare plants have limited environmental tolerances, but may have been caused by spatial or temporal mass effects. The Mantel test and its recent extensions allow non-exclusive, competing hypotheses to be distinguished.
20038167|Phytoplankton data consisting of 145 species from a limnological study of lakes from relatively undisturbed areas throughout Sweden were analysed in relation to 11 physical and chemical environmental variables. Three multivariate methods were applied: WPGMA clustering and TWINSPAN for classification, and detrended canonical correspondence analysis (DCCA), a recent technique which extracts ordination axes that can be related directly to variation in the environment. Three types of lakes were recognized consistently: acid humic lakes with Gonyostomum semen as the dominant species, very acid impoverished lakes with rather few, stress-tolerant species, and subarctic lakes with low total biomass but with a varied phytoplankton flora. DCCA allowed a straightforward display of the locations of lakes and species along environmental gradients (including the acidification gradient) reflected in phytoplankton composition. It is suggested that such analyses may be a useful tool for the early detection of environmental change.
20038168|The present paper reports on the forest floor biomass, litter fall, nutrient return and turnover of organic matter in a Pinus roxburghii forest in Kumaun Himalaya. Peak values of fresh leaf litter, partially decomposed litter and wood litter on the forest floor occurred in April, May and September, respectively. The relative contribution of partially decomposed material to total forest floor biomass remained greatest throughout the annual cycle. The biomass of herbaceous vegetation was maximal in September with a total annual net production of 151 g
20038169|Dispersal of ornithochorous seeds from isolated forests in the phosphate mining region of central Florida, U.S.A., were studied for two seasons (July to November) to determine patterns of dispersal. Three separate studies included (1) dispersal directly from forest edges to early successional herbs; (2) standardized perches (2 m high post with a crossbeam); and (3) snags (dead trees, 11.32.8 m high, 21.423.3 stem branches). Perch availability was more important than distance in predicting seed types and quantities of bird-dispersed seeds. The greatest concentration of bird-dispersed seeds were found under standard perches (255249 seeds/m/fall) followed by snags (14785 seeds/m/fall) and early successional vegetation (3.04.1 seeds/m/fall). Seed quantities dispersed to snags were positively correlated with the number of stem branches on snags. Seeds beneath standard perches were significantly lighter and less diverse than those found beneath snags. This difference is attributed to the larger percentage of forest or later successional species found beneath snags (73%) as compared to the standard perches (15%). Perches and vegetative structural development should facilitate ecological succession by increasing the quantity, quality and diversity of seed deposition.
20038170|In the rainshadow of the Andean Cordillera in northern Patagonia (ca 39 to 43S) the steep west-to-east decline in precipitation is reflected by a dramatic gradient from rainforest through open woodlands to shrub- and bunchgrass-dominated steppe. A recent trend towards aridification of Patagonia and consequent westward expansion of xeric communities into the western rainforest district has been a persistent theme in the ecological literature for nearly 50 years. Specifically, it has been suggested that the xeric trees Austrocedrus chilensis and Nothofagus antarctica are extending their ranges westward and replacing the mesic Nothofagus dombeyi which dominates the rainforests. This hypothesis was investigated by analyzing stand age structures and patterns of tree radial growth along a west-to-east gradient of post-fire stands dominated by Nothofagus dombeyi and Austrocedrus chilensis. Age structures of 14 stands in which the ages of 811 trees were determined do not support the hypothesis that xeric tree species are invading stands formerly dominated by mesic species. Both N. dombeyi and A. chilensis form even-aged populations following stand-destroying fires and cease to establish once a dense canopy has formed. There is no evidence of either species successionally replacing the other. Due to its substantially slower growth rate, A. chilensis forms a subcanopy layer beneath taller N. dombeyi despite the similarity of ages for populations of both species.
20038175|A permanent plot in a low-alpine cushion/tussock/shrub community was mapped at ca. decade intervals from 1953 to 1984. Transition probabilities between vegetation types were calculated, and a Markovian model was fitted. In spite of non-stationarity a Markov model was consistent with the observations, and produced reasonable predictions, especially for the major components of the vegetation. The model predictions were conservative in terms of future changes, in that future changes would be smaller than those observed, but such predictions could be supported by independent evidence, such as the nature of the non-stationarity, plant counts and seedling numbers. The general pattern was of a decrease in the cover of both Chionochloa rigida tussocks and mixed turf, and an increase in the cover of cushion bog species, especially Donatia novae-zelandiae. Shrubs, the suggested climax, showed no tendency to increase. Known climatic changes cannot explain the trend, which therefore seems to be a local retrogressive succession. There may be a cycle of alternating cushion and turf.
20038176|Phragmites australis occurs extensively along undisturbed salt-marsh shorelines of Delaware Bay. The species has been considered indicative of human disturbance when found in estuarine marshes in the USA. It is suggested that geomorphic processes associated with coastal submergence provide an analog of human disturbances which can enable Phragmites australis to become established naturally. Deposition of sand bodies (or rafted debris) can suppress existing vegetation and allow Phragmites to become established. Subsequently, even if the sand or debris is moved, erosional truncation of the intertidal profile can inhibit recolonization by the original dominant shoreline species, Spartina alterniflora.
20038177|Simulated data, derived from descriptive models of community variation along ecological gradients, are useful for the evaluation of ordination techniques and other numerical methods for the analysis of community data. Existing approaches to the simulation of community patterns are based on restrictive assumptions, although there is evidence supporting several alternative models. Simulation studies should aim to assess the robustness of analytical techniques to variations in model properties. This paper describes a modelling procedure which encompasses most current concepts and hypotheses about the properties of community patterns. The procedure has been used to assess the comparative robustness of several ordination techniques and to examine the effectiveness of alternative coefficients of compositional dissimilarity. COMPAS, a FORTRAN 77 computer program which implements the modelling procedure, is available on application to the author.
20038178|Soil seed banks and current seed inputs each play a role in tropical succession. We compared the abundance and floristic composition of seeds from these two sources at a Costa Rican site by germinating seeds from the soil, measuring seed inputs for 3 yr, and monitoring the earliest colonists in a forest clearing. There were an estimated 6800 viable seeds/m in the soil of 3.3-yr-old vegetation, 9500 seeds/m in 11-yr-old vegetation, and 7000 seeds/m in a 75-yr-old forest. An estimated 10100 seeds/m fell on the soil surface of the young successional vegetation during 3 yr and 3700 seeds/m fell during that same time in the forest. Locally produced seeds accounted for about 75% of the seed input to the soil surface early in succession. Seeds dispersed out of young successional vegetation increased the quantity and species richness of the seed input and storage in an adjacent forest. Much of the species richness of the young successional vegetation resulted from seeds dispersed there from other communities by animals. Deforestation stimulated germination of most seeds in the surface soil of the old forest, including seeds of the dominant canopy tree. The recruitment of seedlings from the soil seed bank numerically overwhelmed that from post-disturbance seed rain and sprouts. We evaluated patterns of soil seed storage during succession and predicted the ability of vegetation of differing ages to respond to disturbance. Immediately after disturbance the number of seeds in the soil plummeted due to mortality, low inputs, and germination. As the vegetation regrew, the soil seed bank increased to a peak after 4 to 7 yr, then gradually decreased to its pre-disturbance size. High-frequency pulses of disturbance should result in reduced species richness, dominance by species with long-lived seeds, and fast recovery by seedling recruitment from the soil seed bank.
20038179|The simultaneous equations model based on regression analysis was adopted to analyse relations between vegetation and environment in a forest reserve in the eastern part of Poland. It allowed a direct analysis of the vegetational variation caused by both environmental factors and interactions between species. In the system sampled several significant interrelations were found, and the ecological importance of particular factors and species was determined. Similar analysis performed by reciprocal averagind did not yield such satisfactory results, because of the equivocal correlation pattern between ecological variables and ordination axes, the dominance of the first axis and the exclusion of interspecific relations.
20038180|The structural and functional aspects of mangrove forests of the Andaman Islands were described. The mangrove forests of Andaman are highly diversified and rich in species composition. Twenty-six species were collected, Rhizophora lamarckii and R. stylosa were reported for the first time from these islands. The mangroves of Andaman are very productive in comparison to other forest types. Maximum production of biomass was found in the undisturbed Oralkatcha forest. Maximum litter fall was also found at Oralkatcha.
20038184|The population dynamics of Betula pubescens and Picea abies in a boreal forest near Kvikkjokk, northern Sweden, are governed by a process of storm gap regeneration similar to the gap regeneration described for boreo-nemoral forests. Cumulative age distribution curves, interpreted as static survivorship curves, lead to a simple theory of differential survival based on properties of the species, i.e. shade tolerance and relative growth rate. The theory is sustained by diameter and height distributions and by the spatial distributions of logs and of trees in different life-phases. Species of the field and ground layers respond differentially to gap formation and the ensuing successional stages. Browsing by moose (Alces alces) may prevent tree species, mainly Sorbus aucuparia, Betula pubescens and Pinus sylvestris, from developing into a tree layer. The regeneration ability for tree species growing in a stand at 460 m a.s.l. is limited compared with the regeneration at 330 m a.s.l., and typical storm gap formation involving more than one tree seems to occur rarely if at all, while overthrown trees with exposed rootplates are uncommon. Spruce at 460 m a.s.l. shows also a lower growth rate and a lower height/diameter ratio compared to the lower situated stands.
20038185|Lipid and soluble sugar concentrations of leaves and stems of 168 herbaceous species, growing along an altitudinal gradient of Mount Olympus are presented. It was shown that the concentration of total lipids increased with increasing altitude, while the content of total soluble sugars decreased. The line fitting data concerning lipid and soluble sugar calorific values runs parallel to that fitting data concerning calorific content of ash free dry weight.
20038186|Vegetation change over a nine-year period was studied in Guadalupe Mountains, New Mexico. Permanent transects in desert shrub vegetation were sampled in 1972 and 1980. Emphasis was given to shrubs because of their importance to big game diets. Univariate paired t-tests and reciprocal averaging ordination were used to detect and display coordinated changes in species composition over time. Despite apparently less browsing pressure in desert shrub vegetation in 1980 there were few significant changes in species composition. In addition, preferred forage species showed reduced reproduction while species of intermediate and poor forage value displayed increased reproduction during this time. These data do not support traditional rangeland succession theory which states that enhanced reproduction of preferred species should follow grazing or browsing pressure reduction.
20038187|Masson Pine (Pinus massoniana Lamb.) is a pioneer in forest succession in the subtropics of East Asia. However, the species persits, though with decreasing abundance, throughout the various successional phases. Age-structure, spatial pattern, density, population biomass, and their dynamics are described for a population in Sichuan, China, on the basis of a census of all individuals in the population while substituting space with time. In the course of succession, the population density increases and its rate of growth decreases until self-thinning starts; during the phase of self-thinning density decrease and continues to decrease even afterwards, but the rate of growth increase markedly after self-thinning has stopped. The development of population biomass (Bp) during the early succession from shrub-grassland to the early stages of mixed pine and broad-leaved forest can be described by a logistic equation. Later, Bp decrease rapidly. These changes are governed partly by inherent biological features of P. massoniana and partly by the invasion, establishment and development of shade-tolerant evergreen broad-leaved trees. Both self- and alien-thinning occur. Soil conditions affect the rates of these processes.
20038188|Habitat preferences of nine grass species were studied on a nature reserve which forms part of the southern African moist savanna biome. Multiple regression and correspondence analysis related the distribution of the species to habitat parameters that included edaphic factors, geomorphological structure and vegetation density. Results of the two analyses generally matched and complemented one another, indicating that the abundance of the species in the study area is determined by changes along gradients of pH levels in soils and rockiness. Slope, vegetation density and mineral content contribute to the variation within these gradients. The combination of qualitative and quantitative information gave an overview of the distribution pattern of grass species, emphasizing some of the underlying factors operating in the system.
20038189|Joint plots of species and site scores in correspondence analysis can be interpreted so that points which are in the same direction from the origin are closely associated. Species and site scores can thus be compared. Within each set of scores the location of points is also meaningful. Owing to the unimodal species response model which can be recovered by the correspondence analysis, the location of the species points in respect to the site points indicates the location of the optimum when direct weighted averages are used. However, when the eigenvalue of the solution is low, very different joint plots are derived when the set which is used for computing the weighted averages for the other set is changed. This makes the interpretation of the between-set proximities in the joint plot vague. Generally, it is not possible to deduce the species composition of a site or sites where a species occurs from the joint plot, although for some pairs of species and sites this is justified. Although the proximity interpretation is not possible in every case, a joint plot display can greatly enhance the interpretation of results.
20038199|The distributional pattern, phenology and sex structure of the desert shrub Thymelaea hirsuta (L.) Endl. were evaluated in six major habitat types in the Mediterranean desert of Egypt. The distributional pattern changes from contagious in the less arid- to random in the more arid habitats. Soil salinity, low content of soil moisture, and extremes of temperature are of importance for the phenological activity. The plant is mainly dioecious. Males are more abundant in two of the habitats and are characterized by larger sizes compared with the females in all but one habitat.
20038200|The validity of the reference unit method for ocularly estimating aboveground phytomass non-destructively was assessed on two shrubby and two herbaceous species using three observers. A calibration equation was developed for each observer-plant species combination using measured dry masses of harvested plants. These equations were then used to estimate phytomass of additional individuals of the same species (validation group), which were also later harvested. Average relative errors of estimated individual plant masses in the validation group ranged from 17.1 to 47.3% among the observers. However, when phytomass estimates of the observers were averaged and the resulting means averaged for the validation groups, the relative error of estimate of the mean plant biomass dropped to between 0.2 and 8.0%. The reference unit method appears to be a valid way to estimate the mean phytomass of a group of plants, as is frequently required in community- or population-level studies.
20038201|Some of the problems associated with the use of both percentage cover and cover-abundance scales for describing vegetation are discussed. A transformation, referred to as 'Domin 2.6', is outlined for use with the Domin scale. This transformation allows more accurate estimates of means of Domin scores to be obtained, than are produced by direct averaging of the Domin scores themselves. The transformation is a close approximation to the relationship between percentage cover and the Domin scale and permits rapid transformation of one to the other. 'Domin 2.6' is tested on both simulated and field data. The results show that 'Domin 2.6' corrects for the underestimation of means, calculated by the direct averaging of Domin scores. This is particularly noticeable when widely differing Domin scores are involved. A number of possible uses for this transformation are introduced and discussed.
20038202|Affinity analysis (AA) is a group of methods for the study of the variation of degrees of compositional relatedness among all of the communities in a landscape. AA can be used with statistical inference to compare mosaic diversities (
20038203|The vegetation dynamics of the first four years of an old field succession were studied in the Bohemian Karst, Czechoslovakia. The vegetation in a set of permanent 1 m quadrats on a newly abandoned field was analyzed yearly using the point quadrat method. The vegetation was classified both based on dominant species and on floristic data (TWINSPAN). Transition matrices were constructed, evaluated, and an ordination of quadrats provided supplementary information. The following conclusions can be drawn concerning the first four years of the succession: 1. The succession was found to be nearly unidirectional. 2. The rate of succession decreased with time. 3. The floristic composition changed more rapidly than the performance of the dominant species. 4. The influence of species composition in very early stages on further development was weak. 5. Whereas the importance of the small-scale environmental heterogeneity decreased with time, the importance of invasion potential increased.
20038204|Various means of vegetative reproduction in unexploited forests in western Europe are illustrated with examples. Root suckers are sometimes almost the only method of forest regeneration near the limits of tree growth on the Wadden islands and they can play an important role in forest gaps and riverine forests. Trunk suckers finally replacing their parent trees occur in Alnus, Tilia and Ulmus. Partial uprooting of trees, favoured by special soil conditions, was shown to be an important condition for vegetative reproduction. Temporary survival after uprooting gives opportunity for development of reiterative sprouts, that can replace the vertical axis of a fallen tree. Contact of living branches or even whole stems with soil or mouldering logs favours the growth of adventitious roots. Thus vegetatively reproduced individual trees establish before the uprooted parent tree finally dies. Examples of the clonal spreading of trees are given and a special strategy of layering its branches in pasture woods has been described for beech. Modern forestry rigorously eliminates conditions suitable for the vegetative reproduction of forest trees so their abilities in this respect are often underestimated. Vegetative reproduction seems to be particularly important under circumstances where natural growth is difficult e.g. near the limits of tree growth, on dynamic sites and under heavy shade.
20038205|The woody vegetation on Kalahari sand deposits in Hwange (ex-Wankie) National Park, Zimbabwe was classified into nine types on the basis of species composition. Ordination of the data showed that the types which occupy the ends of the major (soil-type) gradient are easily distinguishable, viz. well developed, mature Baikiaea plurijuga woodlands on deep sands, and scrub Terminalia sericea and mixed woodland on soils with a higher clay content or compact layer. The central groups of stands, involving mixed woodlands and scrub, were less easy to interpret, and previous logging disturbance is involved. In the disturbed Baikiaea woodlands recruitment appears to be less than is required for long-term maintenance, even given that some of the measurements may have led to underestimates. Elephants were shown to have only a minor effect, and are relatively insignificant as agents of change in the woodlands. Depth of sand and soil moisture regime are the predominant factors determining overall vegetation structure. Fire is a dominant feature in scrub areas and interacts with frost, which has a periodic severe effect on developing saplings in scrub and in some disturbed woodlands. Although the relief is very flat there is a marked frost gradient from 'ridge' areas with mature woodland into the slightly lower-lying scrub areas. A conceptual model of the dynamics of the vegetation, based on the above features, is described.
20038210|The concept of an arid pleniglacial in the Middle East depends primarily on the interpretation of pollen diagrams including those of Lake Zeribar in the Zagros Mountains of western Iran. It has been assumed that Lake Zeribar was surrounded by a Chenopodiaceae-Artemisia steppe and that the climate was therefore dry. Both assumptions are questioned. The environment of Pleistocene Lake Zeribar may have been similar to the tragacanthic or alpine zone of the modern Zagros Mountains. The dominance by pollen of Chenopodiaceae and Artemisia is explained by low pollen production of high-altitude vegetation, preferential incorporation of pollen of late-blooming plants into the sediments, and high production and long-distance transport of lowland pollen. In any case, high percentages of Chenopodiaceae and Artemisia pollen do not necessarily indicate low annual precipitation but a highly seasonal climate with cold winters and hot, dry summers. Such a climatic regime was in effect continuous except for a period beginning about 10600 B. P. during which summer rainfall or reduced summer drought occurred. This change in seasonality resulted in the dominance of Poaceae pollen and the initial increase in arboreal pollen. A moisture curve based on the ratio between Chenopodiaceae and Artemisia pollen indicates a pleniglacial climate with wet winters and a late-glacial and early-Holocene climate with periods of intense aridity. The climatic history presented here is compatible with non-palynological evidence of regional late Pleistocene climates and with seasonality changes suggested by climatic modelling based on orbital parameters.
20038211|We examined herbivore damage in a natural association in order to evaluate the hypothesis that herbivory is generally greater in the shade (Maiorana 1981). Damage was measured in relation to habitat, adult plant distribution, and plant size for 13 species of native herbaceous forbs that cross the natural shade/sun ecotone at the interface of montane meadow and aspen (Populus tremuloides) woodland. Eight of the 13 species had statistically significant differences in leaf area damaged between sun and shade individuals (p&lt0.05). Only 3 of those were more damaged in shade (Aquilegia coerulea, Epilobium angustifolium, and Galium biflorum), while six were more damaged in the sun (Delphinium nelsoni, Helianthella quinquenervis, Lupinus argenteus, Thalictrum fendleri, and Vicia americana). No pattern was detected for 5: Erigeron speciosus, Fragaria ovalis, Lathyrus leucanthus, Viguiera multiflora, and Viola nuttallii. Levels of herbivory were species-specific rather than habitat-related. Thus, the shade habitat hypothesis must be rejected for our system, and the null hypothesis accepted for this natural assemblage. Herbivory within the shade was generally related to plant and leaf size. Two equally common community level patterns of loss occurred in relation to plant distribution. These were: 1. frequency-related, where herbivory was higher in the habitat of highest adult plant occurrence, and 2. inversely-related, where herbivory was higher in the habitat where plants were less common.
20038212|Revegetation is described for a portion of a Taxodium distichum-Nyssa aquatica (bald cypress-water tupelo) forested wetland in South Carolina. Thermal effluent from nuclear production reactors from 1954 to 1968 eliminated most of the original vegetation from the study area. Vegetation in disturbed and adjacent undisturbed areas was sampled in 1981 and 1985 using permanent plots. Herbs invaded rapidly throughout the disturbed portion of the wetland after thermal discharge ceased. Shrubs (Salix spp. and Cephalanthus occidentalis) followed soon thereafter, and have gradually occupied more of the area. Taxodium and Nyssa regeneration is rare because of the inability of seedlings of these species to compete with the dense cover of herbs and shrubs. Species composition is correlated with water depth, substrate type, and severity of disturbance. Because of substrate diversity, several successional mechanisms may account for the revegetation patterns.
20038213|A prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) colony with a known history of habitation was studied to quantify the effects of herbivory on plant species composition, dominance, stature and diversity in a North American mixed-grass prairie. Gradient analysis was used to quantify the relationship between plant community structure, prairie dog density, burrow density and habitation history and to document community-level responses of plants subjected to heavy grazing pressure. The results quantify the type, rate and extent of change which plant populations and communities may undergo in response to the differential grazing of plants variously tolerant of defoliation. Detrended correspondence analysis indicated that 69% of the between-sample floristic variance on the site was attributable to prairie dog habitation. Perennial grasses were rapidly displaced from the site within 3 yr of colonization and were replaced by annual forbs. The net result was an increase in species richness and diversity on the prairie dog colony. Within the colony, however, the number of species was more a function of stand size than colonization history. Significant decreases in canopy stature after 2 yr of habitation resulted from replacement of mid-height grass species by shortgrass species and forbs. In addition, there was a shift from tall growth forms of off-colony species to dwarf growth forms of the same species on the colony. Decreases in litter and increases in bare soil cover were substantial during the first 2 yr of habitation but changed little thereafter.
20038214|This paper discusses the transition from heather-dominated vegetation to one dominated by grass. The dominating species involved are Calluna vulgaris and Deschampsia flexuosa. The study covered three years, 1980-82, and was done at the Hoorneboeg heathland in the Netherlands. Several factors account for this transition: damage caused by the chrysomelid heather beetle Lochmaea suturalis Thomson, soil type, and interaction between beetle damage and Deschampsia when already present underneath or in the immediate vicinity of a Calluna canopy. There was a time-lag between beetle damage and grass establishment or expansion. In fact, this transition concerns a type of vegetation succession and can be treated as such. This succession therefore involves several causative factors external to the system Calluna-Deschampsia. The successional process is conceived as a stochastic one defined by transition probabilities which depend on a time component, a space component and a logistic response component. All these components are discussed in this paper, but the discussion of yet another component, the crowding of Deschampsia itself, will be treated separately.
20038215|Native unploughed tallgrass prairie from Konza Prairie, Kansas, USA is described with respect to plant species compositional changes over a five year period in response to fire and topography. The principal gradient of variation in the vegetation is related to time since burning. Species show an individualistic response in terms of relative abundance to this gradient. Both the percentage of and cover of C species and all grasses decrease as the prairie remains unburnt. Forb and woody plant species numbers and abundance increase along this gradient. A secondary gradient of variation reflects topography (i.e. upland versus lowland soils). Upland soils support a higher species richness and diversity. Upland and lowland plant assemblages are distinct except on annually burnt prairie. The interaction between burning regime, topography and year-to-year climatic variation affects the relative abundance of the plant species differentially. The most dominant species overall, Andropogon gerardii, was affected only by year-to-year variation (i.e. climate). Its position at the top of the species abundance hierarchy was unaffected by burning regime or soil type. The other dominant species showed a suite of varying responses to these factors.
20038219|A modification to a previously described maximum likelihood approach to non-linear ordination is presented. It involves weighting quantitative measures of species importance to ensure that changes in values along a gradient are given equal weight irrespective of their magnitude. The maximum likelihood method was tested with artificial data based on a model incorporating various types of non-linear species responses. Symmetrical and asymmetrical response surfaces, with and without central depression, were used and the method was shown to be reasonably robust. In tests on both real and artificial data it proved superior to other methods.
20038220|A syntaxonomical study of Italian wall vegetation based on classification and ordination of a large phytosociological data set from various authors (using the IAHOPA program) has confirmed the alliances Centrantho-Parietarion and Galio-Parietarion (order Parietarietalia judaicae, class Parietarietea judaicae), as already proposed by traditional syntaxonomy. The variation in humidity and the north - south geographical gradient are shown to be the most significant factors for the differentiation of this vegetation in Italy. The presence of some associations belonging to the class Asplenietea trichomanis (alliance Cystopteridion, Potentillion caulescentis and Centaureo-Campanulion) shows a strong connection with natural rock vegetation.
20038221|The initial floristic composition and structure of vegetation on a recontoured surface mine in southwestern Wyoming was experimentally manipulated to test ideas concerning successional convergence. Experimental treatments involving the planting pattern and density of shrubs and the storage of topsoil were evaluated on the basis of their ability to divert the successional trajectories of the redeveloping vegetation and to increase species diversity. The change in compositional similarity along a topographic gradient was also monitored. The influence of initial composition and soil storage generally declined with time; successional convergence among treatments over the four years of the study was largely monotonic. The planting of shrubs and the storage of topsoil did, however, influence the rate of plant succession. There were no persistent differences in alpha diversity among the experimental treatments. Compositional dissimilarity along the topographic gradient, as expressed by beta diversity, increased with time.
20038222|Vegetation, leaf litter fall and soil pH were sampled repeatedly within semipermanent plots in a South-Swedish deciduous forest, 1935 - 1983. Leaf litter fall was summarized in a litter quality index. Vegetation types were differentiated along similar gradients in soil pH and leaf litter quality. The greatest shifts in dominance among field layer species were found in those plots where the quality of the leaf litter had improved. These plots also showed a halt in the general tendency towards a decreasing pH in the top soil.
20038223|An evaluation of sampling techniques was conducted on Highland Sourveld in the Natal Drakensberg. The quadrat, Levy bridge, step point, wheel point, metric belt transect and 't Mannetje & Haydock methods were used. In order to compare these methods the scores were standardized against the wheel point. The results of analyses of variance showed that the quadrat and point techniques were the most consistent. The metric belt transect and 't Mannetje & Haydock methods were shown to be not suitable for detailed botanical analysis. Operator differences and time of day had little effect on the results. It is concluded that the wheel point method is most suitable for determining grassland species composition in the Natal Drakensberg.
20038224|The vegetation near the summit of the volcano Usu was destroyed during eruptions in 1977 and 1978 by 1-3 m thick layers of volcanic deposits. Thereafter, the vegetation gradually recovered and by 1984 135 plant species were recognized of which 95 species had established by vegetative reproduction, 18 by seed immigration from elsewhere, 5 by artificial introduction for soil erosion control and 17 species from viable seeds buried in the former topsoil. The summit area was still covered by thick layers of volcanic ash, which were however rapidly eroded by rains. Vegetatively reproducing plants such as Petasites japonicus var. giganteus and Polygonum sachalense contribute more effectively to the revegetation process than plants of other types of origin.
20038228|Eighteen black spruce (Picea mariana) stands, representing postfire ages of 26 to 120 yr, were surveyed for understorey vegetation and site/microsite characteristics at two spatial scales. This enabled comparison of within- versus among-stand compositional variation. Detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) ordination among the 18 stands revealed a complex age/moisture gradient. DCA ordination among 1800 quadrats within the stands indicated a similar gradient with much compositional overlap. Quadrats were grouped, using two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN), into 9 classes each representing a phase in understorey vegetation composition. These phases shifted in abundance from young to old stands with a high degree of concordance among replicates in the same age class. Understorey succession is strongly linked to the stages in tree growth, mortality and thinning coupled with the accumulation of site moisture.
20038229|The relationship between domestic cattle and vegetation change in a savanna woodland was evaluated with respect to dung deposition and the dispersal and establishment of mesquite (Prosopis glandulosa var. glandulosa, Mimosaceae), a cosmopolitan woody invader of grasslands in the southwestern USA. Dung deposited in autumn disintegrated rapidly, leaving patches of bare ground ranging from 50 to 900 cm. Herbaceous cover on gaps created by dung deposition recovered to levels comparable to neighboring vegetation by the end of the following growing season. Vegetation colonizing gaps consisted primarily of grasses not found in the surrounding vegetation. Dung deposition increased species diversity and spatial heterogeneity of the herbaceous vegetation and contributed to the development of a fine-grain mosaic of small patches of varying successional age-states. The role of cattle in facilitating the ingress and establishment of mesquite has broader implications with regard to the conversion of grasslands to woodlands. On the site with cattle, mesquite seedlings were found in 75% of dung pats surveyed in September (mean = 4.2 seedlings per pat; maximum = 50). Although seedling survival in dung (79%) was only 16% greater than that of mesquite emerging from seeds experimentally sown away from dung, no seedlings were found on areas without cattle. Mean ( SE) density of mesquite seedlings ranged from 12  2 to 15  2
20038230|An area of New Zealand alpine herbfield, 22  22 m, was sampled on a 3  3 m grid. Two community types could be distinguished, dominated respectively by the cushion epacrid Dracophyllum muscoides and the subshrub asterad Celmisia viscosa. Each type was subdivided into three communities. The distribution of these communities was correlated with the environmental factors measured, with a predictability of up to 81%. Some of the factors, such as soil organic matter, could have been influenced by the vegetation, but others were microtopographic ones, unlikely to have been so influenced. There was no evidence of cyclic succession. Possibly the distribution of the two major types reflects previous patch burns, but distributions of individual communities are related to the current environment. Association between the more common species revealed two very clear groups, which characterise, but are not exclusive to, the two community types.
20038231|Vegetation dynamics were studied from 1940 to 1978 in two grazed pastures and associated exclosures in sand sagebrush (Artemisia filifolia) dominated grassland, western Oklahoma, USA. In both pastures and one exclosure, pattern of vegetation change reflected fluctuation rather than succession. In the other exclosure, the grassland exhibited a directional change from annual grasses and forbs to dominance by perennial grasses. Rate of change was consistent during the 39 year period. Cover of grasses increased more in grazed than ungrazed areas. Grass cover was negatively correlated with high air temperatures early in the growing season. Forb cover remained relatively constant over time and shrub cover peaked during the 1960s. Abundance of annuals and cool season species was positively correlated with rainfall early in the growing season. Species diversity and richness were lowest in the ungrazed areas, as a result of increased dominance by perennial grasses such as Schizachyrium scoparium. In pastures and exclosures, richness was positively correlated with growing season precipitation. Cover of the common species differed among sample areas within years and fluctuated between years. Few general patterns emerged from correlations of environmental variables with cover of individual species. In general, vegetation dynamics in these sand sagebrush grasslands reflect a tradeoff in that total cover changes little over time because the loss of some species is compensated for by increased growth of others. Such trade-offs reflect the individualistic response of the component species within each pasture or exclosure. Although changes in growth form composition were related to climatic fluctuation, broad-scale climatic variables could not successfully predict small-scale patterns of change by individual species over time.
20038232|The objective of this study was to determine whether there is any relationship between the age of a plant community and the extent to which species associations depart from randomness. The hypothesis was that, with increasing community age (i.e. time since the last major disturbance), species associations should become more non-random as selection pressures from competition accumulate causing local exclusion and niche separation. Vegetation surveys were conducted in 14 sand quarries near Kingston, Ontario that had been abandoned for different lengths of time, from 1 to 21 years. Correlations of abundance of herbaceous species in different sized quadrats were used to distinguish associations which may be attributed to similarity or dissimilarity of resource requirements, from associations which may be a consequence of competitive interaction. Most species pairs were randomly associated in all the quarries. However, the frequency of random associations had a significantly positive relationship with quarry age. This contradicts the traditional expectation that later stages of community development should display more evidence of the effects of past competition (i.e. local exclusion or niche differentiation). The results are consistent however with an alternative theory which predicts that selection pressure from competition may increase the similarity of competitive abilities among species. Hence, with increasing time since major disturbance, species may be generally more similar in their competitive abilities than the same species were in earlier stages. The consequence of this at the community level would be an increasing frequency of random species associations with time.
20038233|The submerged vegetation of Lake Kariba is described in relation to degree of slope (lake morphometry), depth and light transparency. The direct gradient analysis technique -- canonical correspondence analysis and the TWINSPAN classification programs were used to analyse the data set. The western end of the lake with low transparency has a low species diversity (with Vallisneria aethiopica dominating). Species diversity increases with increased transparency in the other parts of the lake. The classification revealed monospecific communities for all species as well as mixed communities with Lagarosiphon as the associate species with the broadest distribution. The ordination revealed a first axis strongly related to depth and transparency gradients and the second axis related to slope. Vallisneria aethiopica has a growth form adapted to grow in shallow areas subjected to wave action. Potamogeton octandrus also growing in shallow areas is restricted to sheltered areas. Lagarosiphon ilicifolius precluded from the shallow exposed areas grows at medium depth but has a growth form adapted to tap light at the surface. Najas pectinata and Ceratophyllum demersum are adapted to grow in deep water.
20038238|An index is presented of 375 articles which appeared in Vol. 51 - 73 of Vegetatio. A Source index is followed by a Keyword index, a Discipline index, a Vegetation type index, a Geographical index, and a Latin name index for taxa and syntaxa. The codes used for discipline, vegetation type and geographic area are the same as those used in the Index Vol. 1 - 50. After a short introduction a history of the journal is presented, followed by some statistics on the origin of the authors and the type of article, for seven periods covering the entire history of the journal since 1948. Finally the codes are elucidated.
20038242|An index of vegetational heterogeneity in 16 grassland communities in the Serengeti National Park, Tanzania, was calculated using mean percent distance (MPD) among spatially separated quadrats. To determine whether regional factors such as annual precipitation, fire, soil sodicity, herbivore utilization, or percentage of species having clonal growth patterns influenced the amount of heterogeneity measured in individual grassland communities, the index was related to these factors by an interactively constructed multiple-regression model. Community heterogeneity varied in a curvilinear manner along a north-to-south transect; maximum values occurred in the center of the park with lower values near the northern and southern borders. Subsurface concentrations of
20038243|Recovery of herbaceous vegetation on Mount St. Helens was studied annually after the massive lateral eruption of May 18, 1980. Measures such as species richness, cover, and diversity were combined with detrended correspondence analysis to describe vegetation recovery rates under different combinations of initial impact intensity and degree of isolation from recolonization sources. A major key to recovery is whether any plants survived the devastation. Survival of even a few individuals markedly accelerated recovery. Where no plants survived, the degree of isolation becomes paramount. New, barren substrates, a few meters from undisturbed sites, have begun to develop some vegetation, while more isolated sites have scarcely any subalpine plants present. On any site, plant-mediated processes that improve conditions for growth and the invasion of other species predominate in the early stages, but as vegetation develops, biotic inhibition and establishment of seedlings from adults already in the habitat gain importance. The rate at which this conversion occurs is a function of the size and intensity of the initial impact.
20038244|When the two first eigenvalues of correspondence analysis are close to each other, their order can be reversed due to random variation in the data. The first axis can actually be in any direction in the plane defined by the two axes. However, the configuration of the points in the plane can remain unchanged but their projections onto any line in the plane can be very variable. The ordering in the first axis is preserved in detrending. The second axis is detrended with respect to the first one and therefore very variable configurations result when the orientation of the first axis in the plane is changed. This can lead to a situation where the detrended solutions are very unstable under random variation and therefore they can be only casually interpretable.
20038245|The vegetation of the intermediate altitudes of the Macaronesian island Santo Antao is divided into eight floristically defined types. Differentiation between these vegetation types is related to precipitation zone and altitude. One vegetation type is determined mainly by land use. Lithology, soil properties and exposure, contrary to what can be expected, do not contribute to variety in vegetation types. From the plant geographical point of view the mid-altitudinal vegetation shows mainly a Macaronesian-Mediterranean affinity. Most of the Macaronesian-Mediterranean plant species are endemic dwarfshrubs of the Cabo Verde islands.
20038246|We studied the soil seed bank composition in four old fields of different ages, after abandonment from agriculture. Complete seed bank composition was assessed by direct seed separation from soil samples and identification to species. Most species found in the seed bank were not important in the present seral communities. Seed of the species that dominated the early succession were generally not found. Additionally, there were very few propagules rather than on the germination of in situ propagules. We suggest that pampean grasses evolved under that the course of post-agricultural succession will depend strongly on the pattern of arrival of exogenous propagules rather than the germination of in situ propagules. We suggest that pampean grasses evolved under disturbances of low intensity and/or a disturbance regime dominated by small gaps, in which open areas could be rapidly colonized from the edges and/or by remnant vegetative propagules. The changes produced by the introduction of agriculture triggered the invasion by exotic species adapted to the new disturbance regime.
20038247|This study deals with the composition of vegetation, biomass and productivity of four different grassland types at Cherrapunji, India. Varied levels of degradation of the climax mexed evergreen forest are represented by these grasslands. Where the soil profile is deep, the grasslands are maintained through frequent fire. At each site, belowground production is more than double aboveground production. Annual turnover rates for the belowground biomass in these grasslands are more dynamical than their temperature counterparts. These grasslands are maintained under high stress conditions of thin soil cover, highly leached nutrient-deficient soils, frequent fires, and low soil moisture retention in spite of a high annual rainfall of 10372 mm.
20038248|Physiognomy, structure and floristic composition of one hectare of lowland tropical rain forest was studied in detail at Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. Physiognomically, the Los Tuxtlas forest should be classified as 'lowland tropical high evergreen rain forest'. The forest showed a closed canopy at 30 - 35 m. Of all woody, non-climbing species with a DBH  1.0 cm 89.4% (94.5% of all individuals) were evergreen, 25.4% (59.5% of the individuals) had compound leaves, and over 80% of species (and individuals) had leaves in the notophyll and mesophyll size classes. The forest structure was characterized by a low density (2976 individuals with a DBH  1.0 cm, 346 individuals with a DBH  10.0 cm, per ha, excluding vines) with an average basal area (38.1 m, DBH  1.0 cm, 34.9 m, DBH  10.0 cm, per ha, excluding vines). This was attributed to the relative maturity of the forest on the study plot. The study plot contained 234 species (11 208 individuals with a height  0.5 m), of which 55.1% (34.8% of individuals) were trees, 9.4% (6.8%) shrubs, 3.4% (44.3%) palms, 20.1% (5.2%) vines, 6.8% (8.7%) herbs and 5.1% (0.3%) of unknown lifeform. Furthermore, 58 species of epiphytes and hemi-epiphytes were found. Diversity of trees, shrubs and palms with a DBH  1.0 cm was calculated as Shannon-Wiener index (4.65), Equitability index (0.65), and Simpson index (0.10). The dominance-diversity curve showed a lognormal form, characteristic for tropical rain forest. The community structure was characterized by a relative dominance of Astrocaryum mexicanum in the understorey, Pseudolmedia oxyphyllaria in the middle storeys, and Nectandra ambigens in the canopy. Species population structures of 31 species showed three characteristic patterns, differentiated by recruitment: continuously high, discontinuously high, and continuously low recruitment. Height/diameter and crown cover/diameter diagrams suggested a very gradual shift from height growth to crown growth during tree development. Forest turnover was calculated as 138 years. Compared to other tropical rain forests the Los Tuxtlas forest had 1. similar leaf physiognomical characteristics, 2. a lower diversity, 3. a lower density, 4. an average basal area, and 5. a slow canopy turnover.
20038249|The vertical structure of one hectare of tropical rain forest was studied at Los Tuxtlas, State of Veracruz, Mexico. The structure was analysed at various scales of analysis, using different methodologies e.g. profile diagrams (0.1 ha) and vertical structure diagrams (1 ha). All profile diagrams suggested presence of stratification to some extent. However, simultaneous evaluation of several adjacent profile diagrams showed that the use of one profile diagram only can be very misleading: gaps or layers apparent in a diagram did usually not reflect gaps or layers that could be recognized in the field. Structure diagrams of abundance, basal area and crown cover showed that this forest community is not stratified, with the exception of an understorey layer below 7.5 m dominated by palms. The vertical structure was described using arbitrarily chosen height intervals. From the forest floor to the canopy top basal area, percentage of deciduous species (and individuals), and percentage of compound-leaved species (and individuals), increased, but total number of individuals and number of species decreased. Leaf sizes tended to decrease in the same direction, and crown cover was approximately evenly distributed. Species from different families dominated different parts along the vertical plane. It is concluded that the vertical structure of tropical rain forest can best be described as a complex gradient, involving many community features. Stratification can best be emphasized as a special case of such a gradient.
20038254|The vascular plant distributions of Dalsland and northern Bohusln (Southwest Sweden) were subjected to multivariate analyses in order to delimit geographically coherent floristic zones. 271 squares of 5  5 km were the Operational Geographic Units; the data matrix comprises presence/absence species records for each OGU. Different ordination and classification methods were tested and detailed results are presented for detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), UPGMA and ordination space partitioning (OSP). A weighting procedure, neighbour-weighting, which gives pseudo-frequency scores along the nominal scale 0-9 depending on the species' distribution patterns, is introduced. The superior method for delimiting geographically coherent floristic zones was judged to be ordination space partitioning, using DCA and neighbour-weighted species scores.
20038255|In this paper the hypothesis is tested that the local distributions of perennial plants on a desert bajada are related to those at the regional/geographical level. Plant species reaching their highest density in the lower, mid-, or upper plant association on the bajada showed no difference in their latitudinal centers of distribution, or the latitudinal variation over the region. However, plants in the three associations did differ significally in the standardized distance of their regional distribution from the target bajada: i.e., plant species characteristic of the mid-bajada were significantly closer to their regional distribution centers than were plants in the lower or upper association. These results suggest that the local distribution of plants on desert bajadas are related to those at the regional level. Consideration of historical source-pools may provide a key to understanding both the ecological and biogeographic components of plant associations in North American desert regions.
20038256|During a six-year period, changes in the composition of dominant plant species of importance to foraging birds in a salt marsh on the Swedish west coast were followed inside and outside exclosures to document effects of grazing on herbage quality and seed production. Since marshes provide an important habitat for foraging geese and ducks, it was of interest to determine how cattle grazing would affect herbage production in Agrostis stolonifera and Puccinellia maritima and seed and root-tuber production in Scirpus maritimus. Measurements of cover and height in permanent plots revealed that a wetter weather type favoured Agrostis, probably through reduced salinity, at the expense of Puccinellia, which was the most favoured food of both cattle and birds. Agrostis out-competed Puccinellia when grazing pressure was low. Seed production in Scirpus maritimus was reduced by cattle grazing, particularly when Phragmites australis formed part of the vegetation. In the absence of cattle grazing, both herbage- and seed producing plants were gradually reduced, and Phragmites increased. Since high herbage consumption and high seed production are mutually exclusive, grazing rotation in combination with mowing is suggested as a management strategy.
20038257|Most Predictable Surface (MPS) analysis provides a spatially explicit, multivariate technique for the classification and contour maping of taxon assemblages. In this paper, the technique of producing Most Predictable Surfaces is outlined and the application of MPS for the classification and mapping of taxon assemblages is demonstrated using modern pollen spectra from western Canada. The MPS maps are compared with maps of scores from principal components analysis. The strength of MPS is that it provides a classification of sites, a local mapped surface of assemblage distribution, and a global model of the relationship between taxon assemblages and geographic coordinates. The global model relating taxon assemblages to geographic coordinates may be used for indirect gradient analysis if the geographic coordinates can be related to specific environmental factors. Alternatively, independent environmental variables may be used directly in place of geographic coordinates. Potential limitations of MPS include (1) the assumption that the distribution of sites with similar assemblages can be approximated by a polynomial (2) the assumption that only two major taxon assemblages are present in the study area and further subdivision of the assemblages is hierarchical, (3) the assumption of a linear relationship between the taxa, and (4) the requirement of a relatively high ratio of sample sites to taxa. However, the results presented here indicate that MPS can have wide application in analysis of vegetation or any other types of taxon assemblages.
20038258|The population structure and standing crop of the desert shrub Thymelaea hirsuta (L.) Endl. were evaluated in six different habitats in the western Mediterranean desert of Egypt. Under favourable conditions, populations of T. hirsuta are denser and the size structure has a strong bias towards small, juvenile individuals, whereas the reverse tendency is found under adverse conditions with size structure biased towards big individuals. These results are discussed in the light of hypothesis of intraspecific competition. The standing crop is strongly affected by soil salinity and nature of soil surface (amount of exposed rocks).
20038259|An individual tree-based forest succession model was modified to simulate a forest stand as a grid of contiguous 0.01-ha cells. We simulated a 9 ha stand for 750 years and sampled the stand at 50 yr intervals, outputting structural variables for each grid cell. Principal components analysis was used to depict temporal patterns in forest structure as observed in 0.01 ha samples (individual grid cells). We then resampled the grid using square aggregates of 4 to 100 grid cells as quadrats. Principal component scores recalculated for the aggregates, using the original (0.01 ha scale) scoring matrix, depict the effects of obervational scale on perceived patterns in forest structure. Larger quadrats reduce the apparent variation in forest structure and decrease the apparent rate of structural dynamics. Results support a scale-dependent conceptualization of forest systems by illustrating the qualitative difference in forest dynamics as viewed at the scale of individual gap elements as compared to the larger scale steady state mosaic. The aggregation exercise emphasizes the relationship between these two observational scales and serves as a general framework for understanding scaling relationships in ecological phenomena.
20038260|The regeneration of canopy and subcanopy species in a mid-elevation, primary rain forest in the Coastal Range of Isla de Chilo (4230S), in the cold-temperate region of Chile, was studied by comparing seedling and sapling abundances under the forest canopy, and within 36 tree-fall gaps. The forest was dominated by Amomyrtus luma and Laurelia philippiana (33 and 32% of the main canopy individuals), and two subcanopy species (Myrceugenia ovata, and Myrceugenia planipes) were also important. Uncommon species in the canopy were Drimys winteri, Amomyrtus meli, and Raphithamnus spinosus. Tree-fall gaps were created generally by the fall of several trees, and the main canopy species were the principal gap-makers. Gap sizes varied between 28 and 972 m, with a mean of 197 m. Seedling and sapling abundances indicate that the dominant species are capable of regenerating below the canopy, but they also germinate and show enhanced growth within small light gaps. For one of the common subcanopy species (M. planipes) and the two infrequent canopy species (D. winteri, and A. meli) regeneration seems to depend entirely on tree-fall gaps. Thus, in this forest, light gaps allow the persistence of infrequent canopy species, but seem less important for the regeneration and maintenance of dominant canopy species.
20038261|Population fluctuations of Glaux maritima, along a transect on a Baltic sea shore meadow, were recorded between 1979 and 1983. A bimodal distribution in numbers along the transect reflects the variation in factors regulating numbers: The two maintenance systems of the species, vegetative propagation and sexual reproduction play different roles. Vegetative propagation is fast and responds quickly to variations in the environment. The seeds germinate in strongly fluctuating temperatures which are triggered by disturbances such as flooding, damaging the vegetation.
20038262|The vegetative propagation of Glaux maritima is correlated with growth habit which is inturn related to the light environment. Plant form and vegetative behaviour were recorded 1980-1984 and an attempt to correlate this to population dynamics and vegetation development was made. The type of vegetative propagation gives rise to a size hierarchy of propagules and thus a strong within clone dynamics. A range of life stages may be permanently present in a clone. Clones from different parts of a shore meadow have different patterns of vegetative propagation. The offshoot growth behaviour can be used to explain vegetation patterns and neighbour relationships.
20038271|The vegetation structure and phenology of a 74.5 ha block of moist deciduous forest in Kanha Tiger Reserve, Madhya Pradesh, India were investigated during primatological fieldwork. Within a grid of 0.25 ha quadrats all 9935 trees (woody plants &gt 2 m tall), of 63 species, were enumerated and their girth measured. The forest was dominated by the dipterocarp sal (Shorea robusta). Most species were rare and showed clumped distributions within the 'sea' of sal whilst the dispersion of five large canopy trees could not be distinguished from random. The phenology of 215 trees, of 61 species, was monitored over 14 months using an index of phytophase abundance. Leaf renewal was highly synchronous between and within species, mostly occurring between February and June. One species was evergreen, 5 were semi-evergreen and 55 were deciduous. Flowering generally occurred between leaf fall and flush whilst fruiting peaked late in the hot weather and early monsoon.
20038272|An attempt is made to derive a measure for the degree of plant community organization, which would not be based on species co-occurrence and co-abundance. The use of the independent random distribution hypothesis (IRDH) is suggested for this purpose. The hypothesis is expected to be valid, if no deterministic phytosociological-structure-generating mechanism is present. If structural variability is used as a statistic for testing the hypothesis, deviances from the conditions of IRDH (species distributions are independent from each other, environmental gradients are lacking) will be attributable either to species interactions (smaller structural variability than expected), or to environmental heterogeneity (greater structural variability than expected). Structural variability is evaluated as the variance of species diversity, the index N = exp(H') is used for measuring diversity. The precise measure of the degree of community organization W is computed as the shift between two empirical distributions: D* (VN) or Bootstrap distribution of variance of diversity in the community, and D (VN) or 'the random community variability' distribution, which is evaluated after simulating the IRDH conditions. A satisfactory interpretation can be given to the results of evaluating W for 11 data sets of 10 relevs each.
20038273|A method is proposed to identify impacts of habitat modification in cases where it is difficult to site experimental and control samples. This problem occurs especially in heterogeneous systems, but may pose difficulties in any field experimental situation. The method is relevant to the situation where treated (modified) and untreated sites are spread over a range of habitat types. Types of change are identified and compared to treatments. If a specific change type is associated with a particular treatment then it is likely that the change is causally related to the treatment. There are five stages in the analysis. First, the classes or states of the sample sites, over a period of time, are identified (by numerical classification). Second, for each sample site, the sequence of states is listed. Third, transition matrices are made for each sample site to show the changes which have occurred. Fourth, the transition matrices are classified, to identify types of change. Finally, we use the Chisquared test to indicate whether the treated and untreated sites are associated with particular types of change. As an example, we refer to habitat modification to manage salt-marsh mosquitoes and we evaluate impacts on the environment mainly through changes to the vegetation. We consider that the method has potential to identify changes in heterogeneous systems even though little change was identified in the particular salt marsh studied.
20038274|Conditions in fen meadows in Dutch stream valleys are influenced by both deep (Ca-rich) and shallow (Ca-poor) groundwater flows. The distribution patterns of phreatophytic (groundwater-influenced) plant species showed distinct relationships with the distribution of different groundwater types. Large fluctuations in the ionic composition of groundwater were observed in the upper peat layers of drained areas. Ca-rich groundwater was replaced by precipitation water to a considerable depth (1-1.5 m). These fluctuations in groundwater composition were less pronounced in undrained areas. It was observed that characteristic species of fen meadow communities and rare phreatophytic species were restricted to areas with high water tables, which were nourished by either Ca-poor or by Ca-rich groundwater. Few species showed a preference for drained areas, where replacement of groundwater types gave rise to the occurrence of an intermediate groundwater type, which was thought to be the result of an increased acidification of the top soil (increased influence of infiltration water). It was argued that the endangered species were best preserved in areas with an undisturbed discharge of natural groundwater flows.
20038275|The study area in the Biaowiea primeval forest - size 28 000 m, divided into quadrats of 100 m, comprised two patches of Potentillo albae-Quercetum as distinguished by phytosociological methods, and a fragment of an adjacent very large Tilio-Carpinetum stand. The directional variation in the distribution of Carpinus betulus trunk diameter values in the southern part of the study area indicates invasion of this oak forest by Carpinus. This process probably started 1962 - 1968. The invasion of Carpinus betulus caused considerable deterioration in light conditions of the ground layer, as deduced from a decrease in Ellenberg light index values. The phytosociological division of the study area correlates with variation in the spatial pattern of Carpinus mean trunk diameter distribution. Quadrat groups were distinguished by association analysis. They were described phytosociologically using systematic group values for species, constituting the characteristic combination for the Potentillo albae-Quercetum. Areas occupied by still older Carpinus individuals correspond to successive stages of oak forest regression. The deterioration of light conditions caused recession of thermo- and heliophilous oak-forest species and decline of Potentillo albae-Quercetum phytocoenoses. However, this was not accompanied by the expansion of species of Carpinus forests.
20038276|Five plots with a uniform vegetation were selected subjectively in two riverine forests in Flanders and ground vegetation was sampled on seven occasions. The percentage cover of all species was visually estimated at each occasion using a decimal cover scale. Afterwards standing crop of the moss and herb layer was clipped, sorted, oven-dried and weighed. Linear regressions of standing crop on cover and Spearman rank correlations between the data from the two measures and some environmental variables were used to compare both methods of recording species performance. For the total data matrix the variation explained by the regression equations ranged from 52% for the herb layer to 71% for the moss layer; coefficients of determination for the individual species varied from 30% for Urtica dioica to 90% for Ranunculus ficaria. The coincidence in correlation with the environment of biomass and cover data is highly significant (r = 0.87). The difference in correlation is usually &lt5%. Seasonal changes in shoot and leaf development and interspecific differences in growth form strongly affected the accuracy of predicting biomass from cover. In general, predictions are best for low growing species (e.g. Eurhynchium praelongum and Lamium galeobdolon). Differences in correlation varied around 0.1 and decreased with increasing number of observations. For general purposes, it is suggested that the precision of a harvest method (e.g. standing crop determination) does not compensate for the time profit and the repeatability of the visual cover assessment technique, despite the inconsistencies reported for the latter method.
20038277|Quantification of character-species using Dahl's uniformity index is tested on phytosociological data using species composition of tree limit communities on the south slope of the Brooks Range, Northern Alaska as an example. Species in 246 relevs are grouped by minimum spanning tree (MST) analysis. The resulting six species groups are ordinated in a congruent pattern by detrended correspondence analysis along the two main axes of mesotopographic-scale nutrient and moisture gradients. The eutraphent species are restricted to the more fertile sites of the undulating topography in this permafrost area. Uniformity indices are highest for the species in eutrophic sites with average frequencies. In contrast, most oligotraphent species are ubiquitous and occur even within the more eutrophic communities on raised mounds, shallow soils and in the exposed rocky areas. In general, their high frequency and low uniformity indices confirm that they are not useful as character-species. Dahl's uniformity index seems to be useful for quantifying a plant's value as a character-species.
20038278|Changes in the vegetation of stabilized sand dunes of Doana National Park in the last four centuries have been analysed, combining ecological and historical sources of information. Quantitative vegetation data have been obtained from 5 inventories of a 15 km long transect, consisting of 34 points where nearby woody plants have been recorded. Inventories were taken in 1636, 1647, 1652, 1682 and 1859. The analysis of these data, combined with climatic and management information on the area, reveals that until 1636 a mediterranean forest dominated by Quercus suber, existed; it was used as a game preserve. From 1636 to 1682 vegetation underwent profound changes with a marked drop in trees and mature scrub. The vegetation was replaced by a pioneer scrub species. This rapid change was brought about by the introduction of cattle and pigs, timber and cork exploitation, and the use of prescribed fire. The climatic crisis that arose circa 1700 led to erosion of the sandy soils, which made the vegetation change irreversibly. Livestock pressure hampered natural forest regeneration until 1737 when Pinus pinea plantations started. From then onwards little change in vegetation is known to have occurred. It is suggested that the main steps of change in Doana vegetation history may have occurred in many other areas of the Mediterranean Basin.
20038279|The species richness of tropical rain forests creates difficulties for ecological analysis. It may usefully be simplified by defining ecological species groups whose members share characteristics of importance for determining forest structure and composition. Many such classifications have been published, but few are properly explained. The terminology is confused from lack of precise definitions. We propose a simple division of tree species into two groups or guilds, pioneer and non-pioneer (or climax), based on seed germination and seedling establishment. Within each guild there is continuous variation and we recommend arbitrary subdivision by height at maturity. We believe this classification to be applicable in all tropical rain forests.
20038280|The tree structure of some timberline and sub-alpine forests of the Garhwal Himalayas was studied with reference to the regeneration status and survival of tree seedlings and sprouts. Nine tree and shrub species were chosen. The dominating tree species were Abies pindrow and Quercus semicarpifolia. Sprouts were found to have a higher survival rate than seedlings, but both suffered from winter conditions. Girth class measurements showed that trees between 1.6 and 2.5 m were best represented.
20038281|Vegetation is a fractal because it exhibits variation over a continuum of scales. The spatial structure of sandrim, bryophyte, pocosin, suburban lawn, forest tree, and forest understory communities was analyzed with a combination of ordination and geostatistical methods. The results either suggest appropriate quadrat sizes and spacings for vegetation research, or they reveal that a sampling design compatible with classical statistics is impossible. The fractal dimensions obtained from these analyses are generally close to 2, implying weak spatial dependence. The fractal dimension is not a constant function of scale, implying that patterns of spatial variation at one scale cannot be extrapolated to other scales.
20038282|Grassland vegetation on the Montlake fill was analyzed using TWINSPAN. Eight herb communities were recognized. Moisture, proximity to gas vents, and disturbance are the main factors that control species and community distributions. Binary discriminant analysis (BDA) and detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) were used to study species-environment relationships. BDA revealed complex species response patterns and the resultant indicator values were used to interpret the ordination axes. Species distributions are controlled primarily by moisture, but also influenced by soil pH. Multiple regressions revealed little about plant-environment relationships not discovered by BDA. Before robust nonlinear methods are available, BDA, metric ordination with data stratification and nonmetric ordination are methods that can yield satisfactory results in exploratory plant-environment studies. BDA alone is an efficient, useful first approach where response patterns of species are initially unknown.
20038283|In a field experiment we studied the relationships between architecture, seasonal aerial biomass growth and interference from neighbours in three savanna grass species differing in time of flowering: a precocious species (Elyonurus adustus), an early species (Leptocoryphium lanatum) and a late species (Andropogon semiberbis). To detect the neighbour interference upon architecture and seasonal regrowth, we measured the leaf interception of a plane at different heights, when the species grew alone, in pairs and in groups of three. Although the three species differed widely in the spatial and temporal patterns of occupation of above-ground space, important levels of interference among neighbouring plants were detected. The species differ in: a) the pattern of space occupation when growing alone; b) the magnitude of the interference effect by the companion species; c) the change in pattern as a consequence of interference; d) their reaction to fire. The interference is not symmetric and it is not related to phenological similarities based on flowering season. L. lanatum was both the most impaired and the least impairing of the three species and the opposite is valid for A. semiberbis. The basal species (E. adustus and L. lanatum) showed a higher potential to produce leaf surface during the growth season than the tall species (A. semiberbis), but the stronger interference from the latter tended to equate their growth when the species grew in mixtures. In all three species interference led to a reduction of the growing period. Based on the analysis of growth at the various heights and the architectural peculiarities of the species we concluded that neighbour interference is probably reducing both tillering and leafing in the basal species but only culm elongation and leafing in the erect species. The species also differed in their reaction to fire. A. semiberbis and E. adustus showed a pulse of regrowth after the passing of fire which is missing in L. lanatum. In all cases the neighbour interference affected both the intensity of growth and the length of the growing period, but it did not affect either the height of the plants nor the reproductive phenology of these three grass species.
20038291|Aquatic plants were collected from different localities in the Al-Hammar marsh, southern Iraq, during late spring 1985. The marsh water is oligohaline. Typha angustata, Potamogeton pectinatus and Phragmites australis were the most abundant species in the study sites. The chemical composition of 15 aquatic plants in the study sites are given and compared with soil and water characters. These plants indicate variations among the species. All plants contain higher amounts of K than Na, while the opposite is found in the water. The Ca contents of plants and soil are higher than Mg.
20038292|The Xizang Plateau (Tibet) covers a vast area over 4000 m with a severe environment. Steppes and deserts are widely distributed on the plateau to the west of 91.5E. Poaceae, Asteraceae, Fabaceae and Cyperaceae are the most important families in the composition of steppe communities. The steppe can be divided into high-cold steppe and montane steppe. The former one is characterized by the Stipa purpurea community, which occupies a vast area with a cold, dry climate: annual mean temperature 0 to -6C, annual rainfall is 150-300 mm; The latter one is distributed in some limited regions, where the climate is less severe: annual mean temperature 0-7C, annual rainfall is 150-400 mm. The representative communities here are the Stipa glareosa and S. bungeana communities. Chenopodiaceae and Asteraceae play a principal role in both high-cold and montane deserts. The high-cold desert is unique. Its major representative is the Ceratoides compacta community, which is found at about 5000 m, in an extremely cold and very dry climate. The Ceratoides latens and Ajania fruticulosa communities are the common ones of the montane desert which mainly appears below 4600 m in elevation, where the annual temperature is about 0C and the rainfall is less than 100 mm. The distribution of the steppe and the desert communities shows a clear regional differentiation, and an equally clear vertical distribution pattern.
20038293|Three vegetation-based indicator systems for the assessment of the trophic state of soil were tested on grasslands. External parameters were gross production and nitrogen supply. A high correlation was found between indication figures of the relevs and external parameters. There was some evidence that, under certain conditions, indicator systems could provide ordinal as well as cardinal information. The reliability of the indicator systems was not entirely dependent on the completeness of the vegetational information. The lack of abundance data and the ignoring of rarely occurring species did not seriously affect the strength of correlation. It was concluded that indicator systems can be useful tools in ecological research as well as in nature conservation policy.
20038294|Discriminant coordinates analysis is an adequate technique for analyzing the linear relationships between a number of new variates (i.e. environmental or functional attributes) and a set of vegetational attributes already summarized in the form of a classification. It displays the principal differences among classes in relation to the new variates considered. The procedure and its rationale are equivalent to a special case of principal components analysis. A case study on radiometer satellite data is presented. Two discriminant coordinates displayed the main differences in the seasonal dynamics of the NDVI (an index of standing green biomass) among broad phytogeographic units in the Patagonia region. The first coordinate can be interpreted as an index of height and convexity of the NDVI seasonal curve. It suggests that the principal difference among regions was the total seasonal growth. The second coordinate represents a contrast that discriminated between two already detected patterns of seasonal NDVI curve.
20038296|Two distribution-free permutation techniques are described for the analysis of ecological data. These methods are completely data dependent and provide analyses for the commonly-encountered completely-randomized and randomized-block designs in a multivariate framework. Euclidean distance forms the basis of both techniques, providing consistency with the observed distribution of data in many ecological studies.
20038297|The coastline of southern Brazil is characterized by vast sand dunes. From March 1982 to April 1984 the dune vegetation was sampled along a transect between the Atlantic shore and an inland freshwater marsh, and phenological cycles of plant species were observed at monthly intervals. The occurrence of 23 annual species in the local dunes and peak germination, growth and flowering of 21 perennial species during spring, summer and fall, suggest that unfavourable temperatures and inundation of slacks during winter are seasonally limiting factors for this flora. Differences in the floristic composition between this region and its southern and northern extremes in the southwestern Atlantic together with a marked seasonality of the total species number and of germination and flowering periods, suggest that this area corresponds to a warm temperate biogeographic transition zone between northern tropical and southern cold temperate regions.
20038298|The composition and density of soil seed banks beneath co-occurring Adenostoma fasciculatum and Ceanothus greggii shrubs from three chaparral stands last burned 9, 35 and 85 years before 1986 were investigated. The overall density of seeds in the soil, as estimated by germinations under greenhouse conditions, increased with time since fire (ca. 8 000 to 25 000/m). However, this increase was due entirely to the accumulation of A. fasciculatum seed in the soil (ca. 2 000 to 21 000/m). In contrast, the density of C. greggii seed was different in each of the three stands, but was not correlated with time since fire: maximum densities were recorded from the 35 year old stand (ca. 2 000/m). A total of 31 taxa germinated and 17 occurred in sufficient numbers to be analyzed statistically. Germinable seed densities of three herb species were not influenced by soil source (beneath A. fasciculatum or C. greggii), time since fire, or the direct effects of a controlled fire treatment. Germinable seed densities of a further nine species were significantly influenced by the elapsed time since stands last burned. The densities of four decreased and five increased. Four of the species that increased in seed density over the three stands were annuals, suggesting that the chaparral sub-canopy habitat is not as unfavorable for annuals as is often assumed. The fire treatment decreased germinable seed densities of four annual species by 40 - 70%, but increased the germinable seed densities of the shrubs A. fasciculatum and C. greggii, and the annual Phacelia brachyloba. Our results indicate that seeds of A. fasciculatum will increase in the soil bank for at least 85 years after fire in chaparral where it is dominant. In contrast, seed reserves of C. greggii appear to be influenced primarily by site-specific patterns of seed production and by the intensity of post-dispersal seed predation.
20038302|Quaking fens and floating forests in the Westbroek Polder, the Netherlands, have seed banks with an estimated mean total seed density of 920 and 690 seeds
20038303|Sixty-six small woodland islands (0.008 - 2.16 ha) isolated in the agricultural landscape of the Wierzbanwka valley (western Carpathian foothills) were investigated. Analysis of historical cartographic material showed that 60 woodland islands are most probably the remnants of ancient woodlands. Among them both woodlands associated with more than one type of soil, and those with homogeneous soil conditions, were identified; the latter were divided into two groups differing in the period of isolation and anthropogenic pressure. These three groups of woodlands were analysed statistically using 12 independent variables (area, shape, distance to the nearest large woodland, mean distance to the five nearest woodland islands, cover of tree- and shrub layer, and others) and 20 dependent variables (number of all species, number of species of different growth forms, mode of dispersal, and phytosociological characters). The number of species was found to be related to habitat diversity, area, shape, isolation, and cover of tree and shrub layers. Compared with the more recently isolated and less disturbed woodlands, those isolated for longer periods and more anthropogenically disturbed were found to have fewer species, including fewer herbaceous species, woodland species, species of the Querco-Fagetea class, and also tree and shrub dyszoochores, as well as herbaceous endozoochores and myrmecochores. On the other hand, significantly more non-woodland species, species of the Molinio-Arrhenatheretea class, and tree anemochores were present here.
20038304|Mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa (Ledeb.) Nyman) shows extensive variation in the number of trunks per genet. Previous investigations have suggested that polycormism (multiple-stem formation) is associated with soils that have a low nutrient content and also with sites that have relatively shallow snow cover. These studies however lack quantitative measurements on the number of stems per genet. Canonical correspondence analysis, regression analysis and correlation analysis were used to investigate the environmental correlates of polycormism in mountain birch in Swedish Lapland. The best predictor for polycormism is the pH of the B and C soil horizons: pure monocormous stands are expected in habitats with pH 5.7 or higher, and polycormism increases with decreasing soil pH. Multiple-stem formation at high pH values is associated with waterlogging of the soil and the composition of the vegetation of the field layer is correlated with polycormism along a pH gradient. Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa regenerates mainly via sprouts from the stem base: roots sprouts and seedlings are uncommon. Decreased vigour of the tallest stems in polycormous units indicated that self-thinning in the classical sense (i.e. mortality of small stems due to suppression by larger ones) does not play a role in the dynamics of polycormous stands.
20038305|Two areas of Chionochloa rigida tussock grassland on Flagstaff Hill were burnt in autumn and spring 1976, respectively. Plant species cover and frequency were recorded in 1977 and 1985. Initially, plant cover and frequency were lower, and the area of bare ground was greater, on the autumn burnt site. After nine years, cover and frequency values were similar for most species, and bare ground was rare, on both sites. Over this period, recovery in size of indigenous tussock-forming physiognomic dominants resulted in suppression of intertussock sub-shrubs, herbs and grasses that were initially favoured by reduction of competition after fire. Plant species most tolerant of fire have features that protect the meristem, for instance an underground perennating organ or dense tillering.
20038306|Forest succession was investigated by pollen analysis of two mor-humus sections and of peat from a 3 m-diameter hollow under mixed conifer-hardwood forest in north-central Massachusetts, USA. The humus profiles recorded a major forest perturbation caused by the removal of Castanea dentata by the chestnut blight (1910-1912), and the peat from the hollow extended the record beyond the time of colonial settlement (1733). Fagus grandifolia was a forest dominant before 1733 but declined abruptly upon settlement. Castanea, a late Holocene immigrant to the area, rapidly increased its pollen representation after settlement until the epidemic of the chestnut blight. Forest succession following the loss of Castanea involved the successive rise to dominance of Betula, Quercus, Acer rubrum, and Tsuga canadensis. These vegetational changes conform to observations made during studies of forest-stand composition by other workers. Allogenic factors such as logging, disease, and wind have initiated major compositional change, which has been modified by autogenic successional processes such as the gradual rise to dominance of Tsuga canadensis around one of the humus sections. The two humus sites resolve fine-scale pattern in former vegetation such as differences in the distribution of Pinus strobus and Castanea over 200 m, the distance between the mor-humus sites. These within-forest sites permit investigations of fine-scale vegetational patterns and processes that are of interest to forest ecologists.
20038307|Carbon assimilation and standing crop biomass of Spartina alterniflora were studied in a contrasting streamside and inland salt marsh in Louisiana Gulf coast, USA. A substantially lower leaf dry weight, leaf area index, and standing crop biomass were recorded for inland plants as compared to streamside plants. Net assimilation rates ranged between 8 to 25 mol
20038308|A three year fertilization experiment was conducted in which nitrogen (N series: 20 g N
20038309|The present study is an application of categorical data analysis in ecological research. The approach is based on logistic regression following an exploratory graphical analysis. The material was collected in an extensive forest inventory in which a set of observations was made by eye in a stratified random sample of 262 mature upland forest stands in South Finland. The problem was to interpret the variation in the fertility of the tillers of bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus). In the field, the fertility was recorded as a three-class ordinal variable. The information available for the interpretation included the visually estimated density of the tree crowns, the soil fertility class determined using Cajander's forest site types and the percent cover of V. myrtillus. The GLM framework was employed in successive stages of the data analysis in order to find a model to fit the data. For this, the three-class ordinal response variable was reduced to two classes: stands characterized by (a) sterile and (b) fertile bilberry tillers. Successful prediction of the distribution of these two types of forest stands was achieved with a logistic-regression model by using canopy coverage and soil fertility classes as predictor variables. The generalized linear modelling framework is suitable for studying many ecological problems even when only rough categorical estimates of environmental scalars are available.
20038310|Natural disturbances, especially fire and treefalls, influence tree canopy composition in the Pseudotsuga menziesii forests of the western Cascade Range, Oregon. The composition of tree, shrub, and herb assemblages in the understorey of stands with different canopy types, such as maturing Pseudotsuga, Tsuga heterophylla, or mixed species stands, also differs. Differences in both canopy type and the prevalence of canopy openings correlated with different degrees of understorey development in stands of similar ages. This suggests that understorey assemblages also reflect disturbance history. Before understorey assemblages can be used to relate community samples to community or habitat types, the extent to which their composition reflects long term influences of stand history vs. differences in site potential must be determined.
20038326|A model of direct and diffuse solar radiation on slopes of varying angle and aspect suggests that radiation differences within hilly terrain are maximized in the beginning of the dry season in the monsoon tropics. The differences between north and south facing slopes are greater than those found during the summer in the temperate zone. Within a study area near Mt. Bundey, Northern Territory, floristic and structural vegetational variability is closely related to June radiation as estimated by the model. However, the distribution patterns of monsoon thicket and eucalypt forest relate more to relative fire protection than to the effects of incident radiation on temporal patterns of moisture availability. Within both major formations, site rockiness is an important influence on vegetation floristics and structure, both for fire protection and through its influence on moisture availability.
20038327|In this paper we consider one method of mapping larger units identified from the spatial pattern of sequences of vegetation types. The basic data were presence/absence data for 6450 stands arranged in 90 transects. A second set of data was derived by averaging the species occurrences in non-overlapping groups of 5 stands. A divisive numerical classification was used to determine the primary vegetation units. In all, 5 different sets of primary types were derived, using different species suites, different sample sizes and different numerical methods. We briefly discuss the types identified and their spatial patterns in the area. Each of these types was then used to define a string of 'type-codes' for every transect so that each transect represents a sample from the landscape containing information on the frequency and spatial distribution of the primary vegetation types. The transects may be classified using a Levenshtein dissimilarity measure and agglomerative hierarchical classification, giving 5 analyses of transects, one for each of the primary types discussed above. We then examine these transect classifications to investigate the stability of the vegetation landscape patterns under changes in species used for the primary classification, in size of sample unit and in method of primary classifications. There is a considerable degree of stability in the results. However it seems with this vegetation that the tree species and non-tree species have considerable independence. We also indicate some problems with this approach and some possible extensions.
20038328|Succession after fire and bushcutting in coastal dune fynbos was monitored for two and a half years and comparisons were made with adjacent, mature (13 year-old) fynbos. Sixty-two to 68% of pre-disturbance species, including all the dominants, were found in the successional communities 1.5 yr after disturbance: the patterns thus fitted the initial floristic composition model. On the more mesic south facing slope, post-fire succession differed from the north-facing (burnt) and bushcut sites in that ordinations showed a clear separation between the mature and successional communities. This difference was due to the post-fire abundance on the south-facing slope site of short- and medium-lived species not present in the mature fynbos. One and a half years after disturbance, species richness and equitability had increased relative to mature vegetation. This increase was greatest for the south facing slope where short- and medium-lived species and juveniles of pre-disturbance dominants co-occurred. In general, successional patterns were consistent with those described for other fynbos and fire-prone mediterranean shrublands.
20038329|The longest continuous Amazonian palynological record (ca 7010 yrs B.P. to present) from Lake
20038330|The entirely cryptogamic vegetation of Bailey and Clark Peninsulas, Windmill Islands, Budd Coast, Wilkes Land, Antarctica, is described for the first time. The vegetation of this area is exceptionally well developed and diverse and represents one of the most important botanical sites on the continent. The macroflora comprises three species of moss, one liverwort, three fruticose lichens, four foliose and over 20 crustose lichens; several macroalgae also occur. Seventy stands of relatively homogeneous vegetation were analysed and the percentage cover afforded by every species within 20 quadrats per site was recorded. A subjective classification was developed by visual ordering of the data sets and a hierarchical system erected which incorporates one moss- and one lichen-dominated sub-formation; the former includes two associations and seven sociations, while the latter comprises one association which includes four sociations. The data were then arranged by centroid linkage analysis to produce an objective classification, and subsequently ordinated by principal components analysis to generate groups of stands, the inter-relations of which were interpreted in ecological and environmental terms. The objective classification and ordination strongly support the subjectively derived groupings or sociations. Examples of plant interactions are qualitatively described.
20038331|Small-scale variations in topography, soil depth and species occurrence were studied in a sub-arctic/sub-alpine birch forest in Swedish Lapland in order to evaluate the effects of various micro-habitats on the growth and distribution of Lycopodium annotinum. Micro-topographical variation in the study plot (280 by 420 cm) reached 100 cm, while soil depth varied from 0 to more 50 cm over small distances of 10's of centimetres. Nineteen species were recorded in the plot and dwarf shrubs and L. annotinum were the most frequent. A microscale vegetation pattern was detected by a polythetic agglomerative cluster analysis and also by the divisive TWINSPAN analysis. The distribution patterns of the species appeared to be associated with variation in moisture regimes, which in turn were associated with variations in micro-topography. Lycopodium annotinum performed best when growing on the sides of valleys with deciduous dwarf shrubs and Deschampsia flexuosa, and when evergreen dwarf shrubs were absent.
20038332|Data from the long-term experiment on sheep grazing versus zero sheep grazing (i.e. in an enclosure) on the composition of the Juncus squarrosus grassland at the Moor House NNR are presented. The data have been analysed to assess change in (1) the abundance of individual species, (2) higher plant and bryophyte communities, and (3) vegetation structure. The higher plant data suggested that both the enclosed -- and grazed plots were changing in the same direction, but the enclosed plot was moving much faster. The general tendency was towards a blanket bog vegetation dominated by Eriophorum vaginatum and Calluna vulgaris. Juncus squarrosus has declined very quickly in the enclosed plot, but there has also been a slower decline in the grazed one. A significant increase in Calluna vulgaris has occurred only in the enclosed plot. In contrast, the bryophyte data showed completely different successional trajectories in the two treatment plots. The vegetation structure changed markedly after release from grazing, with a decrease in phytomass, but increase in necromass in the lowest height strata. There was no noticeable change in structure over the 18 year period in the grazed plot. Particular problems found in this study were that some species either fluctuated widely in response, or changed in a curvilinear manner.
20038336|This paper introduces the collection of contributions in this special volume on temporal and spatial patterns of vegetation dynamics. First, it is pointed out that the dynamics of any piece of vegetation, large or small, is always dependent on the degree of isolation of that piece towards its environment. Then ten types of island situation are treated ranging from very much to very little isolated: remote species-rich oceanic islands, remote species-poor islands, young big islands near a continent, small off-shore islands, emerging islands, isolated hills, landscape islands, isolated patches of vegetation, and gaps in stands of vegetation. Also, eight forms of vegetation dynamics are treated, ranging from short-term to long-term changes and involving larger and larger units: individuals, patches, communities, landscapes and vegetation regions. The forms of dynamics are fluctuation, gap dynamics, patch dynamics, cyclic succession, regeneration succession, secondary succession, primary succession, and secular succession. Each form of dynamics may occur under varying degrees of isolation. The general conclusion is that processes and patterns of vegetation dynamics cannot be generalized in any simple manner. The 20 papers collected in this volume, divergent as they are, express the complexity of vegetation dynamics.
20038337|This paper is concerned with the effect of disturbance on some crucial characteristics of annual plants. The theoretically optimal life-history traits that maximize individual fitness in disturbed environments are described and critically evaluated. It seems that none of them holds for all annual species. Self-pollination and especially seed polymorphism are considered important adaptations to life in unpredictable environments. The thesis is put forward that amphicarpic annuals, which exhibit both self-pollination and extreme seed polymorphism, are best adapted to life in hazardous habitats. The hypothetical course of the evolution of amphicarpy is demonstrated on the grounds of the comparison of contemporary annual species producing chasmogamous and cleistogamous flowers on a single individual.
20038338|Two population characteristics, reproductive allocation (RA) and the intensity of photosynthesis, were investigated in the successional stages of the sandy grassland communities of the Great Hungarian Plain. Most of the species studied changed their allocational response as succession advanced. Compound path schemes, as casual models, were constructed and analysed for describing intra-individual effects (influence of assimilating organs and root mass of the plant sampled) as well as the phytosociological effects on RA. In pioneer stages, the high values of path coefficients show that the effect of assimilating organs is responsible for the variability of RA. It is also shown that annuals and perennials exhibit different behaviour as to the regulation of RA. It seems that - in terms of path analysis - the reproduction of annuals is influenced by internal factors only. In case of perennials, an external (namely phytosociological) regulation was also observed. It is suggested that successional stages play a role in regulating the photosynthetic intensity of both the dominant species and the whole plant assemblage.
20038339|Substantial recruitment of Callitris glaucophylla in woodland, Sclerolaena birchii in cleared woodland, and Astrebla lappacea in grassland is related to catastrophic events of the past century in the form of interactions between climate, the impact of European land use (sheep, cattle, rabbits) and the rabbit myxoma epizootic. The direct effect of rainfall on the demography of these species and its indirect effect through competition via suites of accompanying plant species are examined. Major long-term changes in plant populations are generated by extreme sequential events rather than by random isolated events. One of the most potent climatic agents for change in eastern Australia is the El Nio/Southern Oscillation phenomenon.
20038340|Investigation of permanent plots is the traditional approach to detect changes in species performance and floristic composition. When the time reserved for investigations is limited and statistically independent replicate samples for normal time series analysis do not exist, ordination of multi-species series is often applied. The approach is further developed here with time series data from wetland communities over six consecutive years. Random fluctuation and linear trend are the two mechanisms which can explain the observed changes. Trend analysis of species scores allows to smooth the data and hence the resulting ordination pattern. The expected scores are a conservative measure for trend, taking into account all the recorded time states of the system.
20038341|Canopy gaps are important as entry points for new genotypes and new species into many types of vegetation, yet little is known about them in any type of vegetation but forests. Forest gaps are too large for manipulative experiments to be readily undertaken, and hitherto grassland gaps have been too small to be easily mapped. Preliminary results from mapping small (&gt 1 cm) grassland gaps with a new fibre-optic device suggest that experiments need to be performed at a smaller physical scale than has hitherto been achieved.
20038342|Small-scale, short-term cycles constitute an important aspect of vegetation dynamics. It has been widely accepted that such cycles are characteristic of unmanaged heath communities where the dominant, Calluna vulgaris, undergoes an age-related series of changes in its growth and morphology. This is thought to give rise to a repetitive sequence of changes in the occupancy of gaps which form in the Calluna canopy and are first colonized by other species, with Calluna re-establishing later. Recently, doubts have been cast as to whether the changes are in fact often repetitive. A new study has shown much greater variability than was previously suspected in the transitions occurring in gaps. There is evidence that, in some instances though by no means all, Calluna can re-establish and thereby initiate a genuine cycle. It seems, however, that such re-entry is seldom by means of seedling establishment, but more frequently by development of adventitious shoots and roots on stems which have come to lie across the gap and have been covered by moss, moist litter or humus.
20038343|Two important unresolved problems in pollution impact research are early detection of changes in tree and forest growth and determination of the causes of observed growth declines. Consideration of tree defensive systems can shed light on dieback phenomena. Trees possess both chemical and structural defenses, with both types having both active and passive dimensions. When stress or pollution causes a reduction in vigor, defenses may become ineffective, resulting in insect pest and pathogen attack. This leads to a positive feedback cycle of declining vigor. Level of defenses differs by species, site, and life-stage. Consideration of these factors leads to better statistical methods for correlating pollution dose with tree growth response. It is shown that several recent studies are potentially flawed by inadequate consideration of species type, tree age, or stand density. It is shown that forest growth models can be used to correct for endogenous changes in tree growth rates as long as the trees used to derive parameters for the model were not themselves affected by pollution.
20038344|Management practices over the past 100 years, especially fire exclusion and suppression, in Yosemite Valley, Yosemite National Park, CA resulted in forest stands with basal areas in excess of 110 m
20038345|Stand-level dieback and regeneration of forests in Galpagos are discussed, and related to natural- and man-made disturbances. The dieback of Scalesia pedunculata (Asteraceae) in Galpagos seems to follow the etiology and patterns seen in other pacific island groups. The currently large and synchronized cohorts of this early-successional species, found on Santa Cruz Island, may be explained by severe disturbances such as the natural el Nio phenomenon and human caused fires. It is suggested, that slow-growing species such as Zanthoxylum fagara, Psidium galapageium and Acnistus ellipticus have been suppressed by frequent fires in the highlands of Santa Cruz. The population dynamics of Scalesia pedunculata are suggested to follow a cyclus of 10-20 years duration, caused by senescence in the Scalesia stand, and promoted by extreme stress. Stand-level dieback is also reported from Scalesia cordata, Erythrina velutina and Miconia robinsoniana.
20038346|Vegetation changes during succession can be regarded as plant-to-plant replacement processes. For deeper insight into the nature of these process we need to investigate the mechanisms involved. Therefore two experiments with herbaceous plant communities were analyzed. The data confirm the view that all three types of interaction: competition, coexistence by niche separation, and cooperation, act together. Likewise it can be concluded that the three models of succession proposed by Connell & Slatyer (1977) are not exclusive but describe mechanisms acting together in the same succession process. Evidence is given that seasonal events can act like a switch and influence the successional trend at a later time. It is, therefore, not meaningful to differentiate between fluctuations in the sense of yearly oscillations and the successional trend itself.
20038347|From 1984 to 1986, old-field succession on sterilized sand and loam was studied under different water- and nutrient regimes. Within one month, moss and phanerogam species appeared on all experimental plots but further succession was rather varied. Salix species established quickly on loam and formed within 3 years a shrub layer up to 3 m in height. On sand, woody plant species were observed only at a high ground-water level. On loam, the well-known old-field succession from short-living therophytes to long-living phanerophytes of clearings and woodlands proceeded very quickly. In contrast, on sand, therophytes, hemicryptophytes and herbaceous chamaephytes of ruderal- and grassland communities were still dominant after three years. A high ground-water level as well as mineral fertilization had sometimes positive, sometimes negative effects on this succession. Periodic estimates of cover, made during the succession were supplemented at the end of the experiment by the measurements of phytomass and bioelement storage. The highest amount of biomass was measured on the three loamy soils where shrub layers were well developed. In comparison with data published elsewhere, the above-ground biomass of 2.2-2.8 kg dry matter
20038348|A general description is given of the most important processes occurring in forest communities and of the spatial range and duration of the cycles of particular processes. In the initiation and course of nearly all processes involved in non-periodical vegetation dynamics a particular role is played by two groups of biotic-biocenotic factors: 1. Behaviour of main forest edificators (oak, hornbeam, spruce and pine); 2. Primary environmental preferences of the big herbivorous animals (bison, red-deer, roe-deer, elk, wild boar). The range of the particular processes is practically limited by the size of the potential forest phytocoenose, and the duration of a single cycle is determined by the properties of the habitat and the stability of the climate.
20038349|The vascular flora of small offshore islets around Karpathos (Dodecanesos, Greece) has been surveyed and monitored during six consecutive years. The present study focuses on four islets that are inhabited by the 'islet specialist' Silene holzmannii (Caryophyllaceae), a species that has a widely scattered distribution in the Aegean where it exclusively occurs on very small islands. Repeated census of its populations, partly following controlled extirpation, reveals extreme variation in number of individuals. Sowing experiments involving various species demonstrate the low probability of successful new colonizations. Differences in the amount of apparent turnover of species as well as the occurrence of both stable micro-populations and mass-populations are discussed.
20038350|Inside the seawater-filled Santorini caldera (S Cyclades) the uninhabited islands Palea Kaimeni (PK) and Nea Kaimeni (NK) have been formed by submarine/subaerial activity. About 197 B.C. PK (0.54 km) emerged, harbouring (in 1987) 178 vascular plant species, and covered by a mosaic of evergreen sclerophyllous and halophytic shrub communities and short-lived therophytic plant communities. NK, actually colonized by 156 vascular taxa, emerged ca 1570 A.D., its surface having enlarged to 3.44 km owing to four subsequent eruptive phases of the island's volcano until 1950. At present, the most evolved vegetation type on NK is a steppe-like pioneer community rich in grasses and legumes apart from some Ficus carica trees which survived this century's volcanic eruptions. The beginnings of shrub vegetation on NK, originating from PK's consolidated woody canopy, are documented and evidence is shown of several ways of zoogenic and anthropogenic import of new vascular plants to the island. Comparative plant censuses demonstrate that permanent immigration of plants into NK overbalances by far the loss of species caused by the repeated destructions of the island's plant cover. Cases of species turnover (verified extinctions and invasions), of pseudoturnover (due to sampling errors), of long distance dispersal and of successful stabilization of founder-populations are exemplified.
20038351|This paper summarizes succession studies on the outer islands of the Bothnian Bay (Finland). The study area is characterized by consistent and relatively rapid uplift (vertical rise on average 75 cm per century). The spatial and temporal succession has been deduced from the sequence of the littoral and epilittoral vegetation as well as from the historical records of the island development. Four types of successional series are distinguished. The relationships between substrate type (boulder, gravel, sand and clay -- silt shores) and 25 typical plant communities are outlined and treated as successional sequences.
20038352|New islands were created as a result of an artificial lowering of the water table of Lake Hjlmaren in 1882-1886 and the floras of 40 such islands have been monitored ever since plant colonization started in 1886. Data used in this paper are from belt-transects across ten of these islands which were analysed in 1927-29 and reanalysed in 1986. During this 60-year period shading by trees has increased and shading and litter accumulation have affected the ground flora. Succession includes aspects of both convergence and divergence. Species of dry, open sites and shore species have been excluded from the island interiors, making these parts of the islands more similar, but there has simultaneously been an increased variability of vegetation types of shaded, mesic habitats. There have been no consistent trends in beta-diversity between the two surveys. Differences in successional patterns between island interiors and shore habitats are attributed to an outward migration of plant species and to differences in disturbance regimes.
20038353|This paper deals with the Baltic coastline in Poland. Features of the climate, geomorphology, substratum, soils and vegetation are outlined. The historical forest succession is based on the results of palynological studies of fossil soils. The present-day dynamics of the plant communities are examined from the viewpoint of primary succession, regression, regeneration and secondary succession. The primary succession on moving dunes is described with particular reference to deflation fields. Attention is drawn to the spatial changes in the communities from the 16th to the 20th century as a result of natural and human factors. This study shows that during the 19th and 20th centuries and especially in the last 25 years, the dynamics of the dunes and their vegetation have been much reduced, owing to the widespread stabilization of the substratum by forests and the ongoing abrasion of the coastal dunes.
20038354|The main determinants of tropical savannas are shortly discussed, notably climate, insufficient drainage, fire and their interactions. The savannization process on Cuba is basically induced by man as shown for six different habitats. Different savanna types develop from different forests and shrublands through regular burning and grazing. In dry habitats and on oligotrophic soils, savannization is a short-term, usually irreversible process, while in humid habitats and on fertile soils it is a long-term reversible process, with spontaneous recolonization of forest elements after savannization has been stopped.
20038355|The Mediterranean evergreen vegetation of Sicily, comprised in the belt of the Quercetea ilicis, occupies a large part of the island. Human intervention (cutting, fire, pasture) has brought about a degradation of the natural vegetation. This study is based on our phytosociological research of the Quercetea ilicis belt on Sicily. With the 'habitat comparison' method, the dynamical relations between the different vegetation units have been defined. We distinguish the following stages, with reference to their vegetation structure: -- a herbaceous stage formed by steppic vegetation, preceded by various types of nitrophilous-ruderal vegetation on abandoned fields; -- a garrigue stage dominated by half-shrubs; -- a macquis stage with various distinct plant communities, four communities being important in regressive successions, and three in progressive ones; -- a woodland and shrub-woodland stage with three different substages: pre-existent forests, present woodlands, and woodlands which tend towards the final, stable stage of vegetation (potential natural vegetation). The dynamic relationships both in progressive and regressive successions have been synthesized in a scheme. In this scheme we have shown the main stages of the vegetation in their dynamics and we have constructed different series of vegetation types in two altitudinal belts, which are determined by varying environmental conditions of today. The results also show that in some cases the progressive series follow different pathways than the regressive series, and the final stage of the progressive series is different from the original vegetation.
20038356|Alpha diversity, or species richness, of East Asian mainland evergreen broadleaved forests, expressed by indices of Fisher's alpha () and
20038360|Old field succession was studied on coastal dunes supporting tropical evergreen forest on Inhaca Island, Mozambique. Plots of 10  10 m were sited in three early successional stages and in relatively undisturbed forest. Woody species increased in number during succession; leptophylls were most frequent in younger vegetation, whereas microphylls and mesophylls were most frequent in forest. Grasses, shrubs and forbs dominated initially following abandonment, and shrubs persisted as dominants in the three early successional stages. The initial floristic composition model was generally supported by the pattern of species sequences, with many forest species entering early in the succession. Of the few species conforming to the relay floristic model, many were grasses and forbs of the forest understorey. Similarity between plots of equivalent vegetation age indicated that, at least in early succession, there was linearity in the successional pathway; there was no evidence for divergence or multiple pathways. In early succession, no accumulation was detected in either soil organic matter or extractable nutrients, thus providing little support for the facilitation model of succession. It is stressed that the findings are probably scale-dependent.
20038361|Over a period of 15 years recordings were made of the species cover in permanent plots on the salt marsh of one of the West Frisian Islands, Schiermonnikoog (The Netherlands). Correlations between annual changes in the cover of the major species, and fluctuations in the monthly frequency of inundation by seawater were studied. First, a spectral analysis was carried out on the inundation frequency data to look for predictable patterns. Subsequently, fluctuations were defined as deviations from these predictable patterns. In a repeated multiple regression model, the effects of the season in which the fluctuations occurred, and the elevational position of the plots on the salt marsh were studied as factors influencing the correlation patterns. The behaviour of various species is discussed in relation to their seed bank characteristics and their salt tolerance.
20038362|This paper reports on changes induced by the introduction of cattle in a grassland that had remained ungrazed for 9 yr, in comparison with two adjacent grasslands: one that remained enclosed and one that has been continuously subject to grazing. Basal cover was measured on 25 interception lines, each 1 m long, three times during one year. The variables studied were: total cover, cover of grasses and dicots, cover of creeping grasses, floristic composition, and dissimilarity among sites. At the first sampling, 2 yr after cattle re-introduction, the newly grazed site was more similar to the ungrazed than to the grazed site. The newly grazed site had very low cover of dicots; the species of dicots present were different from those found in the continuously grazed area. Creeping grasses had higher cover in the newly grazed site than in the other sites, and continued to increase. At the last sampling, one year later, the newly grazed site had become more similar to the continuously grazed site. Only after 5 yr of cattle grazing the exotic dicots that were dominant in the continuously grazed site, were recorded in the re-opened site. The absence of propagules of these species or the absence of safe sites may account for this delayed invasion.
20038363|In a comparative survey the terms (terra-firme) flood plain, igap, vrzea with and without black water influence are reviewed and the importance of ectotrophic mycorrhiza for their definition emphasized. Vrzea alta with fluvisol base is briefly characterized and a first list of Basidiomycetes collected in it is provided. These are all non-mycorrhizal litter fungi.
20038364|The spatial distribution of 49 macrofungal species in Swedish beech forests was related to the statistical variation in 31 edaphic variables. In order to reduce the multicollinearity problem, the variables were transformed into eight principal components, PCs, which are used in two-group discriminant analysis (on absence/presence patterns) and multiple regression analysis (on number of fruit-bodies). The results suggested that base saturation and organic matter content are of outstanding importance. However, significant relationships were also found with other variables, i.e. Cd or Zn in soil and litter, soil nitrogen mineralization rate, and Na or S in litter. One interesting interpretation of the results is that fungi do not only respond to the main variables of a gradient (soil pH, organic mater, base saturation) but also to other variables. Attempts were made to interpret the PCs to characterize fungal occurrence from the models they formed.
20038365|Periodogram and spectral analyses are used to investigate spatial patterning of vegetation and microelevation in a weakly minerotrophic mire in boreal Ontario, Canada. The results indicate strong deviation from a random series for both patterns, reflecting an underlying hummock-hollow complex of periodicity 1.8 m. Hummocks in the mire appear to have arisen through the accumulation of Sphagnum species about the branches of the shrub Chamaedaphne calyculata. It is suggested that the mire pattern reflects intraspecific competition in Chamaedaphne, and that this pattern is perpetuated through a combination of autogenic and allogenic factors. The results also indicate that the vegetation closely tracks microelevational variation, suggesting habitat partitioning by mire species. The importance of combining descriptive investigations with competition studies and manipulative experiments to further our understanding of vegetation structure and dynamics in mires is discussed.
20038366|The importance of Gleasonian species individuality, with its relation to life history strategies in succession, has been implied by studies lasting only a few years, or studies relying on chronosequences. Even in long-term studies, it has been addressed without statistical tests. Here, we examine the first six years of succession in permanent plots on ten contrasting oldfields to statistically determine the role of species individuality in early oldfield succession. Percent cover data were collected each summer in 48 permanent plots in ten oldfields as part of the Buell Succession Study at the Hutcheson Memorial Forest on the New Jersey Piedmont, USA. Congruent patterns of mean percent cover over time clearly reflect life history strategies of annuals and biennials. Kendall's coefficient of concordance, calculated for population patterns of annuals or biennials in each oldfield, confirms that population patterns within life form groups are similar and supports the contention that life history strategies are important in determining successional pattern once species become established in an oldfield. Profile analysis, a statistical test for parallelism among species patterns, performed on all population patterns in each oldfield, confirms that these patterns are individualistic. The individualistic pattern implies that succession may be driven by the different strategies of dispersal, growth, and resource use of the species involved.
20038367|The conifer woodlands found on serpentine-derived soils in southwest Oregon, USA, are characterized by a dense but discontinuous shrub stratum and a species-rich herbaceous stratum. Quantitative analysis of shrub and herb distributions within 10 sites showed that small-scale patterns within the conifer woodland sites are as important as landscape-scale patterns in community organization. Gradient analysis was used to describe the distribution of herbaceous species with respect to gradients of shrub influence (shading, decreased soil temperature, increased soil moisture, increased litter depth) within sites and topographic moisture among sites. Regression analysis of the resulting species distributions and calculations of alpha and beta diversity showed that (a) the shrub-influence microgradient significantly affected distributions for 15 out of 20 major herbaceous species, and the topographic-moisture gradient influenced 13 out of the 20 species, (b) species richness was higher under intermediate conditions along both gradients, and (c) beta diversity within communities was 2.5 to 3.8 times the beta diversity of the site-to-site topographic-moisture gradient.
20038368|The magnitude of natural disturbances by treefalls and their spatial occurrence were studied in a pine-oak forest of Sierra de La Laguna, located at the southern part of the Peninsula of Baja California in Mexico. Twenty transects covering 4 ha, perpendicular to north- and south-facing slopes were sampled. The percentages of rocky outcrops, slope, orientation, and gap size created by treefalls were recorded. The mode of tree death, treefall direction, trunk length, and basal diameter were also measured. Data were analyzed using principal component analysis, one-way ANOVA, multiple comparison tests by contrasts, and chi-square independence tests. Results suggest that exogenous disturbances have an important effect in this community. A mean number of 80 gaps per ha was recorded comprising 18.1% of the observed area. Gap sizes were fitted to a lognormal distribution as 2.3  1.4 and patches were found to be created by single treefalls. Analysis of dead material shows that there are significant differences between numbers of fallen trees on N vs S facing slopes, and that forms of dead trees are significantly associated with species. Snapped trees represent 39.5% of treefalls, dead standing trees 26.4%, uprooted trees 20.5% and cut-down trees 0.9%. The frequency of occurrence of various forms of the dead trees suggests that the cause of mortality is primarily due to the high incidence of tropical hurricanes, and secondly to the combined effect of wind and natural fire which occurs during the rainy summer season.
20038369|The ecological importance of both horizontal and vertical denseness of vegetation is discussed. Existing methods to analyse them are reviewed and a new method is proposed. Horizontal and vertical denseness are estimated, both per layer of 10 cm and cumulative. From these data the following parameters are calculated: degree of overlap between layers, plant area index per layer, and average inclination per layer. The values thus obtained are compared with values measured directly or calculated otherwise. Some examples are given to illustrate the method.
20038370|This paper examines the effects of sheep and insect grazing on the generation of natural gaps in turf and the establishment of seedlings therein. The site is on an old field on limestone. There were five sheep grazing treatments: ungrazed, and grazed briefly in spring, briefly in autumn, in autumn or in summer and autumn. The first three of these treatments also contained plots in which insecticide was applied regularly during the growing season. Pins of increasing size (1.6 mm - 12.8 mm diameter) were lowered at grid intersections in permanent quadrats to record gap type and the occurrence of seedlings on seven dates over 15 months. Heavily-grazed plots had more bare ground in spring and more herb seedlings established in them. Seedlings of annual species of Bromus were able to establish in gaps (bare ground and litter) of smaller size than was required by herb seedlings (which had much smaller seeds). The use of an insecticide increased seedling establishment in October in ungrazed and in spring-grazed paddocks but decreased it in autumn-grazed paddocks. This may indicate the greater importance of insect herbivory in making gaps in the matted sward of autumn-grazed plots. Seedlings which established in October 1986 and March 1987 were more likely to die than those establishing earlier in 1986. This may be because of winter-kill and especially vigorous spring vegetation growth respectively. Seedling mortality was not affected by gap size or grazing treatment (unless such effects operated before we detected the seedlings).
20038375|Taxonomic ranks from species to superorder were evaluated for their usefulness as ecological descriptors. For qualitative or quantitative data, large or small scale, superorder descriptors retain much of the information of species. Examination of species-poor qualitative data (14 species/5 superorders, i.e. 64% fewer descriptors) resulted in group memberships of classifications as much as 87% similar. Similarly, species-rich quantitative data (208 species/23 superorders, i.e. 88% fewer descriptors) resulted in group memberships of classifications as much as 89% similar. Recognition of monophyletic higher taxa and the characteristics by which they may be recognized is recommended in view of their high information content.
20038376|Classification and ordination methods represent the two primary groups of ordering techniques for the analysis of floristic data in plant ecology. Current problems in the use and application of the methods are introduced and through a review of 734 articles across 11 ecological journals from 1960 to 1986, the history and evolution of the methods are displayed, the extent to which different techniques have been applied in the past and up to the present is demonstrated and problems and trends are discussed. A clear and substantial increase in the application of ordination and classification methods over the survey period is shown but with this increased usage, problems have come in terms of choice and evaluation of methods, the emphasis on inductive rather than deductive approaches, possible over-emphasis on methodology and technique rather than ecological application, low levels of use in applied studies and an increased tendency to use complementary and multiple analyses. All of the problems are related to broader aspects of the present position of vegetation description and analysis within vegetation science in general and in particular the relationship between community ecology and individualistic plant ecology.
20038377|The environmental distribution, habitat segregation, and vegetation associates of the columnar cacti Carnegiea gigantea, Stenocereus thurberi, and Lophocereus schottii were examined in Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument, Arizona. Three primary environmental gradients were identified with principal components analysis of environmental data: soil texture, elevation/nutrients, and xericness (based on slope aspect and angle). Environmental influents of spatial variation in density were modeled with ordinary least squares regression analysis, and common associates were identified with two-way indicator species analysis for each cactus. Of the three cacti, Carnegiea gigantea occurred over the broadest ecological range of habitats, but was densest on coarse, granitically derived alluvial soils of flat upper bajadas and basin floors, where it was associated with Larrea tridentata, Ambrosia deltoidea, and Opuntia fulgida. Stenocereus thurberi reached its maximum densities on coarse sandy soils of steep, south-facing granitic slopes, with Encelia farinosa, Jatropha cuneata, and Opuntia bigelovii as associates. Lophocereus schottii was restricted to very coarse, granitically derived alluvial soils in the southern part of the monument, where it occurred along wash banks with Beloperone californica, Hymenoclea salsola, Acacia greggii, and Opuntia arbuscula.
20038378|Vegetation in canopy gaps of two old-growth Abies-Betula forest stands, one with bamboo the other without, was measured. The structure of gap vegetation at each site was used to derive tree replacement probabilities. Transition probabilities indicate different tree replacement trends in forests with bamboo compared to those without. Projected compositions show Betula to be the most abundant species in bamboo stands while Abies remains most abundant where bamboo was absent. A dense bamboo sward seems to reduce the probability of Abies filling gaps by inhibiting establishment and growth of seedlings. Bamboo preempts space after canopy gap formation by increasing shoot production which reduces opportunities for establishment and growth of other woody species. Differences in dispersal ability and longevity of Abies and Betula appear to be important factors contributing to their coexistence in forests with a small canopy gap disturbance regime.
20038379|Postburn vegetation in an Artemisia tripartita and A. tridentata sagebrush community one year after the burn was compared with unburned vegetation. While the vegetal cover amounted to 38.1% of the total area on the burned site, it was 91.1% on the unburned site. Dominance--diversity curves for plant communities on bothe sites approach the niche pre-emption hypothesis or geometric series. Cover values and soil residual propagule data were used to suggest mechanisms of persistence of the more prominent species through fire using Noble & Slatyer's (1980) Vital Attributes model. The first year postfire vegetation was dominated by forbs and grasses with vegetative and propagule storage mechanisms of persistence. Such information on succession mechanisms should be of benefit to range managers.
20038380|Well-drained mown hay meadows in Hordaland, western Norway, were investigated. The hay meadows are either managed in a traditional or in a semi-traditional way. Traditional management in the area involves little or no use of manure or fertilizer, mowing once or twice a year with a first cut later than June 23, clearing in spring and intensive grazing for short periods in spring and autumn. Semi-traditional management involves use of small to medium quantities of commercial fertilizer, often in addition to manure. Grazing may be irregular, light or lacking. Eight units of hay meadow vegetation are described, all assigned to the class Molinio-Arrhenatheretea, order Arrhenatheratalia; four units to the Atlantic alliance Cardaminion pratensis, association Cardamino pratensis-Conopodietum majoris (with three subassociations); one unit to the alliance Arrhenatherion elatioris, three units are provisionally grouped as Galium uliginosum-Knautia arvensis meadows. Continuous management of these meadows has resulted in characteristic species compositions, which vary along a west-east climatic gradient, and are related to the amount of commercial fertilizer used and the natural mineral-content of the soil. These hay meadows seem to be best maintained by continuing the traditional management regime. Grazing in spring and in autumn reduces fast growing dominants and creates openings for new seedlings of annuals and biennials. A late first cut allows for ripening of the seeds and creates openings for light for the species of the lower field layer. A list of species characteristic of traditionally managed permanent hay meadows is presented, and possible effects of present changes in management on the species composition of the meadows are discussed. The amount of organic matter in the topsoil is small in most stands. The pH values are between 4.0 and 5.6. The highest values were recorded in soil where little or no commercial fertilizer is used, and where the subsoil is naturally rich in minerals. A tendency to Mg impoverishment in the best fertilized stands is demonstrated. Species-rich stands on Ca-rich soils are poor in P. The expected changes in vegetation, future use, and conservation of permanent hay meadows in Hordaland are discussed.
20038387|Forest stand development was simulated using a forest succession model of the JABOWA/FORET type. The environmental conditions are representative for a wide spectrum of Swiss forest sites ranging from 220 m to 1 700 m a.s.l. Each model run covers a period of 1 200 yr and is based on the averaged successional characteristics of 50 forest plots with an individual size of 1/12 ha. These small forest plots serve as basic units to simulate establishment, growth, and death of individual trees of 29 species. Existing light in the forest stand, climatic conditions, soil properties, and other environmental factors control the growth of each individual tree. Compared with previous simulation studies, some major modifications were made, including the incorporation of the indicator values of Ellenberg (1979) to describe the ecophysiological behaviour of the species considered. As a test, the simulated species composition through time was compared with the actual vegetation and the potentially natural species composition on the corresponding site types. The extensive comparison revealed that approximately 80% of the simulations match the expected species configurations. Thus, it was concluded that the model is valid for the purpose of evaluating impacts of natural and human disturbances on forest communities.
20038388|The vegetation of Mt Everest is described by means of the dominant plant formations and characteristic features of biotopes. Climatic data given in connection with weather observations show evidence that the extreme asymmetry of the altitudinal vegetation belt on the south and north slope is induced by heavy rainfall on the south slope and the desiccating effect of the Himalaya fhn in the valleys of the north slope. Biotope shift from hypsozonal distribution on the south slope to extrazonal distribution on the north slope is described, the patterns of the actual timber line are discussed in order to reconstruct the natural upper forest limit, and regressive plant successions during the last 400 years of man's impact are summarized. The dominant vegetation pattern of the alpine belt is compared with that in the European Alps. On the arid north slope alpine steppe communities occur up to 5500 m. The highest altitudinal vegetation belt and the highest plant communities at 5960 m are dominated by periglacial processes. The highest records of flowering plants (6100/6200 m) and lichens (7400 m) are discussed in light of the present knowledge on high-altitude vegetation ecology.
20038389|An undisturbed podocarp-broadleaved rain forest was sampled in eight strata (synusiae): canopy, small tree, shrub, low shrub, herb, ground, epiphyte and liane. Independent classifications of the quadrats were performed using the eight strata, and the classifications were correlated. Relations between strata were significant, but weak. Using records of plants of all ages, the relations largely reflected the presence of seedlings of woody species in the ground and herb strata. Using only records of species present as adults, the relations were quite different, and at least some seemed to reflect sociological interactions. Relations between a tree and a herb stratum was lower than in McCune & Antos' (1981) investigation, probably because of the narrow ecological range of the present study area.
20038390|Size and age structure analysis were used to reconstruct the population dynamics of six apparently old and stable stands dominated by the conifers Libocedrus bidwillii and/or Dacrydium biforme in Camp Creek, Westland, New Zealand. All stands contained relatively even-aged groups of Libocedrus that had probably originated after either mass movement or windthrow. The age distributions of stands reflected the effects of disturbances 200-400 yr ago. There was no evidence to support synchronous failure of regeneration of Libocedrus and Dacrydium biforme. Between 1600 and 1800 A.D., the period of the postulated conifer regeneration gap, over 70% of trees of these species had established. A lack of Libocedrus regeneration over the last 200 yr reflects a lack of disturbance over that time. Because of the dominating influence of disturbances and other factors it may be inappropriate to use tree population structures alone to substantiate or refute claims of recent climate change.
20038391|Forest succession following fire in a forest mosaic of northwestern Quebec has been studied in order to: (1) describe the successional pathways using communities of different ages and (2) evaluate convergence of successional pathways and possible effect of fire suppression on the establishment of steady-state communities. As a first step, ordination and classification techniques were used in order to remove changes in forest composition which are related to abiotic conditions. Then, ordinations based on tree diameter distributions were used to study shifts in species composition in relation to time since the last fire. Even under similar abiotic conditions, successional pathways are numerous. However, regardless of forest composition after fire, most stands show convergence toward dominance of Thuja occidentalis and Picea mariana on xeric sites and dominance of Abies balsamea and Thuja occidentalis on more mesic sites. Stable communities of &gt 300 yr occur on xeric sites while on mesic sites directional succession still occurs after 224 yr. Nearly all species involved in succession are present in the first 50 yr following fire. Only Abies balsamea and Thuja occidentalis increase significantly in frequency during succession. Following initial establishment, successional processes can generally be explained by species longevity and shade tolerance. Early successional species may be abundant in the canopy for more than 200 yr while the rapid decrease of Picea glauca, a late successional species could be related to spruce budworm outbreaks. Considering the short fire rotation observed (about 150 yr), a steady-state forest is unlikely to occur under natural conditions, though it may be possible if fire is controlled.
20038392|The plant-environment relationships in a range of matorral communities, having different rainfall conditions in semi-arid lowland habitats in Murca, S.E. Spain, were examined using the non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination technique. Hypotheses on floristic variations were derived based on an interpretative strategy which involved a site configuration rotation, followed by stepwise multiple regression analysis. An environmental data set was used to isolate variables associated with site co-ordinate trends. Results showed that floristic variation in these communities was mainly determined by aspect induced radiation receipt. Besides, most environmental trends in the study areas were found to be oblique to original site ordination axes and configuration rotation seemed to be a prerequisite in quantitative interpretation. The interpretative strategy introduced in this study was effective. It enhanced straightforward, quantitative and objective interpretation whereby inductive inferences on environmental trends could be readily formulated.
20038393|The regeneration process in a mixed forest was investigated in Nopporo National Forest, Hokkaido. The analysis of age structure in an 80 m  80 m plot revealed that almost all of the species regenerated intermittently. In eleven gaps observed in the plot, the regeneration of a boreal conifer (Abies sachalinensis) was seldom observed. Temperate hardwoods, even climax species (Acer mono, Quercus mongolica var. grosseserrata, Tilia japonica), regenerated vigorously in the gaps. The age structure in ten additional plots scattered all over the forest showed that Abies tended to regenerate synchronously. From previous records, regeneration of Abies could be ascribed to catastrophic storms causing serious windfalls. On the other hand, regeneration of the temperate hardwoods was not synchronous but independent in different places within the forest. They could regenerate not only after those catastrophic storms but also after less severe disturbances which caused the death and fall of one or several trees. It is concluded that the coexistence of boreal coniferous species and temperate deciduous broad-leaved species in mixed forests may be maintained not only by the difference in habitat but also by the balance between the less frequent large disturbances, and the more frequent smaller ones.
20038394|Flowering phenology of 475 herbaceous and 348 arborescent taxa that form the vegetation of Shervaroys (Eastern Ghats: South India) was studied in relation to growth form, altitude and vegetation type. It was found that the majority of the herbaceous taxa flowered following rains while the arborescent taxa bloomed predominantly during the dry period irrespective of altitude and vegetation type.
20038395|The growth response (foliage projective cover: FPC) of the plant growth forms of lowland fynbos, South Africa to a complete factorial fertilizer addition of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P) and a mixture of all essential nutrients excluding N and P (M) was monitored for two years. Ordination by correspondence analysis revealed a successional trend as the vegetation aged, with increases in proteoid, and to a lesser extent restioid, and decreases in reseeding ericoid, graminoid, geophyte and annual plant FPC but no discernible effects due to fertilizer application. Analysis of covariance revealed significant increases in restioid, graminoid and annual plant FPC with N-addition, 1 and 2 yr after fertilizer addition and of total FPC with N-addition for only one year. Of the other nutrient treatments, only an increase in annuals with P-addition and a reduction in the rate of decline of reseeding ericoid with M-addition were found, both after two years. Thus nitrogen may often limit vegetative growth of at least the herbaceous species. The herbaceous growth forms are more plastic in their morphological growth responses to nutrient additions than the slow-growing, stress tolerant, evergreen shrub species. The vegetation appears to be resilient, at least in the short-term, to a disturbance of this magnitude. However, chronic nutrient applications and those of larger magnitude will probably result in long-term changes in species composition, with an increase in ephemeral, nutrient demanding species.
20038396|One of the few important empirical generalizations regarding herbaceous plant systems has been the demonstration that species richness is related to standing crop with maximum richness occurring at moderate levels of standing crop. This relationship is normally demonstrated by comparing among vegetation types (i.e., vegetation with different dominants). We undertook this study to test whether the species richness-standing crop relationship was evident at a finer-grained level of organization, the within vegetation type level. Fifteen wetland sites were sampled in eastern Canada and species richness and standing crop determined in each of 224 0.25 m quadrats. Each site was relatively homogeneous in terms of the dominant species present and were therefore categorized as single vegetation types. However, as a group, the sites comprised a wide range of vegetation types. A second order polynomial regression indicated a significant bitonic relationship between species richness and standing crop at the among-vegetation types scale, that is, when all 15 sites were combined. At the within-vegetation type level, however, no significant relationships were observed (p&gt0.05). The results indicate that the model of species richness proposed by Grime has predictive power at a coarse-grained level of organization, among vegetation types, but does not survive the transition to a finer-grained level of organization, the within vegetation type level. Therefore, the higher level processes which structure species richness patterns among vegetation types are not the same processes which determine richness patterns within a vegetation type.
20038401|Stability analysis of whole forests is proposed as a qualitative tool for the study of forest responses to partial or patchy harvests or mortality. Instead of modeling every tree or stand, aggregate tree biomass is modeled. In order to aggregate stands, spatial effects must be incorporated. It is shown that depensation growth responses (reduced growth at low biomass) are common because forests often modify harsh environments to be more suitable for their growth. Depensation can result from thinning, partial mortality, patchy cutting, or clearcutting, depending on forest type and abiotic factors. Examples of these types of behaviors are given. Stability analysis of different growth regimes under exploitation are related to catastrophe theory and to optimal harvesting policies. Such qualitative analysis is shown to be applicable to data-poor regions such as the tropics where there is great concern over responses of forests to exploitation.
20038402|In the eastern part of the Naardermeer peatlands (the Netherlands) a regional calcium-rich groundwater flow discharges (here often called the seepage area), whereas in the western part infiltration takes place. The ecological consequence of this hydrological pattern is reflected by the pattern in reedland communities. In the seepage area, which is characterized by Thelypteris-reedlands including many rare and endangered species (Caricion davallianae, Calthion palustris), there is a complex gradient of water types. The lime potential in the peat soil is clearly influenced by the hydrological gradient. In the ombrotrophic (poor fen) part of the gradient (containing species of Caricion curto-nigrae) the lime potentials are low and the groundwater contains low amounts of dissolved ions. The rare and endangered species (Caricion davallianae) are restricted to a small area with high lime potentials which is nourished by regional calcium-rich groundwater. High lime potentials were also measured in eutrophic reedlands influenced by brackish groundwater. Several species which generally occur in wet meadows even show a preference for this brackish environment. In a part of the seepage area succession from rich fen to poor fen and Alnus wood has taken place over a period of 40 years. This development has been caused by the diminishing amount of fresh seepage due to a lowering of the water levels in the surrounding area. The characteristics of poikilotrophic zones (contact zones between water flows) are discussed in relation to their significance for the preservation of endangered marsh species.
20038403|This study is based on a phytosociological table and a matrix of species and morphological characters. The relevs were taken along a transect in a Myrica faya-Erica arborea formation on Tenerife (Canary Islands). The analysis of the phytosociological table reveals a vegetational succession and a corresponding ecological gradient. The study of correlations between morphological and ecological data leads to the creation of groups of species with different combinations of characters, and to a discussion of the adaptive values of each character combination. The species of each group occupy similar niches.
20038404|Linear transects were used to examine the spatial structure of the vegetation in a clearing in a Quercus cerris wood in Central Italy. A grassland-margin-shrubland-woodland gradient was identified. Multivariate classification and ordination methods and pattern diversity analysis were used to detect both floristic variation and spatial organization. One of the transects shows a clear gradient of variation as a function of space, crossing the floristically and structurally most heterogeneous part of the clearing. For the detailed analysis of this transect a sectorization is achieved. Each sector is characterized according to its floristic types and to the internal spatial organization. The pieces of information derived from the different analyses were concordant. In particular, the validity of the floristic types in the qualification of the different forms of spatial organization is confirmed.
20038405|The phenological patterns of 9 woody species that are common components of Kalahari Sand communities were observed over a period of 32 months. The observations were made on plants adjacent to the soil moisture study sites which have been described earlier (Childes & Walker 1987). A pre-rain flush was noted in the 2 shrub/small tree species Ochna pulchra and Terminalia sericea. Leaf fall in all species was related to a decrease in soil moisture and minimum temperature. The rooting habits and other adaptations of the species resulted in a sequential leaf fall in the communities. Open woodland and scrub species such as Pterocarpus angolensis showed a generally synchronised pre-rain flowering, while the closed woodland species e.g. Baikiaea plurijuga had protracted asynchronous flowering periods. Fruit ripening generally occurred in the dry season when conditions were ideal for fruit and seed dispersal.
20038406|This paper reviews the ecological effects of tree uprooting. In many forests, disturbance by uprooting is the primary means of maintaining species richness and diversity. Treefall may be due to exogenous factors or it may be endogenously created, although the former predominate. The canopy gap formed by downed trees is often vital to community vegetation dynamics and successional pathways, by providing high light niches (gaps) for pioneer species, by encouraging release of suppressed, shade-tolerant saplings, and through recruitment of new individuals. Nutrient cycling may be affected by uprooting as subsoil materials are brought to the surface, via additions of woody debris to the forest floor, through exposure of bare mineral soil, and by changes in throughfall chemistry. The influence of the resultant pit/mound microtopography on understorey herb distribution is largely due to microclimatic and microtopographic variation. Tree seedling distribution, however, is related to microtopography primarily through differences in soil morphology, nutrition, and moisture content of mound and pit sites.
20038407|Vegetation data from an experiment on the impact of sewage sludge on woodland vegetation dynamics are analysed by ordination to examine the reaction of a forest community to sludge disturbance. Two different kinds of vegetational response are discussed in relation to horizontal patchiness of vegetation. It is suggested that the species-poor component of the vegetation mosaic observed reveals quicker recovery from sludge disturbance than the species-rich component, which is characterized by a more complicated network of interspecific relations. A high correlation between plot-scores on the first ordination axis and sludge dose is found, indicating that in the altered community the main vegetational gradient reflects the intensity of disturbance. An attempt is made to interpret the main gradients of vegetational variation in terms of ecological indicator values of species. It is concluded that the modified competitive ability of species in a changed environment plays the most important role in building up a new community structure.
20038408|Season of fire have marked effects on the germination and establishment of serotinous shrubs of the family Proteaceae in fynbos vegetation. To investigate reasons for this, we simulated the effects of different fire seasons by planting seeds into cleared fynbos and then followed their progress. Four species of Proteaceae were planted monthly at four sites over two and a half years. Exclosures were used to exclude rodent seed predators. Germination was confined largely to the three winter months (June-Aug.). Seeds planted from January-June had higher germination than those planted in the second half of the year. Higher levels of regeneration noted after fires in the first half of the year, were previously hypothesised to be results of predation. However, we obtained similar results despite the exclusion of seed predators. Monthly minimum temperature was strongly correlated with germination percentage but monthly rainfall was not. Loss of seed viability may be important, in determining post-fire seedling densities. Differential seedling mortality of earlier and late germinants appears to be unimportant in determining establishment levels. Our results nevertheless support the current practice of restricting management fires in fynbos to the summer-autumn period.
20038413|A procedure for monitoring plant community change was described using data from 189 quadrats (each 0.09 m in area) from or near 11 Carex exserta meadow sites in the high Sierra Nevada, California, USA. Initially the quadrats were agglomerated into five clusters by the flexible clustering strategy (beta = -0.25) with the standard absolute distance resemblance function. Data for each quadrat were cover percentages for C. exserta, other plants, litter, soil, gravel, and rock. The five clusters appeared to define a cover gradient, from quadrats with mostly gravel and rock to those with mostly C. exserta, and were accordingly designated pioneer, low seral, mid-seral, high seral, and climax. Classification functions (from discriminant analysis) are used with values of the variables to classify individual quadrats on sites used to monitor change. A site is characterized at repeated observations by the proportions of quadrats in each class. Within-class (low seral vs. low seral) rather than between-class (pioneer vs. low seral) tests are made for presence of change. Confidence intervals for differences in proportions of quadrats or individual quadrat probabilities of class membership are computed. If the confidence intervals do not cover zero, values for time one versus time two differ significantly.
20038414|Structural aspects of the shortgrass steppe plant community, functional groups, and species populations were examined in response to long-term heavy grazing and exclosure from grazing, contiguous wet or dry years, and an environmental gradient of topography. Of the three factors, relatively greater differences in community similarity were observed between catena positions, particularly on the ungrazed treatments. Grazing was intermediate between catena position and short-term weather in shaping plant community structure. Grazed treatments and ridgetops had a less variable species composition through fluctuations in weather. An increase with grazing of the dominant, heavily grazed species was observed. Basal cover and density of total species was also greater on grazed sites. The more uniform grazing lawn structure of the grazed plant communities had an influence on segregation of plant populations along topographical gradients. Segregation was less on grazed catenas, but diversity and the abundance of introduced and opportunistic-colonizer species was also less. Although the shortgrass steppe community was relatively invariant, less abundant species were dynamic and interactions occurred with respect to grazing, weather, and catena position. The effects of grazing may be mitigated by favourable growing seasons but magnified in unfavorable years in populations that are adapted to favorable sites. Grazing can be considered a disturbance at the level of the individual but it may or may not be a disturbance at the level of the population, and it is not a disturbance at the level of the community in this particular grassland.
20038415|Permanent quadrats in granite outcrop plant communities allowed us to monitor seasonal variation and annual fluctuation in community structure. Seasonal species turn-over was significant in communities on shallow soil, but not in communities on deeper soil where seasonal dominance shifts were common. Exceptional meteorological events appeared to mediate phenomena of competitive release in some island communities. A decrease in the abundance of Arenaria uniflora in Lichen-annual island communities, following a spring drought, was correlated with an increase in the abundance of Sedum smallii, a shallower-soil species. Richness in Annual-perennial island communities was higher in spring 1985 than in 1984 or 1986, and this occurred as the dominant species, Senecio tomentosus, temporarily declined in importance following a severe drought in late summer 1984. Significant annual fluctuation in the cover of Viguiera porteri could also be related to variations in the summer precipitation regime. Overall, plant responses to drought were individualistic and depended largely on the timing of these meteorological events in relation to the life-stages and/or the physiological status of the plants.
20038416|Cinder cones in Craters of the Moon National Monument in southcentral Idaho, USA were formed over 2200 yr B.P., but are still covered by large, relatively barren areas containing a sparse assemblage of plants. The spatial associations among 6 plant species on these sparsely vegetated areas were examined. All species were positively associated with the canopy region of Eriogonum ovalifolium var. depressum, an initial colonizer. All species were negatively associated with Pinus flexilis, a later-successional species. We examined soil seed densities and N and P levels under canopies of the 6 species to develop testable explanations for positive plant associations with E. ovalifolium. Soil seed densities of Phacelia hastata and Lewisia rediviva were higher under canopies of E. ovalifolium than under 4 of the 5 other species and bare areas. Soil total N under E. ovalifolium canopies was also higher than under 4 of the 5 other species and bare areas. Soil seed densities and N levels were similar under E. ovalifolium and Eriogonum umbellatum, both of which had dense, prostrate canopies. Soil available P levels under E. ovalifolium were not significantly different than under other species or bare ground. The positive associations of all species with E. ovalifolium is likely the result of seed-trapping by its prostrate canopy and more favorable establishment conditions under its canopy. The relative importance of these potential mechanisms can be tested with field experiments.
20038417|The present study was designed to investigate the relative importance of biotic versus abiotic factors in determining the distribution of species among heterogeneous environments. The composition of 70 quadrats of 0.25-m, located in a 13-m  40-m region of a mown field in Durham, North Carolina, was defined through two sets of principal component scores representing soil and vegetation gradients in the study area. The first principal component in each of the analyses exhibited a monotonic increase in value along an elevational gradient characterizing the field. This represents a one-dimensional correlation structure between the background soil and vegetation variables. Secondary soil and vegetation gradients, represented by the remaining principal component axes, were for the most part uncorrelated. Regression analyses were used to study the relationships coupling the distribution of Danthonia sericea, a bunchgrass species, to the distribution of associated soil and vegetation gradients. The correlation of the distribution of Danthonia to the dominant soil/vegetation gradient was highly significant. In addition, strong, secondary correlations with the background vegetation remained after removal of variance associated with soil composition; the converse was, in general, not true. One exception involved a minor zinc gradient that exhibited a negative correlation with the distribution of Danthonia. A strong correlation was found coupling an interaction term associated with the primary soil/vegetation gradient to the distribution of Danthonia. The results suggest that the present distribution of Danthonia is modified to a large extent by competitive interactions with other plant species. However, the relative significance of the soil-by-vegetation interaction term also indicates that soil composition must be explicitly considered to properly understand the role of biotic interactions. Any one factor, biotic or abiotic, may modify the distribution of a species, but the way in which it modifies the distribution will depend directly upon the composition of the other factors making up the biotic and abiotic, environmental background.
20038418|The phenology of 70 shrub species occurring in 5-, 25- and 60-yr old forest fallows, developed after slash and burn agriculture in north-eastern India, was studied. The early successional shrubs were largely deciduous with predominant leaf fall during the dry winter, while late successional shrubs were evergreen and with a less pronounced leaf fall pattern; the species in the 25-yr old fallow were largely of the leaf-exchanging-evergreen type. Peak leaf production, flowering and fruiting are delayed by one month in the 60-yr old fallow. The phenological separation of the growth types in the three fallows is discussed and related to possible micro-environmental differences.
20038423|The Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) or 'greenness index', based on the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) aboard the NOAA-7 satellite, has been widely interpreted as a measure of regional to global vegetation patterns. This study provides the first rigorous, quantitative evaluation of global relationships between the NDVI and geographically representative vegetation data-bases, including field metabolic measurements and carbon-balance results from global simulation models. Geographic reliability of the NDVI is judged by comparing NDVI values for different surface types with a general global trend and by statistical analysis of relationships to biomass amounts, net and gross primary productivity, and actual evapotranspiration. NDVI data appear to be relatively reliable predictors of primary productivity except in areas of complex terrain, for seasonal values at high latitudes, and in extreme deserts. The strength of the NDVI-productivity relationship seems comparable to that of earlier climate-based productivity models. Little consistent relationship was found, across different vegetation types, between NDVI and biomass amounts or net biospheric CO flux.
20038424|We examined the use of Landsat multispectral scanner (MSS) data to provide preliminary information on broad vegetation types present within nature reserves in the wheatbelt region of Western Australia. We analysed Landsat data for an area of natural vegetation for which ground survey and aerial photographic data are available. We used canonical variate analysis to examine the degree of spectral separation between training sites selected in the main structural vegetation types. The training classes were then grouped into spectral classes and an allocation procedure used to map the pixels in the reserve into these classes. The analysis provided a good correspondence between spectral classes and broad vegetation types recognised from aerial photography, but did not discriminate between differences in dominant species (e.g. between different types of Eucalypt woodland). The classification derived from the study reserve was then applied successfully to two nearby reserves, indicating that the data can be used to provide initial information on the broad vegetation types present in wheatbelt reserves, although it is not suitable for finer resolution studies.
20038425|The spatial heterogeneity of populations and communities plays a central role in many ecological theories, for instance the theories of succession, adaptation, maintenance of species diversity, community stability, competition, predator-prey interactions, parasitism, epidemics and other natural catastrophes, ergoclines, and so on. This paper will review how the spatial structure of biological populations and communities can be studied. We first demonstrate that many of the basic statistical methods used in ecological studies are impaired by autocorrelated data. Most if not all environmental data fall in this category. We will look briefly at ways of performing valid statistical tests in the presence of spatial autocorrelation. Methods now available for analysing the spatial structure of biological populations are described, and illustrated by vegetation data. These include various methods to test for the presence of spatial autocorrelation in the data: univariate methods (all-directional and two-dimensional spatial correlograms, and two-dimensional spectral analysis), and the multivariate Mantel test and Mantel correlogram; other descriptive methods of spatial structure: the univariate variogram, and the multivariate methods of clustering with spatial contiguity constraint; the partial Mantel test, presented here as a way of studying causal models that include space as an explanatory variable; and finally, various methods for mapping ecological variables and producing either univariate maps (interpolation, trend surface analysis, kriging) or maps of truly multivariate data (produced by constrained clustering). A table shows the methods classified in terms of the ecological questions they allow to resolve. Reference is made to available computer programs.
20038426|Vegetation pattern on avalanche paths in the Nordkette Mountains near Innsbruck (Tyrol, Austria) was studied using transect sampling. The plant communities represent a gradient from alpine grassland (Seslerio-Caricetum sempervirentis, via grassland with Trisetum distichophyllum) and nutrient-poor grassland (Carlino-Caricetum sempervirentis) to an avalanche grassland proper. Along this gradient disturbance decreases from higher to lower elevations. The topography of the avalanche path suggests a gradient from the central zone to the edge of the path, although a floristic zonation or grouping of species across the path cannot be detected. Disturbance and local topography are the dominant factors for the vegetation pattern on the avalanche paths investigated.
20038427|Mud from a car driving more than 15 000 km in the growing season of 1986 in the area surrounding Gttingen (FRG) was sampled systematically to assess the size and nature of the car-borne flora. The sludge from front and back mudguards, wheels and other lower parts of the car was set out for germination in a greenhouse. Until the end of 1987, 124 plant species with a total of 3926 seedlings were identified and counted. Germination success was significantly related to the sampling date, the front or back position of the car and the influence of low temperature during exposure. The nature of this potentially car-dispersed flora was compared with the local flora as a whole as well as the flora and plant communities of road verges in the studied area. It can be supposed that almost all plant species growing in plant communities along roadsides can be carried by cars and therefore belong to the car-dispersed flora.
20038428|Indirect gradient analysis, or ordination, is primarily a method of exploratory data analysis. However, to support biological interpretations of resulting axes as vegetation gradients, or later confirmatory analyses and statistical tests, these axes need to be stable or at least robust into minor sampling effects. We develop a computer-intensive bootstrap (resampling) approach to estimate sampling effects on solutions from nonlinear ordination. We apply this approach to simulated data and to three forest data sets from North Carolina, USA and examine the resulting patterns of local and global instability in detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) solutions. We propose a bootstrap coefficient, scaled rank variance (SRV), to estimate remaining instability in species ranks after rotating axes to a common global orientation. In analysis of simulated data, bootstrap SRV was generally consistent with an equivalent estimate from repeated sampling. In an example using field data SRV, bootstrapped DCA showed good recovery of the order of common species along the first two axes, but poor recovery of later axes. We also suggest some criteria to use with the SRV to decide how many axes to retain and attempt to interpret.
20038429|Data from 300 forest stands, scattered over 29 states within the eastern North American deciduous forest, were subjected to detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN) in an effort to identify classifiable units. Most species are widespread which provide a great deal of continuity in the vegetation. The deciduous forest can be divided into three forest regions: (1) northern, (2) central and (3) southern. The northern region corresponds to the hemlock-white pine-northern hardwood forest of Braun (1950). The central region includes the beech-maple and oak-hickory forests. The beech-maple as identified here includes the mixed mesophytic, beech-maple, maple-basswood and about half of the western mesophytic forests of Braun (1950). The oak-hickory includes Braun's oak-hickory, oak-chestnut and about half of the western mesophytic forests. The southern region coincides with the southern mixed hardwood forests.
20038430|The relationship of environmental and soil-nutrient variables with the floristic composition of Empetrum rubrum heathlands and related communities from northern Tierra del Fuego were studied by means of ordination techniques. A floristic gradient was found which had its axis of major variation closely related to a gradient in soil trophic status. Increases in the densities of Empetrum and other cushion plants (Bolax gummifera, Azorella lycopodioides, Pernettya pumila) along the floristic gradient were: (a) associated with a lower number of species and total cover, and greater soil erosion; (b) positively correlated with the C/N ratio and aluminium content in the soil; and (c) negatively correlated with pH, calcium content and base saturation. Climate, lithology, habitat exposure, and the history of human activity would be key factors in developing the oligotrophic conditions that favoured the establishment of different Empetrum heathlands.
20038434|The development of numerical syntaxonomy during its first 20 yr is reviewed. The use of methods of numerical classification and ordination is the dominating feature of the development. National and local phytosociological data banks were established, large data sets handled and many important vegetation monographs were methodically based on multivariate data analysis. Particularly the development in Italy, the Netherlands, Czechoslovakia, and Sweden contributed to new theoretical elements of numerical syntaxonomy. Ordination became a common tool of searching for reticulate synsystematic relations between community types. The most popular ordination techniques have been Principal Components Analysis and Detrended Correspondence Analysis. Hierarchical agglomerative techniques of clustering still prevail in classification, although the divisive strategy of TWINSPAN has also become an effective tool for phytosociological clustering and table sorting. Extensive program packages, also for personal computers have now become standard equipment for many vegetation scientists.
20038435|As vegetation science develops its formalized methodology increased in importance. At the beginning of the century traditional European schools of phytosociology applied an intuitive classification and ordering scheme to establish vegetation units. The introduction of computer-supported data analysis into vegetation science accelerated the formalization. The present paper presents a formal outline for phytosociology and community analysis. In this scheme we distinguish different 'data states' which are connected by active data handling. Data sampling and subsequent analysis can be understood as filtering processes, making theoretical assumptions in vegetation science very important. The model implied provides a basis for discussing potential problems and possibilities in vegetation science.
20038436|The individualistic concept of vegetation is based on three principles: (1) vegetation continuum, (2) ecological and chorological individuality of species and (3) multidimensional variability of vegetation. All principles reflect phenomena existing in nature. The conclusions arising from these principles are these: (1) plant communities (phytocoenoses) are not natural objects (wholes) as such but merely mixtures of plant individuals coexisting on the same site as the result of migration and environmental selection, (2) the classification of vegetation is quite arbitrary if not pseudoscientific, and (3) vegetation phenomena can be reduced to phenomena of plant individuals. The integrated concept of vegetation considers the phytocoenoses as real functional systems (wholes) where plant populations are integrated both by the environment and by interactions among and within plant populations. The principles of the individualistic concept, but not the above conclusions arising from them, are compatible with the integrated concept. Phytocoenoses limit the individualistic performance of species through restriction of ecological amplitudes and shifting of ecological optima (as compared with physiological amplitudes and optima). The individualistic behaviour of species does not exclude the formation of coenological groups of species which form a basis for the classification of vegetation according to floristic-coenological criteria. Under natural conditions, plant communities are usually interconnected by transition zones to form a vegetation continuum. Phenomena of the vegetation continuum do not cause greater difficulties in syntaxonomy than those of polymorphic taxonomic groups in plant taxonomy.
20038437|Although there are many measures of similarity existing in the phytosociological literature, these almost all apply to data for which the describing attributes have only single values. In many cases, however, there can be a richer structure in the attribute values, either directly from the nature of the attributes or derived from relationships between the stands. In this paper, I first examine a range of possible sources of such structure in phytosociological data, and then propose a similarity measure sufficiently general to be applicable to all the variant types. Finally I present some examples of applying such measures to frequency data from tropical grasslands and to successional data from subtropical rain forest.
20038438|Sixteen clustering methods are compatible with the general recurrence equation of combinatorial SAHN (sequential, agglomerative, hierarchical and nonoverlapping) classificatory strategies. These are subdivided into two classes: the d-SAHN methods seek for minimal between-cluster distances the h-SAHN strategies for maximal within-cluster homogeneity. The parameters and some basic features of all combinatorial methods are listed to allow comparisons between these two families of clustering procedures. Interest is centred on the h-SAHN techniques; the derivation of updating parameters is presented and the monotonicity properties are examined. Three new strategies are described, a weighted and an unweighted variant of the minimization of the increase of average distance within clusters and a homogeneity-optimizing flexible method. The performance of d- and h-SAHN techniques is compared using field data from the rock grassland communities of the Sashegy Nature Reserve, Budapest, Hungary.
20038439|Grammars provide a means of generating large amounts of variability from relatively small resources, and seem especially relevant when the variation to be modelled is discontinuous since they describe the organisation symbols from some alphabet. In order to use grammars, it is desirable that they be inferred from observational data, and we present three examples of such inference. Two involve temporal successions, while the third is based on spatial transects of aquatic vegetation in wetlands in Victoria, Australia. The temporal successions were adequately represented by simpler regular grammars, suggesting that the processes involved may be modelled in a relatively simple manner. The spatial data requires a context-free grammar, reflecting the greater complexity of the spatial series, the uniqueness of each site, and the difficulties of modelling parallel systems with serial models. Examining the grammars further leads to some suggestions concerning the features of them which are important for ecological interpretation. It further leads to a novel view of the nature of groups in classification.
20038440|Often, manually and numerically derived phytosociological classifications yield different results. Hitherto, a twostep procedure has been suggested in which numerical analysis of the data is followed by the revision of the resulting table (c.f. van der Maarel 1982). In this paper a new methodology is presented which makes manual refinements superfluous. Objectives are derived from phytosociological paradigms and conclusions drawn for the analytical process. The problems to be solved are: data transformation, detection of outliers, selection of clustering methods, checking within-group diversity, analysis of the resulting group structure, rearrangement of relevs and species within the groups, and finally the selection of differential species. The method has been derived using the well known example of Ellenberg (Mueller-Dombois & Ellenberg 1974). The results almost perfectly reproduce the intuitively widely accepted manual refinements in structure and presentation. A test with plant sociological data from Swiss forests (Ellenberg & Kltzli 1972) proves that the method can also classify complex gradient- and group systems and that the numerical result matches Landolt's (1977) system of indicator values. Since the solutions can be exactly reproduced, it is no longer necessary to combine numerical analysis with additional editing.
20038441|Ruderal communities dominated by Onopordum acanthium are encountered in those regions of Europe with a dry and continental climate. Variability in the climate and local phytogeography within these regions is reflected in the floristic variability of the communities studied. A floristic cline within the communities was summarised by means of multivariate classification and ordination methods. Two associations distributed in temperate Europe and belonging to the Onopordetalia, the Onopordetum acanthii s.str. and Carduo acanthoidis-Onopordetum acanthii, were distinguished; The Carduo acanthoidis-Onopordetum is varied and occurs in several geographic races and sub-races. The Onopordetum acanthii s.str. is confined to deep inner-montane valleys with a continental climate. The other Onopordum acanthium communities described from Spain belong to the Scolymo hispanici-Onopordetalia nervosi.
20038442|Two sets comprising 1419 and 1350 phytosociological relevs of ruderal vegetation classified into 9 and 7 orders, respectively, from an area in the Podunajsk nina Lowland, western Slovakia were ordinated using correspondence and detrended correspondence analyses. The paper describes a coenocline of the high-ranked syntaxa contained in the data sets, and discusses some issues of the classification of the syntaxa involved. The Bidentetalia and Potentillo-Polygonetalia should be considered a special category of synanthropic vegetation as habitat moisture (flooding and waterlogging) play the controlling role in the formation of structural and dynamical patterns within these communities. The latter factor complex is responsible for the clear separation of these orders from the other syntaxa included in the ordinations. The coenocline of terrestrial ruderal vegetation units has the following sequence along the CA axis 1: Poo-Polygonetalia, Sisymbrietalia, Eragostrietalia, Onopordetalia, Agropyretalia repentis, Artemisietalia vulgaris and Glechometalia hederaceae. Various complexes of soil factors and anthropogenic disturbance are operational along the concatenation (a series of portions composing the coenocline). The factor complex includes soil compaction, trampling disturbance, nutrient status, soil texture and moisture, and solar irradiation. Step-by-step ordination and interpretation of concatenated portions of the coenocline proved to be useful in the analysis of complex data sets.
20038443|Cluster analysis, correspondence analysis and the method of ecological profiles were used to determine and characterize ecological species groups in woodlands in South Belgium. Two data sets were used, one composed of 260 relevs, the other of 130 relevs with soil analyses (A1). Correspondence analysis points out the most important factors influencing the floristic composition of the stations.
20038444|Within a broader study of the chalk and limestone grasslands in Belgium, Luxemburg and northern France, the limestone grasslands of the Meuse valley in Belgium and in French Lorraine were investigated. Floristic data as well as environmental variables were taken into account for the delimitation of species and relev groups. Discriminant analysis and canonical correlation analysis proved to be very helpful in the interpretation of the detected groups as well as for the reconsideration of interrelationships between recognised syntaxa. The present results are consistent with the hypothesis that the limestone grasslands in French Lorraine, even those previously assigned to the Xerobromion, belong to the Mesobromion, and that the limestone grasslands in Belgium belong either to the Mesobromion or to the Xerobromion in an impoverished form.
20038445|Relevs of Isoetid vegetation from 60 lakes in southern Sweden have been classified with the help on numerical methods. A community system is constructed, at the variant level by clustering with the TABORD program, and at the community and subcommunity levels by reference to traditional floristic characteristics. The diagnostic species were selected with the help of PCA. Isotes lacustris, Lobelia dortmanna and Littorella uniflora determined the community composition together with Eleocharis acicularis. The differentation of the syntaxa along the first three ordination axes of a PCA was clear. The complex water depth factor determines clearly the position of the small syntaxa (variants) in the PCA ordination space. At high levels of similarity the relevs were grouped effectively with the TABORD program, so that the clusters are floristically homogeneous and easy to identify on the basis of floristic-sociological criteria. At higher syntaxon levels a selective use of diagnostic species was made.
20038446|Mangal (tidal forest) communities vary with respect to position in the littoral sequence, and latitude. A previous classification of mangal from the southern and western coastlines of Australia has been subjected to a series of ordinations, in an attempt to produce a robust syntaxonomy. An iterative ordination process allowed for the progressive refinement of the syntaxonomic units. This process allows an ecologist to use critically a numerical technique to refine ecological assumptions developed from field work, and/or non-numerical analyses. Ordination analysis suggested a need for the classification to be refined, and allowed the construction of a final syntaxonomy. In conjunction with broad environmental data collected during the investigation, the ordinations allowed the development of some environmental perspectives. These suggested that littoral position is a stronger environmental influence on mangal communities than balance between salt and freshwater.
20038447|Cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling are used to revise the syntaxonomy of the Fagion illyricum alliance based on presence/absence data. The operational syntaxonomical units are associations and subassociations as suggested in the literature. The results of principal coordinates analysis and nonmetric multidimensional scaling are fairly congruent, whereas some differences occur between the dendrograms obtained by complete linkage and incremental sum of squares clustering. However, a joint evaluation of ordinations and the consensus classification derived from the cluster analysis results facilitates a meaningful revision of the formerly accepted division of the alliance. New low-level syntaxa, and some new names, including Aremonio-Fagion to replace the invalid alliance name of Fagion illyricum, are proposed and the removal of four associations from the alliance is suggested.
20038448|The tall-forb and tall-grass subalpine and alpine vegetation belonging to the Mulgedio-Aconitetea from the Tatra Mountains was subjected to reclassification with Complete Linkage Clustering. The communities are classified into 3 alliances: Adenostylion, Calamagrostion villosae and Trisetion fusci. It was concluded that the orders Adenostyletalia and Calamagrostietalia villosae should be fused into one unit. Synecological relations of the communities was clarified using a series of Detrended Correspondence Analyses.
20038449|Vegetation and environment have been analyzed along an altitudinal gradient in Harena Forest, Bale Mountains National Park, southeastern Ethiopia. Vegetation data include numbers of each tree and shrub species and cover-abundance values of each herbaceous species. Environmental data comprise edaphic factors, altitude and topography. The two vegetation layers data were analysed separately. Probabilistic similarity coefficients were computed between the relevs, and these values were used in subsequent computations for classification and ordination. Two sets of stratocoena, comprising 6 types each, derived on the basis of separate analyses of tree-shrub and herb layers of the forest were recognised. A combination of the two sets of stratocoena produced a total of 11 vegetation types. Environmental fuzzy set analysis was applied to determine the strength of the relationship of the relevs to the environmental factors. Autocorrelation analysis was applied to the eigenvectors of probabilistic similarity matrices and environmental data. Altitude appears to be more important than the other environmental factors in controlling the zonation of the forest. Other important environmental influences on the vegetation include pH, organic matter content and texture of the soil. It is suggested that the whole forest be included in the National Park to create suitable conditions for adequate protection.
20038450|A vegetational transect across a glacial valley was investigated. Structure and species composition, as well as influence of disturbance by biotic factors (grazing of sheep and cattle) and abiotic factors (topography, wind, water) are discussed. According to species composition and community structure, 4 main vegetation types were distinguished by comparing field data from phytosociological relevs with results of numerical treatments (3 methods of numerical classification and DCA ordination): 1) Chamaesciadium acaule-Polygonum viviparum, 2) Festuca cf. woronowii-Carex tristis, 3) Veratrum lobelianum-Taraxacum stevenii and 4) Rhododendron caucasicum-Vaccinium myrtillus communities. Species diversity (evenness, and number of species) was low in the ungrazed dwarf-shrub alpine communities, which were dominated by Rhododendron caucasicum, in comparison with the grazed meadow. The highest values of these characteristics were found in the transitions among the types.
20038451|The phytogeography of a treeline Salix pulchra community from the northern Yukon is studied by means of classification and ordination on a matrix of species and Operational Geographic Units. The basic data were obtained from the global distributions of the species. Results suggest that this community is an example of pre-glacial treeline vegetation which survived in ice-free areas within ancient Beringia.
20038456|Cover-abundance estimates are commonly employed in phytosociological investigations to record the performance of species. Because the coded values are on an ordinal scale of measure, various authors have suggested that some transformation is necessary before such values can be used for classification and ordination. However, it is not clear that transformation is a sufficient treatment, and it would seem preferable to use ordinal data directly. In this paper we examine such direct use of partial rankings and show that several dissimilarity measures can be defined for this case without invoking any transformations. They include dissimilarity measures associated with various rank correlation measures and with distances between strings; all the measure are variant forms of Hausdorf's interset distance. Certain other kinds of data, such as those employing dominant and subdominant species and the dry-weight-rank estimation of biomass, are also on an ordinal scale and could be analysed using similar techniques. To illustrate the approach, a string dissimilarity measure is used to analyse a set of data from Slovakian grasslands which appear to reflect a simple gradient. The original data were recorded with 10 classes of performance and are analysed using hierarchical and nondeterministic, overlapping, classifications.
20038457|Detrended correspondence analysis was used to study the relationships between environmental factors and the species composition of vegetation on Zambezi River alluvium downstream of the Kariba hydroelectric dam. Grass, sedge and woody species were recorded in 73 stands in Mana Pools National Park, Zimbabwe. Grass and sedge species composition was related to the soil moisture regime, as indexed by soil texture and flooding frequency. The first woody plant ordination axis was related to a stand development gradient; Acacia albida was a pioneer species on lowlying sandbanks and the woody species richness of stands increased with their height above the Zambezi River. Two-way indicator species analysis identified 7 vegetation types which could be separated on the basis of their topsoil texture and flooding frequency. The types were: sandbanks; young A. albida woodland; A. albida woodland; A. albida dominated mixed woodland; mixed riverine woodland with understory; mixed riverine woodland; and grassland on clay soils.
20038458|Three methodological approaches were combined to assess the population dynamics of woody species, particularly birch, growing along the shores of the Dallven river in eastern central Sweden. 1) Seed rain, seed bank and seedling densities were estimated to document the current recruitment potential. 2) Seed burial experiments were performed and artificial gaps in the field layer created to obtain additional information on germination and establishment processes. 3) Age distributions were used for retrospective interpretation of woody species successions. The zonation of the vegetation along transects from wet meadow into forest cannot be interpreted as a chronosequence. Storm gap formation, water level regulation and cessation of hay-making in the past were followed by episodic colonisation and regeneration of several woody species. Although birch seed rain is most abundant close to parent trees and the half-life of the birch seed bank increases with decreasing submersion, seedlings occur abundantly everywhere along the transects. Seedling mortality, however, is 100% and the current environmental conditions in the wet meadows and in the forest do not allow any establishment. Long-lasting submersion, shading by trees and interference by species from the field layer hampered or prevented birch establishment.
20038459|Modern botanical idiotaxonomy and syntaxonomy have both common and differing features. The common features are a pragmatic approach and an accent on conditional units, especially the species and the association. The differing features are in the nature of organismic and the coenotic levels of life. Taxonomy is based on a stronger genetical and phylogenetical relationship between taxa, which are thus not quite artifical and the scope of the species concept is roughly the same all over the world. The hierarchy in taxonomy reflects a phylogeny at least to some extent. The basis of syntaxonomy is entirely conventional owing to the continuous nature of vegetation. As a result, the scope of the association concept varies with different national schools, and the hierarchy in syntaxonomy is of a pragmatical, at best of an ecological nature.
20038460|Forest compositional patterns in Yosemite National Park, California, were related to environmental factors through numerical classification of forest types, arrangement of forest types along elevational and topographic gradients, and development of regression models relating basal area of common tree species to environmental variables. The eight forest types are differentiated primarily by elevation zone and secondarily by topographic setting. Lower montane forests (1200-1900 m) were divided into the Abies concolor/Calocedrus type occurring primarily on mesic sites and the Pinus ponderosa/Calocedrus type predominantly on xeric sites. Upper montane forests (1900-2500 m) included the Abies concolor/Abies magnifica type on mesic sites, the Abies magnifica/Pinus type on somewhat more xeric sites, and Juniperus occidentalis/Pinus jeffreyi woodlands on granitic domes. Subalpine forests (2500-3300 m) embraced three types: Tsuga mertensiana/Pinus forests on mesic sites, monotypic Pinus contorta forests on drier sites, and Pinus albicaulis/Pinus contorta groves at treeline. Regression models consistently included elevation and soil magnesium content as explanatory variables of species basal area totals. The two Abies spp. were negatively correlated with soil magnesium levels, whereas other montane species (e.g. Calocedrus decurrens, Pinus lambertiana, and Pinus ponderosa) exhibited positive correlation with soil magnesium. Topography and soil physical properties were only infrequently incorporated into species regression models.
20038461|The observed northern limit of the deciduous forest formation in North America is shown to agree closely with the reported -40 C average annual minimum temperature isotherm. This indicates that super-cooling as a means of resisting freezing stresses may set a physiological limit on the northern expansion of the deciduous forest formation.
20038462|Multivariate analyses of vegetation data have been restricted to a single scale of sampling, or multiscale sampling has been restricted to a single species. However, vegetation scientists need to be able to explore spatial relationships of many species over many scales. We present a modification of Noy-Meir & Anderson's (1971) method of multiscale ordination by summing two-term local covariance matrices and smoothing the component profiles. The advantages of our method are: 1) results are less subject to the starting position of the transect, 2) matrices may be added at any block size, and 3) plots of factor scores are smoothed by a moving weighted average to better reveal patterns at a prescribed scale. This procedure provides statistical associations of species over a range of scales. The scales which exhibit the association to the maximum extent are then determined from multiscale ordination. The relationships of different associations and their scales can then be examined. The application of the method to fabricated data proved successful in recovering the structure built into the data. When used on real vegetation data, from a community and a landscape, the method revealed the details of species associations over a range of scales, and of the relationships among associations.
20038463|A graphical method of analyzing the spatial pattern of macrofungal species in beech forests is described. Species response curves are investigated both from the qualitative (presence/absence) and from the quantitative (log fruit-body number) variation of each species. The approach was applied to 49 macrofungal species, of which 34 were significantly related to certain pattern models. Macrofungi exhibit characteristic response curves along a one-dimensional mull/mor gradient. Also species with a relatively scarce occurrence have the potential to show significant patterns. Graphical tests of the qualitative and quantitative variation were used to provide a better description of the probability of a species to be present on certain sites.
20038464|Size and age structure, spatial analysis, and disturbance history were used to analyse the population structures and regeneration patterns of 8 conifer stands in the central western Cascade Range, Oregon, USA. Variation in forest structure reflected the effects of frequent (20-50 yr) low-intensity fires and treefalls, infrequent (100-200 yr) localised, intense fires, and extensive fires that resulted in stand replacement (every ca 400 yr?). The amount of canopy removed and the size of openings formed by fires and treefalls were important determinants of subsequent forest establishment. Single or several species stands of Pseudotsuga and/or Abies procera, or mixed species stands of Pseudotsuga, Abies procera, Tsuga heterophylla and Abies amabilis established in openings where intense fires had removed most of the canopy trees over several ha. Multi-tiered and multi-aged stands, often containing 400-500 yr-old Pseudotsuga and variously-sized more or less even-aged patches of younger shade tolerant Tsuga heterophylla and/or Abies amabilis, occurred where lower-intensity fires did not kill all overstorey trees or where treefalls occurred after the initial fire. Current regeneration processes are influenced by overstorey composition, the availability and size of canopy openings, and the availability of substrates suitable for regeneration. Tsuga heterophylla and Abies amabilis established under Pseudotsuga menziesii and Abies procera canopies and in small canopy openings (&lt 400
20038469|Herb and shrub layer vegetation was surveyed in the oak-pine upland forest of the Pine Barrens region of New Jersey (USA). To describe spatial distributions of individual species, 15 4
20038470|Diversity was studied in 10 communities, including the understory of native oak woodland, planted woodlands (pine and eucalypt), and shrublands in the strict sense (heathlands, broom shrublands, gorse shrublands). In each community, species richness, diversity, dominance and evenness were analysed. Differences were observed among communities with regard to species composition, richness in annual herbs, perennial herbs and shrubs, dominant plant families (Ericaceae, Papilionaceae) and diversification of shrub species. The possible relations between environmental stress and/or human influences on differences in diversity are discussed.
20038471|The seasonal dynamics of forest floor biomass, pattern of litter fall and nutrient return in Central Himalayan oak forests are described. Fresh and partially decomposed litter layers occur throughout the whole year in addition to herbaceous vegetation. The highest leaf litter value is found in April and May and the minimum in September. Partially and largely decomposed litter tended to increase from January to May with a slight decline in June. The wood litter peaked in March and April. The relative contribution of partially decomposed litter to the forest floor remains greatest the year round. The maximum herbaceous vegetation development was found in September with a total annual net production of 104.3 g
20038472|Effects of climatic factors on plant distribution in the Chubu District, central Japan, were examined with direct gradient analysis. The distribution of many species was controlled not only by temperature but also by snowfall. Sasa kurilensis, Heloniopsis orientalis and Tripterospermum japonicum preferred snow regardless of the thermal conditions. The snow seemed to exert more influence on endemics than on the more widespread plants, on evergreen plants more than on deciduous plants, and on trees or shrubs more than on herbs or climbing plants. Thus, the snow factor contributes to the high endemic ratio of central Japan. Among the snow-tolerant evergreen shrubs there were many neo-endemics derived from snow-intolerant parent populations of the species which have restricted distributions in the laurel forests. They could occupy habitats in the summergreen forests, where their life form can withstand heavy snowfall. Because of the heavy snowfall on the Sea of Japan side of central Japan in the postglacial period, evergreen coniferous trees have lost many of their previous habitats since most of them are intolerant of heavy snowfall.
20038473|Simulations representing tree locations on a rectangular grid (cellular automaton) imply that spatial patterns associated with fire, seed dispersal, and the distributions of plants and resources affect forest dynamics profoundly. Simulated fires ignited at random locations in a uniform environment create non-uniform habitats and lead to patches dominated by different vegetation types. Short-range seed dispersal promotes vegetation clumping; fires cause these clumps to coalesce into vegetation zones separated by sharp borders, especially across an environmental gradient. In simulation of competition within vegetation mosaics, tree populations with a competitive advantage still require the intervention of fire to eliminate rivals. Also, the availability of local seed sources enables established tree populations to exclude invaders, but fires can trigger sudden changes in the composition of such systems. In models of simple succession systems, 'climax' vegetation tends to displace 'pioneer' vegetation, even under harsh fire regimes.
20038474|Seedling survival of Artemisia tridentata ssp. tridentata (basin big sagebrush) was studied during 1984 and 1986 on a semi-arid rangeland in central Utah, USA. Seedlings were mapped in ungrazed pastures and observed on a 10 day interval for survival. Available resource area around individual seedlings was calculated using Theissen polygons. Over 90% of the naturally-occurring seedlings occurred in polygons of 150 mm or less. Seedlings with available areas greater than 300 mm were more likely to survive than seedlings with less resource area. Differences in overall seedling survival in different study sites were noted. Survival was similar for all seedlings with less than 50 mm available area. In 1986, precipitation and seedling survival were considerably lower than in 1984. Even in 1986, however, seedling survival in polygons greater than 300 mm was always higher than for seedlings in smaller polygons. Survival patterns over each growing season closely followed the precipitation patterns. Mortality of first year Artemisia seedlings seemed to be density independent at the beginning of the growing season. Patterns of survival for seedlings in different available area classes were similar for the first 20 days after emergence. Survival rates were then consistently higher for seedlings with more than 300 mm resource area. Changes in survival rates were linked to differences in pastures and the presence of nurse plants.
20038475|The vegetation dynamics in six permanent plots in two lowland rivulets of the Federal Republic of Germany are analyzed. The year-to-year change in species cover is displayed by means of tables. In each site there are core species (both hydrophytes and helophytes) which have been able to successfully reproduce within the sampling plots over the total observation period. There are also transient hydrophytes which regularly become washed in from the upper course, and transient helophytes growing permanently into the river from the banks. A numerical analysis of the performance of the 12 most frequent and abundant hydrophytes in relation to various independent variables was carried out using canonical correspondence analysis. There is no directional temporal variation within the vegetation data set. The hydrochemical variables were almost constant within the observation period. Rainfall in summer has some influence via discharge and turbidity. Most of the variance in the data set is explained by the position of the sites along the rivers. Most of the residual variance can be explained by a binary disturbance variable. The processes observed can mostly be explained from life history characteristics of the dominant species, particulary Sparganium emersum, Ranunculus peltatus and Potamogeton natans. The spatial scale of the study site was relatively adequate. A smaller size would have produced noisy data (suggesting erratic change), while a greater size would have produced no change at all. The adequate temporal scale for observation is the comparison of the yearly maxima because of the seasonality of most of the species. An exact prediction of dominance and species composition of the following year is impossible.
20038479|Some historical notes are presented on the start and early development of the Working-Group for Data-Processing, now Working-Group for Theoretical Vegetation Science, of the International Association for Vegetation Science. One of the major outcomes of the first period of activities in the Working-Group has been the creation of a phytosociological coding and retrieval system to be used in combination with multivariate methods. One branch of classical phytosociology which could have profited much from the Working-Group's achievements, i.e. syntaxonomy, never developed fully into a numerical syntaxonomy and, in fact, it did not develop much at all over the last 20 yr. The next phase in the development of the Working Group is characterized by a strong emphasis on vegetation dynamics. First, these dynamical studies concentrated on real sequences of data from permanent plots, which were treated with the numerical methods available. Later, dynamical models started to be developed in order to predict succession and other forms of long-term vegetation dynamics, for which real data are not available. The third phase, which has been entered only recently, is characterized by an overall emphasis on vegetation theory, from which both the most appropriate choice of numerical methods in any particular case, and dynamical phenomena can be approached. Moreover, vegetation theory is of fundamental importance for the development of the plant community concept and of vegetation typology. In addition, some remarks are made on the growing need for vegetation ecology to cooperate with experimental ecophysiology and population ecology.
20038480|In order to help evaluate progress in vegetation science, we present an outline of the components of theory. Theory has both empirically and conceptually based components, and is tied together by a hierarchical framework. Theory is related to observable phenomena to further the most general goal of science, understanding. More specific tactics to advance understanding include explanation, generalization, and testing. Different components of theory permit the operation of specific tactics. Most components of theory are exemplified by one or more aspects of vegetation science. However, there are some conceptual and empirical components in need of further development. We conclude that vegetation science does in fact conform to the contemporary view of a developing theory, and that this theory can serve as a fruitful guide to research and application of concepts to the field.
20038481|A definition of vegetation science is given, spanning 6 levels of integration and stressing the interrelations among them. The problems of realism are discussed. The selection of levels is related to the adequate correspondence between conceptualization and research aims. Pattern and process are introduced as the central concepts of vegetation science. The perception of reality is dependent on the spatial and temporal scale chosen. The concept of noise is discussed in relation to stochasticity and randomness of events. Traces of essentialism are found both in classification of communities and habitat ecology. Classification is important, particularly the coexistence of alternative classification approaches. Organicism as a basis of vegetation research is rejected because the organismic view is inadequate on higher integration levels. The concept of function is redefined in a non-teleologic way. Present vegetation ecological research is inductivistic. One possible alternative to inductivism is falsificationism. The major domain of this approach is hypothesis testing, which will become more important. Progress can only be reached by a maximum degree of communication among scientific individuals. Predictive ecology is partly based on historic explanation, partly on complementary approaches. Characters of vegetation worthwhile to be predicted are listed and the necessary requirements for vegetation science to become predictive are discussed. A major requirement is the development of succession and life-history theory. A further elaboration of the individualistic concept will be a main task of vegetation science in the near future.
20038482|A reformulation of the continuum concept is presented after considering the implications of the community/continuum controversy and current niche theory. Community is a spatial concept dependent on landscape pattern while the continuum is an environmental concept referring to an abstract space. When applying niche theory to plants, the mechanisms of competition are ill-defined and the assumption of bell-shaped response curves for species unrealistic. Eight testable propositions on the pattern of response of vegetation to environmental gradients are presented 1. Environmental gradients are of two types. a) resource gradients or b) direct physiological gradients. 2. The fundamental niche response of species to resource gradients is a series of similar nested response curves. 3. The fundamental niche response of species to direct gradients is a series of separate, independent, overlapping response curves. 4. Species fundamental response curves are such that they have a relative performance advantage in some part of the environmental space. 5. The shape of the realized niche is variable even bimodal but predictable from the fundamental response given the other species present. Propositions 6-8 describe the response shapes of emergent community properties to environmental gradient; species richness is bimodal, dominance trimodal and standing crop unimodal. Detailed comparisons of these propositions are made with the alternative theories of Ellenberg, Gauch and Whittaker, Grime, and Tilman. These theories are incomplete lacking several generally accepted properties of plants and vegetation.
20038483|An individual-based model of plant competition for light that uses a definition of plant functional types based on adaptations for the simultaneous use of water and light can reproduce the fundamental spatial and temporal patterns of plant communities. This model shows that succession and zonation result from the same basic processes. Succession is interpreted as a temporal shift in species dominance, primarily in response to autogenic changes in light availability. Zonation is interpreted as a spatial shift in species dominance, primarily in response to the effect of allogenic changes in water availability on the dynamics of competition for light. Patterns of succession at different points along a moisture gradient can be used to examine changes in the ecological roles of various functional types, as well as to address questions of shifts in patterns of resource use through time. Our model is based on the cost-benefit concept that plant adaptations for the simultaneous use of two or more resources are limited by physiological and life history constraints. Three general sets of adaptive constraints produce inverse correlations in the ability of plants to efficiently use (1) light at both high and low availability, (2) water at both high and low availability, and (3) both water and light at low availabilities. The results of this type of individual-based model can be aggregated to examine phenomena at several levels of system organization (i.e., subdisciplines of ecology), including (1) plant growth responses over a range of environmental conditions, (2) population dynamics and size structure, (3) experimental and field observations on the distribution of species across environmental gradients, (4) studies of successional pattern, (5) plant physiognomy and community structure across environmental gradients, and (6) nutrient cycling.
20038484|Fuzzy systems vegetation theory is a comprehensive framework for the expression of vegetation theory and conceptual models, as well as the development of vegetation analyses. It is applicable to vegetation/environment relations, vegetation dynamics, and the effects of environmental dynamics on vegetation composition. Fuzzy systems vegetation theory is a fuzzy set generalization of dynamical systems theory and incorporates a formal logic and mathematics. This paper presents the elements of fuzzy systems vegetation theory and discusses the relationship of the fuzzy systems theory to the geometric concepts generally employed in vegetation theory.
20038485|Ecological field theory (EFT) quantifies plant spatial influences as pulsating geometric zones about individual plants. It provides the basis for a methodology to include spatial interactions between plants of different size, function and growth-form in models of plant community dynamics. The key components of EFT are: 1. the influence domain of individuals (D), 2. the field intensity within the domains (I), 3. the influence surface (ID) and 4. the intensity of interactions (II). The means to calculate these key components are outlined and several tests of the methodology as applied to a semi-arid eucalypt woodland are presented. The tests include a comparison of measured shrub growth with a computer implementation of EFT (the RESCOMP model) and spatial growth data from the eucalypt woodland to support the postulates included in EFT. Practical uses expected for the method are in agroforestry, landscape rehabilitation, simulations of disturbance effects and in determining invasibility of plant communities.
20038486|Direct gradient analysis was applied to the montane vegetation of the Mt. Field massif, Tasmania. Ecological response surface were constructed, describing the relationship between the mean % cover of each of 100 vascular plant species and two major environmental complex-gradients represented by soil drainage and altitude. The hypotheses tested were that: (1) the ecological responses of species are generally of Gaussian form; (2) the modes of 'minor' species have a uniform random distribution along gradients; (3) the modes of 'major' species are evenly distributed; (4) the frequency distribution over species of modal abundance is either lograndom or lognormal; and (5) alpha diversity has a unimodal trend along environmental gradients. The hypotheses were tested both for the full suite of vascular species and for each of five species groups defined by structural form. Hypothesis (1) was rejected: only 45% of species had response surface which appeared unimodal and symmetric. Hypotheses (2) and (4) were rejected for the full set of species, but each was supported for all but one of the structural groups. The modes of herb species were clumped, rather than random and the frequency distribution of modal percentage cover for shrubs was inconsistent with both lograndom and lognormal hypotheses. Contrary to hypothesis (3), the modes of 'major' species were randomly distributed. Although total alpha diversity had a complex trend surface, the patterns for the alpha diversities of each structural group were unimodal, in accordance with hypothesis (5). The results suggest that an adequate model of community variation along environmental gradients must take into account differences in response patterns between species groups.
20038487|The methodology of comparing the results of multivariate community studies (resemblance matrices, ordinations, hierarchical and nonhierarchical classifications) is reviewed from two viewpoints: basic strategy and measure employed. The basic strategy is determined by 7 choices concerning the type of results, consensus methods or resemblance measures, hypothesis testing or exploratory analysis, lack or presence of reference basis, data set congruence or algorithmic effects, number of factors responsible for differences among results, and the number of properties considered in the comparison. Included is a brief summary of methods applicable to vegetation studies. Examples from a grassland survey demonstrate the utility of comparisons in evaluating the effects of plot size, data type, standardization, taxonomic level and number of species on classifications and ordinations.
20038488|Detrending and non-linear axis rescaling potentially improve the accuracy of gradient recovery in correspondence analyses but also reduce the stability or consistency of solutions. Variation among bootstrapped ordination solutions was compared across methods in analyses of both field and simulated data. Solution accuracy, measured with mean squared errors from Procrustes analysis, was compared using simulated data with known structure. Standard detrending-by-segments combined with non-linear rescaling entailed some cost in solution stability, but could improve the accuracy of solutions for long gradients. Without non-linear rescaling these solutions were usually less stable and less accurate. Although detrending-by-polynomials might be preferable on other grounds, it did not produce more accurate or stable solutions than detrending-by-segments.
20038489|Individual differences scaling is a multidimensional scaling method for finding a common ordination for several data sets. An individual ordination for each data set can then be derived from the common ordination by adjusting the axis lengths so as to maximize the correlations between observed proximities and individual ordination distances. The importance of the various axes for each data set and the mutual similarities and goodness of fit for the individual data sets are described by weight plots. As an example, 46 soft-water lakes in eastern Finland are ordinated on two dimensions according to 3 chemical data sets (water in summer and autumn, sediment) and 4 biological sets (major phytoplankton groups, phytoplankton, surface sediment diatom and cladoceran assemblages). The method seems to be effective as a means of ordination for obtaining the common ordination for the data sets. The major taxonomic groups gave the ordination which differed most clearly from the ordinations of the other data sets. Phytoplankton was most poorly ordinated in all the analyses. The other data sets were fairly coherent. When only biological data sets were ordinated, the diatoms and cladocerans showed rather different patterns. It seems that the cladocerans are best correlated with water chemistry, both according to weights in the joint analysis, and according to correlation between the axes from the biological data sets and the chemical variables.
20038490|Our objective was to examine the relationships between patterns of vertical structure and species microassociations at various scales in a species-rich chalk grassland. Transect data were analyzed for species microassociations by multiscale ordination of presence data from the Gerendal Nature Reserve, The Netherlands. Results indicated microassociations at scales of 30 cm, 2 m, 3 m, and 10 or more m. The microassociations at each scale comprised different but overlapping constellations of species. For the same transect, profile photographs were taken through the vegetation against a white background, and image analysis was used to provide indices of vegetation vertical cover, height and vertical center of biomass. Pattern analysis of these data indicated a regular pattern at a scale of 3 m. Standardized cross-variograms of the patterns of microassociations and vertical structure revealed only very weak relationships, even though one microassociation pattern and the vertical structure patterns occurred at the scale of 3 m. This is because the two 3 m patterns fell in and out of phase.
20038491|A new dissimilarity measure, Uppsala dissimilarity, is proposed. It is a Manhattan-type measure in between the Canberra and Gower measures, based on the differences between scores in relevs compared, but it also takes both the sums of scores and the difference between maximum and minimum score into account. The measure is considered realistic for phytosociological material. A new optimality criterion has been developed after unsatisfactory results had been obtained with the DOL criterion (Popma et al. 1983) which was developed previously by our group. Problems with DOL were especially met when the criterion was applied to the distribution of only one species over the cluster array obtained. The new criterion takes both internal cluster homogeneity and between-cluster dissimilarity into account. Between-cluster dissimilarity is calculated for all other clusters and not only for the nearest neighbour, as in DOL. The new criterion has both an unweighted form: SOM, and a form with weighting for cluster size: SWOM. This new criterion was successfully applied to the evaluation of the sharpness of distribution of individual species over cluster arrays, under the name of SIM: species indication measure and SWIM, species weighted indication measure. The measures were applied to some test data. Differences between the unweighted and weighted forms were found which could not be easily interpreted. Some remarks are made on the coherence of d-SAHN and h-SAHN approaches in agglomerative clustering within the new strategy proposed.
20038492|Most of the methods used in the multivariate analysis of data on vegetation and environment, or transformations implied in such methods, put disproportionate emphasis on species with a relatively wide ecological amplitude occurring with relatively high cover-abundance values, and/or rare species. This problem can be overcome to some extent by reducing the cover-abundance values to presence-absence data, but this means a severe loss of information. A standardization of values by species maxima as is done automatically in some programs, may lead to an undesirable emphasis on species represented with low values only. In this paper a method is presented, by which relatively low cover-abundance values of species are upweighted to an arbitrarily chosen higher value, if these low values are considered to indicate an optimum response of that particular species. The method has been tested on a selection of 40 phytosociological relevs from dune slacks in the Voorne dunes, as well as on the Dune Meadow data set used in the textbook of Jongman et al. (1987). The cluster structure obtained with the optimum-transformation appears to be clearer and the contribution of typical dune slack species to the cluster structure increased significantly. Canonical correspondence analysis of the transformed data gave slightly more important main axes.
20038493|The differentiation of river flood plain vegetation is predominantly determined by the inundation frequency and the type and age of the substrate. A comparison of data published in 1958 with recent relevs from all parts of Switzerland indicate that the hitherto known gradient- and group structure is disintegrating into multiple floristically isolated stands as a result of waterflow management constructions. In view of further vegetation mapping, a two-phase classification is proposed where the core of the gradients and groups is isolated and analysed first. The outliers are then re-attached to serve as possible indicators of the existence of variation not sufficiently described by the data. To structure the tedious analytical calculations involved, a hierarchical procedure has been developed.
20038494|When a new relev is to be assigned to a pre-existing type, its composition is compared with an association table. Bayesian inference may seem a good way to make the comparison, but presents difficulties. In an alternative approach, three indices of goodness-of-fit are proposed. Compositional satisfaction is a measure of how well the species composition of the relev fits the constancy classes in the table; it is a minor modification of the Czekanowski coefficient of similarity between observed and expected numbers of species in each constancy class. Dominance satisfaction is a modification of the Czekanowski similarity between the relev and cover values that might be expected from the association table. Dominance constancy is a weighted mean of the constancy class of the four most abundant species in the relev. A computer program, TABLEFIT, combines them into a single index. It has been tested on British mire vegetation.
20038495|In this paper we emphasize that sampling decisions in population and community ecology are context dependent. Thus, the selection of an appropriate sampling procedure should follow directly from considerations of the objectives of an investigation. We recognize eight sampling alternatives, which arise as a result of three basic dichotomies: parameter estimation versus pattern detection, univariate versus multivariate, and a discrete versus continuous sampling universe. These eight alternative sampling procedures are discussed as they relate to decisions regarding the required empirical sample size, the selection or arrangement of sampling units, and plot size and shape. Our results indicate that the decision-making process in sampling must be viewed as a flexible exercise, dictated not by generalized recommendations but by specific objectives: there is no panacea in ecological sampling. We also point to a number of unresolved sampling problems in ecology.
20038496|Using spatial analysis methods such as spatial autocorrelation coefficients (Moran's I and Geary's c) and kriging, we compare the capacity of different sampling designs and sample sizes to detect the spatial structure of a sugar-maple (Acer saccharum L.) tree density data set gathered from a secondary growth forest of southwestern Qubec. Three different types of subsampling designs (random, systematic and systematic-cluster) with small sample sizes (50 and 64 points), obtained from this larger data set (200 points), are evaluated. The sensitivity of the spatial methods in the detection and the reconstruction of spatial patterns following the application of the various subsampling designs is discussed. We find that the type of sampling design plays an important role in the capacity of autocorrelation coefficients to detect significant spatial autocorrelation, and in the ability to accurately reconstruct spatial patterns by kriging. Sampling designs that contain varying sampling steps, like random and systematic-cluster designs, seem more capable of detecting spatial structures than a systematic design.
20038497|Previously published data on production biology, energy use efficiency, nutrient availability and vulnerability were reinterpreted for the explanation of community processing and structure in high altitude grasslands of the Alps. The final goal of the approach was to present a characterization of these plant communities in generalized terms. The keystone-concept was applied, and the alpine grasslands then defined as plant communities with one or a few keystone species. Associated species show a varying degree of interdependence from these keystones. They form guilds exploiting resources not needed by the latter. As many of these species belong to these groups, and alpine grasslands are commonly species rich, a high functional redundancy is typical for these communities.
20038498|The effect of the spatial limits of dispersal and competition on plant community dynamics was studied using Monte-Carlo simulation. The model generates community point patterns, using life-table data, dispersion parameters and radii of competitive effects. These data have been estimated in a field situation, for the 11 most abundant weed species growing on the refuse soil dumps of a strip coal mine. In a simulation experiment, the patterns produced by two versions of the model were compared. The first was based on the field situation as much as possible; the other used the same input parameters except for dispersal, which was randomized in this case. We found considerable differences regarding the temporal changes of species abundances, the realized competitive abilities and the spatial patterns generated by the two versions. An important conclusion of this comparison is that the realized competitive effect (both intra- and interspecific) of a species is dependent not only on constant competition parameters, but on the abundance relations and on the spatial patterns of the competing populations as well. It is concluded that the spatial limits of dispersal and competition may result in the increased persistence of weak competitors, moderate the realized competitive effects of strong species, and shape the spatial coalition structure of the community.
20038499|Species phytomass in 40 mm  40 mm quadrats was used to examine community structure in four homogeneous areas of vegetation in sand dune slacks. There were from 9 to 16 common species in the samples, and most parameters of community structure were found to relate consistently to species number. We used covariance between all species at increasing dimensions of aggregations of quadrats to suggest that 'sociological interaction' between species existed at scales of around 200 mm diameter. Generalised variance was of no help in this enquiry. We show that a 'connectance' estimation arrived at from these parameters is, although a real feature of the analysis, apparently unrelated to connectance as understood in the food web literature. There is strong evidence that guild structure, sociological interaction and niche limitation increase with increasing number of species present, so that the most diverse assemblage can be said to have a definite community structure.
20038500|Changes of species richness along temporal and environmental gradients were investigated. Two data sets were used: a successional sere of old-field plant communities in the Bohemian Karst, and a set of plant communities under various intensities of disturbance in the Krkonoe (Giant) Mts, both in Czechoslovakia. The species richness of a plant community is a spatial phenomenon, and should be described by the species-area relationship (using e.g. the power function S = c 
20038501|Data on algal species diversity from six areas along the Swedish coast, differing in salinity, length of growth period and grazing pressure were used to test two main predictions arising from the hump-backed model of species diversity (Grime 1973; Connell & Slatyer 1977; Tilman 1982; Fuentes & Jaksic 1988). Total number of species per m, total biomass per m and primary production values for each species were calculated for 175 samples. Wave exposure was used as a measure of disturbance. The results are discussed in relation to stress (salinity and light) and disturbance factors (wave effects, ice scouring and grazing). A hump-backed model of species diversity, in relation to biomass per m was found for all investigated areas. A similar response was also observed along local exposure gradients, with higher biomass and lower species numbers found at the sheltered sites compared to the more exposed ones. The most diverse communities were found at sites with intermediate wave exposure and in communities composed of species with intermediate primary production. It is suggested that the frequency of physical disturbance and severeness of stress strongly affects algal diversity and competition by determining the time interval over which successional replacement of species can occur. This lends support to the non-equilibrium view of community structure giving rise to hump-backed species diversity curves.
20038502|Pasture vegetation in an open woodland of Quercus rotundifolia subjected to periodic ploughing was sampled in spring during 8 consecutive years. The frequency of herbaceous species was recorded in a total of 69 permanent plots located on 5 adjacent sites with similar lithology, slope and orientation but differing in age since previous ploughing. Vegetation dynamics expressed as trajectories of permanent plots in a non-metric multidimensional scaling space has been modelled in terms of evironmental variables. By fitting a generalized linear model, the dynamics are shown to be related to years since last ploughing, geographical location of plots, total annual rainfall and November rainfall. Meteorological patterns of the sampling period are also described.
20038507|Small-scale pattern analysis of plant populations was done in nine forest communities of the Moscow region (USSR). In most cases the vegetatively immobile and low-mobile species were found to have less contagious distributions than vegetatively mobile species. In different communities one and the same species may display a different kind of pattern, though no relationship between the abundance of species and the kind of its spatial distribution could be identified. Ecological indicator values were used to obtain data on the variability of environmental parameters inside the communities. Environmental heterogeneity appears to be the major factor determining the kind of vascular plant pattern. The kind of distribution of bryophytes (as a rule, high-contagious) is insignificantly related to environmental heterogeneity.
20038508|This paper reviews the effects that resource manipulations, especially nutrient additions, have on productivity, diversity, species interactions and succession in natural and semi-natural low-growth-form terrestrial vegetation. In most studies, fertilization has resulted in an increase in productivity with a concomitant decrease in species diversity. Plant community productivity in nutrient-poor habitats (e.g. arctic tundra) however, has been relatively little affected by nutrient additions. Results from several fertilization experiments in nutrient-poor habitats indicate that competition may be an important component of community dynamics. Resource additions generally do not affect co-occurring species equally. In many cases, this results from an alteration of the relative competitive abilities of species. Several short-term fertilization studies have suggested that the rate of succession is increased by the addition of nutrients. Opposite trends however, have been reported in long-term studies. Contradictory results among some resource manipulation studies appear to stem largely from design limitations (e.g. only one resource was manipulated). Variability in habitat fertility, the type of resource added and the duration of enrichment also contribute to the difficulties involved in interpreting and comparing field experiments. A pluralistic approach combining glasshouse studies with both neighbour and resource manipulations in the field can be expected to lead to a greater depth of understanding of current controversies over the effects of habitat fertility on the intensity of competition and the relationship between competitive ability and tolerance of resource impoverishment.
20038509|We used a simulation model of forest dynamics to examine the ecological significance of the complex interactions among site conditions, tree growth, and the development of a thick forest floor moss layer found in many boreal forests. To examine the effect of site conditions on moss growth and forest dynamics, we simulated the dynamics of several different forest sites in the uplands of interior Alaska. Then we used a cold, wet permafrost site to examine the ecological consequences of direct moss and tree interactions. Our analyses revealed a tightly coupled system in which forest succession was highly sensitive to the interactions among site conditions, mosses, and trees. The effect of mosses on the soil thermal regime was a particularly important feedback. Direct interactions between mosses and trees that affected the development of a thick forest floor layer were also important. In particular, shading of moss by trees, reduced tree regeneration on moss-covered soils, and reduced moss growth with open forest canopies were also important determinants of forest succession. These complex feedbacks ensure that an ecosystem approach is needed to understand the ecology of boreal forests.
20038510|A quantitative study is presented of the tropical deciduous forest located in the Sierra de La Laguna in the southern part of the peninsula of Baja California, Mexico with data on structure, species composition, diversity, density, and abundance of perennial plants. 4 study plots were selected to represent the predominant geomorphologic units, and to include topographic and climatic variations reflected by the distribution of this vegetation on the lowlands of slopes facing the Gulf of California and the Pacific Ocean. 25 families containing 67 perennial species were found on the lowlands, with Leguminosae, Cactaceae, and Euphorbiaceae best represented. A high family diversity was found in the plots, but there was a low number of species per family. Dissimilarities between sites were found to be reflected significantly in growth-form abundances as well as in structural features and species diversity. Results show that the xeric environment, the low number of species, and the high incidence of dominant shrub species confer the vegetation of the lowlands simpler structural traits than those described for other tropical dry forests.
20038511|We quantified microscale pattern in vegetation and seed assemblages along a 24 m transect before and for two years following a controlled burn in chamise (Adenostoma fasciculatum) chaparral in central coastal California. Our objective was to document scale-dependent correlation between pre-burn seed assemblages, pre-burn canopy cover, microtopography, soil temperatures during burning, post-burn seed assemblages and post-burn vegetation. Scale-dependent correlations among pre- and post-burn seed densities, maximum soil temperatures during burning, microtopography and post-burn vegetation were measured based on two-term local covariance analysis. Seed distribution varied among species prior to fire, with seeds of some annual species concentrated in gap areas. Maximum soil temperatures during burning ranged from less than 50C to 225C, and were generally lowest in gaps in the pre-burn canopy. These gaps were associated with local topographic depressions. After burning, readily germinable seeds were concentrated in or near gaps in the pre-burn canopy. Germination of different species was variously enhanced, diminished or unchanged by the passage of fire. Post-burn vegetation was very patchy, with some areas nearly devoid of seedlings and other areas, especially pre-burn canopy gaps, supporting numerous seedlings. Seedling recruitment patterns in the second year were generally highly correlated with patterns in pre-burn seed banks and first year vegetation. Although many species exhibited similar recruitment patterns, several different mechanisms may have been responsible for the origin of those patterns.
20038538|Mountain big sagebrush steppes in Wyoming have strong spatial patterning associated with topography. We describe the spatial variability of vegetation in a sagebrush steppe, and test the relationship between topography and vegetation using canonical correlation. Results of the analysis suggest that the main control over vegetation distribution in this system is wind exposure. Exposed sites are characterized by cushion plant communities and Artemisia nova, and less exposed sites by the taller sagebrush species Artemisia tridentata ssp. vaseyana. Topographic depressions and leeward slopes are characterized by aspen stands and nivation hollows. Measurements of soil microclimate suggest that a major influence of topographic position on vegetation is snow redistribution and its effect on soil moisture and temperature.
20038539|The plant-communities from habitats of the metallophyte species Minuartia verna and Thlaspi alpestre (T. caerulescens) at sites disturbed and undisturbed by mining are described. Four communities were delineated by cluster and principal component analysis. Group 1 comprised species-poor communities on disturbed non-calcareous soils; group 2, relatively species-rich communities on disturbed calcareous soils; group 3, species-rich communities in the main on undisturbed calcareous soils. Group 4 consisted of species-rich communities with an alpine element, in damp habitats on base-rich soils derived from igneous rocks. Total and exchangeable elements As, Ba, Ca, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mg, Mn, Ni, Pb and Zn were determined for the soils of these sites. Levels of soil Ca, Cd, Pb and Zn accounted for most of the variation along the first axis of the PCA and soil nutrient levels were probably the main predictor along the second.
20038540|A three-dimensional compositional pattern in the epiphytic lichen vegetation in Tasmanian cool temperate rainforest is demonstrated using the robust ordination technique, hybrid multidimensional scaling (HMDS). The first two dimensions are correlated with the age of the host tree (and the concomitant change in bark texture) and wetness of the substrate. No measured environmental variable is related to the third dimension, which is tentatively attributed to a gradient in the constancy of the microclimate. Patterns of richness of lichen growth forms and the cover of bryophytes are correlated with the three putative environmental gradients. Possible successional trends between 12 community groups derived by numerical classification are described with respect to changes in substrate age, wetness and microclimatic constancy. Temporal variation of these factors due to tree growth, together with the slow establishment and long persistence of some lichen species, make succession in epiphytic communities very complex. This study demonstrates the value of HMDS in identifying compositional patterns and generating hypotheses about the causal ecological factors. The existence of the postulated microclimatic constancy gradient was not appreciated before the analysis and its discovery illustrates the risk of relying on constrained ordination methods, such as canonical correspondence analysis.
20038541|The description of sea shore vegetation near Rome published by G. M. Lancisi in 1714 includes a discussion on vegetation changes, floristic composition of communities and causes of the process. The concepts of succession and pioneer plant are clearly expressed (the language used in this publication is latin, and consequently the words 'successio' and 'plantae primigeniae' had been used for these terms). The plant communities can be identified and correspond to the present ones growing in the same site. This may be the very first mentioning of vegetation dynamics in botanical literature.
20038542|Macaronesia was recognized as a biogeographical region more than a century ago. However, this concept has been recently criticized due to the floristic heterogeneity of the region. This paper analyzes and interprets the inter-island floristic similarities using presence-absence data for 30 islands and 3114 phanerogamous species. Agglomerative classification, method UPGMA, and Principal Coordinates Analysis were applied. The results show a close correlation between variation in floristic similarities and latitude, altitude and distance from the continent. These correlations are interpreted in relation to the variation in climatic conditions, the possibility of long-distance dispersion and island size. We conclude that the selective effect of climate and opportunity for long-distance dispersion are the primary factors explaining the present inter-island floristic variation.
20038543|The development of the Pinus pumila zone of Hokkaido, northern Japan is discussed on the basis of an examination of the Warmth Index (WI). The Pinus pumila zone is developed on deforested areas in the boreal subalpine belt, and is characterized by strong wind and heavy snow accumulation in winter, and by the presence of rocky fields. It is concluded that in Japan, including Hokkaido, this high mountain zone generally is intrazonal, belonging mainly to the subalpine belt, and that such zones are not common in Europe and North America. Its formation is due mainly to present-day wind, snow and substrate conditions and partly to conditions prevailing during the glacial period.
20038544|The spatial variation of grasslands in the Cordoba Mountains was studied according to geographical criteria used by Solntsiev (1974): the homogeneity of the vegetation over large areas 'equipotentiality' is related to lithology. Grassland heterogeneity analysis, description of community variability, and detection of indicators are performed on both geomorphological slope gradients 'vectoriality', and at discontinuities found along these gradients 'cellularity'. Tertiary sediment and loess areas give rise to undulating reliefs with homogeneous slopes and obviously continuous vegetation variation gradients from the upper to the lower slope zones. Occasionally, dispersed patches of tall grasses (Paspalum quadrifarium) occur in the pastures, introducing cellular variations in the vegetation structure. On gneiss, on the other hand, complex mosaics of pastures predominate, associated with edaphic discontinuities, caused by different soil depths and by local erosion processes. In this case the vegetation variation between the upper and lower slope zones is not clear.
20038545|Regeneration of Calluna vulgaris in heathlands occurs from both seed and layering, although the relative importance of these two strategies appears to vary. A population model based on transitions between growth phases has been devised and parameter values obtained from published and original work. The effects of differing amounts of seed and vegetative regeneration on the population changes were then tested. The model predicts that a population with a relatively high occurrence of layering will tend towards a steady state, with little temporal variation in population density and cover. Conversely, low layering capacity increases temporal variation with little effect on mean cover. Increased seed regeneration on the other hand, increases both the amplitude of temporal variation in population density, and the frequency of cycles, whereas low seed regeneration results in a stable age distribution at less than 100% cover.
20038549|A combination of optical measurements of leaf heights and observations on litterfall provided a vertical and temporal description of the leaf community structure in a tall, Liriodendron forest on the Maryland coastal plain. Leaf area, mass, and number were bimodally distributed with height. Median leaf number occurs far below (7-8 m) and median leaf mass far above (22-23 m) the median leaf area (18-19 m). Tree species exhibited leaf stratification into 3 height levels: understory (0-10 m), mid canopy (10-25 m), and overstory (25-37 m). Species leaf area in litterfall was related to the species basal area, although representation of leaf number in litterfall was not correlated with stem numbers for species in the stand. Species also showed a clear phenological sequence of leaf fall.
20038550|Experimental fields were established at three sites on different soil types in Dutch heathlands, where grass species have become dominant, in order to find methods for re-establishment of an ericoid dwarf-shrub heath. Treatments included mowing, mowing and cutting for hay, ploughing, milling, sod cutting and burning. Re-establishment of ericoid dwarf shrubs was only observed after creation of gaps or patches of open soil. The results after nine years for two of the sites and six years for the other site indicate that sod cutting is the most suitable method provided that the mineral top soil is not removed or disturbed. More profound removal of the sod including mineral soil causes a delay in re-establishment of ericoid dwarf shrubs and an increase of grasses. Factors that may explain different responses to gap creation including availability of seeds, soil moisture, soil fertility and plant survival strategies are briefly discussed.
20038551|The effects of fire season on forb diversity patterns, density, and composition were determined for a northern Mixed Prairie site, USA. Repeated spring burns (dormant season), summer burns, fall burns (dormant season), and unburned treatments were compared over a 3-yr period characterized by wet and dry moisture conditions. Alpha and beta diversity were highest on unburned and summer burn treatments, while landscape mosaic diversity was highest on fall burns. Forb density was highest on fall and spring burn sites. Nine forb species comprised 82% of total densities and were significantly affected by fire season and year to year variations in moisture. Forb composition for unburned and spring burn treatments was similar, but both treatments were different from the summer burn and fall burn treatments which were similar to each other. Fire alone did not appear to be an intense enough disturbance to initiate drastic changes in the forb component of vegetation patches. Specific fire seasons did appear to either mask or enhance forb structure arising from other disturbance(s). Fire season also affected the scales of forb organization in the landscape. Contrasting spatial characteristics of the forb component of prairie plant communities may provide a diagnostic technique for exposing the interaction of disturbances at different temporal and spatial scales.
20038552|A method is presented to study dynamics of plants that cannot be separated into individuals such as many grassland, salt marsh and tundra species. A virtual population is created by using a permanent transect line through the vegetation and 'individuals' are defined as the branch segments distal to the intercept with the transect line. Addition and loss of 'individuals' together with growth or shrinkage form the basis for constructing a size-structured transition matrix. A discrete-event simulation demonstrates that: 1) a virtual population of individuals grows at the same rate as the parent population; and, 2) size-structured transition matrices for a virtual population and parent vegetation have similar dominant and subdominant eigenvalues so a virtual population can be used to describe the dynamics of a parent vegetation. Dwarf birch, Betula nana L., was studied in the northern foothills of the Brooks Range, Alaska, by using photography to record branch intercepts along permanent transect lines. The distal branch segments constitute a virtual population of the parent vegetation. Transects were photographed in 1985 and again in 1986 and changes of branch segments were used to construct two transition matrices for shrubs with and without elevated fertilizer treatment. Analysis of the virtual populations suggests that although Betula nana may show increased branch growth with increased fertilizer, in the long run this shrub may decline in the tundra in response to such treatment.
20038553|Old-growth stands of red spruce (Picea rubens) were sampled at the only four localities in the mountains of southwestern Virginia and central West Virginia where examples of such are known to exist. Based upon mean ages ( SE) of cored trees, sampled stands ranged in age from 164  18 to 201  10 yr. Dendro-ecological (tree-ring) analysis showed a marked decline in growth of trees at three localities during the late 1800s, followed by recovery to previous levels of growth within two decades. This growth-trend decline generally coincides with a period of extensive mortality of red spruce reported to have occurred in central West Virginia. Basal area of trees  2.5 cm DBH ranged from 35.4 to 46.1 m/ha. These figures are considerably lower than those recorded at earlier dates for similar old-growth stands in the Appalachians, which suggests that a general decline has occurred over the last half-century.
20038554|Effects of fire and small-scale soil disturbances on species richness, community heterogeneity, and microsuccession were investigated in a central Oklahoma tallgrass prairie. In the fall of 1985, 0.2 m soil disturbances were created on burned and unburned tallgrass prairie. Vegetation on and off disturbances was sampled at monthly intervals over two growing seasons. During the first growing season, the cover of forbs and annuals, and species richness were significantly greater on versus off disturbances, but these differences did not persist through the second year. The variation in species composition among disturbed plots (heterogeneity) was significantly greater compared to undisturbed areas throughout the study. Fire had no consistent effect on richness and heterogeneity of vegetation on soil disturbances but fire reduced heterogeneity on undisturbed vegetation. Rate of succession, based on an increase in cumulative cover of perennial grasses over time, did not differ among treatments during the first growing season. During the second year, rate of succession was significantly greater on burned soil disturbances compared to unburned soil disturbances. These results suggest that while small-scale soil disturbances have primarily short-lived effects on grassland community structure, disturbances do help to maintain spatial and temporal variation in tallgrass prairie communities. Unlike in undisturbed vegetation, however, species richness and heterogeneity on soil disturbances were little effected by fire, but the rate of colonization onto disturbances appeared to be enhanced by fire.
20038555|Root biomass distribution on an age series of naturally revegetated coalmine spoils in a dry tropical environment is described. 65 to 85% of the total root biomass was observed in the upper 0-15 cm of spoil depth. Highest (724 g
20038556|The mechanisms controlling secondary succession on eutrophic peat are analyzed on an area of 500 ha marsh near the Lac du Bourget in the Rhne floodplain between Geneva and Lyon. After describing the succession, the authors compare the succession with that described for fens in England. During succession, three categories of phenomena occur: -- Predictable phenomena based on the occurrence of well-established relationships between species with a high cover density. When mowing ceases, populations with increasingly higher biomasses reach dominance one by one. -- Phenomena which were to be expected although the manner in which they occurred were more difficult to predict, such as the conditions in which woody plants take over. -- Phenomena hidden in the framework of a synchronic analysis. The lowering of the water table, for example, can modify the entire community of species occurring in the sequence as well as the competition between species. The pecularities of each type of ecological situation made it difficult to develop general models.
20038557|Lake Manzala is one of the Deltaic Mediterranean lakes in Egypt. It comprises over 1000 islands of various sizes, the vegetation of which is halophytic. Seven community types are described, dominated by: Phragmites australis, Juncus acutus, J. rigidus, Arthrocnemum macrostachyum, Atriplex portulacoides, Halocnemum strobilaceum and Zygophyllum aegyptium. Each of these communities has been analysed and its habitat described and discussed.
20038558|Various types of and modern Braun-Blanquet school viewpoints on homogeneity and heterogeneity of vegetation and their causes are discussed. A distinction is made between methodological minimum areas, MMA's (divided into qualitative and quantitative MMA's) and biological minimum areas, BMA's, divided into space, resistance and regeneration minima. Various definitions of the qualitative MMA are reviewed and some methods of analysis are discussed. It was found that the species-area curve of sample plots almost invariably follows the Fisher model, however with superimposed oscillations, which are regarded to represent a number of relative MMA's for each phytocoenosis (stand). These relative MMA's probably correspond to the elements of the compound mosaic pattern of which vegetation normally consists. A method to investigate the various biological minimum areas is expounded and results obtained in chalk grasslands, juniper scrub, oak woods and oligotrophic heath pools are briefly discussed. The species/area curve of BMA's appeared to follow either the Goodall or the Fisher or the Preston model. No saturation of the species number was obtained, not even in the largest stands examined (9 ha). Species numbers of stands were analysed in relation to size and age of the stands and to their degree of isolation. The value of the exponent z of the Preston formula appeared to be an unsuitable measure for the degree of isolation of these habitat islands. This z value was calculated for all species, for various taxonomic groups, including bryophytes and fungi, and for various dissemination types. There is no relation between size of stand, degree of isolation and number of dyschorous resp. eurychorous plants. Species numbers of phytocoenoses are obviously governed mainly by size, age and habitat quality (degree of disturbance).
20038559|Fidelity is the most fundamental notion of the Braun-Blanquet school of phytocoenology. It can be applied to all non-phenotypic taxa and to all syntaxa irrespective of their rank. This holds both for faithful and for differential taxa. In the latter case the range of syntaxa within which the taxon is differential should also be indicated. Not only taxa, but also their growth-form and microhabitat may be characteristic for a given syntaxon. A new concept: 'elementary coenological unit' (ECU) is therefore introduced for a taxon-growth-form-microhabitat combination. Fidelity of ECU's is restricted both in space and in time. Various cases as well as the causes of this limitation are discussed. The criteria for fidelity are discussed, including abundance, cover degree, vitality, fertility and constancy (presence degree). It is demonstrated that these parameters by no means show parallel variation. Their biological significance is discussed. It is proposed to ignore the occurrence of species with reduced vitality and to base fidelity degrees on the thus modified total cover value TC (scale Barkman, Doing & Segal, transformation values by Van der Maarel) in a given syntaxon divided by its TC in the syntaxon with the most similar TC value (TC ratio). The well-known scale of fidelity degrees by Szafer & Pawowski is criticized and a new scale is proposed, which is equally quinquepartite, but has only two classes of fidelity. It also has two classes of infidelity and one class of indifferent species. The threshold values between these classes are proposed to be fixed at the TC ratios 5, 2, 0,5 and 0,2.
20038560|Forests of an elevational transect in the central Himalayan region were studied regarding their tree species composition and structural features. In spite of many differences in compositional and structural features in different forest stands, the arrangement of stands in the ordinations based separately on species composition and structural features exhibit many similarities. Disturbances such as landslides and forest fires play the most important role in the distributor of particular species.
20038566|An Appalachian-oak forest in a small montane watershed was sampled to calibrate and test an existing forest dynamics simulation model. Indices developed in earlier studies by Whittaker were used to estimate the response of different tree species to soil moisture. As is the case in many forest modeling applications, neither detailed environmental data at a micro-spatial scale nor quantitative historical stand data were available for the study. A protocol of both model parameter estimation and simulation output evaluation is developed. The method involves simulation experiments under which the model parameters are allowed to vary systematically with respect to environmental control variables, allowing one to generate a field of potential simulation results that can be searched for patterns shared by the observed data. The degree to which common patterns emerge provides a measure of model sensitivity to patterns at the scale of interest. This protocol can provide an appraisal of the appropriateness of a simulation model to the system of interest and can be used to assess the performance of the model in future applications.
20038568|The vertical growth of Larix gmelini in the north of the Greater Khingan Mts., north-eastern China is very fast during the first 50 yr. Though Pinus sylvestris var. mongolica shows a higher growth rate, it will be replaced by the larch population. Picea jezoensis is the most tolerant tree species and will replace all other trees. The fire cycle is 110-120 yr. Most of the montane areas from 800 to 1000 m a.s.l. are not occupied by spruce forest. There is a sapling bank with large numbers of saplings at ages below 20 yr in the understory in the spruce forest. The sapling bank is the key to maintain the steady state of the spruce forest. The persistent sapling bank in the life history of spruce governs the dynamics of the spruce forest controlled by the intensity and frequency of disturbances.
20038569|A survey is presented of the vegetation of the central region of the Santafesinian Chaco (Argentina), a scarcely populated flat area of 20 000
20038570|The major physiognomic and ecological categories of the lichen-rich, epigeic communities in the boreal (taiga) and arctic (tundra) zones are defined and their syntaxonomy and ecology in Europe, Asia and North America is reviewed. In the boreal and hemiarctic areas open, dry, acidophytic lichen woodlands are widespread, especially on sandy habitats. Their epigeic lichen synusiae are usually dominated by four fruticose Cladina species, being extremely homogeneous in species composition and structure throughout the boreal zone, while the dominant trees and the other vascular plant flora of the woodlands are geographically more variable. No phytosociological classification system exists that would cover most of these communities over the circumpolar regions. Very similar communities, though much more poorly known, are found on thin soils over Precambrian rock outcrops. Other sites to produce epigeic lichen communities include open sand dunes, treeless heathlands, drier bogs and many seral stages, like those on road banks. Boreal lichen-rich communities on eutrophic soils may be developed in semiarid regions, in particular. In the Arctic, lichens are common in most communities, and the driest ones are regularly lichen-dominated, whether acidophytic or eutrophytic, chionophytic or achionophytic. Detailed syntaxonomic systems for their classification have been developed, especially in Greenland and Scandinavian mountains (in oroarctic zones in the latter regions). The richest fruticose lichen areas are in continental, hemiarctic timberline regions in northern Siberia and Canada. The southern and middle arctic subzones are also characterized by many macrolichens, such as Cetraria cucullata, C. nivalis, Alectoria ochroleuca, and Thamnolia vermicularis, but everywhere also small, crustose lichens are common on soil, such as Rinodina turfacea and Lopadium pezizoideum, which are often overlooked in vegetation analyses. The presence of microlichens and the formation of mosaic micropatterns of soil lichen communities is particularly typical of the northern arctic subzone. The conservation problems of the boreal and arctic lichen communities include overgrazing by reindeer or caribou, which has caused delichenization in some regions, extensive forest and tundra fires, use of heavy transport vehicles in forestry and tundra operations, and, locally, heavy industrial air pollution.
20038571|The results cover a statistical of the correlations between aquatic macrophyte communities and chemical parameters (N-NH, N-NO, P-PO, COD, Temperature, dissolved O, Cl) in unpolluted hard waters (upper Rhine rift valley). This study was based on a table of phytosociological relevs for six plant communities, named A, B, C, CD, D and E. The ecological determinism of the communities were defined from: The study of the seven foregoing physico-chemical parameters for 29 groundwater streams on periodical samples of water. The study of the change with time in the aquatic vegetation after change of the trophic status, confirmed by analysis. The comparative study of the vegetation of the streams and parts of the streams with different trophic statuses but fed by the same groundwater table of the Wurmian Rhine gravels. Analysis of the main components showed the good correlation between the macrophyte communities and the trophy (N-NH, P-PO). These six communities were classified according to the trophic scale. Discriminant analysis was used to compare the classification of the phytosociological sequence with that based on the statistical analysis. The authors give a very precise bioindication scale (based on the macrophyte community) for the eutrophication degree in unpolluted hard waters.
20038588|Changes in foliage density distribution with altitude and its effect on shoot growth and flowering were studied in forest section planes (profiles) of subalpine forests and scrubs (Krummholz) in Nepal and Japan. Patterns of foliage in forest canopy were evaluated by an analysis of variance. Foliage densities were very high at high altitude canopies, but the change in spatial patterns along altitude differs in both areas. The spatial pattern of new shoot production was similar to that of current foliage density and was affected by the amount of foliage above the sample probably through light condition. Flowering of tall trees occurred in the surface of the upper canopy, but a shrub species flowered even under tree canopies.
20038589|Mangroves has been described for the whole Caribbean are in their different habitats. The island of Dominica (West Indies) has always been excluded from the distribution area due to supposed inadequated conditions for mangrove growth. However, there are small areas with proper edaphic conditions for mangal in which black mangrove (Avicennia germinans L.) and white mangrove (Laguncularia racemosa L.) has been found. Even the occurrence of an additional Avicennia species is under discussion.
20038590|Pinus taiwanensis is a widely distributed species in the southeastern China (Zhejiang, Anhui, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Fujian, Taiwan provinces) at an elevation of 700-2000 m. This pine is a pioneer in forest succession and is often used as a species for afforestation in this region at an elevation above 700 m. This study was carried out at Guanshanyuan, Zhejiang province, at a latitude of N 28 18, a longitude of E 119 16 and an altitude of 800-1502 m above sea level. On the basis of a census of all individuals of Pinus taiwanensis at different successional stages and various habitats, age structure, spatial pattern, density, biomass of population and their dynamics were described. Considering the population dynamics throughout the successional process, three phases could be recognized. Until about 9-10 years after Pinus taiwanensis invaded the stands, the density of population was increased by the recruitments along with increase of the mean tree weight and population biomass (phase I). Thereafter, the population was in full density state, the biomass of population and the mean tree weight increased exponentially, while the density was decreased drastically by the self-thinning and the invasion of other broad-leaved trees (phase II). The -3/2 power law of natural thinning was applicable to the populations in this phase. When the broad-leaved trees reached the canopy, although the mean tree weight increased slowly, the density and biomass of Pinus taiwanensis population decreased gradually (phase III) until the population senesced and retreated from the successional series completely. The population dynamics of Pinus taiwanensis during the successional process was in common with pioneer species in forest succession. At some special habitats such as rocky steep slopes and ridges, however, Pinus taiwanensis population could form such an edaphic climax community that the population density, biomass and the mean tree weight in phase III could be in a stable state for very long period.
20038591|Utilitarian and fundamental, floristic and structural classifications of forest and scrub communities are compared. Their advantages and disadvantages and their interrelations are discussed. The necessity of a structural classification as complementary to a floristic classification is emphasized. It seems difficult, if not impossible, to combine the two. The existing structural classifications are reviewed. They are not very detailed and often mixed with a habitat classification. A new, detailed and purely structural system for woods and scrub in Europe is proposed in the form of an identification key. The main criteria used are -- in order of diminishing importance -: (1) architecture of the dominant layer, (2) photoperiodicity (evergreen vs. deciduous) of that layer, (3) leaf size and leaf form of that layer, (4) presence/absence of thorns/spines, (5) presence of a second tree layer, shrub layer, dwarf shrub layer, herb layer and/or moss layer, (6) deciduousness of these layers, (7) main growth forms, (8) leaf size and leaf consistency, (9) leaf inclination and (10) height of these layers. In all 27 scrub types and 45 wood types are described. They have been named after a combination of two more or less characteristic and dominant genera. The system is open and hierarchical. Broader units have also been described.
20038592|Literature data on vascular plant distribution in deciduous forests were compared in 1929-54 and 1979-88. pH in the topsoil was related to the occurrence of 13 common vascular plants. The median of pH (HO) was 5.2 for the old (n = 105) and 4.4 for the new plots (n = 132). New plots of pH &gt 5 were scarce and soils of pH &lt 4 were limited to the new plots. Comparison of the pH related frequency curves gave four patterns: (A) a displacement of frequency curves towards lower pHs for the new plots (Stellaria holostea, Milium effusum, Melica uniflora); (B) a widening of the frequency curves into lower pH for the new plots (Viola riviniana/reichenbachiana, Galium odoratum, Lamium galeobdolon, Oxalis acetosella, Maianthemum bifolium); (C) a raised frequency curve for the new plots at all pHs (Stellaria nemorum, Poa nemoralis, Rubus idaeus, Mercurialis perennis); (D) a lowered frequency curve for the new plots at all pHs (Deschampsia flexuosa). It is deduced, that the pH related frequency curves are not stable over long periods as e.g. the studied 40-60 years. The increased amounts of nitrogen and acidifying substances in deposition probably caused an altered soil chemistry and a change in competition among nitrogen favoured and acid tolerant species. As the soil in the new plots was more acidic, the total frequency was higher for many species. However, the frequency of most species decreases with soil pH, and if soil acidification continues without further plant adaptation to low soil pH, there will be a decrease of many species.
20038593|The fine-scale spatial distribution of leaves and shoots of Brachypodium pinnatum and Carex flacca, two rhizomatous graminoids, was investigated in two chalk grasslands in South Limburg (The Netherlands). The objective was to examine whether leaves and shoots of Brachypodium, a dominant species, had a regular distribution on a small scale, as has been suggested for other clonal species that form high-density stands. Patterns were compared to Carex, which is never found to be as abundant as Brachypodium. The number of shoots and leaf contacts were counted in small quadrats, grouped in a grid. Using Moran's I analysis for autocorrelation, it appeared that leaves and shoots of both species were arranged in clumps, and that these clumps were randomly distributed across the soil surface. Shoot clumps in Carex were smaller in diameter and not as pronounced as those in Brachypodium. In most cases, patterns of leaves and shoots were positively correlated, indicating that leaves were predominantly positioned above and around the groups of quadrats where the shoots were attached. However, in dense stands of Brachypodium the positions of leaf clumps were not correlated to those of shoot clumps. This is a result of the tall growth form of this species and its high shoot densities, and it is suggested that this will be a characteristic of any species that dominates a dense stand.
20038594|Structure and composition of woody vegetation in Sahelian forest types (not including riparian and riverine types) were studied in Sngal. The application of classification and ordination resulted in the recognition of seven distinctive woody community types, related to soil and precipitation gradients. The described vegetation types only contained four strictly Saharan species, the rest being of Sahelian and Soudanean affinity, so a floristic change from savanna to desert vegetation after two decades of drought could not be confirmed. Tree density was lower in the northern part than earlier, possibly an indication of degradation. Rejuvenation was greatest at the northernmost arenosolic stations, but low in the southern, ferrouginous areas. This presumably demonstrates the resilience of North-Sahelian vegetation, at the moment being in a dynamic rejuvenation phase, after a period of adverse conditions.
20038595|I explored the effects of sampling on three measures of regional diversity:  diversity (the number of species),  diversity (mean similarity among sites), and  diversity (mosaic diversity and structure around mean similarity). Two sampling effects were modelled by computer simulation, number of sites sampled and intensity of sampling within sites, using plant community data from Michigan, North Carolina, and Costa Rica. Estimates of the number of species were sensitive to both sampling effects. Estimates of mean similarity were unaffected by the number of sites sampled but were sensitive to the intensity of sampling. Estimates of mosaic diversity were relatively unaffected by the number of sites sampled, if the number was above 30 sites and outlier sites were removed, and were not sensitive to the intensity of sampling. I offer mean similarity as a multi-gradient complement to  diversity measured as the turnover of species along a single gradient.
20038607|On the basis of 8697 relevs a syntaxonomical survey of beech woods of central and western Europe is presented. The review table is restricted to beech and fir-beech communities in mesic habitats (without Luzulo- and Cephalanthero-Fagenion). It shows 11 groups of differential species. Their combination leads to 4 suballiances of Fagion: Endymio-, Scillo-, Galio odorati- and Lonicero alpigenae-Fagenion. For each suballiance the nomenclatural type and a short description is given.
20038608|The structure of woody vegetation was studied in little disturbed arid savanna and in adjacent over-grazed vegetation. In the over-grazed areas density and cover of woody plants were higher than in the less disturbed vegetation. The difference was accounted for by one species, Acacia mellifera, which was strongly dominant in the overgrazed vegetation. In the open savanna, the woody species varied in height from small shrubs to trees, while the dense shrub vegetation was of uniformly low stature. It is suggested that, while the differences in total abundance of woody species depend on differences in the amount of soil water available for woody growth, differences in species composition and height distribution are governed by the spatial and temporal distribution of water in the soil profile.
20038609|Quebec ecologists have divised, for more than 25 years, an integrated landform-soil -- vegetation approach to landscape typology and mapping. Basic concepts and principles of this approach are briefly described and illustrated. In spite of the huge areas already mapped, attempts to integrate such an information in the forestry practice have thus far proven inconclusive.
20038610|Pinus halepensis forests of N.W. Algeria are subjected to frequent fires. During the fire the aboveground parts of plants are completely burned but only a few species are killed. Most perennial herb and shrub species survive owing to their underground organs and regenerate vegetatively in the next moist period. The semi-shrubs regenerate both vegetatively and from seeds. The most intensive growth of the shrub layer occurs during the first 2 years and in the 5th year, it reaches a height of 1-1.5 m. Pinus halepensis is completely killed by the fire and it regenerates from seeds only. The regeneration is retarded during the first 2-3 years, apparently by competition of the rapidly developing shrubs and semi-shrubs with P. halepensis. In the following years, there is a more rapid increase in both density and height, although by the 5th year after fire, the height does not exceed 0.5 m. The young trees overtop the shrub layer between 10 and 15 years after fire. The increase in density and cover supress the lower layers, in particular the herb layer. The reduction in density of trees in the following decades enables the herb layer to reconstitute its composition and cover. This process of regeneration resembles forest growth cycles rather than a secondary succession. The shrub and herb layers maintain their identity as they are mostly formed of the same individuals as before the fire; they merely regenerated their aboveground organs. Only the tree layer regenerates anew after the fire.
20038611|Quercus coccifera L., the characteristic scrub oak of the garrigue, covers more than 100,000 ha in southern France alone. Precipitation in this area averages 900 mm/year and summer rains are not rare. A total belowground biomass of 7.2 kg/m, including rhizomes and lignotubers, was harvested. Roots were concentrated in the uppermost 50 cm of the soil. It was hypothesized that low winter temperatures inhibit active fine-root growth. This hypothesis was tested by means of fine-root extractions of soil samples from 0-50 cm depth from November 1987 to June 1988. Although the fine-root analysis could not be extended into late summer and fall, the data supported the hypothesis. Ratios of live/dead fine roots reached their minimum at 0.2-0.3 from December to April. They increased to 1.0-1.2 during late spring and early summer. Initiation of fine-root growth in early April was synchronous with bud break. Starch contents of roots, rhizomes, and lignotubers fluctuated from 4.3% in January to 8.3% in April. The starch stored in belowground organs of Q. coccifera in a closed canopy stand amounted to about 500 g/m in April. This amount declined to 400 g with bud burst and fine-root growth initiation.
20038612|Quercus ilex L. (holm oak) coppices, widespread around the Mediterranean basin, are probably the result of 5 000 years of prolonged human disturbance of the original Quercus pubescens Willd. (downy oak) forests. Since disturbance has almost ceased in recent years, a question arises as to the development of these coppices: will the Q. pubescens forests return, or will Q. ilex remain the dominant species? To investigate the phenomenon, we analyzed the first stages, i.e. germination of the two species in holm oak coppices. Our experiments show that both species germinated better in coppices than in clearings or clear-cuts. Moreover, Q. pubescens appears to be slightly favored above Q. ilex and it is suggested auto-allelopathy is involved, at least partially inhibiting the germination of Q. ilex.
20038613|Within a few years of field abandonment on the coastal dunes, a considerable number of species of trees and woody lianes of the climax evergreen forest enter the succession. At a relatively large-scale of analysis (a 100 m plot), there is no evidence of soil development during the early succession, with no accumulation of soil organic matter nor nutrients being detected. At this scale there is, therefore, little support for the facilitation model of succession. However, when smaller scales of analysis are employed (e.g. a plot equivalent to the canopy area of a sapling) a very different picture emerges; most recruitment of forest woody species occurs beneath saplings found in early succession. Nutrient concentrations were higher in soils under sapling canopies than in soils beyond sapling canopies. With increasing sapling size, an increasing number of seedlings of forest woody species were found and there is progressive soil amelioration. Thus, during the early succession, there is considerable small-scale patterning in soil development and recruitment. This pattern is largely established through bird dispersal, with the intensity of recruitment being dependent on the distance to seed sources.
20038614|Cloud forests are known for their abundance in epiphytes. The growth-form composition of the epiphytic vegetation in the crowns of two tree-species in an upper-andean forest in Colombia is described. Bryophytes formed the bulk of the living epiphytic biomass, with tall turfs and smooth mats (sensu Richards 1984) as commonest growth-forms. Vascular plants and lichens were subordinate to bryophytes. Along the canopy-branches a clear sequence of growth-forms could be demonstrated. Analysis of this gradient by Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA), Two Way Indicator Species Analysis (TWINSPAN) and calculation of association-indices between growth-forms revealed two basic groups. One group is typical for the inner canopy, another for the outer canopy. An important determinant of the growth-form composition was the phorophyte species. The vegetational gradient was interpreted in terms of gradual changes in microclimatological factors, water- and nutrient availability and substratum-age.
20038615|In the temperate forests of southwestern Japan, the population density of woody plants in the community increases in the early stage of secondary succession, reaches a peak in the old oak-chestnut forest, and decreases towards the climax beech forest. The species richness and diversity of woody plants also show a trend similar to that of the population density. The canopy-tree population decreases in the course of the succession while the basal area increases, showing a self-thinning process. The species richness, diversity and population density of herbaceous plants are much influenced by the dominance of the bamboo, Sasa palmata. The life-history traits of trees, lower trees and shrubs are discussed in relation to their shoot system, reproductive pattern and successional processes.
20038616|A. K. Cajander's forest site type classification system is based on definition of plant communities typical to certain climatical and edaphical site conditions, but the structure and composition of the tree stands in Finland are considered sensitive to random variation and are therefore not used as primary classification criteria. The system has often received criticism, usually that the effects of the tree stand and successional stage of the stand have been underestimated. Most of the present-day forest stands in Finland represent young successional stages and are subjected to intensive management. This should result in an additional difficulty in the application of the forest site types in the field. The present study is based on three independent data sets representing forests on mineral soil in southern part of Finland. TWINSPAN classification, DCA ordination and canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) techniques were applied in successive stages of the data analysis. It was found that the definition of the intermediately fertile, mesic site types was clearly confused by the effects of the tree species and age of the stand. The analyses also revealed that the succession pathways on mesic forest sites are largely determined by the tree species composition. In stands dominated by Pinus sylvestris, the succession follows the competitive hierarchy model, whereas in stands dominated by Picea abies, severe shading of the tree canopy governs the development of understorey vegetation.
20038621|Size and age structure analysis, dated past disturbances, treefall replacement patterns, and spatial pattern analysis were used to reconstruct the developmental history of two old-growth Nothofagus fusca/N. menziesii stands, South Island, New Zealand. Diameter and height class distributions suggested that N. menziesii was replacing N. fusca, however, stand history reconstruction analysis showed that both species had regenerated intermittently after small-scale disturbances. Although large-scale disturbances such as blowdowns may occasionally generate even-aged stands, gap-phase regeneration maintains the forests in compositional equilibrium. In the absence of other competing tree species and understorey plants the two species appear to coexist by way of different life history strategies, where one species (N. menziesii) has low juvenile mortality and the other (N. fusca) has faster height growth rates and greater longevity and adult survivorship.
20038622|The studies were conducted in the Biaowiea primeval forest on a study area of 28,000 m, divided into two plots and 280 quadrats. In 1979, all Carpinus betulus individuals were cut off within the experimental plot (E, 7800 m), whilst the control plot (C, 13000 m) remained unchanged. Each plot contained a phytocoenose of Potentillo albae-Quercetum and an adjacent community of Tilio-Carpinetum. By 1983, hornbeam invasion into the oak-forest habitat within C plot had resulted in: 1) a decrease in species number by more than 10 per 100 m on average (c.a. 30%); 2) a twofold greater deletion rate of heliophil oak-forest species than for Fagetalia and Querco-Fagetea; 3) a diminution of the area of oak-forest phytocoenose by more than 100 m per year; 4) formation of a community with a species combination corresponding to Tilio-Carpinetum. Hornbeam removal had the opposite effect: 1) the number of species increased by more than 100%; 2) the number and frequency of oak forest species rose considerably; 3) those parts of the phytocoenose colonized previously by Carpinus betulus regenerated, and thence the area of Potentillo albae-Quercetum community increased.
20038623|Soil drainage is a fundamental element of northern forest productivity. However, its evaluation is a complex operation involving numerous parameters, while no standard approach exists as yet. We have devised drainage evaluation grids based on topographical, edaphical and vegetational parameters. Since distinct surficial deposits influence the relationships between drainage classes and evaluation parameters in distinct patterns, different grids have been proposed for different 'textural' groups.
20038624|Long lasting human impact on the natural Mediterranean vegetation is the reason for its degradation. Uncontrolled felling of trees, fire and overgrazing are the most important ecological causes of this process. Geobotanical investigations made in the area of Algiers facilitated the characterization of degradation changes in the structure of vegetation and in the floristic composition in all the degradation stages. Under the influence of the degradation factors, mentioned above, the oak forests, growing on different, more or less calcareous substrates, are transformed into various shrub formations, mainly into many types of 'maquis' and 'garrigue'. The floristic composition of these communities is given in Table 2. Further degradation leads to widespread Cistus-formations and then to 'palmitto', a formation created by the dwarf palm (Chamaerops humilis). When the anthropopressure becomes stronger even this dwarf palm retreats. Loose swards, replacing the 'palmitto' formation, often cannot stop the subsequent degradation. Bare rock is the extreme, relatively rare stage of forest degradation in this area. The most common form of natural regeneration is the invasion of Pinus halepensis, observed in all degradation stages identified. This pine is also one of trees, most commonly planted on mountain slopes to prevent their erosion.
20038625|The study was carried out in two sample plots which were set in two regions where the vegetation was protected for 8 and 3 years. The results of DCA (Detrended Correspondence Analysis) showed that the vegetation on the north or northwest aspects in Yunmeng Mountain (Quercus liaotungensis coppice and Spiraea trilobata scrubs) has no systematic floristic difference from the vegetation which existed in the same area in 1964 with the approximate aspect under human disturbance, no matter whether they were protected for 8 or 3 years. In south and southeast slopes (Vitex negundo var. heterophylla community), the protected shrublands have larger species diversities than that of the shrublands in 1964. In addition, there is no significant difference between the communities which were protected for different periods of time. However, the number of species in protected area is larger than that in unprotected area. Furthermore, the community which is under a longer period of protection developes larger diversity. The north slopes have more species than the south slopes. The protection is helpful for communities to develope their biomass. The biomass of scrubs on the north slope is much greater than that on the south in the site where the vegetation is protected for 8 years, as well as in the site under 3 years protection. In contrast, due to the larger coverage of the scrubs on north slopes, the biomass of herbage on the south slope is much greater than that on the north slope in both sites. When compared with the biomass of the shrublands in unprotected area, the increase of biomass shows the efficiency of protection. The aboveground biomass of scrubs in both site are 2.8 and 2.2 times greater than that in unprotected area. The ratio of the total aboveground biomass of Site 1, Site 2 and the unprotected area is 2.5:2.2:1 on south aspect.
20038626|The development of socio-economic activity over the past ten years in the Mediterranean region has induced severe changes in the main natural forest ecosystems. In the northern Mediterranean, rural depopulation has accelerated since the end of the second World War, particularly since the establishment of Common Market agricultural policies, and led to an under-utilization of species causing a strong biological resurgence of the forest, even at high altitudes. This means that, at the present time, the extension of expansion model coniferous forests is favored by their capacities for spatial, biological and ecological selection. Along with this, the under-utilization of sclerophyllous (resistance model) and deciduous (stabilization model) oak coppices has led to the establishment of new forest structures and architectures which are notably different from the main climatic groups defined up to now by phytosociological and synchronic methods. Two new forms of disturbances have appeared: -- increasingly important wild fires have replaced disturbances caused by burn beating and are at the origin of the very strong spatial and temporal heterogeneity of current forest species. -- In addition, the geographical continuity of the main groups of same-aged sclerophyllous and deciduous species, due to their non-use over the past ten years, has accelerated a phytosanitary imbalance by an increase in the action of pests. In the southern Mediterranean, particularly in North Africa, demographic pressure and grazing have widely disturbed the main forest ecosystems which show a continual regression of their surface. Many forest tree species with a low spatial and biological selection, such as Mediterranean firs and black pines (Pinus nigra subsp. mauritanica), are threatened with extinction, as are the deciduous oak forests which, considering the climatic stress and edaphic constraints, are permanently in a state of imbalance. Human disturbances induce a complete modification of structures and architectures tending towards the installation of simplified forest models (trees-grasses) where tree regeneration is nearly impossible. The sclerophyllous coppices well-adapted to stress are also threatened by shorter and shorter cutting cycles and by the high usage of tree canopies for grazing. -- The forest understory structures have witnessed a decrease in their characteristic sylvatic species and the matorralization of most of the forests can be seen by the replacement of typical forest groups by preforest groups (Tetraclinis forests, Aleppo pine forests).
20038627|The Ojcw National Park, 22 km NNW of Cracow (Krakw), is subjected to the influence of very strong air pollution. Coniferous trees, especially the silver fir Abies alba and the Scots pine Pinus sylvestric suffer seriously under these conditions. The individual tolerance of fir to the stress factors proved to be very differenciated and only to a small degree connected with the height of trees and their position in forest canopy. Some differenciation in fir vitality resulted however from the site conditions and the exposure to winds carrying air pollutants. Floristic changes in the mixed forest Pino-Quercetum during the last 30 years were documented by repeated phytosociological releves. The most significant of these changes is the disappearance of carpet mosses and other acidophilous species of the Vaccinio-Piceetea class. Consequently, most of the forest stands classified before as Pino-Quercetum do not represent this plant association any more. The symptoms of damage, existing also in deciduous forests, indicate that an effective nature protection in the Ojcw National Park can be secured only by limitation of air pollution.
20038628|Nested sample plots of three sizes (16, 1, and 1/16 sq. m) from three different studies of Norwegian coniferous forests have been subjected to DCA ordination using the same choice of options. At each sample plot size, species quantities are recorded as frequency in 16 subplots. Beta diversity, measured as length of the first DCA axis, invariably increased upon lowering of sample plot size. The same applied to the eigenvalues of the axes. This is explained as a consequence of the weakening of structure in the data matrices when the fine-grained patterns of the vegetation are emphasized.
20038633|The rich deciduous woodland at Loi, Luster, Inner Sogn, 6120 N., was traditionally used for fodder production from both tree and field layer. After more than nearly 40 years of disuse and secondary forest succession, experimental efforts were made to restore the traditional agricultural 'meadow woodland'. Following a detailed preliminary registration of the vegetation the following measures were taken: 1. The understory tree layer, mainly Alnus incana was removed. 2. The old Ulmus glabra pollards were pruned back to traditional shape, as were some tall shrubs of Corylus avellana. 3. The field layer was mown once or twice yearly. The main results are: 1. The pollarded elms have developed bundles of new twigs at the pruning points and are in good condition. 2. After an expansion of tall, nitrophilic herbs, e.g. Urtica dioica, Impatiens noli-tangere and Rubus idaeus, low and medium sized herbs and grasses have increased both in numbers, frequency and abundance. Helio- and thermophilic forest margin species are also more prominent. The moss layer has also become more dense and varied. 3. The average number of species in permanent plots has nearly doubled. The status of the vegetation is still far from that of the traditional 'agricultural woodland'. So far the experiment shows that it is possible to restore the tree layer completely, and the development of the field layer points toward a herb rich meadow resembling the vegetation found under traditional management.
20038634|44 isolated ancient woods (9,3-8579 ha) in southeastern Lower Saxony (northwestern Germany), where the Tertiary hilly country meets the Pleistocene plain, were investigated. Complete lists of 273 vascular plant species showing a more or less strong preference for woodlands were made for each wood including all the species of the groups Querco-Fagetea, Trifolio-Geranietea, Galio-Calystegietalia (selection of species) and Epilobietea. The majority of character species of woods show either a low or a high frequency, whereas fewer ones have medium frequencies. Most of the rarer species have their main occurrence in the larger woods. The number of species of all of the four groups increases with area of the wood and the correlation between the number of species and the log of area is related by a highly significant linear regression. Comparison of a single wood with two smaller woods of the same total area reveals that the two smaller woods on average have the greater number of wood species. Considering this and the fact that the rarer species have their main occurrence in the larger woods, when discussing questions of nature conservation a simple comparison of number of species and area is problematical.
20038635|Forest under low rainfall (averaging 745 mm
20038636|Previous classifications at continental to state/provincial scales were surveyed in order to produce a new classification of North American forests. This classification is of present-day forests and includes both seral and old-growth forest types. The classification is hierarchical, as physiognomically-based formation types are defined on the basis of growth form of dominant trees and subdivided into forest types according to the species of these dominants. The classification includes a total of 68 forest types and 1 complex of forest types. These are presented by formation type (9) and by forest region (11). The number of formation types is largest in forest regions where major climate types intergrade, i.e., in the United States Coastal Plain and Piedmont Lowland (6 types) and the Central American Montane (5). The number of forest types is largest in the Eastern United States Lowland (12) and the Rocky Mountain -- Sierra Madre Oriental -- Sierra Madre Occidental Montane (11).
20038637|Oak (Quercus petraea Liebl.) and larch (Larix decidua Mill.) forest plantations of the study area 'Modzawy' in Poland were analysed. Changes in the syntaxonomic composition and of Ellenberg's indices (light, continentality, moisture, reaction and nitrogen index) were determination. The results obtained mostly conform to the assumption that the herb layer of both plantations becomes, gradually with tree growth, more similar to each other and to that of mature oak-hornbeam forests. Such statement is justified by: an increase in the share of species common to both plantation types, a significant increase in the number and cover of the Querco-Fagetea character-species, accompanied by a decrease in the number and cover of other character-species, a general decrease in the share of species with extreme climatic and edaphic requirements, accompanied by a gradual increase in the share of number and cover of species with average demands. From the studies it may be concluded that the developmental mechanisms which determine the direction and trends of changes in the herb layer are mainly common to both plantation types, whereas tree stand species, in spite of different habit, ecological demands, and effect on soil properties, have only slight modification influence.
20038638|To obtain the characteristics of Chinese alpine grassy marshland, the vegetation of Ruoergai marshland, which is the largest peatland in China, and of neighboring areas was surveyed along mountain slopes in three areas, Ouhailao, Waqie and Kaharqiao. Based on the clustering of 122 1 m  1 m quadrats surveyed, the vegetation was grouped into 8 types. From bottom to top of mountain slopes, the dominant species, zonally established, were: 1) Carex enervis and Equisetum limosum; 2) Carex meyeriana; 3) Deschampsia caespitosa, Caltha scaposa and Anemone obtusiloba; 4) Koeleria cristata; 5) Kobresia tibetica and Caltha scaposa; 6) Blysmus sinocompressus; 7) Polygonum sphaerostachyum and Trollius ranuncloides; and 8) Ranunculus pedicularis. In this order, species richness increased gradually along the slopes. A principal component analysis demonstrated that water depth partly regulated the establishment of vegetation. The geographical difference of vegetation was also observed, in particular, in Waqie. Likewise, grazing is considered to modify this vegetation.
20038639|A survey of epiphytes in Gambari Forest Reserve in Southwestern Nigeria was undertaken. A total of 26 epiphytes were recorded. These include five pteridophytes and 21 angiosperm species belonging to the following families; Acanthaceae, Araceae, Asteraceae, Commelinaceae, Moraceae, Orchidaceae, Palmae, Urticaceae Piperaceae, and Portulacaceae. The smooth-barked phorophytes had only one or two epiphytes on them because they are unable to accumulated dust, debris and moisture for germination and growth of the epiphytes. The palm trees with rough barks had points at which they can collect soil, nutrients and moisture for epiphytic growth, hence all the epiphytic species recorded on the site were present on palm trees. Presence of many of the epiphytes is thought to be due to the availability of propagules from reproducing adults in the surrounding vegetation. Also, epiphytes appear to have a 'dressing' effect on the palm trees.
20038644|Variations in Raunkiaer's life-forms spectra for mature Quercus ilex forest stands in N-Mediterranean basin were examined in order to assess their predictability in local vegetation analysis. Physiognomic variations in Quercus ilex communities appear to be mainly determined by structural variations due to intrinsic characteristics (long-term human disturbance all over their range) and to different dynamical status of the stands, without any geographical pattern.
20038645|Strong inference techniques were used in a preliminary study of the structure and dynamics of the vegetation in the Prince Albert region of the Great Karoo, South Africa. Seedling emergence studies indicate that open areas in the interstices of the existent vegetation are colonized by mound-building species of the Mesembryanthemaceae. Later, these species serve as sites of establishment for seedlings of several species of woody shrubs. Eventually, the woody shrubs replace the mound-building mesems through interspecific competition. The woody shrubs persist in the community until they reach senescence and die or are removed through overgrazing. Superimposed on this dynamic pattern is a further temporal pattern involving a combination of disturbance and subsequent soil changes. much of this effect is caused by fossorial animals, which are associated with large circular (10-20 m diameter) mounds. Burrowing by these animals changes the soil characteristics and establishes an additional sequence of vegetation succession in which the mounds serve as refuges from which non-palatable species, such as Pteronia pallens, can invade the rangeland. Later, as the mounds are abandoned and disturbance effects cease, more palatable species, such as P. empetrifolia, will replace P. pallens, overcoming finally the effects of the adjacent mounds on the surrounding vegetation.
20038646|In the rift valley (North-East of France/South-West of Germany), the Rhine runs freely for 300 km from South to North. The absence of natural obstacles allows the development of a very regular profile of the river. We have therefore an opportunity to study very gradual modifications of the alluvial forest communities of the fluvial corridor from upstream to downstream, according to the gradual evolution of the ecological factors, related to slope decrease and hydrological modifications. We describe, from Basel to Mainz: 1) modification of dynamic processes in the forest communities such as successional sequences or sylvigenetic mosacs of the terminal stages. 2) modification of species richness. 3) reduction of species diversity. 4) simplification of the forest stratification. 5) modification of efficiency of the biogeochemical cycling. 6) ecological vicariances. 7) modification in species behaviour.
20038648|Sampling distributions of species composition counts from four large data sets were collected by point techniques. Results show good agreement between observed and expected frequencies under binomial distributions for all species measured with the Tidmarsh wheel. However, with the Levy bridge where observations are not independent, greater variance occurred for species with low frequencies. The results were used to specify those sample sizes needed to achieve any pre-determined precision. The traditionally accepted sample size of 200 is adequate for detecting a change with 20% precision in only the dominant species (mean composition of over 25%). Detecting change in species with a frequency of less than 5% will require in excess of 1200 points to achieve a 20% precision.
20038649|Examples show that two clustering programs (GROUPAGE, TABORD) group the forest vegetation into clusters with about the same results as obtained by a traditionally working plant sociologist assigning it to the Finnish forest site types. The best result is achieved by using both of these programs together with an additional ordination program (ORDINA). The differences when all three analyses are taken into account depend on the fact that there are often some transitional relevs in the material. In a few cases a new type determination for the relev might be justified. The clustering methods show often groupings into smaller units (variants) inside the types, units which are rarely used in the Finnish forest type system.
20038650|Floristic composition, diversity, dominance and distribution pattern of species and tree population structure were studied in three stands of a sub-tropical wet hill broad-leaved forest of Meghalaya, India, along a disturbance gradient. Tree species diversity declined with increasing disturbance. Disturbed stands showed low equitability or high dominance and the undisturbed stand exhibited high equitability or low dominance. Contagious distribution among the tree species increased with increasing intensity of disturbance. Species showing regular distribution were restricted only to the undisturbed stand. Effect of disturbance on tree population structure was analysed using density-diameter curves. In the disturbed stands tree species showed reverse J-shaped and/or negative exponential curves, while those in the undisturbed stand exhibited sigmoid to bimodal mound shaped curves.
20038651|This paper reports on the anthropogenic degradation of natural forest vegetation in Warsaw (Reserve Las Bielaski). The degree and form of degradation was assessed on the basis of composition and distribution of forest and non-forest coenoelements (sensu Walter & Straka 1970). The total number of forest coenoelements was found to be three times lower than that of non-forest coenoelements; the former decidedly dominated only over 20% of the reserve area, the least accessible to town inhabitants. In the remaining area the vegetation was deformed to a various degree, indicated by the presence and local dominance of the species of: (1) brushwoods, clearings and shaded forest margins, (2) meadows and grasslands, (3) synanthropic communities. The distribution and proportions of above non-forest coenoelements in the vegetation composition reflected mainly the intensity and form of direct disturbance. The forest fragments defined as highly degraded on the basis of dominance of non-forest over forest coenoelements, were also the sites of anthropophyte concentration. The presented assessment method of the degree and form of degradation of natural vegetation can be especially useful when fragmentation and deformation of phytocoenoses make the application of phytosociological methods impossible.
20038652|This paper reports the analysis of floristic composition and phenology of protected, annually scraped and fired, and heavily grazed grasslands community of Western Himalaya. 2. A total of 19, 20 and 23 species were recorded at protected (S), annually scraped and fired (S) and heavily grazed (S) sites respectively. 3. Domination of therophytic flora as indicated by biological spectrum study, was noted in all the three sites. 4. Density of plants reached a maximum in the rainy season and amounted to be 4300.5, 3439.8 and 3298.0 tillers/m on S, S and S respectively. 5. Maximum total basal cover was also recorded in the rainy season and amounted to be 769.9, 3390.6 and 2295.7 cm/m on S, S and S respectively. 6. Correlation between density and basal cover was positive on all three sites.
20038657|Amounts of seed predation by grapsid crabs (Brachyura: Grapsidae) on two species of mangroves (Aegiceras corniculatum and Avicennia marina) were compared among different habitats in an Australian mangrove forest. For Avicennia, comparisons were between canopy gaps and the adjacent forest understory for six, mid intertidal, gaps of different sizes. For Aegiceras the comparisons were among canopy gaps in the high intertidal; open, accreting mud/sand banks where mangroves were colonizing in the low intertidal; and in the forest understory in both the high and low intertidal zones. These were repeated in the high salinity (35) downstream portion and the low salinity (0-5) upstream portion of a tidal river. Predation on Avicennia was significantly higher in the understory than in adjacent canopy gaps. Within a canopy opening, predation was greatest in the smallest gaps and lowest in the largest gaps. Predation on Aegiceras was greater in the high intertidal compared to the low intertidal, but no differences were found between river mouth and upstream locations. In the high intertidal zone of the forest, there were no differences in predation between canopy gap or forest understory sites for Aegiceras. In the low intertidal zone, however, significant differences in amount of predation were found between habitats. More Aegiceras propagules were consumed in the understory than on adjacent accreting sandbanks. Frequency of tidal inundation, which in turn affects the amount of time available to forage, is hypothesized to account for differences in predation between low and high intertidal forests and between small and large canopy gaps. Our results also suggest that 'shade intolerance' in these two species may actually reflect an escape from predators, successful when the seeds are dispersed into open areas such as canopy gaps or mud banks.
20038658|The much higher proportion of sea to land in the southern hemisphere creates conditions favouring temperate rain forest on west-facing coasts, so that forests dominated by Nothofagus spp. and southern conifers in Araucariaceae and Podocarpaceae have survived since Cretaceous times. By contrast only Australia preserves to any significant extent forests of a xeromorphic character in drier areas. During the progressive desiccation of the Tertiary era, the prevalent nutrient deficiency in Australian soils led to the evolution of xeromorphic forests of a pronouncedly sclerophyll type in which many elements were inherently fire-resistant. Such forests were enabled to withstand the intensification of burning following the arrival of early man, with selection for the more highly fire-resistant elements such as Eucalyptus which became widely dominant. In other land areas of the southern hemisphere fire has largely destroyed the drier forests.
20038659|The existence of a relationship between the spatial pattern of trees and the distribution of young individuals beneath the canopy has been tested in the beech (Fagus sylvatica) and spruce (Picea abies) -- fir (Abies alba) forests in the mountainous region, using two different methods. The first method was the analysis of spatial pattern of individuals, the second one was based on calculating sums of influences of all trees occurring within analysed plot on a given point on the forest floor. Results of spatial pattern analyses were surprisingly consistent: almost all mature trees and seedlings didplayed a random pattern of spatial arrangement. However, there is a clear, although statistically insignificant tendency towards uniformity of spatial pattern with increasing sizes of analysed trees. Results of comparing sums of influences on regularly distributed points with sums of influences on seedlings or saplings revealed no tendency in forest regeneration to concentrate in places, where the sums were smaller than the average for a plot. This, coupled with the dominance of random spatial pattern of trees, suggests, that viewed on a small spatial scale, influence of competition among forest trees on their spatial arrangement is obscured by other factors, which are not closely related to the distribution of individuals.
20038660|Environmental factors governing the composition of riparian woodlands of the Gregory Rift Valley, northern Kenya were investigated. We collected tree species composition data on elevational transects along four active stream channels and two recently abandoned channels in Turkana District, Kenya and examined variation in riparian woodland species richness and composition at two scales: first, regional differences among channels and second, patterns along individual channels. The major factors governing woodland composition were: geographic location in relation to rainfall distribution, local heterogeneity in stream substrate, fluvial disturbance within individual channels and, in some cases, location along elevation gradients. Species richness increased with increasing rainfall. There were no significant differences in the composition of woodlands associated with active and recently abandoned channel segments. However, the species richness of riparian woodlands along abandoned channel segments seemed to decline with time since abandonment. The species richness of riparian woodlands in Turkana is an order of magnitude lower than that of comparable neotropical dry forests.
20038661|A vegetation survey was carried out in the Ujung Kulon nature reserve (West Java, Indonesia). Particular attention was paid to the altitudinal zoning of the vegetation, to succession and to the applicability of the phytosociological approach in forests of the humid tropics. The altitudinal zoning provides a clear example of the telescope effect: low, isolated mountain complexes surrounded by sea reflect the vegetation zoning of higher mountains in a condensed, 'telescoped' way. The pattern of primary forests, secondary forests and rattan-dominated shrublands can be explained by the former shifting cultivation practice and the impact of ash rains following the notorious eruption of the nearby volcano Krakatau in 1883. The arguments against the phytosociological approach in the humid tropics are found to be invalid. The minimal area concept does not cause great problems if used in a practical sense and if plants of all age classes and all terrestrial growth forms are included in the relev.
20038662|Das Wuchsgebiet der sommergrnen Baumart Nothofagus pumilio wird in einer bersichtskarte umrissen und in 5 Regionen untergliedert. An einem Beispiel aus dem nrdlichen Lenga-Wald-Areal wird die hhenabhngige Ausprgung des Nothofagus pumilio-Waldes hinsichtlich dessen floristischer Zusammensetzung, Struktur und Bodencharakteristik beschrieben. Die Bestnde gehren zu 2 Assoziationen mit insgesamt 4 Untereinheiten. Aus der synsystematischen Zusammenstellung des bisher vorliegenden pflanzensoziologischen Materials ergibt sich bis jetzt eine Gliederung der Klasse in 2 Ordnungen, von denen eine die sdpatagonischen und die andere die mittel- und nordpatagonischen Lenga-Wlder umfasst. Das bisher am intensivsten untersuchte nordpatagonische Areal wird durch 2 Unterverbnde mit insgesamt 6 Assoziationen charakterisiert; ein Unterverband umfat die Wuchsgebiete im trockeneren Ostteil, der andere die Gebiete der humiden Andenwestseite. Erst Arbeiten aus den noch wenig oder gar nicht untersuchten Lenga-Waldgebieten werden die abschlieend angerissenen synsystematischen und arealkundlichen Fragen klren knnen.
20038663|The distribution of soil nutrients and soil moisture dynamics on slopes of catenary landscape, were recorded in a semi-arid nature reserve located in the Eastern Transvaal, South Africa. Soil nutrients were accumulating in the slopes of the catena whereas the crests were highly leached. Open grassland bands segregating between the two soil types and their associated plant species, did not show clear stratification of nutrient deposition amongst ground levels down to 1.5 m below the surface. There was however, a tendency of soils with high nutrient contents to correlate with areas of high woody vegetation density. Patterns of soil moisture levels during two annual rainfall periods showed some segregation between soil depths, although the trends indicated that the duration of saturation and dry out of soils levels differed more between rainy seasons than between soil levels during a particular season.
20038664|In the low-lying parts of The Netherlands peat-cutting in the past resulted in many larged and small lakes. The larger ones were often reclaimed and turned into arable land. In smaller ones a process of secondary succession led to the esablishment of reed and sedge fens. Due to changes in the management many of the still existing fens have been left over to natural developments over the last decades. Here succession rapidly led to woodland communities. These woodlands are initially often dominated by Salix species, soon followed by Alnus glutinosa and Betula pubescens. In species composition these young woodlands are closely related to the Carici elongatae-Alnetum glutinosae. There are, however, considerable differences in species composition. This woodland type as found in the western parts of The Netherlands was also recognized in releves from Belgium, wesern Germany and Norfolk in the UK. As it also differs in ecological conditions from the brooks and rivulets accompanying forms of the Alnin glutinosae elsewhere in western Europe, it is here proposed to treat these communities as a separate community-type within the Alnion glutinosae.
20038669|The relationships between vegetation components, surface water chemistry and peat chemistry from 23 fens in boreal Alberta, Canada, substantiate important differences along the poor to rich fen gradient. Each of the three fen types have their own characteristic species. The extreme-rich fens are characterized by Calliergon trifarium, Drepanocladus revolvens, Scirpus hudsonianus, S. cespitosus, Scorpidium scorpioides, and Tofieldia glutinosa. Moderate-rich fens are characterized by Brachythecium mildeanum, Carex diandra, Drepanocladus vernicosus, D. aduncus, and D. polycarpus. Poor fens are characterized by Carex pauciflora, Drepanocladus exannulatus, Sphagnum angustifolium, S. jensenii, and S. majus. Moderate-rich fens have fewer species in common with poor fens than with extreme-rich fens, while species richness is highest in the moderate-rich fens and lowest in poor fens. Variation in vascular plant occurrence appears to be more associated with nutrient levels, while bryophytes are more affected by changes in acidity and mineral elements. Based on chemical criteria, the three fen types are clearly separated by surface water pH, calcium, magnesium, and conductivity, but are less clearly differentiated by the nitrogen and phosphorus components of the surface waters. Moderate-rich fens are chemically variable both temporally and spatially, whereas poor fens and extreme-rich fens are more stable ecosystems. Whereas components of alkalinity-acidity are the most important factors that distinguish the three fen types in western Canada, nutrient concentrations in the surface waters generally do not differ appreciably in the three fen types.
20038670|In the diluvial plain of Lower Saxony (= Niedersachsen) two types of alder fen woods are found: alder swamp woods ('alder carrs') with a more changing water table and inundations in winter, and alder spring woods without hibernal inundation and a more or less constant water table. While all alder swamp woods are Alnion forests, the alder spring woods can be devided into Alnion and Alno-Ulmion forests. All Alnion forests in the diluvial plain of Lower Saxony belong to the association Carici elongatae-Alnetum Schwick. 1933. This association can be devided into three subassociations, C. el.-Al. betuletosum Bodeux 1955, C. el.-Al. typicum Meijer Dress 1936 and C. el.-Al. cardaminetosum Meijer Drees 1936. Low pH-values and high C/N-ratios of the soil are good indicators to distinguish the Carici elongatae-Alnetum betuletosum from the other two subassociations. Humus contents has a tendency to decrease in the sequence C. el.-Al. betuletosum &gt C. el.-Al. typicum &gt C. el.-Al cardaminetosum, but is no reliable factor for classification of a single plot. Differences in annual groundwater level variations cause a floristical differentiation only within alderwoods of meso- to eutrophic sites. Here a nearly constant water table or at least no hibernal inundation leads to a Carici elongatae-Alnetum cardaminetosum, while sites which are inundated in winter carry the Carici elongatae-Alnetum typicum. On oligotrophic sites both, swamp and spring woods belong to the Carici elongatae-Alnetum betuletosum. The subdivision of the Carici elongatae-Alnetum for the whole lowlands of northern Central Europe is generally the same as for Lower Saxony.
20038671|Historical land-use and especially acid precipitation seem to have altered the natural habitat conditions for Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) in Central Europe. Many forest decline studies of the last ten years evaluate the continual anthropogenic stress situation for Norway spruce. Especially in regions with high acidic deposition, regeneration of spruce stands seems to be impossible without soil melioration. In a first estimate the assumed H-deposition and additionally the propensity of soils to acidification in spruce stands is characterized. After studying several soil parameters, exposition and climatic factors were processed by means of a Geographical Information System in order to draw a balance of human impact on habitat conditions of Norway spruce. Both the spatial distribution of spruce vitality under natural conditions (without human impact) in the research area Fichtelgebirge (northeast Bavaria) and the prospective vitality of spruce under actual human impact is shown. From this comparison it is concluded that without air pollution abatement and without amelioration of the heavily acidified sites spruce regeneration can not be expected even in the long run. The actual forest damage and some restoration programs give evidence of this assumption.
20038672|Over a period of 9 years a grazing experiment was carried out in the mainland salt marsh of the Leybucht (Niedersachsen) with three stocking rates, namely, 0.5
20038673|With the aim to specify the microhabitats of annual plants at arid sites, five different sites within an Acacietum tortilis in the Wadi Araba were investigated. During one vegetation period, plants and soil conditions were analyzed simultaneously and the results were correlated. The water regime is one of the most important facts influencing vegetation pattern: On the one hand, additional lateral water favours the conditions of some microhabitats, on the other hand, the plant available water is strongly limited by salinization leading to osmotic stress. Additionally, ion specific effects of salinization influence the vegetation pattern. The different supply of nitrogen scarcely influences plant growth. The character of the surface can be important for the plant establishment and therefore for the species composition at the different sites.
20038674|Seed samples were collected from wild populations of Capsella bursa-pastoris growing along a cline from low elevations to the high mountain region in Switzerland and from different latitudes in Scandinavia. Progeny were grown in open-field random block experiments, in transplantation experiments and in growth chambers. Beginning of flowering was recorded. Under various environmental conditions we got rough ecotypic complexes: Early flowering Scandinavian populations and late flowering populations from the Alps. A quantitative promotion in a larger photoperiod exists in all populations (quantitative LTP). Along various considered altitude gradients in the Alps populations from higher elevations are later flowering and tend to overwinter (biennial). Obviously there exists a very distinct adaptation in graduate ecotypical differentiation. But geographical and climatical adaptation could be superimposed by local human influences like agriculture. The physiological and genetical background is present, but until now nearly invisible.
20038675|With the aim of evaluating the accessible data on vegetation structure and composition for the Vegetation Map of Europe as far as possible, a reasonable classification of natural vegetation has been proposed which facilitates the identification of vegetation units used in different Schools of vegetation science. The proposed universal classification makes full use of several different principles. The highest units are based on physiognomic-ecological features and correspond to formation units of different rank. The European natural forest vegetation (including shrubs) has been divided into 10 formation units. Each formation is further divided into subunits according to the most important features. Ecological and functional interpretation has priority in the hierarchic structure of the system which was used in the legend to the Vegetation Map of Europe. The resulting system shows the most important features of latitudinal (vegetation zones and subzones), longitudinal (oceanic to continental analogues) and altitudinal (vegetation belts) regularities, further azonal vegetation types and their differentiation as well as the edaphic, geographic and florogenetic varieties of the natural plant cover. This arrangement constitutes a framework in which the vegetation units of different Schools can be classed.
20038676|The effect of a well-developed epiphytic vegetation on the interception of rainfall was investigated in an upper montane rain forest at an altitude of 3370 m in the Cordillera Central of the Colombian Andes. Total epiphyte mass was estimated at 12 tonnes dry weight per hectare, most of it being bryophytes and dead organic matter. The hydrological properties of the epiphyte mass were studied using detached branches. Water gain (during rainfall) and water loss (after experimental saturation) were determined gravimetrically in the field. Rain falling on epiphyte-covered branches was efficiently captured. Drainage of water (held temporarily in excess of the retention capacity) was very gradual. Water loss through evaporation was slow. The observations are in accordance with previously reported data for rainfall interception in the forest studied. The potentially large influence of the exceptionally high canopy storage capacity is restricted due to the clumped distribution of epiphytes and associated low turnover rates of water in the epiphyte mass.
20038682|The northern part of Sweden, making up nearly two-thirds of the whole country, belongs to the coniferous, oakless forests of the boreal region, the taiga of the northern hemisphere, Fig. 1. The two main tree species are the Norway spruce, Picea abies (L.) Karst., and Scots pine, Pinus silvestris L., and occur either alone or mixed, generally also with some deciduous trees; the most common being the birches Betula pendula, Roth and B. pubescens, Ehrh. The forests are rarely too dense to exclude a low ground vegetation with a field layer of dwarf-shrubs, herbs, ferns and grasses and a bottom layer of lichens and mosses. The plant species of both layers provide a fairly good indication of the characteristics of the site. The plant communities are even more reliable indicators of soil type and suitability of the site for growing trees. From the plant sociological point of view, the communities correspond to unions or associations forming ecosystems equal to forest types. These are named after the two main factorial systems, moisture/water and nutrients, and are ordinated into a scheme, here called the North-Swedish forest types scheme. These forest types provide information on the management of the forest at different sites, including the choice of the most suitable and economically most profitable trees and methods of regeneration, both natural as well as artificial. On forest land without trees, such as in a clearing, the phase of the forest type becomes quite different from the normal phase stabilized within a mature forest In a natural stand, as well as in a forest established by sowing or planting, the density of the canopy has great influence on the ground vegetation -- and thus on the forest type. The different paths of succession and dynamics of these phases must be known. The forest types scheme presented here in an English version was widely used in Sweden in teaching and training in forestry from 1945 to the late 1970's and is still used for pilot descriptions. Some new approaches by recent scientists and new systems, especially for the purpose of classification of the sites into quality classes, are briefly mentioned.
20038683|During FAO Project NEP/85/011 a methodology was developed for His Majesties Government 'Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation' (HMG DNPWC) to determine the impact of lifestock and wild ungulates on condition and physiognomy of alpine grasslands and to derive parametrical relationships between livestock/wildlife distribution and grassland condition. Between Nov. 1986 and March 1988 eight surveys, lasting from 2-9 weeks were undertaken in various regions of central and eastern Nepal. The comparison of three climatically similar areas (Hinku-Hongu, Sagarmatha, Langtang) showed significant differences in the condition (e.g. grass cover, grass height, bare topsoil, biomass) and physiognomy (vegetation composition) of alpine grasslands. These differences seemed to be not so much a function of ungulate density, but were mainly determined by grazing duration, i.e. winter grazing as well as topographical features. Overgrazed areas with a decrease of graminees and an increase of unpalatable shrubs (e.g. Rhododendron anthopogon, Berberis sp.) and herbs (Euphorbia wallichii and E. longifolia, Iris sp.) were particularly abundant in the vicinity of villages. Productivity of grasslands seemed to be highest at altitudes between 3400 and 4000 m ab. S.L. Here grass species showed highest coverage, shrubs and herbs only moderate values. Habitat utilisation of lifestock (cattle, water buffalo, yak, hybrids, goats and sheep) as well as of wild ungulates, such as thar (Hemitragus jemlahicus), bharal (Pseudois nayaur), goral (Nemorhaedus goral goral) and serau (Capricornis sumatraensis tahr) were compared. Productivity (biomass and grass coverage) of grasslands could be correlated with thar density. Differences of utilisation patterns between wild ungulates e.g. bharal and thar, but also between livestock and thar suggested, that some form of competitive exclusion is operating. With the increase of wild ungulates in Sagarmatha N.P., due to protection, conflicts with livestock grazing were evident. In tourist areas, changes in the structure of lifestock populations -- mainly as a response to tourism --, have lead to decreasing utilisation of high alpine pastures (&gt4000 m a S.L.). This pattern also reflects human emigration rates of up to 12% annually. Whereas this does not necessarily benefit the upper regions, it does increase grazing problems in lower regions, in particular the grazing of forests. Two examples of stepwise multiple regression analysis are given to detect parametrical relationships between different numbers and combinations of independent variables. Biomass as well as lifestock numbers could be predicted accurately (r = 0.70 (0.84), 0.001 &lt p &lt 0.005 (p &lt 0.0001) with three (four) independent variables.
20038684|The floristic differentiation of the deciduous Quercus frainetto forests along the climatic gradients of Apennine Italy has been studied. The ecological amplitude of this oak, and the bioclimatological relationships here assessed, suggest potentiality for the growth of Q. frainetto-rich communities as broad zonal vegetation belt, ranging from NW to SE along the W side of peninsular Italy. Strong floristical and ecological similarities to the balcanic stands are described. The status of real vegetation belt for the Italian Quercion frainetto s.l. is here emphasized.
20038685|A combination of methods (intensity of indication, floristic and mesological redundancy analysis, beta-diversity analysis, principal components analysis and Wildi's interactive ranking procedure) were used to evaluate redundancy and relative phytoecological importance among 80 climatic variables in Galicia (N.W. Spain). The information they contained was found to be adequately summarized by just 3 factors thought to play a major role in regulating the distribution of the species considered in the study area and similar areas: Baudiere's QE index, mean minimum temperature in the coldest month and mean temperature range in the coldest month. For these three factors, phytoclimatic thresholds were determined by examining beta-diversity and were used to define phytoclimatic zone types. /// Se valora la redundancia e importancia fitoecolgica relativa de 80 variables climticas en Galicia (N.O. de Espaa) empleando una combinacion de diferentes metodos (intensidad indicadora, anlisis de la redundancia florstica y mesolgica, anlisis de beta-diversidad, anlisis de componentes principales y el mtodo de ordenacin interactiva de Wildi). La informacin contenida en esta variables es adecuadamente resumida por 3 factores que juegan un papel predominante en regular la distribucin de las especies consideradas en el area de estudio y areas similares: el ndice QE de Baudiere, la temperatura media de las mnimas del mes ms fro y la oscilacin trmica del mes ms fro. Para estos factores el anlisis de la beta-diversidad permiti determinar los umbrales fitoclimticos utilizados en la definicin y cartografia de las zonas fitoclimticas.
20038686|Seed was collected from plants of Lobelia urens growing in three populations in southern England. Metrical measurements were made on individuals grown from sub-samples of these seeds in a common garden experiment. Electrophoresis of soluble seed proteins was also carried out. Plants from the isolated populations, growing at the northern edge of the species' range, displayed a high level of overall similarity, though some differentiation of one population appeared to have occurred. More significant variation occurred between families within populations.
20038687|Very limited information regarding fine-root growth and production of tropical dry forests is available. Fine roots and small roots are defined as rootlets with diameters &lt 1 mm and 1.1 to 5 mm, respectively. Live and dead fine-and small-root mass fluctuations were studied over one year by means of soil core analyses in the deciduous dry forest of Chamela, Mexico, at 19 30, 2 km inland from the Pacific Ocean. By means of systematically varying the distance of soil core extraction points from tree stems, it was shown that random core collection is justified. A difference between fine-root biomass on south and north facing slopes was documented, although this difference was significant only during the rainy season. The live/dead ratio of fine roots was highest during the rainy period. The annual fine-root production for 1989 was estimated at 4.23 Mg
20038688|A comparative study is made in order to establish relationships between floristic and bioclimatic gradient. An east-west strip of about 200 Km in the inner area of the Basque Country has been chosen. Quercus faginea and Quercus pubescens forests have been studied. The climatic parameters of eight meteorological stations located within the area have also been analysed. The results obtained show the existence of four different forest types, which can be easily distinguished among themselves. They extend following the geographical longitude. The eastern ones can be related to a more continental character, the western ones to a more mediterranean one. /// Se realiza un estudio comparativo con objeto de establecer relaciones entre un gradiente florstico y el determinado por diversos parmetros climticos. Para ello se han estudiado los bosques de Quercus faginea y Quercus pubescens en una franja este-oeste de unos 200 km de longitud, en la zona interior del rea vasco-navarra. Se han analizado los parmetros climticos de ocho estaciones meteorolgicas localizadas, en su mayora, dentro del rea. El anlisis fitosociolgico de los bosques permite distinguir cuatro tipos que se pueden agrupar en dos asociaciones con dos subasociaciones cada una. Su distribucin a lo largo de la longitud geogrfica se correlaciona con un clima ms continental hacia el este y ms mediterrneo hacia poniente.
20038693|An oligohaline tidal marsh on the northern shore of Lake Pontchartrain, LA was characterized with respect to the distributions and abundances of plant species over spatial and temporal gradients using Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA). In addition, the species distributions were correlated to several physical environmental factors using Detrended Canonical Correspondence Analysis (DCCA). The distributions of species were best correlated with distance from Lake Pontchartrain, and to a lesser extent with elevation and substrate organic matter. They were least correlated with mean soil salinity (referred to here as background salinity). Of the three mid-seasonal dominant species, the perennial grass, Spartina patens, is the most salt tolerant and was found closest to the lake. Further inland the dominant perennial was Sagittaria lancifolia, which has a salt tolerance less than that of Spartina patens. The perennial sedge, Cladium jamaicense, which is the least salt tolerant of the three, was dominant furthest inland. Background salinity levels were generally low (&lt5 ppt.) and did not explain species distributions. We hypothesize that the distribution of species is regulated by occasional storm-generated 'salt pulses' that generate strong, short-lived salinity gradients as a function of distance from the lake. Biotic interactions likely also play a role in structuring the plant community. The distributions of several annuals depended on the size and life history of the mid-seasonal dominant perennials. Most of the annuals frequently co-occurred with Sagittaria lancifolia, which was the shortest in stature and had the least persistent canopy of the three mid-seasonal dominant perennials.
20038694|In biocoenological investigations in grasslands of southwestern Germany vegetation structure types were distinguished by considering physiognomical characteristics. The mapping of these types formed the basis for the determination of habitat preferences of the whinchat. By comparing 'supply and demand' for the various structure types the (relative) habitat preference could be quantified. There was a dependency of the habitat utilization on the density of available hunting perches, on the food supply and on the mowing dates of grassland. By assigning the structure types to the plant associations of the investigation area the spectrum of structure types within each plant association could be shown and the suitability of vegetation types for the whinchat delineated.
20038695|The knowledge of the relationship between plant communities and soil types presents a valuable interpretation base for damage assessment. As expected, trees growing on unfavourable sites (e.g. on soils with impeded water) react more sensitively to secondary stress factors such as air pollutants than trees on suitable sites. With a declining nutrient supply in the series Elymo-Fagetum, Asperulo-Fagetum, Violo-Quercetum we recognize a corresponding increase of the damage level in the tree layer of these forest communities. However, ecological site parameters are not always sufficient for an explanation of the high damage level of some communities. It is supposed that a specific structure of these communities is responsible for a considerable proportion of severely damaged trees. Particular crown integration in the tree layer of forests and damage levels are closely connected. The influence of forest structure therefore masks the damage components affected by soil conditions.
20038696|Terminalia catappa L. (popularly known as 'Indian almond' in Ghana) is a distinctive tree much used in West Africa for shade and as an ornamental plant. By careful observation of the species generally in south-central Ghana, and by a detailed day-by-day analysis for one year of the leaf, fruit and litter production of one typical mature tree, and by chemical analysis of its leaves and fruit, so the phenology and possible economic potential of the species were assessed. In the region of study the main elements in the phenology are two main flushing periods immediately following two main periods of leaf shedding, which occur at the equinoxes, and two major fruit-fall periods which precede the leaf shedding by one month. Fruiting takes place in four main spells, however, and flowering in three. Any or all of the processes may overlap in time. The tree is little used economically, but it is suggested that it might have value not only for shade and ornament but also as a food source and a provider of firewood, building timber, mulch and fertiliser, cooking oil, gum and tannin. Experimental commercial planting of the tree is proposed.
20038697|A succulent is a plant with water storing tissue, but succulence clearly is a quality that can be possessed to a higher or lesser degree. This paper gives a definition of succulence and discusses problems concerning Delf's measure of succulence. A new measure, Succulence Quotient, is proposed. It measures the amount of water that a plant can store at the expenditure of one gram of organic matter. We demonstrate this measure on a number of plants from the Namib desert, southern Africa, and compare it with the measured caloric values of the plant tissues. We also discuss life cycles of desert succulents in terms of utilizable and structural biomass and water. We contrast the concepts of growth form, life form and life strategy, and propose, on the basis of life cycle characteristics, an outline classification of life strategies of desert succulents. One detail of this outline classification is further worked out and illustrated for succulents from the Namib desert.
20038698|This study deterines the magnitudes of variation in the phytosociological structure in the bed of Wadi El-Sheikh of Southern Sinai. It evaluates the relationships between its vegetation and environment. Vegetation and soil were sampled in 68 stands representing physiographic variations in the study area. Relative frequency, density and coverage were determined for each perennial and were added to provide an estimate of its importance value. The stands were classified by the mutual information method. The principal components analysis was applied to achieve a two-dimentional ordination of stands. Determinations of the percentages of surface sediments of different size classes, soil pH, conductivity, moisture content, water-holding capacity, CaCO and organic matter were carried out. The classification and ordination resulted in a clear demonstration of the vegetation pattern in the study area in quantitative terms. Other phytosociological groups were characterized in addition to those identified in previous studies. Vegetation analysis indicated that it is dominated by Artemisia judaica, Zilla spinosa, Fagonia tristis var. boveana and Lygos raetam. Factors influencing the distribution of vegetation fall into two important groups, one includes the moisture factors and the other includes factors of soil fertility.
20038699|Plant growth in the extremely arid southern part of the Eastern Desert of Egypt is supported by the torrential moisture stored in the subsurface layers of wadi-fill deposits. The space-time stratification of the soil moisture and corresponding adaptive stratification of root systems lead to the niche separation of the species. The survivorship of all studied plants except Zilla spinosa, has a low mortality at early and middle life, but a rapid change to high mortality at a later stage. Zilla spinosa shows the high juvenile and low adult mortality which related significantly to the population density.
20038708|Arid and semiarid regions cover one third of the continental areas on Earth. These regions are very sensitive to a variety of physical, chemical and biological degradation processes collectively called desertification. Although interest in desertification has varied widely in time, there is a renewed concern about the evolution of dryland ecosystems because (1) a significant fraction of existing drylands already suffers from miscellaneous degradation processes, (2) increasing populations will inevitably result in further over-utilization of the remaining productive areas, (3) climatic changes expected from the greenhouse warming might result in drier continental interiors, and (4) some of the desertification processes themselves may amplify local or regional climatic changes. This paper reviews some of the many aspects of this issue in the context of the Global Change research program.
20038709|Worldwide, the semi-arid grazing and cropping regions are being subjected to severe overuse. Australian semi-arid regions have been cleared on a vast scale for marginal cropping. Grazing land has been overused and shows widespread signs of vegetation and soil degradation. Ecological realism on land capability based on objective condition monitoring, is essential to land management if sustainable production is to be achieved. The Land Care Movement can markedly influence this achievement. The margins of semi-arid cropland and the application of ecologically-based animal stocking rates require attention in several States. Drought assistance policy requires amendment to safeguard natural pastures. Lease covenants have a potentially central role to play in land administration.
20038710|The El Nio -- Southern Oscillation (ENSO) phenomenon has a marked effect on Australia's rainfall. The tendency for major Australian droughts to coincide with ENSO "events" (i.e. anomalously warm sea surface temperatures in the east equatorial Pacific), and for extensive wet periods to accompany "anti-ENSO" events, is well documented. Also well-known is the partial predictability of Australian rainfall anomalies provided by ENSO. Some other ENSO-related characteristics of interannual fluctuations of Australian rainfall are less-widely recognised, viz: -- rainfall variability is very large -- droughts and wet periods have time scales of about one year -- they exhibit very large (continental) spatial scales -- they tend to be phase-locked with the annual cycle -- they are often followed/preceded by the opposite rainfall anomaly. The character of Australian rainfall fluctuations is thus very different from that of areas where the influence of ENSO is weak, Europe for instance. Rainfall in some other areas, notably southern Africa and India and parts of the Americas, is also strongly affected by ENSO and shares some of the above characteristics. The relevance of these ENSO-related characteristics of Australian rainfall to its vegetation will be discussed. Australian native vegetation is adapted to these characteristics, especially in the semi-arid inland where ENSO's influence is strong. Most introduced plants are not adapted to ENSO and this has sometimes complicated their use here. The combination of ENSO-related rainfall fluctuations and European land-use strategies has resulted in some very rapid, unpredicted and undesirable changes in vegetation in the past two centuries. It has also increased the risk of soil erosion. Recognition of the real character of Australian rainfall fluctuations may help avoid further degradation of soil and vegetation.
20038711|The paper focuses on extrapolation of observed values as a means to determine regional evaporation. Evaporation data from diverse plant communities in southern Australia were drawn together to assess the magnitude and causes of areal variation in the process over the landscape. Soil water effects on daily evaporation rates were responsible for pronounced variability over a few hectares of uniform vegetation, variability being comparable to that encountered at an extended scale subject to combined influences of soil water and vegetation effects. In the longer term, local effects of soil water on evaporation were apparent, albeit with attenuated areal variability. Short term differences between extensive plant communities did not necessarily persist, sometimes resulting in a reversal of differences in evaporation rate. Estimating regional evaporation at time scales ranging from daily to monthly calls for an understanding of spatial and temporal variation in factors imposing control at the surface, especially those dealing with biological response. Improving this understanding to achieve accuracy of estimates means that demands for finer temporal resolution in descriptions of regional evaporation must be accompanied by greater density of measurement points to resolve areal variability in flux rate. Further complexities were identified with advective effects caused by discontinuities in the landscape, notably for irrigated regions. Accounting for an advective enhancement of 20% in evaporation rate in an irrigation region involved a description of recurrent developing boundary layers at downwind scales of several hundreds of metres. Scale considerations for the developing characteristic boundary layer were also an issue in extrapolating data from a ventilated chamber study to predict evaporation response in a future environment enriched in atmospheric carbon dioxide. A potential change in evaporation rate by 50% accompanying the doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide in a ventilated chamber was suggested as being moderated to a 10-20% reduction at the extended scale.
20038712|Vegetation cover is the key to controlling wind erosion. A brief review of wind erosion/cover models is outlined. Fryrear's (1985) soil cover (wheat stubble) model was evaluated against field wind tunnel results from far south-west N.S.W. Fryrear's equation over estimated the soil loss compared to field wind tunnel results. Fryrear's model failed to provide meaningful results at low cover levels with the soil loss ratio, SLR &gt 1 for percent soil cover, % SC &lt 6. A single parameter exponential model was fitted to the wind tunnel data which ensured that SLR did not exceed 1 for 100% SC. Even with this improvement, the exponential model has drawbacks. Results suggest that the SLR is sensitive to wind velocity and that SLR goes to 0 well before % SC = 100. A method for approximating the threshold wind velocity required to initiate erosion for various cover levels is described. Using the recurrence interval for a prescribed wind velocity, the probability of erosion hazard for a field can be determined. It is the authors belief that the wind tunnel is underestimating the occurrence of wind erosion events in this study. Three reasons why the wind tunnel may be underestimating erosion events are given.
20038713|This paper discusses the need for monitoring the state and evolution of arid and semi-arid environments, and compares the specific contributions of in situ and satellite-based techniques. The role of physically-based models in the quantitative interpretation of the measurement is stressed, and a strategy is proposed for the systematic exploitation of space technologies.
20038714|The paper is concerned mainly with nitrous oxide, methane and carbon dioxide, which account for more than 70% of predicted greenhouse warming. All three have significant sources in the soil-plant environment and principal sinks in the atmosphere or the oceans. The emphasis is on methodological problems associated with measuring source and sink strengths, but the biogeochemistry of individual gases and problems of scaling to longer times and larger areas are addressed also. Nitrous oxide accounts for some 6% of predicted greenhouse warming. Its atmospheric concentration is 315 ppbv and is increasing at 0.25% per year. The principal sink appears to be destruction through photochemical processes in the stratosphere. The main causes of the NO increase are thought to be biomass burning, fossil fuel combustion processes, and what now seem to be substantial emissions from soils associated with increased nitrogen inputs, irrigation and tropical land clearing. Uncertainty about the strengths of the soil sources is due largely to our reliance on enclosure techniques for flux measurement, and the lack of appropriate scaling procedures. Methane now accounts for 18% of anticipated greenhouse warming. Its atmospheric concentration is 1.7 ppmv and is increasing at 1% per year. Its greenhouse effect seems likely to increase over the next 50 years. The biggest sink appears to be oxidation in the atmosphere, but some oxidation occurs in soils as well. The main sources are rice fields, wetlands, biomass burning, ruminants, land fills, natural gas production, and coal mining. As for NO, there is much uncertainty about individual source strengths and there are urgent needs for better measurement and scaling techniques. Increased CO concentrations account for 49% of the greenhouse effect. The present atmospheric CO concentration is 350 ppmv, increasing at 0.4% per year. Over 80% of the increase is due to fossil fuels, and the rest to deforestation and biomass burning. Atmospheric fluxes of CO can be measured much more precisely than those of NO and CH, by micrometeorological techniques, but the scaling problem still remains. The largest known sink for CO is the oceans, but recent calculations point to a large 'missing' sink for CO, which may be as yet unidentified sequestering processes in terrestrial ecosystems.
20038715|Current capabilities for simulating and predicting drought and other rainfall anomalies are reviewed. Simulation of drought requires the insertion of suitable precursors into the model. The principal precursor is identified to be sea surface temperature anomalies, but other possibilities are discussed. Model global climatic models are able to simulate with commendable realism most features of observed drought, as illustrated by results from a number of such models. Importantly, the models also provide insight into the mechanisms responsible for the rainfall perturbations. Both statistical and deterministic drought prediction methods are considered. The former can be used to make useful predictions for limited timeframes, but require separate relations to be derived for each region considered. A variety of statistical methods have now been developed, and some are being used operationally with mixed success. Deterministic drought prediction methods are still in their infancy, but have many attractions being physically based. In addition their ability to make predictions for the normal range of climatic variables usually required for practical utility provides a considerable advantage over statistical methods. The major requirement for accurate rainfall predictions is a good prediction of the spatial and temporal variability of the precursor. Examples of drought predictions are provided to illustrate the potential of the method. The numerous research problems which still have to be resolved are noted.
20038716|This paper considers the modelling of available energy partition into sensible and latent heat at land surfaces, inter alia for GCM applications. In a preliminary discussion, processes at canopy scale are reviewed briefly by outlining two classes of model: comprehensive, multilayer Canopy-Atmosphere Models (CAMs) which attempt to include all physical and biological processes influencing the canopy microclimate and atmospheric exchanges, and single-layer Simplified Canopy-Atmosphere Models (SCAMs) which attempt a physically acceptable description of energy partition with the fewest possible parameters. Details of a four-parameter SCAM are outlined. It is suggested that CAMs are necessary for understanding the 'downward' influence of climate on a canopy, but that SCAMs may be useful in modelling the 'upward' influence of vegetation on climate with GCMs. The main part of the paper considers the generalisation of land-surface models from homogeneous to flat, heterogeneous terrain in which local advection is prominent. The approach is to model the planetary boundary layer as well as the surface layer. A simple mixed-layer model is outlined for the daytime convective boundary layer (CBL). Boundary conditions for sensible and latent heat transfer at the ground are made separable by defining two new conserved scalar variables, a total energy content and a linearized saturation deficit. A new analytic solution of the energy partition problem is developed for the case of an encroaching CBL with the depth h proportional to the square root of time. The general model, with this analytic solution as a particular case, is then extended from homogeneous to heterogeneous surfaces by defining a CBL horizontal length scale X =
20038717|Using a state-of-the-art land surface model in a 'stand-alone' mode with prescribed atmospheric forcing, a method for retaining the spatial extent and intensity of precipitation in Atmospheric General Circulation Models (AGCMs) is investigated. It is shown that the surface climatology simulated by this model is strongly dependent upon the fraction of the grid square, , receiving precipitation. It is also shown that fundamentally different hydrological regimes (one runoff dominated, the other evaporation dominated) are obtained for the otherwise identical situations. It is argued that the new generation of land surface models which explicitly incorporate vegetation may have to be 're-tuned' if differences between large-scale and small-scale precipitation events are accommodated in AGCMs. If precipitation is always assumed to fall uniformly over the grid square, the precipitation intensity will generally be underestimated. This will lead to an overestimation of canopy interception and interception loss. Furthermore, too little precipitation will reach the soil surface, and therefore surface runoff and the soil moisture will be underestimated. With too much interception loss, and too little soil water (and soil evaporation) there will be a tendency to re-cycle precipitation back to the atmosphere too quickly, leading to the unrealistic simulation of surface-atmosphere interactions. These results, if reproduced within an AGCM, would invalidate previous simulations of the effects of changing the state of the land surface on the atmosphere.
20038719|A highly generalised (five classes) grouping of Holdridge life zones, has been used to derive predicted 'natural' ecosystems for the present day climate using temperature and precipitation derived from two experiments undertaken with the NCAR Community Climate Model. These predictions differ from one another and both differ significantly from the prescribed classification groupings of ecosystem complexes used with a state-of-the-art land surface parameterization submodel, the Biosphere-Atmosphere Transfer Scheme. The highly generalised groupings show relatively little sensitivity to the temperature changes induced by doubling atmospheric CO but greater response when precipitation is also modified. All the doubled-CO scenarios predict increased 'desert' areas although these future climatically-induced changes to the global-scale ecology are very much smaller than the extensive disturbances already caused by mankind's land clearance and poor agriculture. Land-use change rendered 13% of the Earth's land surface 'desert' whereas the most pessimistic doubled-CO result gives rise to only a 2% increase in 'desert' area.
20038720|The history of settlement of the semi-arid rangelands of western New South Wales is reviewed with respect to changes in the vegetation and soil which occurred under a regime of european land management. Simple dynamics of the vegetation response to grazing are illustrated and primary archival data is explored to verify the status of traditional wisdom about three examples of perceived change; the extent of the pioneers knowledge of land degradation, the timing and causes of nineteenth century Callitris pine regrowth events, and the importance of soil compaction. In each case it is shown that the traditional wisdom surrounding these issues is partly erroneous and that folklore is in danger of becoming accepted fact. Such errors must be avoided if we are to improve range dynamics models and management.
20038721|Rangelands are extensive areas in arid or semi arid regions. They have many uses (e.g. grazing, dry land farming, wildlife habitat, recreation and mining). Generally vegetation is sparse and the principal plant species are adapted to erratic rainfall events. Rainfall use efficiency (RUE) is the quotient of annual primary production divided by annual rainfall i.e. the number of kilograms aerial dry matter produced by 1 ha in 1 year per millimetre of rain. It decreases with increasing aridity. Reasonably well managed arid and semi arid grazing lands are usually in the 3.0-6.0 value range. Available soil moisture is the principal determinant of productivity. The role and significance of the major parameters (rainfall, soil depth, slope and salinity, texture, cover, erosion etc) are considered. Available moisture can be predicted if the appropriate relative productivity indices (RPI) are used in a parametric way. The predictions can be used to classify land according to its capability to support plant growth. Equations have been derived which enable land to be classified on the basis of its potential productivity. Links between land capability and vegetation cover are given.
20038722|Land of the semi-arid zone of Australia is generally managed to produce wool or beef. Past management has caused many changes in the land. These changes may be difficult to detect and assess. Much of the available information is at too coarse a scale to be really useful in assessing change. Graziers' perceptions of change are unknown but survey results from the agricultural zone suggest that their perceptions are probably incorrect. Apportioning the causes of change is very difficult as the main agents (climate, stocking rates, bushfires, legislation and economics) are not independent. Three different approaches to separating cause are described: use of historical information, integrating all information and using unpalatable plants as proxies for key economic species. Some difficulties with the historical approach are outlined. The major issues in semi-arid land management are social rather than technical. However, key aspects such as perceptions, motivation, and sources of information used by graziers are neglected research subjects. Recent research into an objective basis for assessing stocking rates from forage biomass production will replace traditional estimates based on extrapolating from similar country. This will significantly assist graziers in determining appropriate stocking rates to maximise their incomes. Other research by graziers has demonstrated the benefits of low stocking rates leading to increased incomes on both an animal and area basis. Such advances by graziers provide keys for future extension programs to achieve the desired goals of a stable grazing industry with good financial rewards, and improved land management.
20038723|Changes in the vegetation of Australia since white settlement have been much discussed in recent times. In particular, the changes that have been reported to have occurred in the Pilliga forests in northern New South Wales have been used as a reference for other areas of the State. Two periods of pine regeneration are believed to have occurred in the Pilliga, but preliminary research concerning the history of these forests has uncovered various sources of information indicating that the story is a more complex. Climatic data, archival records and the biology and ecology of various flora and fauna are examined in this paper in a preliminary attempt to gain a more accurate picture of change or stability in the vegetation of this region.
20038724|The long history of drought occurrences in Australia is reflected not only in varying community perceptions of drought as a hazard, but also in the growing recognition of its role in Australian ecosystems. The history of drought occurrences and the evolution of private and governmental responses to drought are reviewed as the context for the expected modification of traditional official policies, due in 1990.
20038730|The primary purpose of this publication is to make available two series of historical maps showing 'summer' (April-September mean) temperatures over western Europe from A.D. 1750 and western North America from A.D. 1600. These maps have been reconstructed using networks of temperature-sensitive tree-ring chronologies as part of a continuing collaboration between the Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape Research (FSL) at Birmensdorf, Switzerland and the Climatic Research Unit (CRU) at the University of East Anglia, Norwich, U.K. The maps were reconstructed using relatively long maximum latewood density chronologies selected from the extensive networks of tree-ring data produced at the FSL. The reconstructions were produced using a spatial regression technique developed at CRU. The basis for the reconstructions are wood samples from various conifers growing at cool-moist sites close to the alpine or boreal timberlines. This material was analysed by x-ray densitometry and the resulting maximum latewood density chronologies were calibrated against meteorological data over a 100-year calibration period. These results emphasize the value of dendroclimatological research which can provide continental-scale reconstructions of past climate which represent a potential resource for climatologists, biologists, and historians with an interest in the spatial variability of summer temperatures over the middle to high latitudes.
20038731|Decomposition rates, determined with the litterbag technique in salt marshes of the S.W. Netherlands during the past decade are compared; the biotic and abiotic factors influencing these rates are identified and discussed. Tissue composition is the main variable affecting decay rates of halophytes, particularly variations in lignin content between plant parts and between species. Experiments in which the loss of the tensile strength of cotton strips was used as an index of cellulolytic decay, show that there is a conspicuous variation in decay rates on different sites in a salt marsh. Nonetheless, the locally varying environmental conditions within salt marshes of the S.W. Netherlands have less impact on the variation in decomposition rates of halophyte litter than the chemical make-up of the plant material. Larger fauna elements (&gt 300 m) may increase decomposition rates, but this effect is only limited and depends on location and litter type. The role of small fauna elements such as nematodes, which occur abundantly in association with halophyte litter, remains largely unknown.
20038732|Three Holcus mollis L. populations, one with 2n = 28 chromosomes living in a forest and two with 2n = 35 chromosomes, the first living in a forest, the second in open land, are compared for photosynthesis. Simultaneous measurements of oxygen and carbon dioxide, either in high light, low light, or dark experiments indicate that the 2n = 28 chromosomes population is photosynthetically well adapted to shade, while 2n = 35 chromosomes forest population, is not. The 2n = 35 chromosomes plants growing in the forest does not automatically acquire the photosynthetic character of a shade plant, the genome must show an evolution for this. In our study, only the plants with 2n = 28 chromosomes demonstrated the shade adaptation.
20038740|In the Netherlands and adjacent countries on 'old' (non-holocene) soils the relation was studied between high forest dominated by Fagus sylvatica, and coppice derived from it, with Quercus spp. and Betula spp. or Carpinus betulus. From place-names a shift Fagus &gt Quercus &gt Betula is found, caused by cutting and coppicing. An analysis of relevs of the vegetation yielded more detailed information. The occurrence and rejuvenation of Fagus and other 'climax' tree species decrease, while most other trees and shrubs show an increase. The mean total number of species in 1396 relevs increases from 22.0 to 24.4. Decreasing species include widely distributed species as well as character species. Increasing species include shrubs, woodedge species of heathland or limestone grassland, and nitrophilous species. The light-indication according to Ellenberg increases considerably, most of all in the types on poor soils. Moisture seems hardly involved, but pH-indication is divergent: decreasing in acid types, increasing in alkaline types. For the latter erosion is held responsible. N-indication follows the same trend. All ecological shifts remain within the framework of each association concerned. The Srensen index for floristic composition shows a mean of 68% correlation, of the same order as variants within one association. The ecological correlation is even higher. So coppice can be considered as management variants, not deserving an association status, as often was given in the past.
20038741|Responses of Norway spruce stands to gradually decreased annual magnesium supply from soil, with two seasonal courses, are evaluated by computer simulation. At low supply, magnesium concentrations in the needles are reduced to levels inducing chlorosis, but annual growth of new needles remains at the same level as stands with adequate magnesium. Above-ground permanent biomass shows a decreased annual production with lower supply, mainly because of shorter net carbon gain caused by decreased assimilation which is due to magnesium deficiency in needles. An additional but less important reason is the magnesium deficiency in stem and branch cambium, which is most severe during summer at low magnesium supply rates. The interaction of magnesium and carbon balance is emphasized. Modeling and simulation are not used for prediction but to test the consistency of scientific hypotheses.
20038742|The paper tests an apparent relationship between young understorey of Ilex aquifolium and the presence of seedlings of the canopy species Fagus sylvatica and Quercus species, in heavily browsed woodland in the New Forest, southern England. A small block of woodland was searched and mapped, and the information collected subject to graphical and statistical analyses. Regeneration, though of low frequency, is present and shows non-random patterns of distribution. Older seedlings appear to be located in or near areas of understorey, or near fallen branches, logs, etc. Principal components analysis of woodland characteristics suggests six main habitat types are available to seedlings, and predictions are made about likely regeneration patterns associated with these habitats, according to a model based on the hypothesis of a protective understorey and heavy browsing pressure. Chi-square tests of actual seedling occurrences versus habitat types demonstrate marked associations of regeneration with non-trampled areas, including young Ilex understorey but also other forms of protective barrier. The association is more marked for larger seedlings. The implications for a wider understanding of regeneration processes and community dynamics in heavily browsed forest are discussed. It is concluded that regeneration theories appropriate to such forests are required, since the dominant gap-phase theories are not successful in predicting regeneration patterns when browsing is a major factor.
20038743|Multivariate analyses were used to describe the vegetation characteristics of a transition from lowelevation Mojave desert to higher-elevation Great Basin desert. Vegetation data used were from Plutonium Valley in the Nevada Test Site. Data from forty nine releves were analyzed with two classifications (two-day indicator analysis or TWINSPAN and unweighted paried group cluster analysis or CLUSTER). Three ordinations, reciprocal averaging (RA), detrended reciprocal averaging (DCA) and non-metric multidimensional scaling (MNDS), were also used. A rotational correlation analysis was used to determine the vector direction of environmental gradients that correlate best with ordination results. Only token correspondence was found between multivariate classes generated by TWINSPAN and CLUSTER, and seven classes (plant communities) identified from field reconnaissance. The latter seven communities were based on differences in dominant species. Distribution of the vegetation was related more to beta diversity than alpha diversity. Individual species were much less diagnostic than the amount of plant cover, groups or guilds of species or differences in elevation and steepness of slope. Because of the high beta diversity the NMDS ordination gave results with the greatest ease of interpretation.
20038744|To determine whether soil disturbance by digging and burrowing mammals altered community structure and the rate of succession in a midsuccessional abandoned pasture, species richness, composition and relative abundance were monitored over a two year period both on and off artificially created earth mounds (100, 900, 8100 cm). Mean species richness increased by up to two species per small mound (100 cm) and by up to four species per large mound (8100 cm). However, increased species richness was evident for less than two years. Initially, up to sixteen of the twenty species present occurred more often on earth mounds than off mounds, with two of these species found only on large mounds (8100 cm). After two years, there was little or no significant difference in species composition and relative frequency on and off earth mounds. Experimental soil disturbance temporarily altered community structure simply by increasing space available for colonization since light, nutrient and water supply did not increase significantly on mounds. Soil disturbance can increase species richness and change species' relative frequency in disturbances as small as 100 cm but such changes were likely too small and short lived to alter permanently the structure and rate of succession in the abandoned pasture studied here.
20038745|A comparative phytosociological study was made out on two types of forest on the southern slopes of Moslavaka gora in the western part of the Pannonic Plain, Yugoslavia: acidophilic oak forest of Festuco-Quercetum petraeae Hruka 1975 and areas where Robinia pseudoacacia has been introduced by man. After cutting, the oakforest reestablishes spontaneously. Reafforestation with Robinia leads to changes irreversible in species composition and vegetational structure and prevents reestablishment of oak forest. The introduction of this allochthonous species prevents the primary wood from being restored. Forestry planting projects with a view to reducing the Robinia have so far proved ineffective.
20038746|Effects of spatial processes on temperate deciduous forest structure and dynamics were investigated with a spatial simulator derived from a forest gap model. The multi-species neighborhood model accounted for competitive interactions and endogenous disturbance in the form of small canopy gaps. Simulated and actual spatial pattern of old-growth stands were compared. The 400 yr simulations produced a pattern scale (0.07-0.2 ha patches) similar to that of an actual stand; simulated pattern intensity was greater than actual intensity, however. Distances to nearest neighbor were somewhat similar for trees in the simulated and actual stands; yet the frequency distributions of distance to nearest neighbor values differed substantially. The simulated stand patterns were generally less random than the actual patterns. Spatial pattern changed markedly during the course of simulated succession. Pattern approached a random dispersion in early succession. Intensity peaked at mid-succession (ca. 150 yr) with a hyperdispersed overstory and a strongly clumped understory. Pattern intensity diminished in late succession as a mixed size structure developed. Old-growth patch size was greater than the neighborhood (or gap) size, suggesting the gap-sized areas do not behave independently.
20038747|Bark microflora of 12 rainforest trees were examined. Crustose, foliose, and fruticose forms of lichens were observed. Bacillus sp., Erwinia sp., Micrococcus sp., Proteus sp., and Pseudomonas sp. were the five genera of bacteria recorded while three genera of Cyanobacteria; Entophysalis, Gleocapsa and Stigonema were observed. In the algal division, three genera of Chlorophyta found are Chlorococcum, Pleurococcus and Physolinum. Only one diatom, Cocconeis sp. was present on just one tree. Most of the epiphytic microflora found are mainly terrestrial and their spores might have been deposited on the barks by air, or dust-currents. While moisture is regarded as the most critical factor in growth of bark microflora, other factors like texture of the bark, insolation and especially chemical characteristics of the barks may play a key role in occurrence and distribution of micro-organisms on them.
20038754|A climate model with time varying parameters was fit to longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) tree rings collected from the proposed Harrison Research Natural Area of the De Soto National Forest in southern Mississippi. The purpose of the analysis was to determine if any unexpected disturbances had influenced the growth of the trees. Current September temperature, August rainfall and February Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI) were found jointly to be the best variables in the model to predict growth. August rain had a constant significant effect on growth and February PDSI was not significant except between the years 1968-1983. It was concluded that the Harrison area has been in equilibrium for the past 50 years since no apparent outside influences have caused the trees to become less sensitive to climate. Thus, the forest is a good candidate for a Research Natural Area.
20038755|This study was conducted to determine the abundance of Quercus species, the spatial pattern of Quercus regeneration, the current canopy disturbance pattern, and their interrelationship in two old-growth deciduous forests in Ohio (Goll Woods and Sears-Carmean Woods). Acer saccharum and Fagus grandifolia had the greatest density and basal area in both forests, yet the largest trees (by basal area) present at each site were Quercus spp. Quercus spp. appeared to be decreasing in abundance in both sites. Though Quercus seedlings were common, few Quercus saplings or subcanopy trees were present. The current disturbance regimes were dominated by small canopy gaps created by death of 1-2 trees; canopy gaps  100 m in size were rare and only 2.5-2.8% of the forest area was covered by recognizable canopy gaps. No significant differences in the density of Quercus seedlings or saplings were found between gaps and non-gap areas at either site. Though no significant barrier to seedling establishment appeared to exist, the present disturbance regimes are not well suited for the growth of Quercus into the subcanopy size class or the recruitment of Quercus into the canopy. The most frequent gapmakers in Goll Woods were Tilia americana and Acer saccharum, and those in Sears-Carmean Woods were A. saccharum and F. grandifolia. The species most frequent as gap fillers were A. saccharum (in both sites) and F. grandifolia (in Goll Woods). These results suggest that A. saccharum will continue to increase in abundance, and Quercus decrease in abundance, in these two old-growth stands.
20038756|Patterns of woody plants dispersal in a semi-arid nature reserve situated in Eastern Transvaal, South Africa, revealed that trees have spread from core areas and converted previously open grasslands to densely vegetated woodlands. These patterns were found in catchment areas of the gently undulating terrain which characterizes the region. Two plant communities dominated by Acacia senegal-Acacia tortilis and Euclea divinorum-Acacia nilotica were distinguished. Analysis of nearest-neighbour distances, dispersal patterns of seedlings and mature woody plants identified successional processes. These were manifested through intra and inter-specific competition among the dominant tree species. Within each plant community, a transition of relative abundance was occurring namely, A. senegal became dominant in areas previously dominated by A. tortilis while E. divinorum was replacing previous A. nilotica dominance. Comparative assessment of the two plant communities was facilitated by the summary of competition and seedling dispersal indices in a multivariate analysis. Results indicated that tree species had characteristic dispersal strategies. Identification the patterns of woody plants establishment could advance the evaluation of successional dynamics and management of savannas in areas prone to bush encroachment.
20038757|Bivariate response surfaces were fitted to abundance data for 6 mire bryophyte species in ecological and climatic space in western Canada. Response surfaces were derived by gridding data, eliminating outliers, and reducing effects of overly influential abundance values. Predicted values at each grid node were calculated as distance-weighted means of all observed values within a predetermined radius of each node. Response surfaces accurately delimited species ecological and climatic ranges. The gridding process consistently underestimated observed abundance values, and paired t-tests indicated significant differences between predicted and observed values for Sphagnum fuscum and Tomenthypnum nitens in ecological space, and for Sphagnum fuscum, Tomenthypnum nitens, and Scorpidium scorpioides in climatic space. Predicted values were significantly different only for those species that had large data sets, and for species that had clusters of points with an inordinately large number of data points within them. However, with the exception of Sphagnum tenellum, predicted and observed values were significantly correlated for all species in both ecological and climatic space. R analyses for the linear relationship between predicted and observed values can be used as a diagnostic tool to determine the effectiveness of the gridding process to accurately predict observed abundance values.
20038758|Two regression analyses were used to study how the absence/presence of fungi in south Swedish beech forest is related to topsoil and litter chemistry. Since many soil variables are correlated, each species was related to models of (1) the rotated principal components of the soil properties (as suggested by a previous study) and (2) the underlying primary variables. The study indicated that the two analyses are complementary and provide a mean for further interpretation of the results, since they consider different aspects of sporophore occurrence in relation to soil properties. One of the conclusions is that various litter variables, partly related to the mull/mor gradient, are of greater importance than indicated in a previous study.
20038759|Relations between understorey vegetation, site productivity, and environmental factors in mature stands of Pinus sylvestris L. in southern Finland were studied using data from 234 sample plots. The (weighted) Pearson product-moment correlation between site index and the first ordination axis of detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) was 0.83. The correlation was clearly better where site index was above 21 m (r = 0.83) than where it was less (r = 0.33). Partial canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) indicated that the residual compositional variation, not related to site fertility as expressed by site index, can be partly ascribed to high moisture regime with poor drainage (paludification), soil deposit type, soil stoniness, and macroclimate, and in part to unexplained sources. The unique influence of canopy cover on the vegetation composition was non-significant (p &lt 0.05) and that of stand age too small to be detected in the vegetation data. The results support Cajander's forest site type theory according to which there exists a dominant relationship between understorey vegetation and site productivity in boreal forest ecosystems.
20038768|Vegetation formations of Tatoi district (38 07 N--23 47 E) of Attica (Greece) are described. In this district covering an area of 60
20038769|The Warmth Index of Kira was calculated for 36 meteorological stations in Italy and 18 stations in SW. Australia, both countries with mediterranean type climate. On the basis of a correlation with rainfall it appears possible to indicate distinct ecological spaces for most climatogenous vegetation types. A remarkable ecological parallelism between the natural vegetation in Italy and SW. Australia can be evidentiated; some particular features are discussed.
20038770|The article reviews the literature dealing with levels of air pollution in Central Europe and Czechoslovakia particulary in connection with the rate of forest damage and dieback since the fifties. To date 57 percent of forests on an area of 15.000 square km are damaged in Czech republic and more than 40.000 ha of dead Norway spruce forest had to be cut out. Deforested hills are vegetated mostly by Calamagrostis villosa only. The reforestation faces many obstacles of which the change of mezoclimate, the acidification and intoxication of the soil, the disappearance of mycorrhizal fungi and pressure of consumers may be named.
20038771|Phenology of tree layer species from the timber line of Kumaun in Central Himalaya was carried out during the years 1988-1989. The study indicates the prevalence (66%) of deciduous tree species at timber line vegetation. Growth initiation started in early summer with the rise of temperature. Different phenophases succeeded one another, culminating in leaf drop with the advent of winter. The various phenophases of the tree species at timber line have been discussed and compared with the lower Himalayan forests of Kumaun in India. The present study also supports the idea that the intense fluctuations in environmental conditions determine the onset of different growth activities within the short growing season.
20038772|As part of a vegetation survey programme for nature conservation areas in South Africa, a survey of the plant communities of the mesic calcareous bottomland clays in the Manyeleti Game Reserve was undertaken. The Eucleo divinori--Acacietum nigricentis, a new association, is restricted to these soils. From a Braun-Blanquet analysis of the vegetation, two new subassociations, each with two variants, were identified and described. A quantitative assessment of the woody component of each syntaxon is presented. Ordinations based on the floristic and habitat data revealed the position of the syntaxa on an environmental gradient.
20038773|Some large bald areas, taking up the southern volcanoes hill-sides of the Chane des Puys (French Massif Central) are studied on an ecological point of view, by means of Multiple Correspondence Analysis applied to a contingency array environmental variables X plots, the plots being preliminarily studied in a syntaxonomic way. Four denudation processes are determined: natural screes (related to high declivity), rubbles resulting of intense passage, excess of grazing and a spontaneous regression of senescent heaths (degenerate phase) would happen, especially when particular local conditions are realized (impoverishment of soils, inhibiting action of Calluna vulgaris (L.) Hull, remoteness of trees, exposure, lavas characteristics...).
20038774|It is proposed that evaluations of disturbance effects upon community diversity will be influenced by two factors currently overlooked in models addressing disturbance-diversity relationships: (1) the spatial scale of inquiry, and (2) the level of the species abundance (dominance) hierarchy at which the search for diversity is done. We analyzed how two disturbance types -- cattle grazing and large flooding -- affected community diversity at two spatial scales (stand and patch) and three levels of species dominance in a grassland of the Flooding Pampa, Argentina. The effect of disturbance interaction was also examined. Species diversity at the stand scale was reduced by either grazing or flooding. Both disturbances decreased community spatial heterogeneity. At the patch scale, diversity declined with flooding but was enhanced by grazing. Flooding increased diversity under grazing conditions. However, stand diversity was highest in the undisturbed grassland; pattern diversity was the salient feature in this condition. The combination of disturbances yielded the highest patch-scale diversity; grazing increased richness whilst flooding enhanced evenness. Comparisons among grassland conditions appeared scale-dependent. Moreover, the extent of disturbance effects varied with the level of dominance hierarchy considered. We point out the relevance of site history and initial conditions, encompassing the possibility of disturbances interaction, to the patterns produced by disturbance events. Effects perceived at different spatial scales, or in species positioned at separate dominance levels, may parallel meaningful changes in the relative importance of factors controlling species coexistence and community organization.
20038775|The spatial pattern of seedlings, saplings and canopy trees was studied in two spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) forests in central Sweden. Canopy and forest structure were determined in five 0.25 ha plots. Life stage classes were distinguished on the basis of age and size distributions. Ripley's K-function (1977) was used to analyze the spatial patterns within each class. A random distribution of seedlings gave way to a more aggregated pattern on a small scale during the establishment phase. Saplings and sub-canopy trees were strongly aggregated and canopy trees were again randomly distributed within the plots. The proportion of individuals growing in gaps was used as an index of association between the spatial pattern in saplings and sub-canopy trees and the occurrence of small (50-350
20038785|This paper discusses the concept of stability in a concrete natural situation: the gallery forests in the Chaco region. On the basis of Pickett's definition of minimal structure, stability is considered as the response which enables a system to keep its (minimal and configurational) structure once an alteration has taken place (Pickett et al. 1989). Resilience is, instead, another kind of response which enables the system to keep its minimal structure intact regardless of what might happen to its configurational structure. The system to be analysed is that of the gallery forests in the Lower Bermejo Basin, in Argentina, which is subject to intense river bed migrations and floods caused by this allochthonous watercourse. The effect of this alteration is analysed on different space-time scales. Locally floods behave as a completely unpredictable phenomena, starting a complex floristic changes mechanism that would eventually enable the system to recover its structure once the alteration is over. These forests appear to be resilient but little adaptable, with low resistence and low elasticity. The latter, when combined with the alternation's return interval, which is under the ecosystem's generation time, upset the theoretical stability conditions, thus making the system seem 'apparently unstable'. Regionally, instead, migrations act as regular and permanent phenomena (highly predictable) always affecting some part of the area. The autochthonous system river side forests have become adapted through evolution to this new situation, so much so that this phenomenon has become a part of the system's internal dynamics. Chaco physiognomy, were it not due to the allochthonous phenomena affecting it today, would certainly be very different from the present one.
20038786|A fragile plant cover has developed during the last two decades along the shores of Lake Nasser, the largest impoundment of the River Nile. Development of this vegetation has been influenced by the prevailing environmental factors. The statistical methods (ordination and classification techniques) emphasise the groups of species and elucidate their distribution within the environmental gradients. The applied methods indicate that the distribution of the species is strongly related to the moisture gradient. Some of the soil parameters also contribute to the gradient. The geographical gradient in the distribution of the species is less pronounced.
20038787|The relation between decomposition rates and soil salinity and moisture conditions in tidal marshes of the Westerschelde estuary was investigated. In the first part of the study, these soil factors were experimentally manipulated in field plots which were either screened from rainwater or which received an additional weekly supply of freshwater from April to September 1989. These treatments had no clear effect on soil salinities and moisture conditions in a low marsh site. Decomposition rates of Spartina anglica leaves (kept in litterbags in the plots) also did not differ between treatments. In screened plots of a middle marsh site, decomposition rate of Elymus pycnanthus leaves decreased significantly. The effect of the experimental treatments on soil moisture content was variable, but comparatively high soil salinity values (up to 61.3) were consistently found in these plots. It is suggested that the elevated salinity levels induced the decrease in decomposition rate. In the second part of the study, cellulolytic decomposition, measured by loss of tensile strength of strips of cotton test cloth, was investigated in relation to a non-manipulated range of soil salinities (3.8-24.2.), by exposing the strips in a series of tidal marshes along the salt gradient of the Westerschelde estuary. No correlation between decomposition rate and soil salinity was found. In addition, no relation was found between decomposition rate and soil water content. The results of both parts of this study lead us to the hypothesis that rate limitation of decomposition in estuarine tidal marsh soils is found at high soil salinities only.
20038788|A synchronous study was carried out of plant succession in land abandoned after cultivation in the Camargue (southern France) in relation to the main biotic and abiotic environmental factors. Correlations between environmental factors and species abundance were established using Canonical correspondence analysis. The most strongly correlated variables were those of the water regime. Abandonment of cultivation does not always imply abandonment of management, but a change in land use. Water level management (flooding in winter, or in summer, irrigation) creates and maintains communities suitable for grazing. In the absence of water level management, the soils become saline and stable plant communities similar to those present under natural conditions quickly develop. The salt generally limits the installation of woody plants; only Phillyrea angustifolia can develop and then only when the water stable is quite deep. It appears that the forest stage can only be reached in the proximity of riverine gallery forest and irrigation canals where Populus alba is dominant.
20038789|This paper describes a set of rhizotrons which allow measurements of plant root growth under controlled redox potential both in soil and in soil suspensions. The redox potential is controlled by a constant flow of various gas mixtures (O-N or H-N). The maize seedlings (Zea mays cv. McCreedy 7676) used as test plants in this study showed rapid root response to low soil redox potentials. Root elongation rates were 40-55 mm
20038790|Rangeland vegetation in the Great Basin of the United States is found in several seral stages depending upon gradients related to distance from water and grazing differences across fencelines. Detailed documentation of vegetation changes was attempted on a representative vegetation type in northern Nevada using a chronosequence approach. Frequency of occurrence appeared to be the vegetation attribute most clearly expressing an axis of change or differences across the site. Soil profile descriptions and soil analyses helped relate plant community changes to abiotic variation. Species, microtopography and soil surface characteristics varied with seral stage. Pattern analysis proved useful for relating vegetation changes to successional stages. Computer-based classification (TWINSPAN) and ordination (DECORANA) techniques defined a successional gradient that differed from a theoretical or assumed successional classification.
20038791|Spatial dispersal patterns of fine litter were analyzed in relation to forest structure within a temperate mixed stand, in northeastern Japan. The canopy layer was a mosaic of two types of patches, those of shade-tolerant Abies firma (estimated age being 81-146 yrs.) and early successional deciduous broad-leaved trees (about 45 yrs. of age). Litter input to the forest floor was observed for a period of three years using 38 traps set at a height of 1.2 m. The average annual total of fine litter was 6.233 (dw.) metric tons
20038792|This paper examines the outcome of four different procedures for quantifying small-scale association patterns in vegetation, with respect to data from Church Island salt marsh, Menai Bridge, N. Wales. A main aim is the evaluation of two plot-less techniques, proposed by Stowe & Wade (1979). The first examines frequencies of juxtaposition, the second the frequencies of target species in the regions of occurrence of other species. The results of these analyses are compared with those of two plot-based techniques. A Reciprocal averaging ordination is also employed to describe medium-scale distributional pattern within the data set. Of the two plot-less methods, the species-region method is found to be more useful, particularly because it is capable of detecting asymmetric relationships. When using the recommended 'collapsed' data format the plot-less methods operate at an inconsistent spatial scale approximating to the mean 'run' or clump size of species along the sampling transects. This allows detection of sociological patterns but may obscure environmental relationships. The small-scale relationships depicted by the plot-less methods are in cases in accord with the plot-based results at a range of scales, in other cases they differ: in each circumstance providing insights into the nature of interspecific relationships. Inter-specific pattern in salt marsh vegetation has rarely been studied. The methodology employed here shows that relationships do exist at the small scale, and may allow hypothesis generation with respect to their causality and their role in the dynamics of the marsh system.
20046014|Patterns of variation in nectar standing crop were investigated in Anchusa strigosa. Analysis of the data indicates that nectar volumes of neighboring flowers were positively correlated, and that volume of nectar per flower varied significantly between different hours of the same day, between individual plants, and between pairs of neighboring flowers on the same plant. Most of the explained variation was accounted for by differences between pairs of neighboring flowers on the same plant, indicating that nectar was patchily distributed within individual plants. The implications of these results to pollinator foraging behavior are discussed.
20046015|On rupicolous vegetation (cl. Asplenietea trichomanis) of the Betic ranges in south Spain. The endemic alliance Saxifragion camposii developed in the upper zones of this area is here thoroughly examined. Phytosociological tables with records of all the syntaxa and biogeographical, ecological and floristic data among others are shown. Finally, as a result of a profound syntaxonomical discussion and the last data available the synopsis of this alliance is completed with four new associations: Hieracio texedensi-Moehringietum tejedensis, Athamanto hispanicae-Sideritetum stachydioidis, Sileno andryalifoliae-Saxifragetum camposii, Jasiono minutae-Saxifragetum rigoi. /// Se estudia la vegetacin rupcola (cl. Asplenietea trichomanis) de las Cordilleras Bticas, emplazadas en el sur de Espaa. En los territorios ms elevados de estas se desarrolla la alianza endmica Saxifragion camposii, cuya revisin completa se realiza en este trabajo. Se aportan tablas fitosociolgicas de todos los sintxones, as como datos de tipo biogeogrfico, ecolgico, florstico, etc. Como resultado de una profunda discusin sintaxonmica y con los nuevos datos disponibles, se completa el esquema de la mencionada alianza con cuatro asociaciones nuevas (ver resumen en ingls).
20046016|Aerial photo interpretation and satellite image processing are techniques pervasive in contemporary vegetation mapping. Usually the vegetation categories selected for mapping are either previously defined from an existing classification or are formulated in a descriptive, or qualitative, manner. Quantitative analysis tends to be concentrated upon identifying the spectral characteristics of the categories from the remotely sensed data. In this work, a quantitative comparison is made among twenty prospective categories for mapping vegetation cover within Big Bend National Park, Texas. Vegetation types were subjectively identified at 131 sites within the park. Each site was also examined numerically by measuring the extent of the floristic and lifeform constituents sampled within the site. A cluster analysis was performed using measures of floristic similarity and lifeform similarity among the sites. A dendrogram was constructed as part of the cluster analysis. Most of the category names corresponded to groupings interpreted on the dendrogram. Sites within these groupings typify the character of the vegetation cover, so their locations can also be used to derive spectral statistics for the purpose of mapping. While correspondences also suggest that vegetation cover may be reliably identified qualitatively in the field, several sites were either outliers of categories or were anomalous to the classification. Some vegetation types were inseparable on the dendrogram or were closely linked. Such categories may be difficult to spectrally distinguish on remotely sensed scenes.
20046017|A fungus-biotope and a cluster analysis of macrofungal communities were done across a sequence of four forest associations in the Laurentide Mountains of Qubec. Comparison between different scales of sampling indicated that the cohesion and individuality of macrofungal clusters tend to increase from the whole mycoflora of a site toward trophic group and niche group levels. At this latter level, the reliability of defined communities is however highly limited by the low species richness and low constancy of their species. Four sampling units of fungi on the forest floor, were defined: ectomycorrhizal, humicolous, folicolous-muscicolous and lignicolous. This division further contributes to define the natural assemblages of fungi within the biocoenose.
20046018|Successional trajectories through the statistical space of ordinations were used to examine response to grazing in salt desert shrub communities of western Utah, USA. Relative cover data were periodically collected over a 53 year period from grazing exclosures and pastures grazed with light or heavy stocking rates in fall or spring (4 grazing treatments). Two-way indicator species analysis was used to select the 98 most similar plots (24 m) from among 358 plots in 1935. Foliar cover of 23 species on those 98 plots was followed at irregular intervals over 53 years, resulting in 709 plot-time samples. Successional trajectories were developed for each grazing treatment with ordinations from detrended correspondence analysis. Grazing season had a more pronounced influence on floristic trajectories than did grazing intensity. These ordinations suggest grazing season was an important factor regulating response to grazing and identify annual March-April grazing as an important cause of retrogression in the salt desert shrub ecosystem.
20046019|Hierarchical agglomerative polythetic clustering of vegetation data for 51 sites from Brian Pastures Research Station, south-east Queensland, Australia, produced site and species groups that supported those formed during a previous intuitive mapping survey. On the basis of floristic composition, these analyses suggested the possible amalgamation of some map units. However, their segregation into separate units was justified on the basis of having distinct photopatterns and physiographic positions in the landscape. The classifications of the trees only (55 species) and woody plants only (115 species) data sets produced site groupings of high similarity to those constructed by the mapping survey. The addition of the herbaceous plants (266 additional species, of which 70% were annual species) tended to dominate the analyses, and produce site groupings that were less similar to the mapping groups. The distribution of many annual species appeared to be independent of the perennial plant species and underlying substrate. In wooded communities, herbaceous plants have only a minor influence on photopattern, which is the primary determinant of the mapping classification. Binary data retained a large percentage of the information contained in the quantitative data. The extra effort of gathering herbaceous data may not be justified for a broad scale mapping project, but is required for comprehensive nature conservation surveys, flora inventory, and vegetation monitoring purposes.
20046020|Spruce-fir forests extend along the Appalachian Mountains of eastern North America from 35 to 49 N. This montane vegetation differs from boreal spruce-fir forest in that it is dominated by Picea rubens, has a higher vascular species richness, has wind, rather than fire, dominated dynamics, and has a mean annual temperature above 2 C. Using field reconnaissance, remote sensing, and literature review we described and modeled the latitude-elevation relationship for Appalachian spruce-fir. The elevation of the spruce-fir/deciduous forest ecotone decreases from 1,680 m at 35 N to 150 m at 49 N, while the elevation of treeline (spruce-fir/tundra ecotone) decreases from 1,480 m at 44 N to 550 m at 55 N. Linear regressions gave latitude-elevation relationships of - 100 m/l Latitude for the spruce-fir/deciduous forest ecotone and -83 m/l Latitude for treeline. These values compare to literature reports of -54 to -230 m/l Latitude and are most similar to values reported from eastern Asia. The latitude-elevation relationship for mean July temperature (-94 to -121 m/l Latitude) was more similar to the slopes of these ecotones than is the slope for mean annual temperature (-170 to -220 m/l Latitude). The spruce-fir/deciduous forest ecotone was correlated with a mean July temperature of approximately 17 C. Treeline was correlated with a mean July temperature of approximately 13 C.
20046021|The snow-bed vegetation in the Northern Apennines was studied by the Braun-Blanquet method. The phytosociological relevs were classified by numerical methods. Four main vegetation types were identified: Salicetum herbaceae, community of Carex foetida, Poo-Cerastietum cerastioidis and Oligotricho-Gnaphalietum supini. The latter was described as a new association. The vegetation types were ecologically characterized by an indirect gradient analysis based on principal component analysis. The results were interpreted by means of: i) geomorphological observations, ii) soil profiles, iii) measurements of the length of the snow-free period.
20046027|A new approach to study temporary changes in small landscape units is proposed, based on vegetation-complex relevs (sigma relevs). The method is introduced using extensively grazed or abandoned heathland and Nardus-sward landscapes in the Black Forest as examples. Thirty-six sigma relevs of the years 1979-80 are compared with those of 1989-90. Each of the compared plot areas covers on the average 2-4 hectares, and has a diversity of about 20 different vegetation types. The vegetation complex relevs can be ordered to 3 different types which characterize landscape ecological zones dependant on former rural management. As a result of the comparison 2 main developments which have a spatial differentiation in the Black Forest are confirmed and documentated: 1. Changes of the inventory of vegetation types caused by abandoness. 2. Changes of the inventory of vegetation types caused by fertilizer influence. A serious decline can be regarded concerning indicator communities which have no or nearly no fertilizer influence. This decline is proved statistically. The method gives an opportunity for monitoring a definable matrix of vegetation types (the actual 'status quo'). If it is compared with a vegetation mapping the proposed method needs relatively short time and includes vegetation units as e.g. small 'fringe' communities and vegetation of small gaps which regularly cannot be mapped and often have an indicator value. The application purposes of the method are e.g. monitoring for nature conservation purposes or status quo investigations, and monitoring for the 'Environmental Impact Assessment' (EIA).
20046028|Multivariate structural data describing Trachypogon savanna relationships were used to characterize the sources of variation among savannas as a function of the environmental characteristics of the Orinoco Llanos. Twenty-six savannas including major physiognomic types of the Orinoco Llanos ranging from herbaceous to bush island savannas were ordinated on a regional scale. Results of Detrented Canonical Correspondence Analysis (DCCA) using floristics variables indicated that savannas were ordinated along two complex gradients. A soil physical and chemical gradient as expressed by changes in bulk density and magnesium concentration were evident after the analysis of the first DCCA axis. The second axis was a climatic gradient of decreasing annual precipitation and increasing monthly precipitation during the dry season. The impact of human disturbance on the savanna composition was also an explanatory variable of the second DCCA axis. Savanna sites overlapped considerably in composition and most species were widely distributed, with aboveground phytomass abundance depending upon the site.
20046029|The coenological research of land snails has produced 42 taxa gathered on 68 sites in 11 forest phytocoenoses of the Medvednica mountain area (NW Croatia, Yugoslavia). Relative abundance, constancy and density have been established for every taxon of a snail community in the specific phytocoenosis. The total number of snail taxa, the average number of snail taxa per site, the Shannon-Wiener index (the qualitative characteristics) and the community density (the quantitative characteristic) have been established for every snail community. The snail communities from thermophilic basophilous phytocoenoses, especially the community in the association Querco-Ostryetum have been proved to be the richest in regard to quality and quantity. Markedly acidophilic phytocoenoses have had the poorest snail community: a snail community in the association Querco-Castanetum has proved the poorest in quality and the snail community in the association Luzulo-Fagetum has been the poorest in quantity. The Shannon-Wiener index has got its highest values in the snail communities belonging to climatogenous phytocoenoses. The attempts at establishing the relation of snail communities using objective methods have been made by calculating the similarity of snail communities according to Srensen (1943) and Kulczyski (1927) and also by clustering according to weight variable-group method (Sokal & Sneath 1963: 310, 311). The following common features have been established among the results obtained by applying the stated methods: -- the grouping of snail communities belonging to thermophilic phytocoenoses on the calcareous soil, -- the grouping of snail communities from the predominantly acidophilic woodlands, -- the grouping of snail communities belonging to the acid soils of the highest region of Medvednica.
20046030|Association analysis was used to assess relationships among 25 important alien plant species and their association with feral pig rooting in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, Hawaii, U.S.A. Results of the association analysis were summarized by means of a simplified, rank-based, polar ordination which yielded three subjective species assemblages. One group was characterized by an association with the endpoint species, Ehrharta stipoides. A second group consisted of species associated with the other endpoint species, Andropogon virginicus. The third group comprised a diverse assemblage of 14 species in the middle of the ordination. Comparison of ordination scores with each species's association with pig-induced soil disturbance revealed that members of the Ehrharta group were strongly positively associated with pig activity, whereas members of the Andropogon group were generally negatively associated. The third group showed no association with pig-induced soil disturbance. These results suggest a strong relationship between feral pig activity and the composition of the alien portion of the plant community. Analysis of the ecologies of both plants and pigs suggests that some species may both encourage pig activity and benefit from it. Likewise, other alien plants appear to neither require nor benefit from pig-induced soil disturbance. While pigs appear to play an important role in the organization of these communities, their removal may have a negligible impact on the success of many of the common weeds in the area.
20046031|Based on periodic soil salinity measurements direct gradient analysis procedures were used to relate the performance and distribution of mangrove swamp species to salinity gradients. Variations in soil salinity were due to distance from the coast, tidal incursions and freshwater inputs. All overstorey species showed statistically significant negative correlations with salinity while most groundlayer species were positively correlated with the same factor. Based on ecological group classification, no species was found to occur on the highest values of soil salinity. There were overlapping range of occurrences and ecological optima for most species along the gradients.
20046032|The texture of tree seedling and shrub assemblages was studied in the herb layer of a pure, even-aged sessile oak (Quercus petraea) stand. The three seedling types obtained by cluster analysis differ drastically in the number of oak and hornbeam (Carpinus betulus) seedlings and in the abundance of Rubus and other shrubs. Some differences in site quality were indicated by herbs. Non-floristic descriptors of herbaceous species, such as fidelity to certain coenotaxa (F), temperature (T), water (W) and soil reaction (R) characteristics were also used for classifying the sampling plots. The relation of seedling pattern to site quality was studied by comparing the former with different herb indicator patterns. The sites most abundant in oak seedlings and possessing the least Rubus and other shrubs are those with the most acidophilic species and the least weedy herbs. The study of the health state of the dominant trees showed that these places belong to the best tree-vigor type.
20046033|Effects of edaphic factors (salinity, pH, Na, K, Ca, CaCO, water holding capacity, and grain size) on the spatial distribution of plants were investigated. Soil was sampled at 22 stands. Sixteen plant species were recorded from these stands. Relation between edaphic factors and plant distribution was investigated using correlation statistical analysis. Distribution of some plants was found to be highly correlated with edaphic factor(s).
20046040|A modern statistical technique for the exploratory analysis of multivariate data, called projection pursuit, is described. The method consists of the extraction and display of informative one- or two-dimensional projections of the multivariate dataset. Projection pursuit has much scope for application to ecological datasets. The example in this paper concerns element concentrations in soil samples from a coastal embayment on the east coast of Australia. The application attempts to search for patterns in the soils which could be related to vegetation patterns. The compositional nature of the dataset adds a novel element to the methodology.
20046041|Experimental fire treatments were carried out by applying a propane torch flame to individual stumps of Arbutus unedo and Erica arborea, two dominant ericaceous shrubs living in relatively moist maquis of the western Mediterranean Basin. No mortality was observed in either species. Individual plant size, measured as the individual stump area, was the most important factor determining both number and biomass of resprouts for all fire treatments. The number of resprouts at 3 months was less at the higher temperature, but no difference could not be detected at 18 months. Duration of flame application had no effect on resprouting success. This effect was not statistically significant 18 months after treatments were applied. Biomass of resprouts was not clearly affected by different fire treatments either 3 months or 18 months after the start of the resprouting process.
20046042|To get a first impression of the degree of pollution in the Forest Biosphere Reserve 350 km northwest of Moscow, samples of Polytrichum commune and peat profiles were measured by ICP/MS after de-composition by high-pressure ashing. Comparing the results with data found in similar systems in Central Europe the Forest Biosphere Reserve can be described than 'medium-polluted' by heavy metals. Pb shows lower values as in comparable systems in Germany, due to the fact of lower traffic density in Sowjetunion. The status of the nutritional elements Ca, Mg and K is in the same order of magnitude as found in German forest ecosystems.
20046043|Andropogon virginicus L. (broomsedge) is a perennial bunchgrass of temperate origin which was introduced to the Hawaiian Islands early in the 20th Century. Since its introduction broomsedge has become the dominant species of savanna vegetation on the windward sides of Oahu and Hawaii (the Big Island). Despite its ecological success, the phenology of broomsedge -- especially the timing of its periods of active growth in the summer and dormancy (or semi-rest) in the winter -- is not synchronized with the summer-dry, winter-wet moisture seasonality of its range in Hawaii. Rather, this species responds to a shortening-daylength cue by flowering in late autumn, and the onset of dormancy and the progression of subsequent phenophases seems to be mostly under endogenous control following the flowering response. The lack of synchronization between the onset of active growth by broomsedge and the onset of the rainy season does not conform to the specific assumption that the ecological dominance of the perennial bunchgrass life-form in savanna vegetation results from a coupling of phenological strategy to moisture seasonality. It also brings into question the more general assumption that a perfect coupling of phenology to the prevailing climatic conditions is a prerequisite for ecological success.
20046044|This study reports dynamic changes in the beech forest vegetation during one decade, using 95 permanent observation areas representing a wide variety of soils and management regimes. Current soil acidification, including decreasing pH and base cation pools, increasing solubility of toxic elements and increasing deposition of N, as well as recent changes in the beech forest management have created good conditions for the study. Most species of vascular plants increased their frequencies during the 1980's. However, there were several notable exceptions, in particular Galium odoratum, Viola riviniana/reichenbachiana, Polygonatum multiflorum, and Mercurialis perennis. These species, demanding a comparatively low soil acidity for survival, are distinctly disfavoured by the long-term soil changes in the forests, which seem to have approached or exceeded their limits of existence in many sites. With most other species, differences in management regimes between the beginning and the end of the observation period were more important to the frequency changes. Sensitive to heavy thinning of the stands were, e.g. Oxalis acetosella, Lamium galeobdolon and Melica uniflora, favoured by thinning were Stellaria nemorum, Carex pilulifera, Milium effusum and an appreciable number of more ephemeral species normally occurring in clear-cut areas or otherwise open land, e.g., Rubus idaeus, Galeopsis tetrahit, Athyrium filix-femina, Juncus effusus, Agrostis capillaris, Veronica officinalis, Urtica dioica, and Moehringia trinervia. Saplings of woody plants usually also became more frequent during the 1980's.
20046045|Panicum hemitomon Schult and Spartina patens (Ait) Muhl. plants from Louisiana Gulf Coast fresh and brackish marshes were subjected to hydrogen sulfide under controlled sediment redox conditions. Net carbon assimilation responses of both species to the combined sediment anaerobiosis and hydrogen sulfide concentrations was measured. Panicum hemitomon was more sensitive to hydrogen sulfide as compared to Spartina patens. Initiation of reduction in net carbon assimilation in P. hemitomon began when HS concentrations of soil solution exceeded 0.22
20046046|The relationship between tree canopy cover and forb species in savanna was investigated by examining the effect of tree canopy cover on the yield, crude protein, fibre and lignin content of forb species. The yield of some forb species show a tendency of being higher under tree canopy than in the open though no statistical significance can be shown. A higher forb yield is obtained under high tree canopies than under lower ones. No significant differences in mean crude protein, fibre and lignin content were observed between forb species growing under tree canopy and those in the open.
20046047|Flowering and fruiting of timber trees have been recorded in Guyana for over a century. Although the data are dispersed over a large number of non-consecutive years, from 1887 until 1989, they give a very good estimate of the probability of a species being in flower or fruit in a certain month. Flowering seems correlated with peak sunshine, while fruiting is related to maximum rainfall.
20046053|In the course of many years of investigations on the vegetation of deforested sites, 53 communities occurring in Wielkopolska (Great Poland) have been identified. They mostly consist of species which were found in the previously existing forest phytocenoses. Some clearing communities predominate in specific habitats. Investigations have also been carried out on secondary succession from permanent study sites and previously cultivated areas in the habitats of Salici-Populetum, Galio sylvatici-Carpinetum and Leucobryo-Pinetum. The study results are presented in the form of tables and diagrams.
20046054|The paper, a synthesis based on data generated by our own investigation on Stipa baicalensis steppe for the period 1986-1988, deals with the relationships among biotic and abiotic factors at community ecology level. Analysis is placed on aboveground net primary production (ANPP), the energy source for livestock production process, and on accumulated temperature (5 C) (X), rainfall during the growing season of the steppe plants (X), and content of organic matter of surface soil (X), the abiotic variables most often used to explain variation in ANPP. The models predicting ANPP in Stipa baicalensis steppe were structured in terms of X, X, and X. The predictive power of the models was found to be very high, and the models were successfully validated in three cases with an independent data set. The prediction model that gave the best fitting in Stipa baicalensis steppe was
20046055|Coniferous forest phytogeocoenoses of Hokkaido Island, Japan, were studied to classify them based on vegetation characteristics, to analyse their soils, to correlate the vegetation and soil characteristics, and to provide some ecological interpretation for the phytogeocoenosis differentiation and establishment. Five forest types were distinguished based on the vegetation structure, each of which was comparable to plant association of Krajina (1960); 1. the moss type, 2. the Sasa kurilensis type, 3. the Sasa senanensis type, 4. the Carex sachalinensis type, and 5. the Dryopteris crassirhizoma type. Soil base status indicated by pH, electric conductivity, amount of calcium and magnesium, and base saturation showed a fair correlation with the forest types. The forest types were, therefore, arranged along a soil nutritional gradient. The moss type developed in the least fertile habitats whereas the Dryopteris crassirhizoma type in the most fertile habitats, and others were in between the two. It was suggested that in the island, where climate was humid with excess of soil water throughout a year, soil nutritional regime, more specifically availability of bivalent cations which tended to be removed by the excessive soil water, seemed to be a critical factor to differentiate and establish the forest types.
20046056|The variation in species composition of trees  7.6 cm gbh in thirty-eight plots (mostly c. 0.2 ha in extent) from physiognomically-defined kerangas forest were re-analyzed by principal components analysis ordination (species centering and standardization by sample norm). Analyses were performed separately on basal area abundances, on the densities of trees in three size classes ( 7.6,  30.5 and  61.0 cm gbh) and on the density of small and large trees (7.6-&lt 30.5 and 30.5-&lt 61.0 cm gbh). A total of 636 taxa were reduced to 381 for analysis, removing those of very low density and plot frequency. Three groups of plots were identified: forest at low elevation, and generally coastal, on deep humus podzols; forest at intermediate elevation on mostly red-yellow podzols with affinities to dipterocarp forest; and forest at high elevation on mostly peaty podzols. The first group was divisible into five subgroups along a drainage gradient, while the more poorly drained plots showing affinities to peat-swamp forest. Forty to eighty of the taxa, depending on the criteria for selection, were sufficient to define a stable, reduced spatial structure of the data matrix. Two subgroups, both coastal on deep podzols, represent the extreme form of kerangas forest per se. A comparison of Agathis borneensis- and Shorea albida-dominated plots revealed few other associated and differentiating taxa. Patterns were clearest from analyses of basal area data and of densities of all and small trees. Ordinations and grouping of plots for small, but not large, tree densities were similar to those for basal area. Different species were differentiated on the basis of the abundance measure, leading to group (tabular) definition of associations in a dual manner. A new system of summarization is presented which combines basal area, density and frequency in a graded hierarchical approach. The association between vegetation and soil type was difficult to unravel because of the limited environmental space sampled. Soil type was confounded with elevation, rainfall and geographical location. A major factor is clay content probably affecting nutrient status and water holding properties. 'Modal analysis' of small tree densities showed clearest patterns in this respect. There were no patterns at the family or genus level, nor in leaf size spectra within kerangas. Problems in the treatment, analysis and summarization of tropical forest data sets are discussed. These problems centre on the scale and intensity of field sampling and the advantages of measuring small trees leading to a dual basal area and density approach. All published studies, including this one, within kerangas forest have used inadequate sampling for the purposes of revealing species changes with respect to soil type and composition.
20046057|To revegetate denuded areas, indiscriminate introductions of rapidly growing plants have taken place. In majority of the cases, the denuded areas do start looking green in a very short span of time. However, whether or not the introduced plants also bring about amelioration of the habitat needs to be evaluated. A comparative assessment of some leaflet and soil characteristics of the introduced Prosopis juliflora, and the native P. cineraria revealed that the former with its continued higher nutrient demand disturbs the physico-chemical profile of the substratum, ultimately making it nutrient deficient. The data presented call for a reappraisal of the practice of introducing plants into alien environments.
20046065|A simple rank similarity index is proposed to use in estimation of ecological community similarities. The analysis of similarities is based on hypergeometric probabilities of the coincidence of dominant species in the samples. When 4 dominant species are ranked in samples, two sets of ranks can be compared in 133 different ways. In the case of total similarity rank similarity index M = 10 and for dissimilarity M = 0. Critical levels of M are given for total amount of species from 10 to 300. The proposed approach useful in rapid similarity analysis of planktonic communities.
20046066|The present study includes an evaluation of the effect of protection of a grazing ecosystem on the nutrient concentration and uptake in the organs of four annual species of non-saline depressions in the western Mediterranean region of Egypt. The concentration of macro- and micronutrients in different organs became lower due to the increase in biomass of individuals with protection. The maximum uptake of nutrients occurred during the early vegetative stage, except for a few cases in which the uptake in some species reached two peaks, one in the early vegetative stage and the other in the reproductive stage. The efficiency of the selected annual species in uptaking and accumulating nutrients was compared with rates of uptake of nutrients and amounts of nutrients accumulated in tissues of two species representing other life forms. The annuals and perennial herbs (ephemeroids) are in general more efficient in uptaking and accumulating nutrients in their tissues than perennial shrubs.
20046067|From a survey of the riparian and aquatic plant species of 37 shallow and often ephemeral pools in mid-Wales a new sub-association of the Pilularietum globuliferae Tuxen 1955 is described in relation to water chemistry and other environmental parameters from 20 of these pools where either or both Apium inundatum and Pilularia globulifera were present in the new sub-association apietosum inundati of the Pilularietum globuliferae Tuxen, 1955 within the Apio-Pilularion globuliferae Schoof-van Pelt 1973.
20046068|The vegetative resprouting of mediterranean maquis shrubby species was examined eight years after fire. Post-fire regeneration occurs through the resprouting of stumps. All species (Quercus ilex L., Phillyrea latifolia L., Arbutus unedo L., Erica arborea L., Pistacia lentiscus L.) show a rapid growth in the first years after fire, and a decrease already from
20046069|Our major objective was to compare methods of collecting and analyzing data on herbaceous aboveground net primary production and plant diversity in sequence of sites inferred to represent a meadowaspenfirspruce- sere in the middle Rocky Mountains. These comparisons should help us better interpret the literature and prepare for monitoring vegetation trends due to global climatic changes. Both absolute and relative values for above net primary production were highly dependent on methods used. The magnitude of differences in community diversity also varied greatly depending on the methods used to express plant richness, equitability, heterogeneity and dominance. We conclude that it is impossible to objectively test differences in production and diversity using data from single sampling dates and arbitrary choices of methods. In communities with great inter and intra-seasonal dynamics, an index of dominance that only measures magnitude (e.g. peak standing crop) was shown to have undesirable properties. We have demonstrated how average seasonal phytomass can overcome these problems by employing a measure of residence time as well as magnitude.
20046070|New data of aboveground biomass and production of four angiosperms over a 12 month period for the Cantabrian Sea salt marshes (Bay of Biscay, N. Spain) are presented. Based on harvest methods, maximum aboveground total biomass values for Spartina maritima (Curtis) Fernald, Spartina alterniflora Loisel, Salicornia ramosissima J. Woods and Halimione portulacoides (L.) Aellen were 628, 1109, 480 and 1267
20046071|Permanent grazing exclosures were established in semi-arid grasslands to study long-term successional trends of vegetation in patches representing varying stages of vegetation retrogression. After an exceptionally heavy thunder-shower one research plot was flooded with run-off water from cultivated lands nearby, resulting in the deposition of nutrient enriched sediment in the research plot. The subsequent vegetational trends are compared to vegetational trends of similar patches in a control plot, in the same grazing camp, which was not flooded. Successional trends were accelerated in the sediment covered micro-plots due to the improvement of habitat conditions. Substantial basal cover increases, ranging from 30% to 124,5%, were recorded in flooded micro-plots. By comparison basal cover increases in the control plot varied from 1% to 45%. In both cases the basal cover changes were predominantly the result of basal cover increases of large, tufted, perennial grass species. Patches representing severe vegetation retrogression in the sediment covered research plot, in contrast to degraded patches in the control plot, showed the most significant increases in basal cover of large, tufted, perennial grass species. It is concluded that degraded grassland could be restored effectively through habitat improvements.
20046072|The point quadrat method can be used for determination of vegetational change in meadows of great species diversity. An appropriate sampling technique is described comprehending an apparatus of high rigidity and a shelter to keep off wind and rain. Sample size related to sampling time expense affects the number of species recorded and methodical error which is empirically determined by repetitive sampling. A setup of fixed points leads to higher accuracy than random sampling. When methodical error is quantitatively known, significant vegetational change can be detected by sampling at successive times. For fluctuation studies of plant populations in meadows the point quadrat technique should be preferred to visual estimates of plant cover because of its higher accuracy.
20046077|Geographical patterns of altitudinal zonation, floristic composition, and structural features of tropical montane rain forests were examined along latitudinal gradients in south and east Asia. On equatorial mountains, the tropical montane rain forests occur above 1000 m. Toward middle latitudes, they come farther down and reach sea level at c. 35 N. Thus, the forests are equivalent to the subtropical rain forests of the latitudinal, horizontal zonation series. They exhibit gradual changes in floristic composition and structure along both altitudinal and latitudinal gradients. On equatorial mountains, they are divided into three types, i.e. tropical lower montane, upper montane, and subalpine forests. The three tree regeneration types, having emergent, sporadic and inverse-J type stem-diameter class frequency distributions, coexist in the lower montane forests, but the upper and subalpine forests display only the inverse-J type species with a few species of the sporadic type. Toward the northern latitudinal limit, the distinction between the three tropical montane forest zones in equatorial mountains becomes less clear. This can be explained by temperature conditions: on equatorial mountains, a temperature sum of 85 C  months which controls the upper limit of the lower montane forests, and a coldest month mean temperature of -1 C which controls the evergreen broad-leaved trees, appear at c. 2500 and c. 4000 m respectively. The altitudinal range between 2500 m and 3800 m, which is the upper forest limit, is covered by upper montane and subalpine forests. On the other hand, at the latitudinal northern limit, the tropical upper montane and subalpine forests cannot exist because the above mentioned two temperature conditions occur at nearly the same point. Thus, at the northern latitudinal limit of the tropical montane forests, the three zones of equatorial mountains amalgamate into a single subtropical lowland forest community. This is due to the seasonal temperature climate in middle latitudes in, e.g., central Japan and central China.
20046078|The amount of photosynthetically-active photon flux density incident upon a leaf and the nitrogen content of that leaf strongly affect the photosynthetic carbon gain of that leaf. Therefore, the canopy structure of a stand, affecting the light climate in the canopy, and the leaf nitrogen distribution pattern in the canopy, affect the carbon gain of the whole canopy. This review discusses the results of studies directed to this problem and obtained so far in open and in dense canopies of stands of herbaceous, monocotyledonous or dicotyledonous, plants in their growing or flowering stages. It is found that the leaf nitrogen distribution pattern in the canopy is vertically non-uniform, and in dense stands more strongly so than in open stands. The leaf nitrogen distribution pattern in most canopies closely approaches an optimal pattern in that it maximizes whole canopy potential carbon gain as calculated for the actual total leaf nitrogen content and leaf area index of the stand. The resulting increase in potential carbon gain as compared to a uniform leaf nitrogen distribution pattern is considerable and it is larger in dense stands than in open stands. For at least some dense stands simulation studies show that with the available total leaf nitrogen content, whole canopy carbon gains could still be considerable higher had a lower leaf area index been developed.
20046079|For a new approach to the phytogeography of the Namib region three sets of data are analyzed, (a) distribution data of ca. 1700 taxa, (b) habitat informations of a large number of taxa, collected in course of an extensive phytosociological survey, (c) distribution data of characteristic life form spectra and plant formations. In this paper, as a first step of a comprehensive phytochorological analysis, phytochoria and their limits are proposed as derived from frequently observed areas of distribution, while a numerical analysis of the complete flora of these phytochoria is in preparation. Considering with emphasis the flora of zonal habitats (Walter 1986), two major phytochorological units are recognized: 1. The Succulent Karoo Region (Greater Cape Flora) 1.1 Namaqualand-Namib Domain 1.2 Southern Karoo Domain 2. The Nama Karoo Region (Palaeotropis) 2.1 Namaland Domain 2.2 Eastern Karoo Domain 2.3 Damaraland-Kaokoland Domain
20046080|Plant growth form diversity (GFD) is high in the vegetation of North American deserts, and increases from north (Great Basin Desert) to south (Sonoran Desert). While abiotic features (annual temperature, precipitation, and seasonality) appear to limit the range of desert plant GFD, biotic features associated with the coexisting plants at a site, and their GF distribution, add further constraints. Climate may constrain the GF options at certain sites and select for some degree of GF convergence there, but within sites other species in the vegetation select for GF segregation that fosters the local coexistence of species. In this paper GF variation is viewed along structural niche axes, and related to classical niche theory; several corollaries of the theory are examined in the light of plant GF patterns. These are: a) regular spacing of species on the structural niche axis, and the concept of limiting similarity; b) niche axis complementarity, such that species dissimilar in position on one axis, e.g. GF, are similar in position on other axes, e.g. habitat or substrate, and vice versa; c) niche shifts in GF within species are expected, and occur, as the suite of coexisting species varies among sites with similar climate; d) in some desert plant guilds species with very similar GF do not coexist at a site, but act as geographical replacements in different sites.
20046081|Lanthanides (rare-earth elements) were quantitatively determined by atomic emission spectrometry/inductively coupled plasma (AES/ICP) in various plants (Picea abies, Vaccinium vitis-idaea, Vaccinium myrtillus, Polytrichum commune, Sphagnum spec., and Hypogymna physodes) collected in the Forest Biosphere Reserve 350 km northwest of Moscow (USSR). Compared with previously established background values for lanthanide elements in central Europe, the rare elements determined in the USSR samples appear in lower concentrations. The lichen Hypogymna physodes can be characterized as an extreme accumulator of lanthanide elements up to a factor of ten compared to the other plant species collected in the Forest Biosphere Reserve. With regard to the lanthanide contents in plants collected in a German reference forest ecosystem, it can be seen, that the German samples represent without exception higher lanthanide values. Leaves of Vaccinium vitis-idaea display contents 3-4 times higher, leaves of Vaccinium myrtillus show concentrations higher by a factor of about 0.3, approximately twice the contents were determined in the German samples of Polytrichum formosum and P. commune, and the values in the German samples of the Sphagnum species are about 3 times that of the Soviet samples. As pointed out for pollution by heavy metals in part I of this series, the Forest Biosphere Reserve is generally characterized by lower contents of lanthanides in the vegetation cover than a comparable forest ecosystem (Grasmoor near Osnabrck, F.R.G.) in central Europe.
20046082|A series of coal mine spoils (5, 10, 12, 16 and 20-yr old) in a dry tropical environment was sampled to assess the changes with time in spoil characteristics, species composition and plant biomass. Coarse fragments (&gt 2 mm) decreased with age of mine spoil while the proportion of 0.2-0.1 mm particles increased. Total soil N, mineral N, NaHCO-extractable Pi, and exchangeable K increased with age of mine spoil and these parameters were lower in mine spoils than native forest soil even after 20 years of succession. Exchangeable Na decreased with age of mine spoil and in 20-yr old spoil it was higher than native forest soil. Plant community composition changed with age. Only a few species participated in community formation. Species richness increased with age, while evenness and species diversity declined from 5-yr old to 16-yr old community with an increase in the 20-yr old community. A reverse trend occurred for concentration of dominance. Area-weighted shoot and root biomass of other species increased with the age of the mine spoil while that of Xanthium strumarium patches declined with age. Data collected on spoil features, microbial C, N and P, and shoot and root biomass when subjected to Discriminant Analysis indicated a continued profound effect of age. 10 and 12-yr old mine spoils were closer to each other, and 5 and 20-yr old spoils were farthest apart.
20046083|A total of 105 climber species were recorded and studied for their altitudinal distribution and phenology. Relatively higher percentage (54%) of deciduous species was recorded. In general, the climbers were distributed throughout the region between altitudes of 300-3500 m. However, maximum (more than 60%) species were confined either below or at around 1500 m altitude. Species richness declines gradually towards the higher altitudes, the decline was more sharp in evergreen species. The different phenological activities were usually governed by the seasonal variations in a year. Seasonality of flowering suggested the prevalence of insect pollination. Whereas, fruit types indicated equal sharing of biotic and abiotic dispersal. Study concludes, the distribution and nature of various climber species of Kumaun in Indian Central Himalaya, depends largely upon altitude and its climatic variable temperature. Whereas, the seasonality of rains plays an important role in seasonal progression of phenophases.
20046084|Distribution patterns of A. aestivus at four different sites of a degraded mediterranean-type ecosystem (asphodel desert), Thessally, Greece, have been studied. A first order spatial structure was identified at small block sizes and was related to asexual reproduction, a second order structure, at large block sizes, was related to sexual reproduction. Spatial distribution of A. aestivus was associated with soil depth while ecological neighbourhood was discussed in relation to degradation phenomena, especially erosion. Density dependent growth of aboveground biomass and flowering has also been explored. Self-thinning was not detected, whereas the percentage of plants flowering decreases linearly with density and this was attributed to competition for nutrients. A reciprocal equation describes the growth of the aboveground biomass with time. A two-sided competition was displayed by initial plant weight, while the rate of growth of the aboveground biomass was proved independent of density.
20046090|In 1989, in the southeast of the Sakhalin Island and south of the village Okhotskoye, Isotes asiatica (Makino) Makino and I. beringensis Kom. were detected in 24 oligotrophic lakes for the first time on Sakhalin. These are stands of the community of Isotetum asiaticae ass. nov. which in the majority of the lakes form a characteristic pioneer vegetation of the shallow littoral zones. In addition to poor-species dominance stands of both of the Isotes species, penetration stages of both of these species as well as stages rich in Comarum palustre, Eleocharis acicularis and Potamogeton species can be differentiated. Besides the structure of the species, the site conditions, particularly of the water bodies are described. The ion content is represented by absolute and relative ion field diagrams exemplified by 7 selected water bodies. The ion content is characterized by sodium and chloride which are prevailing, while calcium and magnesium as well as hydrogen carbonate and sulphate exist in low quantitative proportions only. The indicator values of individual characteristics and the complex characteristics of the Isotes lakes are discussed. The hydrochemical characteristics of the Sakhalin, Kuriles and Kamchatka Isotes waters are compared with the Isotes water bodies of North America and Europe. The danger to Isotes water bodies is discussed, necessary protective measures are defined.
20046091|The production, density and environment of buried seeds and the temperature response of germinating seeds in Trapa natans var. japonica Nakai were ascertained. The mechanism of high reproductivity, tolerance of the plant for eutrophication and the stability of the stand in an eutrophic lake are discussed. The mean fresh weight of seeds was about 7.2 g, and the density of live and dead seeds in April ranged 66.7 to 80.0
20046092|A simple method of aerial photography was used to investigate annual and between-year changes in surface cover of the floating-leaved plants, Nymphoides peltata, Nelumbo nucifera and Trapa natans, in natural stands in Lake Kasumigaura. Oblique photographs of vegetation were taken with a 35-mm camera with real color film from airplanes between 1983 and 1989. Vegetation maps were traced on the positions after projective transformation to vertical photography. The distribution of the stand of Nymphoides peltata seemed to be restricted to a region of less than 1.5 m water depth. A rise of 1.0 m in the water level after a typhoon in 1986 caused a subsequent decrease in vegetation area of Nelumbo nucifera. The vegetation recovered in shallower regions after one year in 1987. The expansion rate of Nymphoides peltata and Nelumbo nucifera in one direction was in the range 3.8-10.0
20046093|A comparative study of aquatic vegetation of 149 irrigation ponds in the surrounding area of Lake Shinji, Shimane Prefecture, Japan, was done to document the present status of aquatic flora and water chemistry. In addition, influence of 17 environmental factors on the between-pond variation in aquatic macrophyte composition was assessed by using detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). A total of 38 taxa were recorded, and the most frequent taxon was Trapa spp. (&gt 50%). Number of taxa per pond ranged from 1 to 14 and mean number was 4.1. Floristic composition was primarily related to variation of the factors such as conductivity, Mg, Ca, Na, alkalinity, altitude, pH and depth. In contrast, no significant correlations were found with total P, PO-P, transparency, COD, ignition loss of bottom soil, Mn and Fe. Of the 33 significant species associations between 19 species with more than 5% frequency occurrence, 28 were positive and the remaining 5 were negative. All of these negative associations involved Trapa spp., and not only water chemistry but some other factors like competition and bottom soil preference were assumed to influence species associations.
20046094|Photosynthetic capacity of floating-leaved plants is relatively high comparable with terrestrial herbaceous plants, though floating-leaved plants have a much smaller biomass with a leaf area index seldom exceeding 2
20046095|The changes in habitat quality of lowland rivers in Lower Saxony (Germany) during the past 40 years are outlined. Almost all chemical, physical, and morphological parameters have changed, resulting in most cases in an enhanced potential productivity, accompanied by a complex disturbance regime. Historical reconstruction of the change in river vegetation is presented to compare the frequency of macrophyte species 40 years ago with the situation of today. For a total of 289 sampling sites, the floristic change was exactly reconstructed. Nearly all species show a decline in frequency. This trend is also recognizable in Potamogeton, with the exception of two narrow-leaved species. An attempt is made to explain both decline and maintenance in terms of life history characters (vital attributes) allowing the species to react to the changing habitat conditions. The successful species are characterized by certain life history characteristics which enable them to survive under the current disturbance regime. Most important aspects of life history are the ability to reproduce by means of turions and other fragments, a long-lived, deep-rooting rhizome system, phenotypic plasticity of above-ground parts, synchronous shoot polymorphism, and the potential to regenerate quickly from remaining buds after disturbance. The decline of formerly frequent species can be attributed mainly to the lack of certain key characters; however, physiological characters also may be important. The extirpation of some rare species could also be caused by random fluctuations in small populations. The general importance of population ecological research, particularly demography, life history theory, and the modelling of clonal populations in conservation ecology is stressed.
20046096|Two common macrophyte species, Potamogeton perfoliatus L. and Potamogeton pectinatus L. were grown for 12 weeks at shallow depths in sediments contaminated with 1250 or 2500 g Pb or Cu and/or Zn
20046097|Pressurized gas transport with flow rates of 1.1 to 1.81 gas
20046173|The effects of foliar- and root-feeding insects on the dynamics of an early successional plant community, representing the first four years of colonisation, were examined. Subterranean insect herbivores were found to increase in density with increasing successional age of the plant community. In early succession, chewing insects mainly Coleoptera (Scarabaeidae) and Diptera (Tipulidae) were dominant. This was in direct contrast to the foliar-feeding insects, which were dominated by sap-feeders (mainly Auchenorrhynchan Hemiptera). Reduction of both foliar- and root-feeding insects with appropriate insecticides had different, but dramatic, consequences for the plant community. Reducing foliar herbivory resulted in large increases in perennial grass growth, with plant species richness being reduced as the grasses outcompeted the forbs. Reducing subterranean herbivory prolonged the persistence of annual forbs, greatly increased perennial forb colonisation and, as a consequence, plant species richness. Foliar-feeding insects thus act to delay succession by slowing grass colonisation. In contrast, root-feeding insects accelerate succession by reducing forb persistence and colonisation. The structure of early successional plant communities is therefore modified by the two modes of herbivory.
20046174|Knowledge about the state, spatial distribution and temporal evolution of the vegetation cover is of great scientific and economic value. Satellite platforms provide a most convenient tool to observe the biosphere globally and repetitively, but the quantitative interpretation of the observations may be difficult. Reflectance measurements in the visible and near-infrared regions have been analyzed with simple but powerful indices designed to enhance the contrast between the vegetation and other surface types, however, these indices are rather sensitive to atmospheric effects. The 'correction' of satellite data for atmospheric effects is possible but requires large data sets on the composition of the atmosphere. Instead, we propose a new vegetation index which has been designed specifically to reduce the relative effects of these undesirable atmospheric perturbations, while maintaining the information about the vegetation cover.
20046175|The production of litter was measured for the piedmont communities of Larrea divaricata ssp. dicaricata (1500 m asl) and L. cuneifolia (1130 m asl) near Mendoza, Argentina. Litter was collected in traps randomly distributed in each stand: herbaceous, shrubby and uncovered soil. The monthly average weight of litter was recorded in each stand during one year and discontineously during other two years more. The material was classified as: leaves and fruits of Larrea sp., fruits of Stipa sp. (by its relative abundance), gramineous and non gramineous material. The litter and the soil in each sample were bromatologically analyzed and the N, Ca and P levels also determined. The annual contribution of nutrients was calculated totally and layer by layer. The L. cuneifolia and the L. divaricata thickets produce 4,71 t.
20046176|Beech seedlings (Fagus sylvatica L. provenance Vstra Torup) were grown in nutrient solution at low pH (4.2) and exposed to AlCl and different concentrations of nitrogen. The effects of AlCl and nitrogen on uptake of
20046177|The beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) is the dominant tree in Middle Europe under many different ecological conditions. But like other tree species, it is suffering in the last ten years increasingly by air pollutants including heavy metals which have been deposited and accumulated for decades in many forest soils. Increasingly mobilized by acidification processes, these metals may have toxic effects on trees. In autecological studies (dose-response-experiments) effects of root-applied Pb and Cd on various growth parameters, on uptake of mineral nutrients and on transpiration of young beech trees were evaluated, and 'critical' concentrations (threshold levels) could be established. Significant leaf area reduction was found with 6 ppm Pb (0.3 ppm Cd) in the leaves (DW), but biomass reduction only with 18 ppm Pb (3.6 ppm Cd). Root elongation rates of seedlings were significantly reduced with 44 ppm plant-available Pb in the soil by about 30%, but only with 24 ppm Pb when combined with 2 ppm Cd, exhibiting synergistic effects. After treatments with 20 ppm Pb and 1 ppm Cd in sand culture, a considerable decrease in the contents of K, Ca, Mg, Fe, Mn, and Zn in roots and leaves of saplings was coincident with high (roots) and moderate (leaves) accumulation of Pb and Cd. A 20% reduction of transpiration rates was measured in ten-year-old beech trees after three months of exposure to a forest soil containing 2.5 ppm plant-available Cd. The data indicate that present-day concentrations mainly of Pb, but not yet of Cd, in acidified European forest soils are sufficiently high to affect germination, growth and mineral nutrition of natural rejuvenation of beech.
20046178|Concentrations of Cd, Pb and Zn were determined in stem wood of beech trees (Fagus sylvatica L.) from 3 sites in northern Germany. Distinct radial distribution patterns of the elements were observed in the xylem. Concentrations of Cd and Pb increased from the youngest, outermost annual rings towards the center of the stem. With Zn intermediate concentrations were observed in the sapwood and higher levels at the center of the stem. Temporal and spatial stability of such distribution patterns in the trunks was investigated. Wood samples taken from the same individual tree in different months of the year were analysed. Marked seasonal variations of mineral concentrations were observed. Also the shape of the distribution patterns of the elements varied with the season. Such variations were larger than those observed with samples taken simultaneously from different sides of the trunk. Furthermore, Pb concentrations in the stem showed variations with height above ground. The results indicate, that radial distribution patterns of Cd, Pb and Zn in xylem rings of beech are not stable. Biomonitoring trace element pollution levels by analysis of beech wood is, thus, questionable. To obtain a reliable historical record of pollution from tree rings, the distribution patterns should be stable over a long period of time. This basic requirement of the dendroanalytical method does not hold for the examined beech. Still, with other tree species and under more favourable conditions the dendroanalytical biomonitoring method may prove valuable.
20046179|Structure and spatial distribution of stools and root-collar sprouts of Japanese beech (Fagus japonica) were studied to clarify the regeneration processes of the stool and the population, and the ecological importance of this stool formation in five quadrats of the natural forests with different forest floor vegetation on the Pacific side of Japan. F. japonica dominates in the canopy of each quadrat. Most of sprouts formed a circle around the root-collar and lowest parts of the parent stems of the stool with the youngest sprouts at the periphery. The regeneration by seedlings was slight especially on the forest floor vegetation of the dwarf bamboo Sasa. The variety of size structure of stems and the existence of dead traces and/or dead center in each stool, the apparent difference in stool size, and the aggregations of stools in the forests suggest that stool expansion and long persistence of the stool at a given location may contribute to compensate for the scarcity of regeneration by seedlings inhibited by dwarf bamboo, and by the other shrubs and herbs.
20046180|Macro and Micro cation content, concentration of water soluble cations and anions, as well as nitrogen content in beech leaves from a variety of forest stands in the eastern part of Austria have been determined. Special attention has been focused on the highly air polluted Vienna Woods. A broad natural variability in total content of minerals, as well as in nitrogen content could be observed. In general, cation nourishment has been found to be adequate on all stands. The pattern of water soluble i.e. physiologically active cations, especially with regard to divalent cations, varies broadly among beeches from different provenances: Mg/Mn ratios differ within three orders of magnitude between dolomite and highly acidic, nutrient poor stands over silicate rock. The term 'mineral deficiency limit' should, therefore, be used very carefully with respect to single nutrients. Organic anions (quinate, malate, citrate) clearly dominate over inorganic anions. The relative amount of the latter increased from NO, Cl, inorganic phosphate to SO. A concentration of SO is markedly in leaves within the direct reach of SO sources, its level, however, remaining well below the organic anions. Slight evidence of an antagonistic behavior between SO and organic acids could be found. Total nitrogen as well as the ratio insoluble:soluble nitrogen were tendencially higher in Vienna Wood beeches, indicating an additional use of the airborne nitrogen. The high flexibility of beech with respect to mineral content and ionic balance is discussed with regard to the ecological distribution of beech and the susceptibility to air pollution.
20046186|Until now very few biocenological studies have been carried out on dragonflies. This paper describes the various functions of vegetation for Odonata, especially in habitat selection. It is shown that the two endangered species, Orthetrum coerulescens and Ceriagrion tenellum, due to their dependence on specific abiotic factors, strongly prefer particular plant communities. In selecting suitable breeding habitats, vegetation probably serves as a releasing signal ('proximate factor'). In contrast, the two species hardly show any clear preference for any of the parameters of the community structure. For the example of C. tenellum the highly selective choice of plant stands and communities is presented in detail. Its ecoscheme may be described as consisting of three main parts, with the vegetation playing a decisive role. Methodological questions are also discussed. In many dragonfly species the breeding habitats can be described by the plant communities, as well as additional parameters. In conclusion, a step by step procedure for biocenological studies on dragonflies is proposed.
20046187|Cattle ranching is a typical disturbance factor in the North Patagonian forests. The selection of modal areas having similar natural environmental conditions enabled the analysis of the response of the system to exploitation. Different structural parameters in the vegetal community were studied and secondary data on fire frequency and livestock censuses were compiled. An area gradient showing different degrees of degradation was defined, which was presumed to show the stages an area goes through when under livestock farming. Three ecological indicators were defined: key species, as indicators of the occurrence of a degradation process, vegetal cover, as an indicator of the stage a degradation process is going through and vegetal biovolume, as an indicator of when the degradation process has become critical. These indicators must be used together in order to obtain a good diagnosis of the state of the area under exploitation.
20046188|The goal of the present study resides in the attempt to falsify the discontinuum hypothesis. To this end the local variation in vegetation structure along a continuously changing environmental gradient was studied. The object under study was a 116 m long transect in the unspoiled flood plain forests of the Sava valley in Croatia, which contains stands of three widespread forest community types. The soil water conditions function as an independent variable of the physical-chemical environment, influencing the vegetation structure. It gradually changes within the transect according to relief height. By contrast ceteris paribus conditions obtain for climatic relations and nutrient supply. The investigation is based on 116 sample plots in all, each of 8 square metres in area. The type of structural change is elucidated by means of a vegetation table, presentation of the frequency distribution of plant species, a contingency table, non-metric multidimensional scaling, a discriminant function and a cluster analysis. Variation in relief height produces a continuous change in the forest vegetation. Nevertheless, there are clearly recognisable leaps between, and a clear clustering of plant species within, the stands of the various community types. The type of structural change corresponds to the 'Non-linear and continuous' -- 'Tendency for association' model, and the pattern of distribution of plant species corresponds to the 'Clustered distributions' model of Scott (1974). In this connection, discussion is conducted about the question of the organisation of plant communities and whether it is possible to classify them.
20046189|Natural variability in the species composition of salt marsh plant assemblage was studied for 4 years (1986-90) at Bolinas Lagoon, California (USA). The study was conducted during a period in which little or no physical disturbance occurred in the marsh. During the study, Bolinas Lagoon experienced highly variable rainfall, both within and between years. In years with average or below average winter and spring rainfall, the cover of Salicornia virginica increased relative to that of the other species. During the one year with much higher than average spring rainfall, the cover of Salicornia declined and rare species increased in relative abundance. These patterns suggest that under typical marsh conditions, the plant assemblage experiences stress due to low availability of freshwater and high soil salinity. Under such conditions, the stress-tolerant Salicornia dominates the assemblage. If, however, there is abundant rainfall early in the growing season, the other species are released from stress and are able to increase in cover. The marsh of Bolinas Lagoon appears to be resistant to change and able to tolerate stress. Few studies have examined natural variability in species in undisturbed marshes and more of such studies must be made in order to understand whether or not marshes are in general resistant to change caused by rainfall variability.
20046190|Phenological records of 50 plant species were made during 1988-89 in an alpine meadow (30 10 - 30 13 N lat. and 79 39 - 79 -41 E long.) of Central Himalaya located between 3100-3750 m elevation. The growth initiation occurred when temperature began to rise continuously and the resulting in snowmelt. The peaks of the various phenophases succeeded one after another in time, within a period of about four months (from May to September) which is longer than the period reported for the alpine sites of higher latitudes. The period of growth initiation appeared to be related to growth form, the species showing earlier growth initiation (when temperatures were lower) deployed leaves to lower heights, close to the ground. A majority of forbs completed growth cycle earlier than the grasses. For example, one group represented by Trachydium roylei reached peak growth a few weeks before did another group of species, represented by Danthonia cachemyriana, which is indicative of niche separation of the respective group of species. Activities of accumulation of live and dead shoot biomass were clearly separated in time in most communities, the former occurring from May to August, and the latter mainly in September.
20046191|Wasgomuwa National Park is situated south of Polonnaruwa and north of Mahiyangana in Sri Lanka and is bordered by two rivers Mahaweli Ganga and Amban Ganga. Bioclimatically most of the park lies in the dry zone of the country but the south west embraces the intermediate zone. The vegetation is broadly a dry monsoonal forest but forms an interesting mosaic of vegetation types from Semi evergreen forest to abandoned paddy fields, on a finer scale. The vegetation of the park was studied in detail on ground and also using aerial photographs. It was possible to classify the vegetation into many distinct types or phytosociological units, based on their cover, site characteristics, physiognomy and species composition. 1. Forests 1.1 Tall riparian forests 1.2 Semi-Evergreen forests 1.3 Hill forests 1.4 Forest of rock outcrops 1.5 High stature Monsoon forests 1.6 Degraded forests 1.7 Seral scrubland 2. Grasslands 2.1 Iluk (Imperata cylindrica) grasslands 2.2 Ischemum and Eragrostis grasslands 3. Abandoned cultivated lands 3.1 Low lying fields with remnant Manilkara and Bauhinia 3.2 Highland chenas, overgrown with Phyllanthus scrub The different types of vegetation are described. The origin and the development of the different phytosociological units are the viewed through anthropogenic, historic and environmental factors.
20046192|This paper reports a bioclimatic analysis of plant species in Galicia, NW Spain. A set of floristic data obtained from 150 plots located at euclimatopes (sites with monitored climate) was analysed using direct gradient analysis and clustering with respect to the 8 climatic variables thought to play a major role in regulating the distribution of the species considered in the study area. Principal component analysis (PCA) and hierarchical clustering were based on a matrix of species by climatic variables. Indicator taxa for the variables were identified on the basis of their Indicator values (Brisse & Grandjouan 1978) and grouped by cluster analysis. The groups produced were compatible with the results of principal component analyis and the frequential analysis of the species, which identified their phytoclimatic nature. The groups were then characterized by determining their climatic positions and indicator values with respect to the chief climatic variables. The first three PCA axes, which were associated with Oceanity, Mean minimum temperatures and the temperature range in the coldest month, together accounted for 97.2% of the variance of the data.
20046197|Dispersal of 11 dominant grass species in the savanna of southern Botswana was investigated. The dispersal is autochorous, anemochorous and epizoochorous independent of the life-cycle (annuals, perennials). Dispersal distances were estimated experimentally. Anemochorous species with a plume-like spikelet such as Chloris virgata and Enneapogon cenchroides have a low rate of descent (&lt1
20046198|An ecological study of the Municipalit Rgionale de Comt (MRC) du Haut-Saint-Laurent area, a highly disturbed landscape located south-west of Montral (Qubec), was carried out. The aim of this study was to establish links between indicator species of ecosystems and geomorphological features in a heavily disturbed background. Analysis to obtain the ecological groups are based on the links of herbaceous plants and shrubs. This approach is defined as a sociological one where grouping is based only on the species' affinity. In order to obtain ecological groups, similarity measures using the chi-square coefficient were calculated on the relative cover values of the 150 retained species from 452 plots. An intermediate linkage cluster analysis was then performed on the similarity matrix thus created. By this procedure, 56 ecological groups were obtained. These groups were then characterized according to abiotic variables, especially the geomorphological data, by the use of binary discriminant analysis. Results indicate that 39 of these 56 groups were significantly associated specifically with one of 10 morphogenic features, while 13 of these 56 groups were associated with 2 or 3 features. The ecological groups which were associated with one specific geomorphological process showed a strong link to one texture and one specific drainage class. On the other hand, the groups which were associated with several features were linked with one drainage class, usually imperfect, and a certain topographic situation. However, ecological groups showing a strong association to more than one feature can be of cartographic use, provided soil texture is analysed to determine the origin of the deposit. Finally, the type of deposit becomes non determinant on vegetation where drainage and topographic variables indicate poorly or very poorly drained sites. Non-significant groups should be used as indicators of drainage and topographical conditions but not as indicators of geomorphological deposits. The ecological groups not associated with morphogenic features demonstrated mostly a heliophilic character. Thus, the ubiquitous character of ecological groups is not exclusive to species taking advantage of disturbances.
20046199|By means of a cluster analysis, we classified 135 relevs of the forests of the Muniellos Reserve into 8 groups and the species in these relevs into 28 groups. The concentration analysis applied allows to study the relationship between relev group and species group. The forest types in Muniellos Reserve are: mixed riverside forest, mixed forest with hazel, semideciduous pyrenean oak forest, xerophilous and mesophilous sessile oak forest, beech forest and open and thick birch forest. These forest types are characterized floristically, structurally and ecologically. The pattern of distribution of forest types in the Muniellos Reserve is also discussed; in the siliceous areas of the Orocantabric province this pattern is widespread, but differes to some extent from the accepted pattern.
20046200|A model simulating the regeneration, growth and death of trees and the consequent carbon and nitrogen dynamics of the forest ecosystem was applied to determine the effect of expected temperature rise on tree species composition and the accumulation of organic matter in the boreal forest ecosystem in Finland (between latitudes 60-70 N). In the southern and middle boreal zones a temperature rise of 2-3 C (temperature for 2  CO) over a period of one hundred years increased the competitive capacity of Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris) and birch species (Betula pendula and B. pubescens), and slowed down the invasion by Norway spruce (Picea abies). In the northern boreal zone a corresponding rise in temperature promoted the invasion of sites by Norway spruce. The accumulation of organic matter was promoted only slightly compared to that taking place in the current climatic conditions. A further doubling of temperature (temperature for 4  CO) over an additional period of two hundred years led to the replacement of coniferous stands with deciduous ones in the southern and middle boreal zones. In the northern boreal zone an admixture of coniferous and deciduous species replaced pure coniferous stands with the latter taking over sites formerly classified as tundra woodland. In the southern and middle boreal zones the replacement of coniferous species induced a substantial decrease in the amount of organic matter; this returned to its former level following the establishment of deciduous species. In the northern boreal zone there was no major change in the amount of organic matter such as occurred in the case of the tundra woodland where the amount of organic matter accumulated was nearly as high as in the northern boreal zone.
20046201|This investigation is based on phytosociological and ecological analyses of stands dominated by M. struthiopteris within its main distributional area in Western Norway. The distribution and floristical composition of such stands are related to different environmental parameters such as regional climate, soil and topography. The data are analysed by numerical methods, of which two-way indicator species analysis (TWINSPAN), canonical correspondence analysis (CCA), and simple discriminant functions (DISCRIM) are the most useful. Few stands occur in areas where the mean July temperature is below 12.0 C, and where the mean January temperature is higher than 0 C. The soil is rich in metal cations, with a base saturation mostly higher than 50% in the B-layer. Based on a TWINSPAN classification of the 230 investigated stands, 9 different groups (types) are distinguished. Many stands have a tree layer of Alnus incana, while stands with a canopy of Betula pubescens, Fraxinus excelsior and Ulmus glabra are considered to be marginal sites for M. struthiopteris. The types described are interpreted as belonging to the Pruno padi-Alnetum incanae, Alno incanae-Fraxinetum excelsioris and Alno incanae-Ulmetum glabrae associations within the Alno-Ulmion alliance. The floristic composition of the quadrats is highly correlated with the altitude/temperature gradient. The other important factor is interpreted to be soil moisture. Soil richness is poorly correlated with the floristic composition of the different stands. Several stands represent a regeneration stage after cessation in cultivation, while others appear to have been very little influenced by human activity.
20046206|The dynamic of bryophytic vegetation was followed during one year (1989) in five zones which had suffered forest fires. These zones are situated in the Valley of the River Tus, Albacete (Spain), a climatically and edaphically homogeneous area which had one terricolous bryophytic community dominant before the fires. In each zone, 10 squares of 1 m (plots) were selected and bryophytic relevs carried out during the whole year. In addition soil samples were taken from each plot and from zones unaffected by fire, very close to the above, serving as control. The pH, percentage of organic matter, total nitrogen and C/N ratio were measured. A correlation analysis time-edaphic factors has been assayed and a high degree of correlation between time elapsed after fire and pHs values is registered. A correspondence analysis in order to separate groups of species was made, and three populations of bryophytes are characterized.
20046207|Species composition and herbage dynamics in relation to rainfall variability and cattle grazing were studied in permanently protected, grazed, and temporarily fenced treatments on three sites in a seasonally dry tropical savanna. Permanently protected sites, established between 1979 and 1984, were 55-79% similar with each other in species composition, and 14-25% similar with grazed sites during the period 1986-1988. Similarity among grazed sites was only 36-43%. Number of species was greater in the grazed treatment than in the permanently protected treatment. The percentages of annual grasses and non-leguminous forbs were greater in grazed savanna than in permanently protected savanna. Species diversity was higher in grazed savanna than in the corresponding permanently protected savanna. Within the two annual cycles studied, peak live shoot biomass was 614
20046208|Adinandra belukar is a species-poor forest dominated by Adinandra dumosa (Theaceae) found in Singapore and southern Peninsular Malaysia. It is the product of secondary succession after exhaustive agricultural exploitation on land cleared of primary lowland rain forest. A high degree of similarity in vegetation between different sites was found for seven 225 m plots in adinandra belukar in Singapore. Adinandra dumosa was dominant or codominant in all plots, generally found in association with the woody species Dillenia suffruticosa, Fagraea fragrans, and Rhodamnia cinerea, the climber Gynochthodes sublanceolata, the fern Dicranopteris linearis and the terrestrial orchid Bromheadia finlaysoniana. All sites had extremely acidic (pH 3.3-3.9) surface (0-20 cm) mineral soils with very low total nitrogen (0.06-0.14%) and total phosphorus (11-29
20046209|Cytisus scoparius and Genista florida regenerate after fire by stump-sprouting but also by seed. Seeds of these species were heated to a range of temperatures similar to those registered on the surface soil during natural fires (from 50 to 150 C) and a range of exposure times (from 1 to 15 min). No germination was observed at high temperatures,  130 C, when the exposure time was 5 min or more. However, moderate heat treatments (at 70 and 100 C) significantly increased the rate of germination relative to controls. Cytisus scoparius is more favoured by fire action than Genista florida, with germination rates slightly greater following 100 C for 5 min and 130 C for 1 min than after mechanical scarification.
20046210|A quantitative transect analysis of altitudinal sequences of forest canopy species from 600 to 3400 m asl on Mt. Kinabalu (4101 m), Borneo, resulted in four discrete altitudinal vegetation zones. These were made up of mutually exclusive species groups for lowland (&lt 1200 m asl), lower montane (1200 to 2000-2350 m asl), upper montane (2000-2350 to 2800 m asl), and subalpine (2800 to the forest line, 3400 m asl) zones. Zonal soil types were correlated with the vegetation zones. In upslope sequence, these were: lowland Oxisols, montane Histosol/Spodosol complex, and subalpine Inceptisols. The highest contents of organic carbon, extractable phosphorus, and exchangeable magnesium and potassium were recorded in the lower and upper montane zones. The upper boundaries of the lowland, upper montane and subalpine zones coincided with thermal thresholds of latitudinal bioclimatic zones: 18 C TMIN (Kppen's tropical), WI 85 (Kira's warm temperate), and WI 45 (Kira's cool temperate), respectively. The upper limit of the lower montane zone was correlated with an abrupt increase of water surplus estimated from the annual rainfall minus annual potential evaporation. These climatic characteristics appear to define ecological altitudinal turnover points, so called 'critical altitudes', where groups of associated species are displaced by other groups.
20046211|Using a combination of mathematical modeling and field studies we showed that in dense stands of growing herbaceous plants the vertical pattern of leaf nitrogen distribution resembles the pattern of mean light attenuation in the stand and hence tends to maximize total daily photosynthetic carbon gain of the whole stand. Flowering represents a strong sink of nitrogen away from the photosynthetic apparatus and in herbs like Solidago altissima it induces leaf shedding. We studied both the effect of nitrogen reallocation and leaf shedding on the whole canopy photosynthesis and changes in leaf nitrogen distributions in stands moving from the growing to the flowering stage. Despite a decrease in leaf area index and total nitrogen available for photosynthesis in the flowering stand, the leaf nitrogen distribution here also leads to an almost maximum canopy photosynthesis. In both the growing and the flowering stands the leaf area index was higher than calculated optimum values. It is pointed out that this should not necessarily be interpreted as 'non-adaptive'.
20046212|An analysis is given of the growth form composition of the flora of the Canary Islands based on a checklist published by Hansen & Sunding (1985) and the authors' field studies. Results are compared with similar data available from Israel and California. Special attention is given to endemism, the Mediterranean-wides and introduced species, as well as to some special plant features such as succulence, spinescence and fleshy fruits. Long-distance dispersal is stressed as the mechanism by which the Canaries obtained their flora. The growth-form composition of the Canaries is discussed in the context of the prevailing present-day environmental conditions, not in the context of climatic conditions in geological time. Characteristic features are the low percentages of endemic and even of indigenous annuals, the high percentage of chamaephytes (many of whom are endemic), the strong development of arborescence, the richness in leaf succulents, and the paucity of spines.
20046217|After acceptance of the 'Element Concentration Cadasters in Ecosystems' (ECCE) programme as an international project sponsored by the International Union of Biological Sciences (IUBS) at the 24th General Assembly of IUBS in Amsterdam in Sept 1991, the present status of 'Biological Trace Element Research' (BTER) is presented here from the biological point of view. Especially information on occurrence, essentially, toxicity and uptake form of all 88 naturally occurring chemical elements is presented. In addition an estimated annual production of each element in the year 2000 and examples of their technical application is given. A scientific proposal for further research work on a local, regional and global scale has been discussed.
20046218|Microenvironmental variability and species diversity in gaps and forest understorey were studied to assess the role of treefall gaps in maintaining composition and patchy distribution in a broad-leaved sub-tropical climax forest, Mawphlang, Meghalaya, India. Photon flux density was higher in gaps than in the surrounding understorey. Relative humidity was low and the litter layer was relatively thin in gaps throughout the year. Soil moisture and photon flux density in the gaps significantly varied between seasons and gaps of different sizes. Relative humidity significantly varied between seasons but difference among gaps was insignificant. Among-gap and among-season variations in soil and air temperature were insignificant. The number of tree species in the gaps was positively correlated with gap area, and tree species abundance showed higher equitability in larger than in smaller gaps. In gaps, -diversity was highest for herbs and lowest for shrubs. -diversity was highest for shrubs and lowest for tree seedlings. -diversity of tree seedlings was higher in the gaps than in the forest understorey. Conversely, -diversity was higher in the understorey than in the gaps. Low species similarity for tree seedlings among the gaps could be an effect of patchy distribution of parent tree species in the forest. Thus a significant change in light and moisture regimes along the gap size gradient played an important role in influencing the composition and abundance of shade tolerant and intolerant tree species in gaps on one hand, and affected the overall species diversity of the forest, on the other.
20046219|Herbivory by large animals is known to function as a selection pressure to increase herbivory resistance within plant populations by decreasing the frequency of genotypes possessing large, erect canopies. However, the increase in herbivory resistance of the remaining genotypes in the population may potentially involve a tradeoff with competitive ability. The perennial bunchgrass Schizachyrium scoparium was grown in a transplant garden to test the hypothesis that late successional plant populations with a history of grazing are at a competitive disadvantage relative to conspecific populations with no history of grazing in the presence of competition from mid-successional species. Plants with a history of grazing were found to possess a greater competitive ability than plants with no grazing history in the absence of herbivory. This unexpected response resulted from the capacity of plants with a history of grazing to recruit a greater number of smaller tillers than did plants with no grazing history. This response was only significant when plants with a history of grazing were nondefoliated and grown with the weakest of the mid-successional competitors, indicating that both defoliation and intense interspecific competition can mask the architectural expression of herbivore-induced selection. Individual tillers did not display any architectural differences between plants with contrasting grazing histories other than mean tiller weight. These data confirm that herbivory by domestic cattle may function as a selection pressure to induce architectural variation in grass populations within an ecological time frame (ca 25 yrs).
20046220|The development of seedlings of two miombo trees, Brachystegia spiciformis Benth. and Julbernardia paniculata (Benth.) Troupin, was studied during two growing seasons (December 1989-April 1991) at a Zambian grassland site. Seed germination rates under laboratory and field conditions were not significantly different although germination in the field was delayed by 1-2 weeks due to insufficient rain-fall. After one year of storage J. paniculata seed germination had declined from 67% to 17% while germination of B. spiciformis seeds remained at about 83%. Leaf production was confined to the rainy season. Leaf fall occurred during the dry season and in J. paniculata this was followed by shoot die-back during the hot dry period (August-November). Two-thirds of B. spiciformis seedlings experienced shoot die-back but shoot die-back did not necessarily result in seedling mortality. Seedling deaths occurred during the germination period (6-10 weeks after planting) and in the hot dry period (40-50 weeks after planting) during September-November. Survivorship of B. spiciformis seedlings was 74% at the end of the second growing season while this was 46% for J. paniculata. Shoot growth was negligible during the second growing season. In fact mean maximum leaf area of B. spiciformis decreased significantly from 19.7 cm (SD = 5.7) per plant at the end of the first growing season to 13.3 cm (SD = 5.8) at the end of the second growing season (t = 3.31, P &lt 0.01). However, root biomass of B. spiciformis seedlings increased 2.8 times during the second growing season. These results suggest that shoot die-back in seedlings of miombo trees is caused by drought and that the slow shoot growth is the result of allocating most of the biomass to root growth during seedling development.
20046221|Identification of cyanobacteria species has been performed on samples coming from two different harvest areas. The most important fixing belongs to Scytonema genus. The other genus identified are Nostoc and Lyngbia. Moreover, these cells are living closely with non-fixing cyanobacteria as well as with bacteria. The growth of cells as well as nitrogenase activity has been studied on a semi-axenic strain of Scytonema, a nitrogen fixing cyanobacterium, isolated from soil crusts. The cell growth is relatively slow in liquid medium depleted in combined nitrogen. The growth rate increases when nitrates are supplied to cells. A release of ammonium is observed in medium during cell culture. This release exhibits several maxima and minima during cell growth. The heterocyst cells disappear within four days when filaments are growing in nitrates supplied medium. On the contrary, the heterocyst frequency increases up to more 5% in a nitrogen depleted medium. The heterocyst frequency reaches a maxima after 4 days of culture, then decreases later on. Nitrogenase activity changes during cells growth too. The maximum activity is observed after 5 to 6 days of culture to decrease after even though the cells are still in their exponential phase of growth. Nitrogenase activity increases with light intensity, what indicate a possible relation between photosynthetic and nitrogenase activities.
20046222|Quantitative vegetational data of canopy and woody subcanopy species (two life-forms adapted to occupy different strata at maturity) were compared with data collected in two temperate forest ecosystems to determine whether they exhibit a similar pattern of distribution. Tidal freshwater swamps (21 stands) and southern Appalachian forests (19 stands) were examined from data obtained using identical sampling methods. Separate structural analyses of the canopy, sapling, and subcanopy species were compared using the indirect ordination algorithm Detrended Correspondence Analysis. Environmental measurements collected in each stand were assessed for their relationship to the distribution of stands depicted by the ordination diagrams. Canopy trees and saplings showed a similar pattern of distribution, suggesting that the resource requirements of saplings and canopy-statured adults are similar. In contrast, the subcanopy species (species genetically adapted to an understory existence, i.e., shrubs and small understory trees) of neither ecosystem showed any discernable distributional relationship to the canopy or sapling layers (in tidal swamps, there was no clear way to even segregate subcanopy stands into communities). Environmental gradients associated with the subcanopy ordinations differed from those of the canopy and sapling strata in both forest systems, suggesting that subcanopy species partition different resources than do canopy species. If a lack of similarity in distribution patterns between canopy and subcanopy species is universal in temperate forests, then the common practice of combining sapling and subcanopy species in structural analyses may hinder our understanding of subcanopy structural patterns in forests.
20046223|An analysis of the plant communities of the rocky outcrops of the northern Orange Free State is presented. Relevs were compiled in 42 stratified random sample plots. Care was taken to sample vegetation which is representative of vegetation in pristine condition whenever possible. A TWINSPAN classification, refined by Braun-Blanquet procedures, revealed seven distinctive plant communities. A hierarchical classification, description and ecological interpretation of the plant communities are presented. One order, three alliances, six associations and two sub-associations are newly described. The restricted distribution of the plant communities, together with the species richness and high species diversity recorded within these communities, makes it imperative that the conservation of these plant communities receives high priority.
20046228|Knowledge of the structure and dynamics of Central European virgin forests is very restricted and in many respects hypothetical. Analysis of the development of forest stands influenced by natural disturbances (storm; snow avalanche) is considered to lead to new information about the natural processes involved in virgin (near-nature) forests within a relatively (!) short time span (which, in forests, still counts for decades). National Parks offer areas big enough for such studies, and they guarantee a study period of several decades (or more). This paper presents the first results of vegetation development following natural destruction of the tree layer -- in a near-nature spruce forest ecosystem in the Bavarian Forest National Park (Bavaria; Germany) damaged by windfall in August, 1983; -- in the Mountain Mixed Forest of the Berchtesgaden National Park (Bavaria; Germany) damaged by a snow slide in January, 1986; -- and additionally points from a similar project which deals with windfall areas in 10 managed forests in Bavaria created by the 1990 February storms. The used permanent plot (transect) method is described. Several aspects of forest vegetation dynamics are discussed against a background of results of the first vegetation record, which is the beginning of a long term permanent plot study.
20046229|Forest community dynamics were studied for 4 years in a 6 ha permanent plot of a species rich, old-growth, temperate deciduous forest in Ogawa Forest Reserve, central Japan. The gap formation rate, recruitment, mortality, gain and loss rate in basal area during 4 years were
20046230|Vegetation mowing is usually recommended for preserving wet meadows, in particular for the prevention of land warping and brushwood encroachment. The concept and the methods for the study of the influence of different cutting rhythms on the vegetation of two wet meadows, as well as some short term results are presented. Cutting experiments with permanent plots have been undertaken in vegetation communities such as Orchio-Schoenetum nigricantis and Caricetum elatae, abandoned for many years. The strategy of the study was to have diverse but complementary methodological approaches in order to assess changes in the vegetation and species abundance, especially concerning the botanical composition, the vegetation structure and the species vitality. The methods include counting of plants or part of plants, morphometry of Phragmites communis, biomass measurements, phenological records, structure relevs with the point-intercept technique as well as classical vegetation relevs with coverage estimation. On a short term base we can conclude, on the whole, that the yearly winter cut treatment induces a better vitality (number of individuals, flowering, biomass) of the studied species, while in the control plots the vitality is low, due notably to the important layer of accumulating litter and the lack of light on the ground, which hamper soil warming. The yearly summer cut treatment and the winter cut made every three years show in general intermediate characteristics. Furthermore, the vegetation structure is noticeably different according to whether the vegetation is cut (with hay removal) or not. Concerning the methodology, it is concluded that a diverse approach is a good way to assess changes in the vegetation with a minimum loss of information. If the rather subjective method of vegetation relevs with cover estimation may be suitable for long term survey on permanent plots, more quantitative and objective techniques have to be set if short term or precise changes in the botanical composition, the species vitality and the biomass, as well as structural changes, are sought.
20046231|An experimental study site in an unfertilized meadow of great species richness at Negrentino (820 m) in Southern Switzerland has been investigated by successive point quadrat analysis since 1988. Two different managements, traditional mowing and abandonment, were realized on 3  6 plots of 200  220 cm. On each plot point frequency (sensu Goodall 1952) was sampled at spaces of 10 cm using the same 11  16 points every year. On all the plots 71 species were recorded within the four year period of 1988-1991. Small spatial differences and vegetational changes in time are interpreted on an ordination diagram of correspondence analysis. Differences between successional and fluctuational changes are recognized already in the early phase. On one plot a peak of phytocyclic fluctuation connected with a mass development of Trifolium repens was observed. Many species show significant year-to-year frequency changes. Taxa positively and negatively affected by abandonment are presented. Management and dry weather conditions in April and May are considered to be the main causes of trends and fluctuations.
20046232|The oldest still existing experiment on alpine pastures was started in 1930 on Schynige Platte to improve the Geo montani-Nardetum.
20046233|The experimental field, which has been installed by Dr. W. Ldi on the Schynige Platte in 1930, has been reconstructed and permanently marked. It includes 340 single plots, where different combinations of fertilization and cultivation had been tested up to the fifties. From 1988 to 1990 new data had been recorded. Together with the existing data, they were organized in a data bank. From this data bank, methods for graphic, statistic and other interpretation were developed.
20046234|This part refers to the previous article 'The management of great quantities of data from permanent plots', where the techniques of data management and analysis are described. From the plots of Dr. W. Ldi, the average indicator values were calculated for moisture, soil reaction, nutrients supply, humus and dispersion, according to Landolt (1977). Significant correlations between the average N-(nutrient) and R-(soil reaction) indicator values are discussed. For some selected species, the long-time reaction to different fertilizers is presented. The problem of outliers is discussed due to the average indicator values and groups of species.
20046235|An experiment on the very poor alpine pasture, the Geo montani-Nardetum, was started in 1930. Fertilizer was applied in the years 1930-1936 (first treatment) and 1946-50 (second treatment). Until now, the influence of the fertilization is visible in the species composition of the vegetation of the squares, most clearly for the treatments with limestone. The content in N and P of the leaves still varies between the squares with different treatments. Leaves from squares once having received N or P have higher contents in N or P than the others. The pH of the soil is higher in squares treated with limestone.
20046236|In 1986 sixteen permanent plots (625 cm each) were established in scree slopes dominated by Ranunculus glacialis at Mt. Glungezer, Austria (2600 m elevation) in order to document the population dynamics of herbaceous perennials near the upper altitudinal limits of plant existence. The abundance and sizes of individual R. glacialis shoots, their leaf numbers and reproductive status were evaluated over a 6-year period. On South-facing slopes the population sizes of adult and juvenile shoots remained constant over the years, while seedling numbers fluctuated significantly. Overall density of all developmental stages of R. glacialis was significantly lower on North-facing slopes and year-to-year fluctuations were greater, than on thermally-favorable Southern slopes. The spatial pattern of adult shoots and seedlings was clumped, while juvenile shoots had a random or clumped distribution. Fertilization had no effects on population dynamics. Proposed greenhouse effects, e.g. increases in CO and temperature, should result in population growth on North-facing slopes and may increase mortality on South-facing sites.
20046102|Climatic data from 444 weather-recording stations in the Mediterranean basin are examined by cluster analysis and principal component analysis. The application of numerical clustering distinguished several groups of climatic stations clearly interpretable in geographic and climatic terms. The hierarchical structure of the dendrograms could be used to identify at different scales uniform climatic regions. The complementary application of principal component analysis produced an ordination of climatic types, which clearly showed the main trends of variation in the precipitation and temperature patterns.
20046103|This study documents the stem size and age-structure in forests dominated by different species of Nothofagus in Torres del Paine National Park (51 S), in the Chilean Patagonian region. We also explored the relationship between the various types of Nothofagus forest and postglacial succession. Pioneer stands on moraine fields 1-2 km of the glacier front are dominated by Nothofagus betuloides and Nothofagus antarctica. Moraines appear to be first colonized by the evergreen N. betuloides, followed within 5-7 years by deciduous N. antarctica. Nothofagus antarctica may replace the former species and develop monospecific stands on glacial valleys. Most trees in the N. antarctica stand studied were older than 40 years and floods may cause a significant mortality of young trees. Recruitment from seed seems to be infrequent. Old-growth stands dominated by deciduous Nothofagus pumilio occupy more stable substrates, and probably represent the last stage of postglacial succession. This long-lived tree species had recorded ages over 200 years. The canopy of N. pumilio forests appears to be a mosaic of even-aged, old-growth patches. We propose that regeneration episodes follow the blowdown of a large portion of the canopy, with long intervals with little or no regeneration. Windstorms may be an important force influencing the regeneration of N. pumilio. Exogenous disturbances, such as floods and windstorms, are an integral part of the forest cycle in the Patagonian region.
20046104|Two grassland slopes showing a markedly different degree of homogeneity were investigated. In the classic sector sequence of exportation, transport and sedimentation diversity decreases from the highest to the lowest locations. The exportation sector is relatively homogeneous, while the transport sector is more heterogeneous but only under specific circumstances and over short distances (local level). By contrast, the sedimentation sector appears heterogeneous only over greater distances (regional level). The sedimentation sector can be subdivided into two subsectors: wet and relatively dry. Between these, a third subsector can be observed, forming a transition band with intra- and inter-annual fluctuations of the ground water level, leading to very high diversity and moderate or low heterogeneity. As small changes in the availability of soil water can determine the spatial movement or disappearance of some of these subsectors, it is not surprising that the lower parts of the slopes show great variation in structure, which may explain frequent contradictions in the literature.
20046105|Saxifraga depressa grows only on the summits of eleven siliceous massives in the western Dolomites. It is restricted to the habitat of steep N-faced screes lying above 2000 m. Syntaxonomically, Saxifraga depressa characterizes the association Saxifragetum depressae which is here described for the first time with two subassociations. With respect to the closely allied Oxyrietum digynae, the Saxifragetum depressae colonizes debris richer in fine material. The soil pH in the habitats of the Saxifragetum depressae varies from acid to slightly basic, mainly as a result of lithological differences in the parent rocks. The habitats having a subneutral or basic soil are colonized by a well-defined subassociation of the Saxifragetum depressae, which is differentiated by some basiphilous species.
20046106|About 50 naturally occurring chemical elements were quantitatively determined by AAS, ICP/AES, ICP/MS and INAA in the main vegetation cover of the Forest Biosphere Reserve near Kalinin, USSR. The lichen Hypogymna physodes, which was studied and compared with other plant species, accumulates the elements Al, As, Br, Ce, Co, Dy, Eu, Fe, La, Lu, Pb, Pr, Sb, Sc, Sm, Th, Tm, V, Zn, and Zr. At the same time, a depletion of the alkaline elements Na, K, Rb, and Cs and the alkaline earth elements Mg and Ca is to be observed. Within the moss cover certain heavy metals are also accumulated by Polytrichum commune and the various Sphagnum species. As in Hypogymna physodes there is also a pronounced depletion of the alkaline earth metals Mg and Ca, but contrary to Hypogymna physodes there is a simultaneous accumulation of the alkaline metals K and Rb in Polytrichum commune and additionally of Na in the Sphagnum species. This is in agreement with studies showing different behaviour for the element potassium in Polytrichum formosum in the course of several vegetation periods. Potassium accumulation was found at the beginning of the vegetation period contrary to the dilution effect due to biomass supply. The depletion of Mg and Ca in all accumulator plants seems to be a direct consequence of heavy metal concentration since this phenomenon occurs irrespective of the site, as was shown by a comparison with data from a German forest ecosystem (Grasmoor near Osnabrck). Clear bioindication behaviour of Polytrichum commune, the various Sphagnum mosses and Hypogymna physodes was found for the elements Mn, Ni, Sn, Th, Cr, Mo, and S since the same accumulation and depletion behaviour was observed for all three plants as a function of site. These plant species could thus be used as bioindication cadasters in the sense of ARNDT. The higher shrub plants examined (Vaccinium vitis-idaea and Vaccinium myrtillus) show the already known accumulation of the elements Ba and Mn (up to 4000 mg/kg of Mn for Vaccinium myrtillus). In general the concentration ranges for many elements are more restricted in higher plants.
20046107|The dynamics of a therophytic plant community in Central Spain has been studied, taking into account endogenous and exogenous factors. Using a simplified descriptive resolution a multi-species grass community and four canopy density types have been described in permanent quadrats. Transition matrices expressing the changes of vegetation state have been constructed. The importance of self-regulation was shown by the dependence of successive transitions on each other (highly significative log-linear models). The functioning cannot however be explained through a strict Markovian model because the transition probabilities are not stationary. The external local factors tested (microtopography, compactness and granivory) do not have a consistent effect on the vegetation dynamics, being variable over years, implying the importance of other more general factors on vegetation dynamics. Making transition probabilities dependent on external environmental factors represents a way of further developing projective models of the dynamics of these therophytic systems.
20046108|As a preliminary to studies on biogeochemistry of a tropical montane rain forest at about 1800 m altitude in Sri Lanka, the concentrations of 17 chemical elements in different forest compartments, i.e. in leaves of six floristically dominant tree species, undergrowth, litter, and soil at 0-10 cm and 11-60 cm depth were determined. Foliar chemical differences between species were large. Mean leaf water content, mean leaf area per leaf, and specific leaf weight of each species were also determined. Calcium seems to be used in relatively large quantities by these plants. Phosphorus concentration in all compartments was consistently low. A few species investigated appeared to concentrate aluminium and silicon at high amounts. Concentration differences between compartments were significant only for certain elements. Location effect on the concentrations in soil was considerable for most of the elements studied. When studying plant-soil chemical interactions in these forests, species-level concentrations must be taken into account as the species-specific chemical differences are obscured when treated as canopy leaves.
20046109|(1) The influence of sheep grazing of moderate grazing (MG), heavy grazing (HG), inordinate grazing (IG), over grazing (OG), and extinct grazing (EG) on vegetation succession was studied in the Stipa baicalensis steppe during 1984-1986. (2) The relationships between the relative sum of dominance ratio (RSDR) and the degree of succession (DS) at all stages of grazing succession in the Stipa baicalensis steppe were revealed in terms of the method of mathematical analysis under five grazing intensities mentioned above. (3) The dynamic models of grazing succession that are based on accurate grazing intensities in relation to succession courses were constructed using RSDR, and DS. The models may explain the rules of grazing succession in the Stipa baicalensis steppe.
20046114|Species assembly and niche differentiation were studied, and future species composition was predicted by simple Markov models, in an old-growth deciduous forest at the Ogawa Forest Reserve in central Japan. The dominant species in our 6ha study site are Quercus serrata, Fagus japonica, and F. crenata. An ordination by population parameters revealed four different combination 3 of life forms and regeneration niches. Cluster analysis based on interspecific spatial correlation revealed three groups of species. The species in cluster A, such as F. japonica, occurred at the bottom of the valley, while those in cluster B, such as Q. serrata, occurred along ridges. Species in cluster C, such as F. crenata, did not show any particular habitat preference. Clusters B and C were further divided into three smaller clusters (a-c). Both clusters Ba and Bb included shade intolerant species. Species in cluster Ba had large clump sizes (&gt 1500 m), reflecting regeneration following large-scale disturbances. Species in cluster Bb had smaller clump sizes (&lt 400 m) reflecting regeneration following local disturbances. Clusters Ca and Cb mainly included shade tolerant species and shade intolerant species, respectively. Markov models predicted that shade intolerant species, particularly those in cluster Ba, would be eliminated. Thus, species coexist by differentiation of both habitats and regeneration niche in this forest community. Some species such as Quercus serrata, however, regenerate following large-scale disturbances or human activity.
20046115|Number, geographic location, extent and characteristics of lichen fields were recorded within the Central Namib fog desert. Their occurrence is restricted to stable surfaces in the near coastal belt, while percentage cover changes with exposure, elevation and distance from the coastline. Maximum coverage of 70% was found at a distance of 5 km from the coast near Wlotzkas Baken. The highest biomass rate of 400 mg/m was measured here at a distance of 1 km from the coast, where Teloschistes capensis appears as cushion growth type. Distribution patterns on hills, riverbeds and polygon structures are described. In general, fruticose and foliose lichens dominate on SW-exposed, ocean-facing habitats. Crustose species dominate on NE-E-exposed plots. Species composition and distribution, particularly the distribution of the fruticose species T. capensis (L.f.) Vain. ex Mll. Arg., were investigated in seventysix plots along twenty W-E transects in one lichen field near Wlotzkas Baken. T. capensis occurs in three different growth types: tuft, cushion and mat. Four zones are distinguished within the above lichen field, each dominated by a growth form indicating various influences of different climatic, geomorphic or biogenic parameters.
20046116|The present paper elucidates the pattern of leaf and non-leaf fall and quantifies of the total annual input of litter in a dry tropical forest of India. In addition, concentration of selected nutrients in various litter species and their annual return to the forest floor are examined. Total annual input of litter measured in litter traps ranged between 488.0-671.0
20046117|Fifteen shrub stands of Amelanchier alnifolia vegetation were studied using 'Braun-Blanquet' procedures, tabulated, and ordered by Twinspan, Decorana, and field experience into 5 groups of stands. The stands occurred on the lower slopes of the southwestern Teton and southeastern Big Hole mountains of eastern Idaho and in- and outside a U.S. Forest Service exclosure above the Hoback River in adjacent Wyoming. The ecology of this Amelanchier vegetation as a whole and of the 5 groups of stands is discussed using Jenny's factors of soil formation (1941, 1958, 1980) as a framework. Plant indicator values (Ellenberg 1979, 1988) which rank species on their occurrences in relation to light, temperature, continentality of climate, water availability, soil reaction (pH), and soil nitrogen supply, were independently assigned to the 121 species of vascular plants encountered in the described stands.
20046118|We studied the seed dispersal spectra of 46 Iberian plant communities of five types: potential woodland, forest fringe, substitutional scrubland, nitrophile communities and montane communities. There were no significant differences between the spectra of communities of the same type from Mediterranean and Eurosiberian regions. Biotic dispersal is most common at mature stages of succession, and abiotic dispersal at immature stages.
20046119|The distribution pattern of plants was studied in an alpine snow-bed in six plots along a snow-melting gradient. Each plot consisted of two habitats with respect to the microtopography; the flat habitat and the mound habitat. The number of species per plot decreased with the shortened snow-free period. In the flat habitat, the dominant growth forms changed from the early exposed plots to the late exposed ones as follows; lichens  evergreen and deciduous shrubs  forbs  graminoids  bryophytes. In the mound habitat, evergreen and deciduous shrubs prevailed widely along the gradient because of the ability to exploit new habitat by creeping over exposed rocks. For shrubs, the existence of mounds contributed to the expansion of the distribution ranges. Forbs and graminoids shifted their distribution modes to the late exposed plots where shrubs decreased in cover. Deciduous shrubs and forbs completely disappeared in the latest exposed plot.
20046120|Previous classification systems of the subalpine coniferous forests, belonging to the class Vaccinio-Piceetea Br.-Bl. 1939, in northeastern Asia were reviewed based on phytosociological data of Korea and Japan. A new order, the Abieti nephrolepidis-Piceetalia jezoensis was proposed for the subalpine coniferous forests in the continental part of northeastern Asia. Its distribution range and subordinate vegetation units are as follows: Order Abieti nephrolepidis-Piceetalia jezoensis ordo nov. In Korea: Alliance Abieti nephrolepidis-Piceion jezoensis Song 1991 Association Taxo-Pinetum pumilae Song et Nakanishi 1985 Association Thujo-Abietetum nephrolepidis Song 1991 Association Abieti koreanae-Piceetum jezoensis Song 1991 Alliance Abietion koreanae Song 1991 Association Saso-Abietetum koreanae Song et Nakanishi 1985 Association Betulo saitoanae-Abietetum koreanae (Song et Nakanishi 1985) em. Song 1991 In northeast China and Maritime Province of Siberia, U.S.S.R.: (one separate alliance level or the same alliance as Abieti nephrolepidis-Piceion jezoensis) Formation Abies nephrolepis form. (Wu 1980) Formation Picea jezoensis-Abies nephrolepis form. (Wu 1980) Generally the Abieti nephrolepidis-Piceetalia jezoensis develops under the dry and cool continental climate and on the monophylogenic Dark Brown Conifer Soil Group derived mostly from granite and granitic gneiss. The subalpine or subarctic coniferous forests in Hokkaido, Sakhalin and Southern Kuriles may also belong to the Abieti nephrolepidis-Piceetalia jezoensis because of their floristic composition and the historical relevance of plant geography. The subordinate vegetation units are as follows: Alliance Piceion jezoensis Suz.-Tok. ex Jinno et Suzuki 1973 Association Piceo-Abietetum sachalinensis Ohba 1967 Association Piceetum glehnii Suz.-Tok. ex Miyawaki 1988 The Abieti veitchii-Piceetalia jezoensis hondoensis Miyawaki et al. 1968 seems to fit only to the subalpine coniferous forests of Honshu and Shikoku of the Japanese Archipelago.
20046131|Quercus ilex sensu lato plays an important role in Western Mediterranean ecosystems, but is poorly developed in the Eastern Mediterranean where it is often replaced by Quercus calliprinos. The occurrence of Quercus ilex in the different bioclimates and their thermic subdivisions is presented on a small scale. Under certain geographical and ecological conditions, Quercus ilex participates in the organization of vegetation ecosystems from the meso-Mediterranean to the oro-Mediterranean altitudinal zones. Quercus ilex imposes microclimatic constraints on its associated species; it thus organizes an original understory vegetation structure (ethological groups) which will be defined in this study. One of the reasons for the success of Quercus ilex stems from its remarkable resistance to ecological constraints. A broad synthetic presentation of foliar area index variations in relation to different types of stress serve as a basis for an explanation of the sclerophyllous model in the Mediterranean region. Finally, historical factors are outlined as being critical characteristics in the determination of the present organization and spatial structure of Quercus ilex ecosystems. These considerations will be analyzed from a paleobioclimatical point of view, including data related to human pressure.
20046132|The climatic characteristics of the Liguria region have been outlined by means of raw data and derived indices (water balance related to potential evapotraspiration, Rivas-Martinez's index of mediterraneity and thermicity, De Martonne's index of dryness, and Emberger's pluviothermic quotient and index of summer dryness). Their interpretation suggests that Liguria is a boundary region between two different climatic areas: the Mediterranean and that of Central Europe. The distribution of Quercus ilex communities in Liguria have suffered the heavy consequences of human activity on the coastal belt of the region. There is, however, sufficient evidence to show that their presence is closely linked to climatic conditions. Quercus ilex communities are absent from the western coastal belt where the annual water balance is below -50 mm and high mean temperatures occur. They are also absent from marly limestone dominated areas where annual water balance is below 300 mm. Quercus ilex woods show a preference for water balance values between 0 and 600, with the better developed forests being found in central and eastern coastal Liguria. The Ligurian Quercus ilex woods are ascribed to Quercetum ilicis Br.-Bl. 1915. Given that the presence within their floristic composition of a group of species of Querco-Fagetea (more species in eastern stands, few in western ones) is an almost constant characteristic, the subass. fraxino-ostryetosum Mariotti 1984 can be retained for many of them. Quercus ilex is not present in the initial succession stages of Mediterranean Liguria vegetation. It can be found in later stages when the vegetation is more fully developed towards a maquis type structure. In this case it tends to become dominant and the community develops (if no fire or other human interference occurs) into a Quercus ilex forest. Frequently, this succession takes place under an old tree layer cover (generally Pinus sp.), a remnant of man's past management of the vegetation in the area.
20046133|When considered as a compartment of nutrients (biomass) and as a flux between compartments (production) vegetation plays an important role in the biogeochemical forest research that is carried out at the Prades research station in two adjacent catchments: L'Avic (51.6 ha) and La Teula (38.5 ha). The forest density at the Prades site, considering both the tree and shrub layers, is 9182 stems
20046134|Quercus ilex woodlands in the south of France are characterized by low productivity. Several hypotheses have been put forward to provide an explanation for this phenomenon: (i) senescence of coppice stumps; (ii) limited availability of water and nutrient resources; (iii) intershoot and inter-plant competition. To test some of these hypotheses, growth response to rainfall distribution and nutrient supply (NPK), and the influence of edge effects after clear-cutting were studied in a 40-yr old stand. Curves of radial increment were compared with precipitation and umbrothermic patterns for the 6 years studied. Water availability apparently accounted for some inter-annual differences in growth. However, it was not mean annual rainfall, but rather rainfall occurring in late spring-summer (June, July) which played a large role in determining radial growth. Radial growth was also increased by nutrient supply. Its positive effect was strengthened by favourable rainfall in 1987. Edge-effects following a clear-cut were also found, both in the first year and in four succeeding years following the cut. This comprised in greater radial growth rate for all shoots, with reduced repression of smaller shoots by the larger ones. The effect decreased over a distance of 10 m with increasing distance from the cut field. This could be explained by increased availability of water, nutrient resources, and light.
20046135|In this paper we discuss the use of litterfall as a method to measure primary production and its between year relation to climatic fluctuation. Seven years of study in a mediterranean holm-oak forest showed a moderate inter-annual variability of litterfall (C.V. 11%), while the annual variability of the actual evapotranspiration was three times higher (C.V. 30%). Furthermore, the inter- and intra-annual variability of nutrient content in the various fractions are presented in relation to water availability. Monthly and seasonal variability was higher than the annual variability for all analyzed elements.
20046136|The coppice method is the silvicultural system commonly applied to Quercus ilex (holm oak) forests for the production of firewood and charcoal. Although the holm oak is the species that covers the largest area in Morocco (1400000 hectares), little is known about its growth and yield. The objective of this study is to quantify the stand growth and yield of young coppice holm oak stands in the Tafferete forest in the eastern part of the Middle Atlas (Morocco). Equations relating dominant height to age, and basal area, volume, and number of trees to dominant height were developed and used to derive young holm oak coppice yield estimates. The growth and yield information developed in this study may have a greater utility in defining cultural measures that should be applied in the early stage of holm-oak coppice stands.
20046137|A phenomorphological survey was carried out in central Italy to study the effects of increasing water stress on some characteristic species of the Mediterranean maquis. Nutrient content and leaf water potential were examined. The results show that three different groups exist which diverge in the modulation of growth activity. 1) Evergreen sclerophyllous species (e.g. Pistacia lentiscus, Phillyrea media, Arbutus unedo, Ruscus aculeatus), which were supposed to be drought-tolerant, in fact limited their growth activity to a brief period before aridity increased. A similar growth pattern was exhibited by those species (e.g. Quercus ilex, Erica arborea, Smilax aspera) that stopped producing new leaves and branches during the driest season and that recovered after the first rain; i.e., their growth period lasted longer. 2) Drought-deciduous species (e.g. Calicotome villosa) that adopted the drought-avoidance strategy had two vegetative periods interrupted by a phase during which they completely shed their leaves. 3) Semi-deciduous species (Cistus monspeliensis) with mesophitic leaves adopted an intermediate response. These grew even in the dry and cold season.
20046138|Holm oak (Quercus ilex L.) forest is one of the most widespread biocoenoses in the southern part of France. Until recently, clearcutting of wood for domestic use was carried out every 20 years or so in these coppice stands. In order to study coppice stand dynamics after cutting this paper presents results of observations of some items describing the vegetation structure, the floral composition, and the life cycles in a holm oak coppice stand during a six year period after clearcutting. One of the questions addressed in this study was whether these coppice stands reach a 'steady' state based on auto-succession, or if they continue to change. The results of the floristic changes after cutting suggest that the model of auto-succession best fits with the vegetation dynamics, even if changes in the density and life cycles of herbaceous species still exist six years after clearcutting.
20046139|Five polymorphic enzymatic loci were studied in 30 populations of Quercus ilex distributed from Crete to North Africa. A high within-population genetic diversity was found for each locus studied. Most of the alleles were common to all the populations, indicating that the holm oak corresponds to a single genetic entity. Observation of breeding system characteristics showed that the holm oak is monoecious, wind-pollinated, and likely to possess genetic autoincompatibility. Furthermore, studies of flowering phenology in a single population showed that the period of flowering varied notably among trees. An average of 29% of the trees showed inter-annual variation in flowering time. The male, female or vegetative investment also varied widely among trees from one year to another. This results in a diversification of pollen source received by a given tree each year, and also from one year to another.
20046140|Hybridization has been detected in mixed populations of juvenile cork-oak and holm-oak individuals using three diagnostic enzyme loci coding for esterases, leucine amino peptidases and acid phosphatases respectively. Among the 35 studied individuals, 29, 5 and 1 were identified as holm-oak, cork-oak and hybrid respectively. Such diagnostic markers are likely to be useful to detect and remove hybrids at the juvenile stage in areas where the holm-oak is grown for acorn production and the cork-oak is cultivated for cork. This is necessary since hybrid adults produce neither cork nor acorns of high quality.
20046141|Several canopy types in an evergreen oak forest with open pastures have been used to examine climatic features of this system related to temperature. Circadian variation in temperature seems to be related to structural characteristics of the vegetation, with an apparent influence of the plant micro- and meso-environments analyzed. The activity of a population of granivorous ants (Messor barbarus (L.)), studied in the same area, showed a clear dependence on ambient temperature, but, although the colonies were always inside one of the vegetation types, there was no significant relationship between the activity of ants and grasscover. This, together with other observations, indicates that the possible controlling effect of the vegetation is limited by the tolerance of ants (when faced with adverse conditions) during each daily foraging period.
20046142|By comparison with deciduous oaks, the lower yearly production of new leaves in sclerophyllous oaks is hypothesized to have several consequences on animal communities. In particular, the production of arthropod communities that feed upon the leaves should be lower in sclerophyllous than in deciduous oaks, this causing changes in breeding patterns and the demographic balance in insectivorous birds. Studies in both deciduous and sclerophyllous habitats in southern France have shown that: 1) the spring development of new leaves occurs later and more slowly in sclerophyllous than in deciduous oaks, 2) the biomass of caterpillars is much lower in sclerophyllous oak forests, and 3) there is a large variation in life history traits of the Blue Tit depending in which type of habitat they breed. Laying date occurs later and clutch size is lower in sclerophyllous habitats than in deciduous habitats. The evolution of life history traits is discussed according to whether poor sclerophyllous habitats are isolated (e.g. on Corsica) or are parts of landscapes including both habitat types.
20046143|Several aspects of plant-water relationships and canopy behaviour have been studied over several years in two experimental areas of Quercus ilex L. forests in the northeastern Iberian Peninsula. Water requirements, water status limits necessary for a positive carbon budget and the functional canopy behaviour in the face of abiotic stress were evaluated, in order to determine which factors influence the geographical range of these forests. The results showed that holm oak has a conservative water use, a low cuticular transpiration, a high capacity for osmotic adjustement and xerophytic characteristics in leaf morphology and canopy arrangement. More than 440 mm of annual rainfall are required for these forests to persist. Summer drought and winter cold are thus important abiotic factors limiting the distribution of Quercus ilex. In both cases, drought stress is involved.
20046144|A boundary line analysis of the scatterplot relating pre-dawn leaf water potential to pre-dawn minus minimum leaf water potential was applied to study the efficiency of the Mediterranean evergreen oak species to buffer the effects of variability in water resources. The results are discussed in term of stomatal regulation and changes in soil-to-leaf hydraulic conductance of water flow, both induced by changes in leaf water potential. For this purpose, we used data for leaf water potential measured in three stands of Quercus ilex across a soil water availability gradient in Southern France, and two others obtained in California and Arizona for Quercus turbinella and Portugal for Quercus coccifera. A classification of plant responses from mesic to xeric sites is proposed.
20046145|The annual course of vegetative growth of the most representative species of a Quercus ilex L. forest in Castelporziano (Latium, Italy) was studied through periodical analysis of selected ecophysiological leaf indexes, for the period 1987-1990. The results demonstrate that the local climate facilitates continuous vegetative activity of the sclerophyllous species without a latent phase. The variable morphology of sun and shade leaves of Q. ilex illustrates the plant's response to environmental stress.
20046146|Actual evapotranspiration from a closed-canopy Quercus ilex L. stand has been estimated by applying the Bowen Ratio-Energy Budget method. Daily water loss was 3.5 mm
20046147|Precipitation and streamflow have been measured in three small (0.04-0.52 km) experimental catchments covered by dense holm oak (Quercus ilex L.) forests. Two of them are in the Prades mountains and one in the Montseny mountains (NE Spain). Here we test the hydrological representativeness of these catchments against the streamflow record at two nearby larger (34-60 km) catchments, one from each massif. Comparisons of (i) annual streamflow, (ii) seasonal distribution of streamflow, and (iii) flow duration curves were made. At Prades, for the period of common record, mean annual precipitation was about 580 mm, and mean annual streamflow 44-81 mm at the two experimental catchments and 102 mm at the larger one. Most streamflow occurred during winter and spring in the three catchments. At Montseny, rainfall was higher, and mean annual streamflow was 495 mm in the experimental catchment, and 760 mm in the larger catchment, though these data were obtained in different periods in each catchment. Streamflow was roughly equal in autumn, winter and spring. At both sites flow duration curves were fairly similar in the small experimental catchments and the larger catchments. The higher streamflow at Montseny is reflected in its flow duration curves being well above those at Prades. The experimental catchments at Prades are thus fairly representative of the larger nearby catchment for the investigated hydrological characteristics. At Montseny, hydrological differences between the experimental catchment and the larger catchment are probably due to the higher mean altitude of the latter and to the non-overlapping periods of their streamflow records.
20046148|The water relations and responses of two evergreen (Quercus ilex L. and Q. suber L.) and two deciduous (S. afares Pomel. and Q. faginea Will.) Quercus species were studied under experimental conditions. Two-year old seedlings grown in 30 1. pots were subjected to a drying period during which stomatal conductance, pre-dawn potential and minimum foliar potential were measured. The results shows that, for all species, the daily course of stomatal conductance agrees with the patterns proposed by Hinckley et al. (1978 & 1983). Concurrent with the species responses to short-term variation in water availability, it was found that pre-dawn leaf water potential controlled the maximum daily leaf conductance. There was a strong correlation between pre-dawn leaf potential and maximum daily conductance as described by the reciprocal function
20046149|Based upon two different research studies in the mediterranean regions of France and Turkey, drought resistance strategies were investigated in a broad group of species. The diurnal and seasonal patterns of the water relations of different lifeforms from the thermo-mediterranean to submediterranean lifezones were compared. Three sites near Montpellier, in Southern France, and five sites near Antalya, Turkey were used for this comparison. Xylem pressure potential and relative stomatal aperture were the key water relations parameters collected in France while these parameters as well as osmotic potential and leaf conductance were studied in Turkey. From the 26 different study species investigated in France, 7 distinct types of stomatal control were observed, with the deciduous lifeforms showing the least control, the sclerophyllous and coniferous evergreens the greatest control and the malacophyllous shrublets intermediate levels of control. Predawn water potential values provided a means of classifying species according to their temporal and spatial utilization of site water reserves. The comparison of turgor potentials (difference between water and osmotic potentials) gave an insight into leaf adaptations to site moisture. Species with high predawn water potentials generally maintain positive turgor even at midday during the summer, whereas species with low predawn values were frequently at zero turgor even at predawn. Phlomis grandiflora was the most extreme species with mid-summer predawns and midday water potentials of -6 MPa and osmotic potentials never more negative than -2.4 MPa.
20046150|Daily and annual courses of leaf transpiration, stomatal conductance and shoot water potential of four Quercus suber individuals were compared in a semi-natural stand in southwest Portugal, from spring 1989 to early summer 1990. The trees investigated showed annual patterns typical of evergreen sclerophyllous species but varied in their range of stomatal operation. This appeared to be related to differences in hydraulic conductivity in the root-to-leaf pathway. Maximum stomatal conductance and transpiration rates occurred from March to June. Water stress was found to be moderate and winter cold stress due to low air and soil temperatures appeared to have an influence on plant water balance through their effects on flow resistances.
20046151|Correlations between primary production and patterns of nutrient use and nutrient availability were investigated in 18 plots in closed holm oak (Quercus ilex L.) stands in the Montseny mountains (NE Spain), searching for evidence of nutrient limitation on primary production. The plots spanned a range of altitudes and slope aspects within a catchment. Nutrients considered were nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K) and magnesium (Mg) in plant samples, and the above plus calcium (Ca) and sodium (Na) in the soil. Primary production was found by summing the annual aboveground biomass increment to the annual litterfall. Across plots, primary production was correlated with the annual return of nutrients in litterfall, but this relationship probably arose from the common effects of the amount of litterfall on both primary production and nutrient return, and not from any nutrient limitation. Primary production was not significantly correlated with nutrient concentrations in mature leaves nor leaf litterfall, nor with absolute or relative foliar retranslocation of nutrients before leaf abscission, nor with the concentration and content (kg/ha) of total N, extractable P, and exchangeable K, Mg, Ca and Na in the upper mineral soil. We conclude that there is no correlational evidence that primary production is nutrient limited in this holm oak forest.
20046152|Located at 1100 m above sea level, on the western site of the Etna volcano, the ecophysiology of the Mount Minardo holm oak coppice has been investigated for more then twenty years. In this stand, now 31 years old, the above ground biomass amounts to 15000
20046153|Nitrogen retranslocation from senescing leaves represents a crucial adaptation by tree species towards a more efficient use of this nutrient. As a result, this part of the nitrogen cycle has received increasing attention in recent years. However, there remain strong discrepancies with respect to the factors responsible for interspecific differences in the efficiency of this process. In the present work the seasonal pattern of leaf growth and the movement of nitrogen in leaves have been studied in a series of Quercus ilex plots with different levels of rainfall and soil quality in central-western Spain, as well as in 20 other woody species typical of this area. The percentage of nitrogen retranslocated was estimated from the difference between the maximum mass of nitrogen stored in the leaf biomass and the amount of this nutrient returned annually to the soil through leaf fall. Q. ilex appears as one of the least efficient species in the Mediterranean region in the recovery of nitrogen from senescing leaves (29.7% of the maximum pool). Furthermore, the older leaves of Q. ilex do not show the cycles of nitrogen withdrawal during new flushes of shoot growth, such as occurs in Pinus spp. This suggests that older leaves in Q. ilex do not play an important role as nitrogen storage organs.
20046154|Forest floor regeneration after fire in a holm oak forest was studied in a chronosequence in Catalonia (NE Spain). The sampled area represented situations of high fire disturbance because of the frequency of wildfires and the high impact of erosive processes. Forest floor bulk samples from the L, F and H layers were taken in 5 burned plots, aging from 0 to 35 years. They were analyzed for dry standing weight, and organic carbon and N content. Plant cover reached almost 100% two years after the fire. During the first 20 years, shrubs and herbs had the highest surface covering, and thereafter, holm oaks became dominant. Holm oak litterfall stabilized by the fourth year after burning. The major shrub species which were present in the chronosequence had two different patterns with respect to nitrogen: 1) a low litter C/N ratio (i.e. nitrogen fixing species); 2) a high litter C/N ratio. The litter decay coefficients were relatively high, allowing for a rapid structuration and formation of the L and F layers after the fire. Indeed, 95% of the maximum steady standing weight accumulates in 8-9 years. The pattern of cover in the different strata influenced the lateral distribution and variable accumulation of the forest floor layers and determined different turnover rates.
20046155|Soil nitrogen (N) dynamics were studied in a dense, holm oak (Quercus ilex ssp. ilex) stand in the Montseny mountains to determine annual and seasonal patterns of N availability and uptake in an undisturbed Mediterranean forest on acidic soil. Soil mineral N content, net N mineralization (NNM), and net nitrification (NN) were determined by monthly sampling at two soil depths followed by in situ incubation in polyethylene bags. NNM per unit of soil mass was much higher at 0-5 cm than at 5-20 cm (annual means 24 and 2.5 mg N/kg, respectively) but on an area basis NNM was similar at both depths. A total of 80 kg N/ha/yr were mineralized from the first 20 cm of soil. NN amounted to only 9% of the annual NNM (7.5 kg N/ha/yr) and it occurred only in the upper 5 cm. NNM was maximum in June and July, while the NN peaked in May. Despite favourable soil temperature and moisture, NNM was negative in autumn because of microbial immobilization. Seasonal and depth variations of NNM appeared to be controlled more by substrate quality than by organic matter quantity, temperature or moisture. NN was not limited by ammonium availability. Calculated N uptake amounted to 91 kg/ha yr, peaking in June and July. The investigated stand showed a moderately high N availability, but ammonium was the major form of mineral N supply for holm oak.
20046156|Experimental litter decomposition of Quercus rotundifolia leaves in an evergreen oak forest of the semiarid area of the Duero Basin has been carried out. The loss of weight of the decomposing oak leaves was 62% after 24 months. In general, it is physical factors (mainly precipitation) which limit the decomposition of the evergreen oak leaves. Different patterns of bioelement losses were observed, increasing the relative content of N and P, and decreasing the amounts of Mg, K and Na in the decomposing leaves.
20046157|The effect of clearcutting on biomass production and nutrient consumption was examined during the two years in a clearcut and a mature Quercus ilex L. coppice. The comparison was limited to the leaf compartment and to the annual shoots, which were the only comparable compartments in the two situations. At the same time, the dynamics of the nutrient pool (N, P, K, Ca, Mg), monthly uptake and recycling from the foliage, were studied. The second year after cutting, the leaf production was roughly the same at the two sites. However, the photosynthates appear to be used differently: in the young stand the perennial wood production was greater than in the mature stand, where the maintenance costs are higher. This is corroborated by the patterns of nutrient use.
20046158|In order to study the variability in nutrient concentrations in four tissues of Q. ilex in relation to soil properties, we selected fifteen stands in both Quercus ilex forests and Q. ilex-Pinus halepensis mixed forests. These stands had developed on soils derived from eight different parent materials. Three soil groups were differentiated according to their chemical properties: calcareous soils, siliceous soils, and volcanic soils. Across sites, nutrient concentrations were generally less variable in current-year tissues than in older tissues. Nitrogen and potassium showed the lowest variability among sites, their concentrations in current-year leaves ranging from 1.17% to 1.39% for N and from 0.53% to 0.68% for K. There were few statistically significant correlations between tissue element concentrations, the most frequent being the antagonistic relationship between calcium and magnesium. Nitrogen concentration in current-year leaves was negatively correlated with soil chemical fertility (nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium). This may reflect a nutritional imbalance between nitrogen and other nutrients, some of which may be more limiting than nitrogen to Q. ilex growth in Catalonia forests. Negative correlations were also found between plant magnesium and soil calcium, and positive correlations between plant calcium and soil calcium.
20046159|A multifactorial ANOVA experiment was designed for a Quercus ilex forest in the Prades mountains in Tarragona (NE Spain). The purpose of this study was to clarify the relative importance of water, nitrogen and phosphorus as factors controlling primary production. Eight plots comprising all possible combinations of the three factors (including a control) were laid out in three replicate blocks. Fertilizers were applied to the appropriate treatments in March 1989 with a dosage of 125 kg of P/ha and 250 kg N/ha. Irrigation was applied with a rate of 20 mm per week during the warm season. To evaluate the effects on canopy structure we measured specific leaf weight (mg/cm), average leaf weight (mg), average twig height and average twig length. These variables were selected as they are the most likely to manifest changes over short time periods following changes in environmental conditions. The values of these parameters before initial treatments (autumn 1988) and after treatments (summer 1990) were analyzed. The results obtained show that water and nitrogen have a greater effect than phosphorus on tree canopy structure, at least during initial development.
20046160|Variation in Diplopoda density and biomass were studied in mediterranean holm oak formations in order to estimate the impact of the feeding activity of these Arthropods. Field and controlled experiments have shown the importance of the litter age and of the nature of leaves on the consumption rate. The consequences of faecal pellet restitution on microbial activity are discussed.
20046161|There are many similarities between Spanish and Californian Quercus woodlands and savanna. Both are located in Mediterranean climate zones, and are used predominantly for livestock grazing. The Californian overstory is dominated by one or a combination of five Quercus species and their hybrids: Quercus douglasii H.&A., Q. agrifolia Nee., Q. wislizenii A.DC., Q. lobata Nee., and Q. englemannii Greene (blue, coast live, interior live, valley, and Englemann oaks). In southern Spain and Portugal, Quercus woodland overstory is predominantly one or a combination of two Quercus species, Quercus ilex L. (holm oak) and Quercus suber L. (cork oak). The underlying natural and semi-natural ecological dynamics of the Quercus woodlands of Spain and California are different, and it follows that the management practices employed also differ. The greatest point of contrast between California and Spain is in the intensity and diversity of management goals and practices. A state-transition model for comparing the ecological dynamics of Quercus woodlands and savanna in California and southern Spain is developed and examined. The highly simplified model is an analytic tool of use in organizing research and developing management practices. States are reached and maintained in different ways in Spain and California, but their appearance and their function in each landscape are quite similar.
20046162|In the south of France, holm oak (Quercus ilex L.) woodlands, particularly coppices, are currently used by livestock farmers. For this vegetation, a grazing allowance is available, based on the relationship between various layers. As far as livestock is concerned, such woodlands can be utilized for many purposes, e.g. stock feeding during critical periods and to provide flexibility to the pasture grazing sequence. Furthermore, the related grazing intake patterns determine the level of holm oak utilization. Practices integrating both wood and livestock production provide a new perspective to the management of these woodlands in that the presence of livestock promotes specific operations which can lead to more diversified forestry. The renewal of both wood and pastoral resources depends on: (i) the initial level of integration of these two activities and (ii) subsequent technical operations. In the present paper a mid-term management scenario is developed which describes the likely development of woodlands with multiple use and periodic thinning.
20046163|The impact of domestic and wild Caprini browsing on Quercus ilex has been examined in an area of the Sierra de Cazorla. Vegetation as a herbivore food supply, herbivore feeding regime and density in the study area during six sampling periods throughout two years, has been quantified. Wild Caprini show diets similar to the available vegetation, whereas domestic Caprini tend more towards the trophic specialities (browsing or grazing) of their genus. Nevertheless, this tendency was more pronounced in domestic goats than in sheep. A hypothetical estimate of Q. ilex intake by each species under the study conditions was carried out. It was found that domestic Caprini have a greater impact on the holm oak than wild Caprini, density and feeding-niche deviations being the main factors responsible for this situation.
20046164|Vegetative regeneration after coppicing of Quercus ilex, Phillyrea latifolia, and Fraxinus ornus in two macchia stands in the Maremma Nature Park (Grosseto, Italy) has been studied. Observations during the first three years after the cut showed that horizontal space occupation by shoots is rapid (95% of the available space being reoccupied within 3 yrs.) and stool mortality very low. We observed differences among species in resprouting, growth pattern and shoot differentiation. Q. ilex and P. latifolia had a longer budburst period than F. ornus. There were no considerable differences in height growth among the three species in the first year. During the second and third years the height increments decreased. F. ornus average height increments were higher than those of Q. ilex and P. latifolia. These two species produced proleptic flushes from the first year on, while F. ornus only showed spring flush. The examination of proleptic shoots and of summer and autumn rainfall seem to show that the latter control Q. ilex growth and shoot differentiation more than that of other species. Differentiation among shoots of the same stool occurs from the first year onwards and the initial vigour differences amongst shoots remain during the following years. Resprouting, space occupation and shoot differentiation have been discussed in relation to rainfall and temperature. The high stool survival and the strong link between stool vigour parameters before and after coppicing confirm a certain stability in successional dynamics following a single coppicing event.
20046165|The transfer of matter by cattle in a 'dehesa' patureland in Central Spain has been quantified by mapping the distribution of dung and different types of cattle behaviour in several areas distinguished by their geomorphological position, vegetation structure and management regime. Cattle show a clear preference for feeding and dung depositing in the low parts of the estate. This leads to an increase in the productivity and a rapid recycling of nutrients in the pasture communities of these areas. Comparing the relative importance of both processes in each vegetational unit, dung accumulation is greater in the higher zones, while in the lower areas biomass consumption is more important. This means that movement of matter by cattle tends to favour the higher ground, in a contrary direction to the downward leaching of nutrients and related processes. In the studied dehesa, this phenomena represents an 'exploitation' factor of the lowland areas, which maintains productive pasture communities more immature in successional terms, by the higher woodland areas, less grazed and with low turnover. This result supports claims made in other studies that animal activity -- assessed in our case by the relative impacts of herbivory and dung depositions -- connect adjacent ecosystems and thus tends to improve the net energy balance of the more successionally mature part of the system. Livestock movements differ in their spatial pattern during different periods of the year: dispersing in spring and becoming more concentrated and predictable during winter. The clear seasonal differences of herbaceous production in Mediterranean climates and the management activities (basically ploughing, tree pruning and fodder supply) are the main causes of this pattern.
20046166|Holm-oak forests of the Montseny Massif have traditionally been exploited by selection thinning, which consists of a partial removal of standing trees and biomass. Cutting percentages within each size class indicate that this management technique represents a compromise between forest improvement and harvesting. Sprouting is the mean regeneration process of these holm-oak stands. The mean number of living sprouts per stool is considerably higher than in other coppiced hardwood species, and decreases along the cutting-cycle according to a negative exponential function. Mean number of surviving sprouts per stool is significantly correlated with regenerative age and stool size. Death of sprouts throughout the cutting cycle is compensated by growth of surviving sprouts. Thus, the weight of living sprouts per stool increases linearly with time, and also with the basal area coppiced. Sprouts developing within the first fifteen years of regeneration belong to a single cohort that appears during the first year after cutting. After that period of time, new sprouts appear from dormant buds, so that after 30 years of regeneration a wide range of cohorts of different ages are present.
20046167|This article studies the influence of cleaning or thinning intensity and of coppice age at the time of silvicultural treatment, on the growth of shoots remaining on the stool, in Quercus ilex coppices. Two experimental designs were used to answer these questions. The first studied the effect of two cleaning intensities on 4, 8, 15, 20, and 25 year old coppices. The second studied the effect of 4 thinning intensities (26%, 42%, 58%, or 78% removal of the initial basal area) on 43 and 57 year old coppices. In both cases, control plots undergoing no silvicultural treatment were maintained for each age class. The results, 4 and 5 years after silvicultural treatment, concerned girth increment and height growth of coppice shoots. Cleaning or thinning consistently had a positive influence on girth increment. In young coppices, less than 25 years old, mean annual girth increment was approximately 6 mm in the controls and double that under heavy cleaning. In older coppices, girth increment was lower in controls (3 mm per year) but the effect of thinning was very positive and, under very heavy thinning, growth was more than 11 mm per year. Cleaning and thinning often modify height growth. This effect was found to be either positive or negative and no general trend could be defined which was valid for all the age classes. Silvicultural treatments also had a positive effect on the appearance and growth of epicormic shoots on the holm oak trunks. The results were also analysed at the stool level. The number or percentage of shoots removed had a positive effect on the individual growth of selected shoots.
20029734|Open top chamber design and function are reviewed. All of the chambers described maintain CO concentrations measured at a central location within  30 ppm of a desired target when averaged over the growing season, but the spatial and temporal range within any chamber may be closer to 100 ppm. Compared with unchambered companion plots, open top chambers modify the microenvironment in the following ways: temperatures are increased up to 3 C depending on the chamber design and location of the measurement; light intensity is typically diminished by as much as 20%; wind velocity is lower and constant; and relative humidity is higher. The chamber environment may significantly alter plant growth when compared with unchambered controls, but the chamber effect on growth has not been clearly attributed to a single or even a few environmental factors. A method for modifying an open top chamber for tracking gas exchange between natural vegetation and the ambient air is described. This modification consists of the addition of a top with exit chimney to reduce dilution of chamber CO by external ambient air, is quickly made and permits estimation of the effects of elevated CO and water vapor exchange. The relatively simple design and construction of open top chambers make them the most likely method to be used in the near future for long-term elevated CO exposure of small trees, crops and grassland ecosystems. Improvements in the basic geometry to improve control of temperature, reduce the variation of CO concentrations, and increase the turbulence and wind speed in the canopy boundary layer are desirable objectives. Similarly, modifications for measuring water vapor and carbon dioxide gas exchange will extend the usefulness of open top chambers to include non-destructive monitoring of the responses of ecosystems to rising atmospheric CO.
20029735|Credible predictions of climate change depend in part on predictions of future CO concentrations in the atmosphere. Terrestrial plants are a large sink for atmospheric CO and the sink rate is influenced by the atmospheric CO concentration. Reliable field experiments are needed to evaluate how terrestrial plants will adjust to increasing CO and thereby influence the rate of change of atmospheric CO. Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL) has developed a unique Free-Air CO Enrichment (FACE) system for a cooperative research program sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy and U.S. Department of Agriculture, currently operating as the FACE User Facility at the Maricopa Agricultural Center (MAC) of the University of Arizona. The BNL FACE system is a tool for studying the effects of CO enrichment on vegetation and natural ecosystems, and the exchange of carbon between the biosphere and the atmosphere, in open-air settings without any containment. The FACE system provides stable control of CO at 550 ppm  10%, based on 1-min averages, over 90% of the time. In 1990, this level of control was achieved over an area as large as 380 m, at an annual operating cost of $668
20029736|Understanding how photosynthetic capacity acclimatises when plants are grown in an atmosphere of rising CO concentrations will be vital to the development of mechanistic models of the response of plant productivity to global environmental change. A limitation to the study of acclimatisation is the small amount of material that may be destructively harvested from long-term studies of the effects of elevation of CO concentration. Technological developments in the measurement of gas exchange, fluorescence and absorption spectroscopy, coupled with theoretical developments in the interpretation of measured values now allow detailed analyses of limitations to photosynthesis in vivo. The use of leaf chambers with Ulbricht integrating spheres allows separation of change in the maximum efficiency of energy transduction in the assimilation of CO from changes in tissue absorptance. Analysis of the response of CO assimilation to intercellular CO concentration allows quantitative determination of the limitation imposed by stomata, carboxylation efficiency, and the rate of regeneration of ribulose 1:5 bisphosphate. Chlorophyll fluorescence provides a rapid method for detecting photoinhibition in heterogeneously illuminated leaves within canopies in the field. Modulated fluorescence and absorption spectroscopy allow parallel measurements of the efficiency of light utilisation in electron transport through photosystems I and II in situ.
20029737|Increased ambient carbon dioxide (CO) has been found to ameliorate water stress in the majority of species studied. The results of many studies indicate that lower evaporative flux density is associated with high CO-induced stomatal closure. As a result of decreases in evaporative flux density and increases in net photosynthesis, also found to occur in high CO environments, plants have often been shown to maintain higher water use efficiencies when grown at high CO than when grown in normal, ambient air. Plants grown at high CO have also been found to maintain higher total water potentials, to increase biomass production, have larger root-to-shoot ratios, and to be generally more drought resistant (through avoidance mechanisms) than those grown at ambient CO levels. High CO-induced changes in plant structure (i.e., vessel or tracheid anatomy, leaf specific conductivity) may be associated with changes in vulnerability to xylem cavitation or in environmental conditions in which runaway embolism is likely to occur. Further study is needed to resolve these important issues. Methodology and other CO effects on plant water relations are discussed.
20029738|The increasing atmospheric CO concentration probably will have significant direct effects on vegetation whether predicted changes in climate occur or not. Averaging over many prior greenhouse and growth chamber studies, plant growth and yield have typically increased more than 30% with a doubling of CO concentration. Such a doubling also causes stomatal conductance to decrease about 37%, which typically increases leaf temperatures more than 1 C, and which may decrease evapotranspiration, although increases in leaf area counteract the latter effect. Interactions between CO and climate variables also appear important. In one study the growth increase from near-doubled CO ranged from minus 60% at 12 C to 0% at 19 C to plus 130% at 34 C, suggesting that if the climate warms, the average growth response to doubled CO could be consistently higher than the 30% mentioned above. Even when growing in nutrient-poor soil, the growth response to elevated CO has been large, in contrast to nutrient solution studies which showed little response. Several studies have suggested that under water-stress, the CO growth stimulation is as large or larger than under wellwatered conditions. Therefore, the direct CO effect will compensate somewhat, if not completely, for a hotter drier climate. And if any climate change is small, then plant growth and crop yields will probably be significantly higher in the future high-CO world.
20029739|The effect of a doubling in the atmospheric CO concentration on the growth of vegetative whole plants was investigated. In a compilation of literature sources, the growth stimulation of 156 plant species was found to be on average 37%. This enhancement is small compared to what could be expected on the basis of CO-response curves of photosynthesis. The causes for this stimulation being so modest were investigated, partly on the basis of an experiment with 10 wild plant species. Both the source-sink relationship and size constraints on growth can cause the growth-stimulating effect to be transient. Data on the 156 plant species were used to explore interspecific variation in the response of plants to high CO. The growth stimulation was larger for C species than for C plants. However the difference in growth stimulation is not as large as expected as C plants also significantly increased in weight (41% for C vs. 22% for C). The few investigated CAM species were stimulated less in growth (15%) than the average C species. Within the group of C species, herbaceous crop plants responded more strongly than herbaceous wild species (58% vs. 35%) and potentially fast-growing wild species increased more in weight than slow-growing species (54% vs. 23%). C species capable of symbiosis with N-fixing organisms had higher growth stimulations compared to other C species. A common denominator in these 3 groups of more responsive C plants might be their large sink strength. Finally, there was some tendency for herbaceous dicots to show a larger response than monocots. Thus, on the basis of this literature compilation, it is concluded that also within the group of C species differences exist in the growth response to high CO.
20029740|This paper examines the extent to which atmospheric CO enrichment may influence growth of plant roots and function in terms of uptake of water and nutrients, and carbon allocation towards symbionts. It is concluded that changes in dry matter allocation greatly depend on the experimental conditions during the experiment, the growth phase of the plant, and its morphological characteristics. Under non-limiting conditions of water and nutrients for growth, dry matter partitioning to the root is not changed by CO enrichment. The increase in root/shoot ratio, frequently observed under limiting conditions of water and/or nutrients, enables the plant to explore a greater soil volume, and hence acquire more water and nutrients. However, more data on changes in dry matter allocation within the root due to atmospheric CO are needed. It is concluded that nitrogen fixation is favored by CO enrichment since nodule mass is increased, concomitant with an increase in root length. The papers available so far on the influence of CO enrichment on mycorrhizal functioning suggest that carbon allocation to the roots might be increased, but also here more experiments are needed.
20029741|Carbon dioxide is rising in the global atmosphere, and this increase can be expected to continue into the foreseeable future. This compound is an essential input to plant life. Crop function is affected across all scales from biochemical to agro-ecosystem. An array of methods (leaf cuvettes, field chambers, free-air release systems) are available for experimental studies of CO effects. Carbon dioxide enrichment of the air in which crops grow usually stimulates their growth and yield. Plant structure and physiology are markedly altered. Interactions between CO and environmental factors that influence plants are known to occur. Implications for crop growth and yield are enormous. Strategies designed to assure future global food security must include a consideration of crop responses to elevated atmospheric CO. Future research should include these targets: search for new insights, development of new techniques, construction of better simulation models, investigation of belowground processes, study of interactions, and the elimination of major discrepancies in the scientific knowledge base.
20029742|Elevated atmospheric CO2 is known to stimulate photosynthesis and growth of plants with the C pathway but less of plants with the C pathway. An increase in the CO concentration can therefore be expected to change the competitive interactions between C and C species. The effect of long term exposure to elevated CO (ambient CO concentration + 340 mol CO
20029743|The influence of recent historical changes in atmospheric CO have been investigated by two methods: 1, the responses of leaf development and physiology as indicated by leaves stored in herbaria and 2, by investigating the differential growth responses of populations originating from naturally different CO concentrations. Herbarium leaves indicate that stomatal density and leaf nitrogen have decreased over the last 150 to 200 years, while water use efficiency, estimated from leaf
20029744|Plant species and functional groups of species show marked differences in photosynthesis and growth in relation to rising atmospheric CO concentrations through the range of the 30% increase of the recent past and the 100% increase since the last glaciation. A large shift was found in the compositional mix of 26 species of C's and 17 species of C's grown from a native soil seed bank in a competitive mode along a CO gradient that approximated the CO increase of the past 150 years and before. The biomass of C's increased from near zero to 50% of the total while that of the C's was reduced 25% as CO levels approached current ambient. The proposition that acclimation to rising CO will largely negate the fertilization effect of higher CO levels on C's is not supported. No signs of photosynthetic acclimation were evident for Avena sativa, Prosopis glandulosa, and Schizachyrium scoparium plants grown in subambient CO. The effects of changing CO levels on vegetation since the last glaciation are thought to have been at least as great, if not greater, than those which should be expected for a doubling of current CO levels. Atmospheric CO concentrations below 200 ppm are thought to have been instrumental in the rise of the C grasslands of North America and other extensive C grasslands and savannas of the world. Dramatic invasion of these areas by woody C species are accompanying the historical increase in atmospheric CO concentration now in progress.
20029745|In general, C plant species are more responsive to atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO) enrichment than C-plants. Increased relative growth rate at elevated CO primarily relates to increased Net Assimilation Rate (NAR), and enhancement of net photosynthesis and reduced photorespiration. Transpiration and stomatal conductance decrease with elevated CO, water use efficiency and shoot water potential increase, particularly in plants grown at high soil salinity. Leaf area per plant and leaf area per leaf may increase in an early growth stage with increased CO, after a period of time Leaf Area Ratio (LAR) and Specific Leaf Area (SLA) generally decrease. Starch may accumulate with time in leaves grown at elevated CO. Plants grown under salt stress with increased (dark) respiration as a sink for photosynthates, may not show such acclimation to increased atmospheric CO levels. Plant growth may be stimulated by atmospheric carbon dioxide enrichment and reduced by enhanced UV-B radiation but the limited data available on the effect of combined elevated CO and ultraviolet B (280-320 nm) (UV-B) radiation allow no general conclusion. CO-induced increase of growth rate can be markedly modified at elevated UV-B radiation. Plant responses to elevated atmospheric CO and other environmental factors such as soil salinity and UV-B tend to be species-specific, because plant species differ in sensitivity to salinity and UV-B radiation, as well as to other environmental stress factors (drought, nutrient deficiency). Therefore, the effects of joint elevated atmospheric CO and increased soil salinity or elevated CO and enhanced UV-B to plants are physiologically complex.
20029746|The influence of increased atmospheric CO on the interaction between plant growth and water use is proving to be one of the most profound impacts of the anthropogenic 'Greenhouse Effect'. This paper illustrates the interaction between CO and water in plant growth at a range of scales. Most published work has concentrated on water use efficiency, especially at shorter time scales, and has shown large increases of leaf water use efficiency with increased CO. However, the magnitude of the effect is variable, and does not consistently agree with predictions from simple leaf gas exchange considerations. The longer the time scales considered, the less the information and the more the uncertainty in the response to CO, because of the additional factors that have to be considered, such as changes in leaf area, respiration of non-photosynthetic tissues and soil evaporation. The need for more detailed studies of the interactions between plant evaporation, water supply, water status and growth is stressed, as increased CO can affect all of these either directly, or indirectly through feedbacks with leaf gas exchange, carbon partitioning, leaf growth, canopy development and root growth.
20029747|Cotton plants (Gossypium hirsutum L. var Deltapine 90) and radish plants (Raphanus sativus L var Round Red) were grown under full sunlight using a factorial combination of atmospheric CO concentrations (350 mol
20029748|Man's influence on the 'greenhouse effect,' the heating of the atmosphere due to increasing concentrations of tropospheric trace gases, is of much international concern. Among the climatic variables, elevated levels of carbon dioxide (CO), ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation and ozone (O) are known to have a direct effect on vegetation. Our current knowledge of these effects is mainly based on studies involving single stress mode. Thus, the joint effects of CO, UV-B and O on vegetation are poorly understood. Nevertheless, based on the literature analysis of plant response to individual stress factors, it can be concluded that sorghum, pea, bean, potato, oat, lettuce, cucumber, rice and tomato are among the crop species potentially sensitive to the joint effects of the aforementioned three variables. Similar information for tree species is essentially lacking. At least with some climatic variables such as O, present modeling efforts of cause-effect relationships have proven to be controversial. While at a regional geographic scale ambient CO concentrations appear to be relatively homogeneous, ambient concentrations of O exhibit significant temporal and spatial variability. Because of the protective action of O against UV-B, similar but inverse temporal and spatial variability is expected in the surface levels of UV-B. Thus, future experimental designs should consider these exposure dynamics and modeling cause-effect relationships should be directed to stochastic processes.
20029749|The continuing increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration ([CO]) and projections of possible future increases in global air temperatures have stimulated interest in the effects of these climate variables on plants and, in particular, on agriculturally important food crops. Mounting evidence from many different experiments suggests that the magnitude and even direction of crop responses to [CO] and temperature is almost certain to be species dependent and very likely, within a species, to be cultivar dependent. Over the last decade, [CO] and temperature experiments have been conducted on several crop species in the outdoor, naturally-sunlit, environmentally controlled, plant growth chambers by USDA-ARS and the University of Florida, at Gainesville, Florida, USA. The objectives for this paper are to summarize some of the major findings of these experiments and further to compare and contrast species responses to [CO] and temperature for three diverse crop species: rice (Oryza sativa, L.), soybean (Glycine max, L.) and citrus (various species). Citrus had the lowest growth and photosynthetic rates but under [CO] enrichment displayed the greatest percentage increases over ambient [CO] control treatments. In all three species the direct effect of [CO] enrichment was always an increase in photosynthetic rate. In soybean, photosynthetic rate depended on current [CO] regardless of the long-term [CO] history of the crop. In rice, photosynthetic rate measured at a common [CO], decreased with increasing long-term [CO] growth treatment due to a corresponding decline in RuBP carboxylase content and activity. Rice specific respiration decreased from subambient to ambient and superambient [CO] due to a decrease in plant tissue nitrogen content and a decline in specific maintenance respiration rate. In all three species, crop water use decreased with [CO] enrichment but increased with increases in temperature. For both rice and soybean, [CO] enrichment increased growth and grain yield. Rice grain yields declined by roughly 10% per each 1 C rise in day/night temperature above 28/21 C.
20029750|A brief account is given of the ecological significance of quantitatively important secondary plant compounds, mainly those of a phenolic nature, in herbivory and decomposition. Phenolic compounds accumulate to a greater extent in slow-growing species than in fast-growing ones, particularly when soil conditions (nutrients, water) restrict growth. Two hypotheses to explain the increased concentration of phenolics when soil conditions are unfavorable are presented. The first hypothesis (the 'carbon supply model of secondary plant metabolism') considers the increased levels of non-structural carbohydrates as the major trigger. The second hypothesis (the 'amino acid diversion model of secondary plant metabolism') states that increased accumulation of phenolics stems from a decreased use of a common precursor (phenylalanine or tyrosine) for protein synthesis. Current experimental evidence, though still fairly limited, supports the second hypothesis, but further testing is required before the first model can be rejected. So far, there is very little evidence for a direct effect of atmospheric CO on the concentration of secondary compounds in higher plants. However, there are likely to be indirect effects, due to a stronger limitation by the nitrogen supply in plants whose growth has been promoted by atmospheric CO. It is concluded that it is very likely that phenolic compounds accumulate to a greater extent in plants exposed to elevated CO, due to a greater limitation of nutrients, rather than as a direct effect of elevated CO.
20029751|The carbon/nutrient ratio of plants has been hypothesized to be a significant regulator of plant susceptibility of leaf-eating insects. As rising atmospheric carbon dioxide stimulates photosynthesis, host plant carbon supply is increased and the accompanying higher levels of carbohydrates, especially starch, apparently 'dilute' the protein content of the leaf. When host plant nitrogen supply is limited, plant responses include increased carbohydrate accumulation, reduced leaf protein content, but also increased carbon-based defensive chemicals. No change, however, has been observed in the concentration of leaf defensive allelochemicals with elevated carbon dioxide during host plant growth. Insect responses to carbon-fertilized leaves include increased consumption with little change in growth, or alternatively, little change in consumption with decreased growth, as well as enhanced leaf digestibility, reduced nitrogen use efficiency, and reduced fecundity. The effects of plant carbon and nutrient supply on herbivores appear to result, at least in part, from independent processes affecting secondary metabolism.
20029752|The complexity of the plant-soil system in its interaction with the changing climate is discussed. It is shown that processes at the level of organic matter inputs into the soil and the fluxes and pools involved in the global cycle are not known in sufficient detail to allow an estimation of the future quantitative shifts. Even the direction in which the level of stored carbon in the soil organic matter pool will develop is not clear. The importance of the nitrogen cycle, which is intimately coupled to the carbon cycle through the turnover of soil organic matter is underlined. In its turn, the mineralisation of soil organic matter takes place at a rate which is highly dependent on the nature of inputs and the availability of mineral nutrients. Aspects of shifts in temperature, changes in cultivation practices (reduced tillage) and unintended spreading of inputs in chemical N-fertilizers are of great importance at a regional and global scale. The complexity of the interactions in the process of mineralisation do require further studies to clarify the point whether a substantial and durable additional storage of carbon in soil organic matter is likely, or that shifts in temperature will cause an overriding acceleration of the mineralisation, and trigger a corresponding net release of carbon.
20029753|Despite 20 years of intensive effort to understand the global carbon cycle, the budget for carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is unbalanced. To explain why atmospheric CO is not increasing as rapidly as it should be, various workers have suggested that land vegetation acts as a sink for carbon dioxide. Here, I examine various possibilities and find that the evidence for a sink of sufficient magnitude on land is poor. Moreover, it is unlikely that the land vegetation will act as a sink in the postulated warmer global climates of the future. In response to rapid human population growth, destruction of natural ecosystems in the tropics remains a large net source of CO for the atmosphere, which is only partially compensated by the potential for carbon storage in temperate and boreal regions. Direct and inadvertent human effects on land vegetation might increase the magnitude of regional CO storage on land, but they are unlikely to play a significant role in moderating the potential rate of greenhouse warming in the future.
20029754|This paper gives a brief overview of factors determining evapotranspiration of vegetated surfaces. It indicates which of these factors are sensitive to CO enrichment. A qualitative analysis is presented of the impact of large scale climate changes. Data in literature indicate that the surface resistance of vegetated areas may change within the range - 25% and + 50% if the atmospheric CO-concentration doubles. The impact of such changes on regional scale transpiration is evaluated using a numerical model in which the interaction between the evapotranspiration and the Planetary Boundary Layer is accounted for. It is concluded that the impact of CO enrichment on the transpiration at the regional scale is relatively small for aerodynamically smooth surfaces (between + 7% and - 11%). For aerodynamically rough surfaces the effects are somewhat larger (between + 15% and - 21%).
20029755|A Penman-Monteith equation has been used to evaluate a change in canopy resistance on the evapotranspiration of a savannah and agricultural area in Botswana. After a short introduction, some problems concerning the K-theory or 'first order closure' are indicated when one uses it for transport modelling within and above a canopy. The Penman-Monteith equation was used to calculate the canopy resistance for a savannah vegetation and sorghum under the same environmental conditions. After that, by changing the stomatal resistance due to an increase of the CO content, the change in the evapotranspiration was estimated. Finally some recommendations for future research are given and an outline of a proposed FACE experiment is presented.
20029756|Increasing atmospheric CO induces a net uptake of carbon in the ocean by a shift in chemical equilibrium in seawater, and in the terrestrial biosphere by a stimulated photosynthesis and productivity. The fractions absorbed in both biosphere and ocean decline with increasing dynamics of the release rate of CO into the atmosphere. However, the relative portion of ocean absorption descends much faster with annual growth rate of CO release than biospheric absorption does, due to a difference in dynamics. The equilibrium absorption capacity of the biosphere is estimated to be only one quarter of that of the ocean, but the current sink size of the biosphere is about half of that of the ocean. Apart from CO-stimulated carbon fixation, the biosphere releases CO as a result of land use changes, in particular after deforestation. Both of these fluxes are of the order of 1-1.5 Pg of carbon per year. The CO-fertilization effect and regrowth together have turned the terrestrial biosphere as a whole from a source into a sink.
20029757|The decade-long USA research program on the direct effects of CO enrichment on vegetation has achieved important milestones and has produced a number of interesting and exciting findings. Research beginning in 1980 focused on field experiments to determine whether phenomena observed in the laboratory indeed occurred in natural environments. The answer is yes. Data obtained from numerous field studies show mixed response of crop and native species to CO enrichment however. Nearly all experiments demonstrate that plants exhibit positive gain when grown at elevated CO; although the magnitude varies greatly. Most crop responses range from 30 to 50% increase in yield. Results from long-term experiments with woody species and ecosystems are even more variable. Huge growth responses (100 to nearly 300% increase relative to controls) are reported from several tree experiments and the salt-marsh ecosystem experiment. Other results from experiments with woody species and the tundra ecosystem suggest little no effect of CO on physiology, growth or productivity. Numerous studies of the physiology of the CO effect are continuing in attempts to understand controlling mechanisms and to explain the variable growth responses. Particular emphasis needs to be given to physiological measures of interactions involving the CO effect and other environmental influences, and to the wide-ranging observations of photosynthesis acclimation to CO. Prospects for future research are identified.
20029758|Emissions, resulting from human activity, are substantially increasing the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases. This, in turn, is causing an additional average warming of the Earth's surface. This article presents an overview of recent developments in the international discussion on climate change, taking into account the work of other organizations such as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The long term and global character of the climate change problem requires an international long term strategy based on internationally agreed principles such as sustainable development and the precautionary principle. Research is needed to further develop risk assessment and environmental quality standards, from which emission targets can be derived. As a first step, governments of many industrialized countries have already set provisional national CO emission targets, aimed at stabilization at present levels by the year 2000 and, in some cases, reductions thereafter. Under the auspices of United Nations, negotiations have begun on an international framework climate convention and associated agreements, on, for example, greenhouse gas emissions, forestry and funding mechanisms. Obligations imposed on individual nations may be expected to reflect their responsibility for greenhouse warming; this paper presents some views on the equity of burden sharing.
20029759|The response of Plantago major ssp. pleiosperma plants, grown on nutrient solution in a climate chamber, to a doubling of the ambient atmospheric CO concentration was investigated. Total dry matter production was increased by 30% after 3 weeks of exposure, due to a transient stimulation of the relative growth rate (RGR) during the first 10 days. Thereafter RGR returned to the level of control plants. Photosynthesis, expressed per unit leaf area, was stimulated during the first two weeks of the experiment, thereafter it dropped and nearly reached the level of the control plants. Root respiration was not affected by increased atmospheric CO levels, whereas shoot, dark respiration was stimulated throughout the experimental period. Dry matter allocation over leaves stems and roots was not affected by the CO level. SLA was reduced by 10%, which can partly be explained by an increased dry matter content of the leaves. Both in the early and later stages of the experiment, shoot respiration accounted for a larger part of the carbon budget in plants grown at elevated atmospheric CO. Shifts in the total carbon budget were mainly due to the effects on shoot respiration. Leaf growth accounted for nearly 50% of the C budget at all stages of the experiment and in both treatments.
20029760|The growth response of Dutch salt marsh species (C and C) to atmospheric CO enrichment was investigated. Tillers of the C species Elymus athericus were grown in combinations of 380 and 720 l
20029761|A gas vents area was recently localized in Central Italy. The gas emitted from the vents is composed by 92% of carbon dioxide and this produces an anomaly in the composition of the atmosphere over an area of about 2 ha. Atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration was measured by means of an infrared gas analyzer and diffusion tubes in several points and for some days within the area. Measurements revealed that the site can be at least divided into three sub-areas having increasing CO concentration in the air. A preliminary analysis of natural vegetation in the area was conducted by counting stomatal and epidermal cells number and measuring guard cell size on leaves of several oak trees growing both near and far away from the vents. This analysis suggested that elevated CO may have reduced the size of guard cells leaving stomatal density and stomatal index unaltered.
20029762|The CO enrichment effects (300-650 mol
20029763|Two year old sweet chestnut seedlings (Castanea sativa Mill) were grown in pots at ambient (350 mol
20029764|Changes in gross canopy photosynthetic rate (PGc), produced by long-term exposure to an elevated atmospheric CO level (626  50 mol
20029765|Elymus athericus (Link) Kergulen, a C grass, was grown in a greenhouse experiment to determine the effect of enhanced atmospheric CO and elevated UV-B radiation levels on plant growth. Plants were subjected to the following treatments; a) ambient CO-control UV-B, b) ambient CO-elevated UV-B, c) double CO-control UV-B, d) double CO-elevated UV-B. Elevated CO concentrations stimulated plant growth, biomass production was 67% higher than at ambient CO. Elevated UV-B radiation had a negative effect on growth, biomass production was depressed by 31%. Enhanced CO combined with elevated UV-B levels caused a biomass depression of 8% when compared with the control plants. UV-B induced growth depression can be modified by a growth stimulus caused by high CO concentrations. Growth analysis has been performed and possible physiological mechanisms behind changing growth parameters are discussed.
20029766|The effects of prolonged CO enrichment of tomato plants on photosynthetic performance and Calvin cycle enzymes, including the amount and activity of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (RuBPco), were determined. Also the light-saturated rate of photosynthesis (
20046264|This paper presents a logical description of the phytosociological typology. The vagueness of vegetation units, ascertained by many authors, has been explicated by means of formal tools developed by fuzzy set theory. The vegetation typology has been presented as a linguistic variable community type (ct). A set of its linguistic values (
20046265|The present paper aims to give an analysis of properties of the phytosociological language, which relates to the vagueness of some concepts in vegetation science. A translation of the simplest synsystematic propositions into possibility distributions has been proposed. Inferential relationships between sentences mentioned using the concept of semantic entailment have been reported. Sentences describing habitat requirements of syntaxa are in fact disguised conditionals; their paraphrases have been given the form of implication. Since these sentences include fuzzy predicates their meaning is a fuzzy relation. The latter may constitute the basis of prediction by means of the compositional rule of inference.
20046266|Nest-mounds of the harvester ant Messor capensis occur on and around nutrient-rich patches, along minor drainage lines in nutrient-rich soils, and on the plains, generally in nutrient-poor soils. Nest-site selection is related to the presence of suitable deep soils, the presence of stones and the distance from the nearest neighbouring nest. Two plant species, Galenia fruticosa and Pteronia pallens, were significantly associated with Messor capensis nest-mounds, both in numbers of mounds occupied and in numbers of individuals. A third species, Drosanthemum montaguense, was also more common in numbers of individuals, while a fourth species, Rhinephyllum macradenium was negatively associated with these mounds. The analysis of species guilds by soil type shows that significantly more species of nutrient-rich soils are present on M. capensis nest-mounds. Also, significantly more taller, woody species occurred on nest-mounds than in inter-mound spaces. Two species, Pteronia pallens and Osteospermum sinuatum, growing on ant nest-mounds had significantly longer inter-nodes than the same species growing off mounds. However, two other species, Pteronia cf. empetrifolia and Galenia fruticosa showed no difference in inter-node lengths between plants growing on and off mounds. Six of the nine species of plants sampled on ant nest-mounds had significantly higher seed production than plants of the same species growing in inter-mound spaces. The other three species showed a tendency towards more seeds per plant on ant nest-mounds. The proportions of live and dead plants on mounds differed between species. Only Ruschia spinosa showed a significant difference between the numbers of dead plants in the population on and off mounds, with more dead plants occurring on mounds. Significantly more seeds set on individuals of Pteronia pallens growing on ant nest-mounds than those growing off nest-mounds, but no such difference occurred in P. cf. empetrifolia. There was no significant difference in the proportion of seeds parasitized by the tephritid fly Desmella anceps for individuals of P. pallens and P. cf. empetrifolia growing on and off mounds.
20046267|Grazing-related, intraspecific, morphological variation was studied in four North American grasses (Bouteloua gracilis, Agropyron smithii, Schizachyrium scoparium, and Andropogon gerardii) from eight locales in Wind Cave National Park, South Dakota: three locales currently occupied and heavily grazed by prairie dogs (Cynomys ludovicianus), colonized (since settlement) for 2-100 years, where native ungulates concentrate grazing activities; an extinct colony locale from which prairie dogs were removed 30 years previously, moderately to lightly grazed by ungulates; two noncolony locales, moderately to lightly grazed by ungulates; and two locales from within a 50-year-old grazing exclosure, with no known history of grazing by prairie dogs nor any recent grazing by ungulates. Data were collected both in situ and in common environments. Active-colony plants were more frequently and more heavily grazed than those at other grazed locales. In situ, plants from heavily grazed populations were smaller and more prostrate than those from populations with little or no grazing (including the extinct colony) and interpopulation variation corresponded to current grazer use. After several growing seasons in common environments, there were still significant interpopulation differences; however, variation often corresponded with grazing history. Although differences between active-colony and noncolony plants were somewhat reduced (indicating some phenotypic plasticity), active-colony plants were still smaller and more prostrate. However, extinct-colony plants more closely resembled active-colony plants than noncolony plants. Morphological variation among these populations is the result of more than simple grazer use; historical factors and the dynamic nature of the grazing regimes are also contributing factors.
20046268|Burning increased the mean annual canopy and belowground biomass of a dry tropical savanna by 40% and 12%, respectively, while littermass was reduced by 85% in comparison to control savanna. Mean annual aboveground and belowground net primary production were 471 and
20046269|The effects of different management practices (mainly mowing, grazing, nutrient enrichment) on floodplain vegetation were compared between the Austrian and Czech part of the Lunice River floodplain using nitrophilous vegetation with Urtica dioica. The vegetation samples situated on crosswise transects (40 in total) were used for the analysis of vegetation. Correlations between the floodplain width on these transects and the proportions (expressed as percentage of the total floodplain width) of selected characteristics (Urtica dioica and Phalaris arundinacea stands and managed areas) were not statistically significant. Differences in the proportions of selected characteristics between the two parts of the floodplain were not significant either, except differences in the proportion of 'managed areas' and 'species richness' (higher species richness and proportion of managed areas are in the Austrian part of the floodplain). The different environmental variables were used in ordinations (DCA and CCA) of vegetation samples. In the DCA, four groups of samples were interpreted. In the CCA changes the moisture gradient was the most important one. The transect distance (from the first transect in Austria) and the soil moisture had the closest relationship to the species data.
20046270|Published data on the number of plant species and/or communities were gathered for 77 European cities and 85 villages. The relationships between the floristic and vegetation diversity and some environmental variables were analysed. Species number in cities showed log linear increase with city size (expressed as the population size or city area). A linear increase in the species number with size was found in the village flora. The richness of both city and village flora was not significantly related to any climatic variable. On the contrary, the number of communities in both villages and cities was correlated not only with settlement size but also with altitude and mean annual temperature. The diversity of village vegetation was closely related to the climax type of the respective region. The features of human settlements that make it possible to consider them as landscape islands are discussed.
20046286|The relationships between forest composition, landforms, and soils were examined in a 2 km region of river terraces and lower hill slopes on Mt Harata, in north Westland, New Zealand. Ten forest communities were classified from 197 vegetation descriptions using TWo-way INdicator SPecies ANalysis (TWINSPAN). Landforms were classified at all vegetation sample sites using a hierarchical system, and brief soil descriptions were made at 70% of sites. Compositional gradients and their relationship to environmental variation were investigated by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA) and detrended canonical correspondence analysis (DCCA). On terraces and fans changes in forest composition were closely related to differences in soil drainage and stage of soil development (functions of surface age, slope, and stability). On recent terraces and well-drained terrace risers, recent and weakly developed yellow-brown earth soils supported beech forest communities characterised by Nothofagus fusca, but on poorly drained older terrace surfaces, well developed gley and peat soils predominated under Nothofagus solandri var. cliffortioides forest. Compositional variation on the hillslopes was broadly related to stage of soil development on different landforms, but relationships were more difficult to detect because of the influence of increasing altitude and tree uprooting, which interrupted soil pedogenesis and promoted the regeneration of even-aged Nothofagus truncata-hardwood stands. Our results confirm the observation that disturbances such as landsliding and windthrow rejuvenate the soil whereas stability leads to old, infertile, and often poorly-drained soils. The compositional variation across different landforms therefore reflects variation in the magnitude and frequency of disturbances. The predominance of windthrow and general lack of landsliding at Mt Harata also suggests that the disturbance regimes of these forests may be different from those of the conifer-broadleaved hardwood forests of central Westland.
20046287|Patterns in vegetation landscapes depend on a complex interplay between processes operating at various scales in time and space. Large-scale variations in environmental factors such as climate and landforms set a background in which smaller local-scale processes are involved. Disturbances superimpose variations on environmental factors and are also dependent on these. Stream valleys of hilly land in Southern Qubec have been examined at different scales. Vegetation landscape units have been characterized at the level of landform (vegetation pattern), topographic gradient (geosigmassociation) and ecosite (synassociation). Extension of the methodology up to biogeographical units and practical applications are considered.
20046288|Using the sites of Pagbilao, the Philippines and Pohnpei Island, the Federated States of Micronesia, zonation and development process of mangrove habitats on tidal flats situated in the geomorphic environment excluding estuary, delta, and lagoon or backmarsh behind barrier or beach ridge were discussed from the viewpoint of geomorphology. Zonations of the mangrove forests were observed from seaward to landward in both areas. Most of the zones correspond with the variations of the ground level or deposit. Mangrove peat which has a thickness of about 2 meters was deposited in the main part of the mangrove habitats in both areas. On the other hand, some large Sonneratia alba were observed in the Rhizophora apiculata habitat on Pohnpei Island. The authors presumed that some of the large S. alba have survived by regeneration from fallen stems since the mangrove forest developed on the present site. The maximum depth of the mangrove peat layer reaches 1.7 meter below the present sea level in Pagbilao and over 2.5 meters at Pohnpei Island. The bottom of the mangrove peat was dated at about 2,000 y.B.P. in both areas by the radiocarbon method. The mangrove peat depositional areas have not been moved during the last 2,000 years. Therefore, the mangrove forests seem to have grown in the present sites since 2,000 y.B.P. and accumulated peat in connection with the subsequent sea-level rise.
20046289|Spatial structures of landforms as constants affecting vegetation patterns are discussed based on analyses of hilly land regions, mostly in the vicinity of Sendai, northeast Japan. The lower part of a hillslope is characterized by relatively active processes of soil erosion, landslides and slope failure. It supports a plant community different from that on the upper part of the hillslope. These two parts are termed the lower hillslope and the upper hillslope, respectively. The upper hillslope consists of valley heads with no stream water nor stream channels. Since a valley head is comprised of several micro-scale landform units, an upper hillslope can be subdivided into these landform units. Plant communities vary in their species compositions and structures as well as in some other ecological characteristics paralleling changes in their respective micro-scale landform units. However, the variations in species composition within upper hillslopes are not as extreme as those between the upper and lower hillslopes.
20046290|Four-level Braun-Blanquet vegetation type hierarchies of an arctic (a section of the Arctic Coastal Plain at Atkasook, Alaska) and an alpine (Indian Peaks area, Colorado Southern Rocky Mountains) area were compared through their vascular plant taxa composition. Vegetation types at all hierarchy levels were more numerous, less well defined, and less clearly distributed along the controlling environmental gradients in the Arctic than in the alpine. This greater environmental and vegetational heterogeneity and relatively poor definition of vegetation types are probably controlled by the surface disturbances of the thaw-lake cycle, rivers, cryoturbation, and wind, which cause significant horizontal movement of materials with low stability and rework small-to medium-sized surface patches in the Arctic in the intervals of several hundred to several thousand years. These surface disturbances are more frequent and less intense than the area-wide surface disturbances by glaciations in the Southern Rocky Mountains. More frequent surface disturbances seem to produce more numerous and less well defined and organized vegetation/landform types than less frequent disturbances, even when the less frequent disturbances are considerably more intense. Because most disturbances which interrupt the development of Alaskan Arctic vegetation/landform types and keep them relatively poorly defined occur every few thousand years, the time needed for a full development or a relatively good definition of vegetation/landform types seems to be longer than that. The correlation of high disturbance frequency and small to medium patch size with high vegetation type diversity at higher levels of the Braun-Blanquet hierarchy was confirmed in Atkasook snowpatches. Much higher disturbance intensity and greater development of snowpatches at Indian Peaks were reflected only in a higher number of associations.
20046296|I explore the 'specialization' versus 'generalization' paradigm in frugivory and seed dispersal. This view predicts that some tropical trees produce nutritious fruits adapted for use by a small coterie of specialized frugivores that provide reliable seed dissemination. Other tree species are expected to offer superabundant fruits of lower nutritional reward, relying instead on common opportunistic frugivores that are individually less reliable, but collectively disperse seeds effectively. Though widely referenced, many aspects of 'the paradigm' are untested with tropical trees and avian frugivores, primarily because plant ecologists rarely determine whether 'specialist' or 'generalist' foragers are responsible for different patterns of seed distribution, while students of foraging behavior rarely determine the effects seed dispersal by different animals for survival of seeds or seedlings of 'specialist' or 'generalist' trees. Ecological paradigms provide alternative hypotheses, without evolutionary arguments. 'Keystone' species have ecological effects disproportionate to their abundance; it is important for management considerations to know whether fruiting trees or frugivores serve as keystone mutualists in tropical forests. Alternatively, the extent to which vertebrate seed dispersers influence density-dependent seed, seedling, sapling, or adult mortality may have important consequences for spatial dispersion and population dynamics of tree species in tropical forests.
20046297|Disperser effectiveness is the contribution a disperser makes to the future reproduction of a plant. Although it is a key notion in studies of seed dispersal by animals, we know little about what determines the effectiveness of a disperser. The role of the present paper is to review the available information and construct a hierarchical framework for viewing the components of disperser effectiveness. Effectiveness has both quantitative and qualitative components. The quantity of seed dispersal depends on (A) the number of visits made to the plant by a disperser and (B) the number of seeds dispersed per visit. The quality of seed dispersal depends on (A) the quality of treatment given a seed in the mouth and in the gut and (B) the quality of seed deposition as determined by the probability that a deposited seed will survive and become an adult. In this paper I review the ways disperser behavior, morphology and physiology can influence these major components of disperser effectiveness, and when data permit present preliminary analyses of relationships among components.
20046298|We summarize some of the population-dynamic consequences of the mosaic structure of plant populations for the evolution of seed dispersal. A fairly elaborated set of theoretical ideas exist regarding the evolution of dispersal and we have synthesized some of them in an attempt to make them more accessible to field ecologists. We consider the relationship of these general theoretical ideas to our understanding of fruit and seed dispersal. We develop three related models to describe the similarities and differences in how dispersal functions for risk reduction (bet hedging), escaping the negative consequences of crowding, and escaping high concentrations of relatives. We also briefly discuss directed dispersal as a fourth population-dynamic aspect of dispersal. Dispersal can have a risk-reducing function only when there is global (metapopulation) temporal variance in success. Dispersal to escape the negative consequences of crowding requires only spatial and local temporal environmental variation. Dispersal for escaping high concentrations of relatives requires no environmental variation, but does require genetic population structure. Directed dispersal, defined as non-random into particular patch types contingent on the expectation of local success, is always valuable when possible and represents an advantage independent the others which can occur with random dispersal. In an effort to accommodate for the differences between simple mathematical models and the behavior of complex natural fruit and seed dispersal systems we have discussed the following issues: actual patterns of patch structure and dispersal distance; the implications of plant cosexuality, perenniality, and allocation costs of dispersal structures; and the impact of the detailed nature of density dependence, breeding systems, and genetic structure. We briefly compare the population-dynamic functions of dispersal presented here with the widely cited functions of colonization, escape, and directed dispersal. Finally, we suggest how the theoretical models can be used with field data to estimate the fitness consequences of dispersal.
20046299|The family Melastomataceae shows two major modes of dispersal for its small seeds: wind for capsular fruits, and birds for berry-type fruits. Distribution patterns of these two dispersal types differ. We focus on evolutionary diversification of bird-dispersed melastomes in the New World, in relation to that of their avian dispersers. We first examine in detail patterns of melastome fruit availability and consumption by understory birds in a Costa Rican rain forest. Although a relatively small portion of total fruit available in most months, melastomes comprised a major component of the diet of all bird groups studied, most notably manakins and most tanagers, which in turn were the major consumers of melastome fruits. Examination of data from several other Neotropical areas confirms the importance of the manakins and tanagers as the avian frugivores most closely associated with the melastomes. These two groups differ in their manner of fruit consumption, being 'gulpers' and 'mashers', respectively. The patterns of species richness of small mashers in several Neotropical areas conform very closely to the distribution patterns of bird-dispersed melastomes; both are most speciose in wet forests of middle elevations. Gulpers, especially manakins, are most diverse at low elevations. Thus, the small-seeded melastome berry appears to have evolved primarily in association with masher-type frugivores such as tanagers; with the later addition of manakins to their disperser spectrum, the melastomes may have increased greatly in local abundance, but not (yet?) in diversity, in the wet lowland neotropics.
20046300|Evolutionary considerations of frugivory must account for patterns of diversity and abundance of both frugivorous vertebrates (especially pulp-eaters) and of plants producing zoochorous fruits. Analysis of the diet and behavior of representative species of frugivores from the tropical forests of French Guiana (seven species of bird and eight mammals) allowed their degree of specialization for frugivory to be assessed. Analysis of the flora associated with these species showed that genera associated with specialized vertebrates had the greatest species richness. This pattern suggests that plant animal co-evolution occurs in a step-wise fashion with short transitory phases of animal and plant evolution followed by long period of stability.
20046301|Spatial and temporal predictability in the mutual selective pressures of plants and frugivorous birds is a prerequisite for coevolution to occur. I examine the interaction patterns of strongly frugivorous thrushes (Turdus spp.) and their major winter food plants (Juniperus spp., Cupressaceae) and how they vary in space and time. Spatial congruency, rarely considered in seed dispersal studies, is studied at three spatial scales: 1) the total species range; 2) regional distribution; and 3) local abundance and its variation between seasons. Southern Spanish frugivorous thrushes and junipers show very low congruence in distribution patterns at each of these scales. Most juniper species show geographic distributions that are nested within the geographic ranges of thrush species. Bird species showed greater habitat breadth values than plants and were found in a greater percentage of localities. The local bird abundance was strongly correlated across years and sites with the local availability of juniper cones. Cone production varied markedly between years, but the rankings for different species in different years were statistically concordant at mid-elevation and lowland sites. Both bird abundance and cone production showed greater temporal than spatial variability. Variation of cone productions at both temporal and spatial scales was greater than variability in bird abundance. Species with strong interactions of mutual dependence showed very low values of biogeographic congruence, caused by differences in geographic range and habitat specificity. This obviously limits the possibilities for pairwise, specific coevolution to occur. However, mutual effects of species groups are possible to the extent that the component species are ecologically 'interchangeable' in their selective effects and other constraints on coevolution are not operating. The approach used here to examine the patterns of species interactions at different biogeographic scales might prove useful in comparative studies of plant-animal interactions.
20046302|In this paper we address two questions concerning the interaction between fleshy-fruited plants and their seed dispersers: (1) What determines optimal disperser coterie size (designated as ) and (2) Why does disperser specialization occur along taxonomic lines? We review factors that affect the evolution of  and conclude that seed size and disperser quality (designated as Q) are especially important. We present a simple graphical model for determining  based on Q and conclude that  will be small (i.e. a specialized disperser strategy) when Q declines rapidly with increasing coterie size;  will be large when Q declines slowly with increasing coterie size. We construct a model based on fitness set theory to predict that specialization on particular vertebrate taxa (e.g. birds or mammals) will be favored when different disperser taxa are perfectly substitutable or antagonistic (sensu Tilman 1982); mixed-taxa coteries are favored when different disperser taxa are complementary. Finally, we predict that when conditions favor taxonomic specialization, plants will evolve bird fruits more often than bat or primate fruits because of the greater species richness of birds compared with bats and primates.
20046303|We used a computer simulation to quantify how intra-crop variation in wing-loading in a wind-dispersed species affects the seed distribution around a parent plant. We used a data set of seed distributions generated from a previous field study using artificial fruits varying in seed mass or fruit area dispersed from a tower into a tropical forest. For this study, the spatial distribution from each hypothetical parent's fruit crop of 1000 was calculated by randomly drawing locations of dispersed fruits from the previous data base. Three parents with contrasting fruit crops were used to test two hypotheses: 1) Increasing within-parent variance in wing-loading (= weight/area), while maintaining the mean, will lead to an increase in the area and uniformity of the seed distribution, without changing the mean dispersal distance. 2) Decreasing within-parent mean wing-loading, (which also decreases variance), will lead to an increase in mean dispersal distance, area, and uniformity of the seed distribution. The hypotheses were tested under four wind speeds. Increasing variance in wing-loading resulted in increasing the area and uniformity of density of the seed distribution without changing mean dispersal distance. Decreasing mean and variance in wing-loading resulted in increasing the area and uniformity of density of the seed distribution, as well as increasing the mean dispersal distance. Similar results occurred whether the differences in wing-loading arose by altering seed mass or fruit area. The effect of wind speed was consistently greater than the effect of parent. Generally, the same pattern of parent effects on seed distributions occurred, regardless of wind condition. The effects on seed distributions differed for alterations in mean versus variance, specifically in whether mean dispersal distance was increased. How selection may act on intra-crop mean and variance in wing-loading will depend on additional factors, e.g. the relative importance of distance, area, and density on seedling recruitment and the relative costs for crop size and seedling establishment of making fruit crops of a given mean and variance.
20046304|Mast-seeding is the synchronous production of large seed crops within a population or community of species every two or more years. This paper addresses three non-mutually exclusive hypotheses explaining the evolution of mast-seeding in temperate tree species, especially the genus Quercus: (1) mast-seeding is a consequence of mast-flowering which evolves to increased pollination efficiency in mast-flowering years; (2) mast-seeding has evolved as an anti-predator adaptation by which large seed crops during mast years satiate the seed predators and allow survival of some of the seeds; (3) selection on seed size by habitat can indirectly affect the evolution of masting if trees with large seeds require more time to accumulate reserves to mature those seeds. I find support for the pollination hypothesis in several wind-pollinated temperate tree species but not oaks. However, oaks show evidence favoring the predation and seed size hypotheses. I then develop a model to illustrate the relationships among the three hypotheses in their effects on the evolution of masting. Finally, using data from herbaria and Floras, the influence of selection via flowering, fruiting, and seed size in the evolution of masting in tropical oaks is discussed. I conclude that the need for a supra-annual cue to synchronize flowering and fruiting as well as the larger seed size found in many tropical oak species should contribute to the evolution of masting to a greater extent than seen among temperate oaks.
20046305|This paper explores the causes and consequences of seed and seedling mortality of the tree Virola nobilis (Myristicaceae) Central Panama in order to understand the advantage to local seed dispersal by birds and monkeys. Post-dispersal mortality due to insects (primarily Conotrachelus spp., Curculionidae) accounts for 30-35% of seed and seedling death during the first 12 weeks after seed fall. Because more seeds and seedlings are killed under and near fruiting trees than 15-45 m away, seed dispersal confers a 20-40 fold advantage on seeds carried 45 m from fruiting adults. In contrast, &gt60% of seed and seedling death during the first year is due to seed predation by mammals, with &gt90% due to mammals among the &lt2% seeds that survive until maternal endosperm is exhausted  12 weeks after seed fall. Mortaliy due to mammals is independent of distance from parent trees, confering no advantage to seed dispersal. Insects account for variation in mortality attributable to distance effects, mammals to between site effects. Early weevil infestations put a premium on seed removal by large birds (Ramphastos swainsonii, R. sulfuratus, Penelope purpurascens), which carry &gt50% of the seeds that they eat &gt40 m, as compared with smaller birds (Baryphthengus martii, Tityra semifasciata, Trogon massena) and monkeys (Ateles geoffroyi), which leave most or all of the seeds that they eat under or near the tree crown.
20046306|Ocotea tenera (Lauraceae), an understory bird-dispersed tree, produces single-seeded fruits that vary in diameter from 1.4 to 2.4 cm. Much of the variation within a population at Monteverde, Costa Rica occurred within individual trees. The relative size of fruits produced by different trees remained generally constant over an 11-year period despite slight differences between years in the average size of fruits produced by a given tree. Fruit-eating birds could thus express their preferences for particular fruit size characteristics by choosing among trees that have distinct distributions of fruit diameters, and between individually variable fruits within trees. In a field study of individually marked fruits, birds removed 46.2% of fruits; the rest of the fruits were destroyed by invertebrate (25.3%) and vertebrate (4.3%) pulp-feeders or aborted by the plant after remaining ripe but uneaten for as long as 100 days (24.2%). The four major avian seed dispersers of O. tenera each have gape widths exceeding all but the largest fruits. Birds preferred plants with greater-than-average-sized fruits; within trees, they favored larger fruits, apparently because net pulp mass increases with fruit diameter. Fruits that ripened early in the season were more likely to be removed and were removed more quickly than late-ripening fruits. Based on mother-offspring regressions of mean fruit size, the phenotypic variation in fruit diameter in O. tenera is highly heritable, indicating the potential for an evolutionary response to selection by birds. Nonetheless, directional selection on fruit size or shape is likely to be inconsistent, constrained by genetic correlations, and weak compared to selection on traits like fecundity or phenology.
20046307|Spatial distribution of fruit-eating birds and fruiting shrubs of the Melastomataceae and Rubiaceae were examined on a 10 ha plot in tropical lowland wet forest of Costa Rica. Many plant species and most birds exhibited considerable spatial variation in their occurrence on the plot, as indicated by the distribution patterns of shrubs with ripe fruits and captures in mist nets, respectively. In many cases, captures of fruit-eating birds were correlated with abundance of fruiting plants, particularly for species that rely heavily on fruits. In general, fruit-eating birds concentrated their use of the plot to areas rich in fruiting shrubs. This differential use of certain areas likely results in differential visitation to fruiting plants located in these areas and in a heterogeneous dissemination of seeds into the habitat.
20046308|Vertebrate frugivores often feed on fruits upon or within which insects also feed, yet little information exists on the potential magnitude of interactions between these consumers. The Mediterranean shrub Pistacia terebinthus, the birds that consume its fruits, and the wasps that feed upon its seeds are examined in this study. P. terebinthus produces a highly variable fraction of final-sized red fruits that never become mature (green-colored). Red fruits can be immature, parthenocarpic, aborted, or attacked by wasps, and their pulp is much less nutritious than that of mature fruits. A total of 20 bird species consumed the fruits in the study area. Legitimate dispersers accounted for 39% of the total fruit removal, while pulp eaters and seed predators accounted for the remainder. Birds strongly preferred the mature fruits (only 4% of the fruits consumed were red). The incidence of wasps in the seeds ranged from 0 to 42% of the crop in 1989 and from 0 to 24% in 1990. The influence of avian and insect frugivore guilds on each other appears to be quite low because of the narrow overlap in resource utilization by birds and wasps, and an overall low intensity of wasp seed predation. From an evolutionary perspective, the possible ability of wasps to preclude fruit maturation appears not to be attributable to the present interaction with avian frugivores.
20046309|The postingestional effect of seed size and mass and nutrient composition on fruit profitability are reviewed. It is emphasized that profitability results from the interaction between fruit characteristics and the physiological and morphological traits of frugivores. The processes by which frugivores regurgitate or defecate seeds and the differential processing of the nutrient rich pulp and ballast in fruit are strongly dependent on the interaction between frugivore gut morphology and seed size. Euphonias that lack a functional gizzard defecate seeds, whereas tanagers that have a delete a functional gizzards regurgitate seeds. Some frugivores separate seeds from pulp and exocarp in the gizzard. It is hypothesized that the gizzard plays an important role in determining the postingestional fate of different pulp components. Although fruit nutrient content is often invoked as a determinant of frugivore feeding choices, studies that rely on proximal nutrient analysis, have often failed to find clear nutrient composition-preference correlations. It is argued that a partial reason for this failure is that proximal nutrient analysis ignores the complexities of fruit digestion. The ecological and physiological correlates of lipid and sugar assimilation are used to identify the limitations of traditional proximal nutrient analyses in fruit-frugivore studies. We suggest that recognizing the intricacies of the digestive characteristics of frugivores may reveal a much richer patterning in the interaction of frugivores with plants than has been previously hypothesized.
20046310|We investigated the role of seed packaging (division of total seed volume among individual seeds) and fruit color in determining feeding preferences of American Robins (Turdus migratorius). Experiments were conducted using artificial fruits with either 8 small plastic beads or a single large one with equivalent volume. Other fruit characters were held constant. As predicted, large seeds were voided rapidly by regurgitation, resulting in higher pulp consumption rates for large-seeded fruits than for small-seeded ones, whose seeds were passed through the gut. Most birds apparently used this difference in profitability as a choice criterion: four of seven preferred large-seeded fruits. That three individuals did not do so suggests that birds may differ in their ability to perceive minor differences in fruit profitability, or to use them as choice criteria. Pulp color was also important: blue fruits were preferred by all seven birds. This preference was surprising, since Robins commonly feed on red fruits in the field.
20046311|Use patterns of lipid-rich, fleshy fruits were examined for frugivorous birds. Approximately 20% of fleshy-fruited species within plant communities bear fruit with &gt 10% dry weight lipids. These fruits are fed upon by the most heavily frugivorous bird species in those communities studied and are the focus of highly specialized relationships among birds and fruits. In aviary tests some temperate frugivores show preference for higher lipid native fruits and prefer higher-lipid artificial fruits with as little as 3% wet weight difference in lipid content. The importance of lipids in fruit preference by birds, and the possible effects of differing digestive physiologies in birds are discussed.
20046312|C. pogonias and C. wolfi plant diets were studied in two sites, in Gabon and Zaire and compared with fruit availabilities. Monkeys in Gabon were found to be mainly fruit pulp-eaters while monkeys in Zaire were alternately seed-eaters, aril-eaters or leaf-eaters. These differences were related to differences in the availability of fruit categories: fleshy fruits were found to be much more abundant in Gabon than in Zaire forests. As a result, monkeys in Gabon were found to be mainly seed-dispersers while monkeys in Zaire were found, to a large extent, to be seed-predators. Results are discussed in terms of phenotypic flexibility in monkey feeding behavior, diversity of plant-monkey interactions, geographic variability of keystone plant resources, and their implications for forest management practices. The low availability of fleshy fruit species in Zaire is hypothezized to result from the poor soil conditions.
20046313|Destruction and fragmentation of tropical rain forest result in a loss of species and of generating capacity of the ecosystem via animal vectors such as seed dispersal agents. To gather quantitative data regarding this ecological problem, birds and mammals were censused in 30 forest fragments, 15 agricultural islands representing five types of vegetation (coffee, cacao, citrus, pepper and mixed-crops) and in three pastures in Los Tuxtlas, southern Veracruz, Mexico. More than 6000 animals of 257 species were detected thus suggesting the existence of a rich species pool in the fragmented landscape. Frugivores accounted for 60% of species, for 72% of individuals censured and for 85% of the total animal biomass recorded. Clusters of small forest fragments (&lt 100 ha) were richer in species and individuals than clusters of large area (&gt 100 ha) forest islands. Pastures were especially poor in forest birds and mammals. While the agricultural islands studied contributed to only 1% of the total area of vegetation sampled, they contained 58% of all species detected and 34% of all individual birds and mammals censured. Recaptures indicated inter-island movements of forest birds and mammals. Forty percent of the species were detected in forest habitats only, the rest were detected in forest and in agricultural habitats. Seeds of forest interior plants dispersed by birds and bats were detected in the agricultural habitats. The value of agricultural islands as landscape features providing some degree of biotic connectivity among fragmented animal populations is discussed.
20046314|This review assesses the state of our knowledge about comparative seed shadows. Using data presently available in the literature, I compare the slopes (on a log-linear scale) of seed shadows for plants with different morphologically characterized modes of dispersal. The seeds of many species have no evident morphological adaptation for dispersal and seem to achieve only short-distance dispersal. Seed shadows for herbaceous species with devices for wind have flatter slopes and more distant modes and maxima than those of ballists, which in turn exceed those with no special devices. Seed shadows for wind-dispersed trees and shrubs had similar or steeper slopes than those for vertebrate-dispersed species in this sample. Species with poor mechanisms for dispersal in space only sometimes had the capacity for better dispersal in time (dormancy). Although some species exhibited seed shadows sufficiently steep to be predicted to colonize new habitat in a 'front' or phalanx pattern, actual colonization patterns must reflect many other factors.
20046315|Seed dispersal mechanisms should have a direct impact on the genetic structure of populations. Species whose seeds are dispersed near the maternal plant (e.g. gravity or wind dispersal) or species whose seeds are deposited in clumps or patches should have more fine-scale genetic structure than species whose seeds are dispersed singly by mobile animals. Furthermore, due to the overlap of seed shadows, species with high adult densities should have less genetic structure than species with lower densities. Allozyme analyses of three tropical tree species belonging to the moist tropical forest of Barro Colorado Island, Republic of Panama, were used to describe variation in the scale and intensity of genetic structure within their populations. The genetic structure of seedlings and immature trees in the low-density, wind-dispersed species (Platypodium elegans) was the coarsest and strongest whereas genetic structure in a population of Swartzia simplex var. ochnacea (high density, bird-dispersed) was both the finest and the weakest. The genetic structure of Alseis blackiana, a high-density, wind-dispersed species was intermediate in both degree and scale. In P. elegans and A. blackiana, which had 'J' shaped size distributions, the significant genetic structure seen in the smaller and intermediate diameter classes disappeared in the largest diameter class. The loss of genetic structure was not observed in S. simplex, a species with a more even size distribution.
20046316|By comparing seed rain, seedling and sapling community structures we assessed the possible role played by vertebrate seed dispersal as a structuring factor in advanced regeneration of closed-canopied sites in the tropical rain forest of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. Seed weight, initial morphology of seedlings and species abundance were also analyzed to determine if these traits influenced the probability of establishment in the shade. About half of the seed species falling in five closed forest sites (25  25 m) during one year came from fruiting trees growing within the sites (local seeds) and half from fruiting trees found outside the sites (immigrant seeds). Seeds of liana and upper-canopy species were over-represented among immigrant seeds compared with seeds of understory tree species. This probably reflects the activity of frugivorous arboreal mammals, bats, and birds. Species with immigrant seeds had both a lower abundance and a narrower spatial distribution than locally produced seeds. Therefore, immigrant seeds showed higher diversity values than locally produced seeds. Average seed size and the proportion of epigeous seedlings were similar in local and immigrant species. Under closed-canopied sites, factors affecting community organization seem to operate selectively, favoring the establishment of large-seeded, local abundant species in the advanced regeneration. However, the fact that some saplings of immigrant species were found in the plots suggest that a slow species infiltration may be occurring leading to a slow shift in the advanced regeneration species composition. We propose that the influence of seed dispersal on advanced regeneration structure depends on the disturbance history of the patches where seeds land.
20046317|The tropical rain forest landscape has been transformed to a mosaic composed of patches of crops, secondary vegetation and remnant forest fragments of different shapes and sizes. Isolation of patches and fragments is a critical issue in the maintenance of local species diversity. In this study we focus on the dispersal of propagules by birds to understand the movement of plants between landscape components. Seed deposition and the behavior of frugivorous birds were monitored at four isolated fig trees (Ficus yoponensis and F. aurea) in man-made pastures. Seed deposition was measured by trapping seeds under canopy trees for six months and by direct observation of bird visits to the four trees for one year. Seed deposition densities were 465, 614, 632 and 1097 seeds/m accumulated over six months under each of the four trees. We recorded 8268 seeds of 107 species under the trees, among them, 6726 seeds (81%) were of 56 species dispersed by vertebrate frugivores. Seeds of tree species accounted for 26% of the total species. Seventy-three species of birds perched in the observed trees, and 3344 visits were made by 47 species of frugivores. Frugivorous birds occurred in two groups: resident species nesting in the pastures and resident species nesting elsewhere. Propagule exchange between landscape components is clearly influenced by the behavior of these two groups. Structure and dynamics of the landscape depend on plant species availability within the mosaic. This availability is high and suggests possibilities for the management of the local species diversity of tropical rain forests.
20046318|Seed dispersal and forest regeneration were studied on a 30  50 m strip cleared by 'strip-cutting,' a system of forest management designed for sustained yield (Hartshorn 1989), in high terrace rain forest in the Department of Loreto, Peru. After one year the strip was dominated by seedlings of a few bat- and bird- dispersed pioneer tree species (Cecropia spp., Melastomataceae, and Alchornea triplinervia); stump sprouts from cut trees and saplings that survived the clearing were less numerous. The density of saplings (&gt 2 m in height) surviving the clearing was 903 per hectare; 94% of these survived the subsequent 18 months. About 30% of 417 stumps (&gt 7.5 cm diameter at breast height) resprouted within 3 months, with an additional 10% sprouting in the subsequent 10 months. Sprouting frequency was greater for small stumps than large and varied greatly among plant families. Seed deposition over this year was much lower in the interior of the strip, both in species richness and numbers of seeds, than within the forest; strip edges were intermediate in richness and number. The decline in seed input from forest to edge to strip, both in species and in numbers of seeds, was most pronounced for bird-dispersed taxa (primarily Melastomataceae); bat- and wind- dispersed taxa were more evenly distributed. The similarity in bat species composition between the strip and nearby primary forest was higher than the similarity in bird species composition between these habitats, reflecting a failure of many forest bird species to venture into the strip. The predominance of Cecropia spp. and other pioneers of minimal commercial value in the regeneration question the sustainability of strip-cutting. Subsequent succession and future tree species composition on the cleared strip will depend not only on the survivorship and growth of sprouts, survivors, and seedlings, but also on responses of different seed-dispersing animal taxa to changes in the species composition and structure of the vegetation in the strip.
20046319|The population level correlates of contrasting dispersal syndromes in closely related species are largely unknown. A family of tropical understory herbs, the Marantaceae, provides the opportunity for comparative studies as it contains many species with contrasting dispersal syndromes. As part of a study of the comparative population biology of ant- and bird-dispersed species, we test the hypothesis that spatial scale and dispersion pattern are related to dispersal type, proposing that bird-dispersed species will have a larger spatial scale than ant-dispersed species, and that, among bird-dispersed species, the scale will vary among three distinct dispersal types. We also propose that ant-dispersed species will show a more clumped dispersion pattern than the bird-dispersed species. Two types of spatial scale are examined: the amount of space occupied by individuals (maximum and actual) and the spacing among individuals within populations. The maximum size of plants showed a trend in the predicted direction. However, this trend was only of marginal statistical significance. The actual distribution of plant sizes, as measured by total leaf area and classified logarithmically, differed significantly among the dispersal types in the predicted direction. Spacing among individuals as measured by nearest neighbor distances also varied significantly by dispersal type, but not entirely in the predicted direction. Dispersion pattern analysis indicated that most study species in most populations had significantly clumped spatial patterning. The aggregation index varied 20-fold among study-plots, but did not vary significantly by dispersal type. We conclude that while spatial scale was related generally to type of dispersal, dispersion pattern was not.
20046320|At our Costa Rican field site, seeds defecated by frugivorous birds usually do not remain where they have been deposited. Many species of ants are attracted to frugivore defecations and remove seeds and/or pulp. Pheidole species selectively remove seeds, fungus-growing species (tribe Attini) remove both pulp and seeds. Seeds of many Melastomataceae have an appendage, which we hypothesized is an elaiosome. Indeed, preference trials demonstrated that two species of Pheidole selected seeds with the appendage over seeds of the same species in which the appendage had been removed. However, we found that these ants did not take the appendage when it was offered by itself. We conclude that the appendage is not an elaiosome. In further trials, different ant species preferentially selected different seed species. These ants consumed some seeds and deposited others unharmed in refuse piles. We conclude that because the composition of leaf-litter ant communities is highly variable between neighboring square meter plots, and the probability of seed predation depends upon the species of ant, the over-all effect of ants on seed shadows and seed banks is spatially unpredictable.
20046321|We studied the pre-germination loss of seeds to invertebrate and vertebrate seed predators of 5 species of Amazonian trees (Astrocaryum macrocalyx -- Palmae; Bertholletia excelsa -- Lecithydaceae; Calatola venezuelana -- Icacinaceae; Dipteryx micrantha -- Leguminosae (Papilionoidae); Hymenaea courbaril -- Leguminosae (Caesalpinoidae)). These five species were selected from a large tree flora on several criteria. All possess large (3-10 cm) well-protected seeds that might plausibly be attractive to mammalian seed predators. The reproductive biology of three of the species, or close congeners, had been studied elsewhere in the Neotropics (Astrocaryum, Dipteryx, Hymenaea); one is important to the economy of southeastern Peru (Bertholletia); and one, despite large and apparently edible seeds, appeared to suffer no pre-germination loss to predators (Calatola). We conducted the research in mature forests in the Manu National Park of southeastern Peru where mammal densities are unperturbed by human activities. Densities of adult trees of the five species in our area range from very high (&gt 30 per ha: Astrocaryum) to very low ( 1 per ha: Hymenaea). Loss of seeds to all causes, and to mammalian seed predators in particular, was determined for seeds placed in 2-square meter mammal exclosures and in open controls located at 10 m (near) and 50 m (far) from a large mature individual of the target species (with minor variations in the design for Astrocaryum and Calatola). The exclosures were of two types: impermeable - designed to exclude all mammals, but not invertebrate seed predators, and semipermeable - designed to admit small (&lt 500 g), but not large mammals. Experimental and control plots were stocked with apparently viable seeds during the dry-wet transition period (October-November) and scored one year later. A significant distance effect (higher predation near vs far from a large conspecific adult) was found in only one of the species (Astrocaryum), the only one to be attacked with high frequency by invertebrate seed predators. The absence of any detectable distance effect attributable to mammals suggests that mammals, over the course of a year, thoroughly search the forest floor for seeds. Invertebrates may thus be responsible for most pre-germination distance (density) effects. With respect to the treatments, we found three qualitatively distinct results: seeds of three species (Astrocaryum, Bertholletia, Dipteryx) were significantly protected by the impermeable, but not semipermeable exclosures, implicating small mammals in seed loss; the seeds of one species (Hymenaea) were significantly protected by exclosures of both types, implicating large mammals; and the seeds of one species (Calatola) exhibited 100% survival, whether or not protected by exclosures. The importance of large mammals as seed predators is generally underestimated in these experiments because semipermeable exclosures may serve as foraging reserves for small mammals. Finally, we noted no relationship between the intensity of mammalian seed predation (as suggested by the survival of unprotected seeds) and the abundance of adults of the five species in the environment. The diversity of results obtained for the five species reveals that large-seeded tropical trees may display a wide range of demographic patterns, and points to the likely importance of post-germination bottlenecks in the population biology of many species, even those that may experience severe pre-germination seed loss.
20046326|More than a year after Hurricane Hugo damaged a Puerto Rican tropical rain forest, recovery of the forest was assessed by observing resprouting of damaged trees in eleven transects which were established before the hurricane in 1989. In each transect, I relocated and identified standing trees and observed if they were resprouting after injury. I found that resprouting was rapid and depended on species. There was no significant relationship between sprouting and diameter classes of trees. This study suggests that resprouting of damaged trees plays major roles in the recovery of the tropical forests which are prone to hurricanes and are in non-equilibrium state.
20046327|Changes in vegetation along a precipitation gradient in Central Argentina were studied. Floristic samples were taken along an east-west transect of about 300 km. Correlation analysis between precipitation and ordination axes was used to provide an environmental interpretation of vegetation variability. Floristic analysis produced an ordination of plant communities from evergreen forests (precipitation &gt 500 mm) to desert shrublands and therophyte communities (precipitation &lt200 mm). Results showed a trend of floristic and structural impoverishment towards the west. There is a replacement of species along the transect and a shift in dominant growth forms. The first ordination axis is significantly, negatively correlated with annual precipitation.
20046328|Dune communities with dominant Ipomoea pes-caprae (coastal strand vegetation) and communities with dominant Gleicheiniaceae (fern communities of forest borderlines) were distinguished and comparatively studied in Brazil, Malaysia and Singapore, and compared with similar stands around the world. A total of 71 vegetation relevs was collected. In coastal dune vegetation, the new associations Ipomoeo pediscaprae-Sporoboletum virginicae was distinguished for Brazil, and the vicariant Wedelio biflorae-Ipomoeetum pedis-caprae is described from Malaysia and Singapore. The vegetation of forest borderlines is characterized in Brazil by the new association Lycopodio cernuui-Gleicheinietum bifidae, which was subdivided in two subassociations (droseretosum capillaris and typicum). A physiognomically similar community was detected and described in Malaysia and Singapore as the new association Lycopodio cernuui-Dicranopteridetum curranii with two subassociations (typicum and dicranopteridetosum linearis).
20046329|Large areas of rather sandy dolomities are to be found in the Betic ranges. In these soils appears a very specialized xerophilous vegetation with a high percentage of endemic species. These communities, grouped into a particular order, Convolvuletalia boissieri, are fully reviewed here and consist of the following syntaxa: ROSMARINETEA Br. Bl. 1947 em. Rivas et al. 1991 + CONVOLVULETALIA BOISSIERI Rivas Martnez, Prez Raya & Molero Mesa in Prez Raya 1987 (syn. Pterocephaletalia spathulati Rivas Martnez, Prez Raya & Molero Mesa in Rivas Martnez, A. Molina & G. Navarro 1988).  Andryalion agardhii Rivas Martnez 1961 Andryalo agardhii-Convolvuletum boissieri Quzel 1953 nom. inv. convolvuletosum boissieri centaureetosum bombycinae subass. nova centaureetosum funkii subass. nova Hippocrepido eriocarpae-Pterocephaletum spathulati (Quzel 1953) Rivas Goday & Mayor 1966 em. Mota & Valle 1992 Arenario delaguardiae-Centaureetum bombycinae ass. nova Galio batici-Thymetum granatensis Mota & Valle 1992 Helianthemo frigiduli-Pterocephaletum spathulatae Martnez Parras & Peinado 1987 Scorzonero albicantis-Pterocephaletum spathulatae Martnez Parras & Peinado 1987 Com. de Jasione crispa subsp. segurensis Thymo granatensis-Arenarietum tomentosae Mota & Valle 1991 arenarietosum tomentosae pterocephaletosum spathulatae Mota & Valle 1992 Com. of Brassica almeriensis and Pterocephalus spathulatus /// Las reas de dolomas brechoides se encuentran ampliamente extendidas en las montaas bticas. Sobre ellas se desarrolla una vegetacin xerfila muy especializada, en la que se concentra un alto porcentaje de endemismos. Estas comunidades han sido agrupadas en un orden particular, Convolvuletalia boissieri, cuya revisin completa abordamos en este trabajo.
20046330|The principles and methods of the vegetation mapping undertaken at the French Institute, Pondicherry, are dealt with herein. Particularly, the characterisation of the different types of vegetation and especially the originality of the method: the dynamic interpretation of the vegetation and the depiction of the bioclimatic conditions. The programme of the forest map of South India at scale 1:250000, undertaken in collaboration with the forest departments of the concerned states, is then described with special attention given to the source and the collection of data. This map has been conceived to serve as a basic document for the sustainable management of the forests. Three examples of its application are given. They concern the detection of anomalies between the existing forest cover and the prevalent climatic environment; the detection of areas for which protection is urgently needed; the selection of regions showing a particular interest in the field of nature conservation or as gene pool reserve. Finally, an example of a thematic map of sensibility of the forests is given, using the vegetation map as a basis.
20046331|Epiphytic lichen vegetation was studied in 10 sites along an altitude gradient from 750 to 1510 m on NW-facing slopes of Mount Olympos, Greece to assess the main spatial heterogeneity of microhabitats affecting communities and species composition. Community structure along the gradient was studied by using multivariate techniques. The critical factor for spatial heterogeneity seems to be the height at which the lichen community develops on the tree trunks. Changes in the community structure of the epiphytic lichen vegetation were also detected along the altitudinal gradient and the altitude of 1200 m is considered to be an ecotone. A comparative study of epiphytic lichen communities on Mt. Olympos and in the Thessaloniki area revealed species indicators of air pollution.
20046332|The influence of 11 forest phytocoenoses in a single area (the Medvednica Mountain in north-western Croatia) on the composition of the zoogeographical elements of the land malacofauna was analysed. It was established that malacocoenoses in different plant associations of the same phytogeographical and zoogeographical area have different compositions in respect to the zoogeographical elements of the land snail fauna. Zoogeographical elements located on borders of the range display the widest divergences in their percentage representation in the malacocoenoses of the forest phytocoenoses of a single area. This is due to varying ecological conditions in the phytocoenoses under investigation.
20046333|Paspalum distichum L. has been the dominant species in the monsoonal wetlands of the Keoladeo National Park in northcentral India since 1982 when grazing by water buffalo and domestic cattle was halted. Maximum water levels in these wetlands occur immediately after the end of the summer monsoon in late September of early October and then decline until the next summer monsoon the following June. After the normal 1985 monsoon, maximum water depths were around 140 cm. After the poor 1986 monsoon, maximum water depths were only around 60 cm. Paspalum distichum maximum above-ground biomass at four sites ranged from 850 g
20046345|The aim of calibration is to measure the relationships between climate and taxa, in order to use the taxa as indicators for the estimation of bioclimates. The indicator capacity of a taxon (ICT) measures the probability of two events, together or separately, either the ordering of abundance, within the range of a factor, or the confining of presences inside a limited part of the range. ICT is obtained from numbering inequalities or matches, on such orderings, without any arithmetical operation upon the initial data. ICT measures the indicator capacity of a taxon for a factor, even if the taxon is intermittent or if its gradient is irregular. ICT increases with the threshold of the sum of temperatures, for some taxa, such as Arbutus, Celtis, Cistus, Coriaria, Cupressaceae, Helianthemum, Olea, Onobrychis, Pistacia, Silene, Thymelaeaceae. These taxa indicate a superior threshold above the classical one of 0 C. Conversely, ICT decreases when the threshold increases, for other taxa, such as Abies, Aesculus, Fraxinus, Juglans, Mercurialis, Populus, Resedaceae, Salix, Thalictrum, Tilia. A taxon may be an indicator for the whole range of a temperature, if its abundance increases rather regularly, such as Chenopodiaceae, Erica, Olea, Plantago, Tamarix, Umbelliferae, Vitis, or if its abundance decreases, as for Betula, Filicidae, Fraxinus, Juglans, Tilia. Conversely, some other taxa are indicators only in a part of the range, such as Calluna, Gallium and Platanus. The indicator capacity is used to estimate the thermic climate according to the flora. For each taxon, ICT depends on A and F, which are the ranks of abundance and thermal factor. For a given rank A, observed in a spectrum, ICT depends on F; ICT is the probability of the spectrum to be in the rank F. The maximum value of ICT, for all taxa in the spectrum, indicates the probable rank of that spectrum. Along the transect, the estimated temperatures happen to be equal to the measured ones for all the tested spectra (except one) and for all the factors, even if a small part of the flora is tested.
20046346|This paper presents a numerical analysis of the distribution patterns in Europe and adjoining regions of 242 vascular plant species occurring in the Italian beech forests. The classification of a matrix of species and of 531 Operational Geographic Units (OGUs) led to recognition of 15 different phytogeographic elements (chorotypes). The joint distribution of the species belonging to each chorotype is shown by a chorogram, which is a geographic map obtained by computer processing of the distributional data. Some of the chorograms show the main distributional centers for the beechwood flora in southern Europe: northwestern Balkan Peninsula and eastern Alps, southern Balkan Peninsula, Maritime Alps, northern Apennines, southern Apennines. Only 20% of the species are limited to narrow areas in southern Europe, and were not able to expand considerably their ranges in postglacial times. Migration from the refugia and colonization of vast areas in central and northern Europe led to intensive speciation phenomena, occurring chiefly through the formation of neopolyploid species. Several south European, narrow-ranging species, can be considered as palaeopolyploids with relict character. There is a good relationship between distribution and ecology of the chorotypes.
20046347|Chemical concentrations in leaves are reported for 14 elements in 6 tree species of a montane rain forest in Sri Lanka. The plant taxa varied greatly in chemistry and a few taxa appeared to concentrate several elements in high amounts. The chemical variability among taxonomic units was examined by comparing element-by-element concentration ratios in leaves. Several species seemed to have typical patterns of concentration ratios for certain elements and the interelement relationships of different species seemed to be repeated across varying habitat conditions.
20046348|The morphological and anatomical responses to different depths of burial were examined in Rumex alpinus (Polygonaceae), a perennial plant with monopodial, horizontally growing rhizome. Its segments, which consist of 12-20 internodes, 1 to 2 mm in length each, are products of single growing seasons. The rhizomes regenerated from 5, 10 and 20 cm, but failed to emerge from 30 cm. Number of internodes produced during a growing season was not affected by burial but the length of internodes increased up to about 30-fold. The rhizomes growing up to the surface were subsidized by older rhizome segments. In the case of deeply buried rhizomes the carbohydrate reserves of the last-year-segment were nearly completely depleted. Evolutionary significance of the regeneration capacity is discussed.
20046349|We examined the composition and structure of forest communities in a 3700 ha watershed in relation to environmental gradients and changes in land management practices. We identified four mixed-conifer forest types dominated by different combinations of Abies concolor, Picea pungens, Pinus ponderosa, Populus tremuloides, and Pseudotsuga menziesii, and a spruce-fir type dominated by Picea engelmannii and Abies lasiocarpa. The forest types occur in a complex pattern related to elevation and topographic-moisture gradients and variations in past fire regimes. However, widespread regeneration of A. concolor following possible changes in the fire regime in the late 19th century and continuing with institution of a fire suppression policy early in the 20th century is producing a more homogenous mixed-conifer forest with greater horizontal and vertical continuity of fuel. This shift toward landscape homogeneity not only may adversely affect biodiversity, but also may be perpetuated as the probability of large, high-severity fires increases with continued fire suppression.
20046350|On the Ural range the elevation of upper timberline changes at grade 71 m per degree of latitude in linear regression. Much lengthy cross-section -- for the semi-arid regions of middle Siberia and adjacent Kazakhstan, and for the regions of eastern Siberia dominated by larch forests -- exhibit parabolic regression of timberline levels upon geographic latitude. The longitudinal gradient of timberlines presumably depends on radiation balance related with the amount of precipitation. The arctic boundary of taiga in eastern Europe and Siberia lies mostly on average latitude 69 36 E. It correlates with mean July temperature 11.2 C, or with duration of the growing season 128 days with stable temperature of air exceeding OC which amounts to 876. Daily temperatures exceeding 5 and especially 10 C are seemingly less influential there. The value of 11.2 C deviates by about 1 C from the value of 'above 10 C' for three summer month reported by Langlet 1935, which shows the close environmental control regulating the northern and upper boundary of the northern, mostly coniferous forest on the northern hemisphere.
20046351|A brief history of the vegetation mapping in Italy is described. The principal types of maps are physiognomical, of vegetation belts, of vegetation series, phytosociological, of dynamical tendencies in vegetation, ecological, of potential vegetation and environmental. The first botanical map of whole Italy was made by Fiori in 1908 and it is of physiognomical type. The last one was realized by Pedrotti in 1989 and represents the natural potential vegetation (in 1:1 500 000 scale).
20046352|Field observations over a three-year period were used to document the floristic composition, flowering and fruiting sequences of the Sarcopoterium spinosa Mediterranean batha of Ariel. This plant community was found to be species-rich, with high percentages of annuals, bushes and geophytes, low percentages of herbaceous plants, climbers and trees, and ten species considered rare in Israel. Typical Mediterranean characteristics were observed in the S. spinosa batha: spring flowering reaching a peak in April, small between-year variation in flowering and fruiting, most species having Mediterranean distribution, and partial resistance to fire.
20046364|Chamaecytisus proliferus (L.fil.) Link (Fabaceae: Genisteae) represents a species complex in the Canary Islands. Floristic data from 147 releves from the whole complex were collected and analysed by classification (TWINSPAN) and ordination (DECORANA) methods. Results indicate that white escobon of Tenerife, escobon of El Hierro, white escobon of Gran Canaria and typical tagasaste in La Palma are associated with those plant communities from the north of these islands which are under the influence of the north-eastern trade winds. Narrow-leaved escobon in Tenerife and La Gomera, escobon of southern Gran Canaria and white tagasaste of La Palma are found in those areas which are not under the direct influence of these winds. Morphological forms from the more easterly islands (Gran Canaria and Tenerife-La Gomera) have the broadest ecological range and they have played an important role in the floristic changes which have taken place after the destruction of the forests in these islands. The highest priorities for in situ conservation should be given to wild populations of typical tagasaste, white escobon of Tenerife and escobon of El Hierro.
20046365|A survey is given on vegetation mapping in Switzerland from its beginning in the last years of the 19th century up to now. The detailed and small-scale phytosociological maps of today are used as a basis for agronomy and forestry management, as well as for selection, management regulations and monitoring of nature reserves.
20046366|To explain the recruitment and coexistence of species which establish after fire, this study predicted that each species would have different germination cues as a component of different regeneration niches. Furthermore, for species subject to natural fire frequencies of 10-20 years, fire-related cues, seed dormancy, extended longevity and fire-related germination cues might be predicted. However, results indicated broadly similar germination requirements. Seeds subjected to two heat treatments and a charcoal extract failed to show significantly enhanced germination. Instead, highest germination successes were achieved under alternating diurnal temperatures which implied an indirect fire cue, viz. the removal of insulating vegetation. Leachate solution inhibited germination in two species suggesting allelopathic effects during inter-fire periods. Only two species showed dormancy and three species did not have extended longevity but showed declining germinability after three years. Finally, in order to determine the potential germination from a soil-stored seed bank, data analysis simulated a seed bank comprising three years' accumulation of seeds. In each species the proportion of germinable seeds varied each year over the three years. Also, the germinability in response to ageing varied for each year's seed production. This would explain the variation in densities of the six species after different fire events, and hence offers a better explanation for species' coexistence.
20046367|Seedling performance, morphology, and leaf characteristics of evergreen tree species from different successional stages of Chinese broadleaved evergreen forests were studied in four simulated gap environments: in 100, 55, 33, and 18% of full sunlight. The first two represent the light regimes of clearings (gaps secondarily become more open due to human activity and natural erosion). The hypothesis was tested that early-successional species achieve their greatest seedling size in clearings and contrast in this respect with late-successional species. Late-successional species were expected to show a stronger morphological response (leaf/root ratio) to clearings than early-successional ones. The results provided some evidence in support of these hypotheses with one exception, namely that late-successional Castanopsis fargesii appeared to be a highly sun-tolerant species. It is suggested that Castanopsis seedlings are competitive in large gaps and clearings.
20046368|A comparative study of the North American salt marshes between Magdalena Plain (Baja California, 24 N) and the north of San Francisco (California 38 N) is made in order to establish relationships between floristic and zonal gradients. The sigmatistic-phytosociological method along with Average Linkage Clustering are used to describe the zonation of these salt marshes and to define the optimum zone of several halophilous plants and communities.
20046369|We evaluated effects of soil texture and disturbance size on the successional dynamics of a semiarid grassland dominated by the perennial bunchgrass, Bouteloua gracilis (H.B.K.) Lag. ex Griffiths. A spatially-explicit gap dynamics simulation model was used to evaluate recovery patterns. The model simulates establishment, growth, and mortality of individual plants on an array of small plots through time at an annual time step. Each simulated disturbance consisted of a grid of plots of the same soil texture interconnected by processes associated with dispersal of B. gracilis seeds. Soil texture was incorporated into the model as effects on seed germination, seedling establishment, and subsequent growth of B. gracilis. Five soil texture classes and five disturbance sizes were simulated. Soil texture was more important to recovery of B. gracilis than either size of a disturbance or location of plots within a disturbance. Constraints on recruitment of seedlings had a greater effect on recovery than constraints associated with plant growth. Fastest recovery occurred on soils with the largest silt content, the variable that affects seedling establishment. Disturbances with slowest recovery were on soils with low silt contents, and either high or low water-holding capacity, the variable that affects plant growth. Biomass and recovery decreased as disturbance size increased, and as distance from a disturbed plot to the edge of the disturbance increased. In most cases, important interactions between soil texture and disturbance size on recovery were not found.
20046370|The establishment and maintenance mechanisms of pioneer communities were investigated in ruderal habitats under two disturbance regimes, frequent and infrequent cutting sites. In the infrequent cutting sites, large perennials dominated through the year and inhibited the invasion of annuals, and the perennial community succeeded to forest stage if the cutting was stopped. In the frequent cutting sites, therophytic communities of winter and summer annuals alternated by season. Fresh seeds of both winter and summer annuals are dormant, but they have different germination times and thus can share the same sites in different seasons. Wind-dispersed biennials and large perennials have nondormant seeds and easily invade the sites; however, they are unable to mature to reproductive phase due to recurrent cuttings. The therophytic species, which can complete their life-cycle in a period between cuttings, accumulate seeds in the soils and are maintained by these buried seeds (seed bank annuals) during recurrent disturbances. The seed bank is compensation for the dispersal inefficiency of seed bank annuals. After abandonment of the frequent cutting sites, the buried seeds of seed bank annuals germinate and become the first-year pioneers. Thus, seed bank annuals are not invasive colonizers but are the remnants of the ruderal weed communities before abandonment.
20046380|Plot 82 is one of a hundred permanent plots that have been set up in Croatia for the purpose of longterm and continual investigations of ecosystems and their successions. It is located in the area of Karleuine Plase within the Plitvice Lakes National Park. Vegetation on the plot belongs to association Bromo-Plantaginetum mediae. The association develops in mountainous regions of continental Croatia within a wide altitude range, from 180-1300 m a.s.l. on shallow soil over pervious carbonate rocks. The floristic composition and phytocoenological characteristics of the association have been analyzed using the common methods of the phytocoenological school Zrich-Montpellier, on the basis of 17 phytocoenological records. In addition to floristic composition, some site characteristics have been analysed: soil moisture, calcium carbonate, phosphates, pH value, humus, cation exchange capacity and nitrogen mineralization on the site and in the laboratory. The results obtained are comparable with the data presented in the available phytocoenological and ecological literature.
20046381|Critical review of explanations for patterns of natural succession suggests a strong, common basis for theoretical understanding, but also suggests that several well known models are incomplete as explanations of succession. A universal, general cause for succession is unlikely, since numerous aspects of historical and environmental circumstances will impinge on the process in a unique manner. However, after disturbance, occupation of a site by any species causes changes in the conditions at the site. Sorting of species may result, since different species are adapted to different regions of environmental gradients. Such sorting can generate several patterns of species abundance in time, but commonly results in sequential replacements of species adapted to the varying conditions. This may be due to constraints on species' strategies, or life history traits, placed by the limited resources available to the organism. These constraints often result in inverse correlation between traits which confer success during early and late stages of succession. Facilitatory or inhibitory effects of species on each other are best understood in terms of these life history interactions, perhaps as restrictions on, or as moderation of, these process. Strong support for the importance of correlations in life history traits stems from comparisons of simulated succession with and without these correlations. These simulations are reviewed in some detail, and followed by brief reviews of other prominent models for succession. Several aspects of the confusion and controversies in the successional literature are then discussed, with a view to a more optimistic synthesis and direction for successional ecology.
20046382|The submerged flora of selected areas of Lough Corrib was examined in July, 1986. Plant assemblages are described in relation to local geology, topography and water chemistry. The impact of cultural eutrophication on the aquatic flora is discussed. Reference is made to some notable features of the Irish aquatic flora, as exemplified by Lough Corrib.
20046383|The effects of herbivory were simulated on stands of bilberry (Vaccinium myrtillus L.) in a boreal Empetrum-Myrtillus type forest. Five harvesting intensities were used (0% (A), 25% (B), 50% (C), 100% (D) of the bilberry ramets or all the ramets of all species (E)). Density and biomass of the stands, and growth of the ramets were monitored for five growth seasons, from 1986 to 1990. After damage new ramets emerged rapidly from dormant buds at the base of removed ramets. Between 70 and 97% of the density relative to the control level was regained by the final harvest. However, only between 11 and 64% of the biomass relative to the control level was recovered. Clipping reduced the branch growth, both in the new ramets and in the new parts of the old, unclipped ramets. Severe treatments (D and E) decreased the growth more than did light harvesting (B and C). Survival and fecundity of the ramets were not affected. The result therefore suggested that the bilberry is not able to recover totally from severe herbivory damage between the years of peak rodent population that shows a 3-4 year cycle. Nevertheless, extreme grazing pressure is rare in boreal ecosystems as alternative food is available for herbivores, and predators also limit the herbivore population. Hence the bilberry exhibits moderate tolerance of the usual level of herbivory damage.
20046384|The vegetation dynamics in two former braided channels of the Rhne River was studied at two time scales in order to test the following hypothesis: fluctuations would occur within seasons (flood disturbances, hydrological fluctuations, phenology) while successions would occur between years. The vegetation was surveyed in 1983, 1988 and 1989 during summer for the interannual investigation, and in spring 1989, summer 1989, winter 1989 and spring 1990 for the seasonal investigation. Terrestrialization, which was observed within the same period in other braided former channels of that river, did not happen here despite the 1989 drought. However, a vegetation zone situated in the upstream part one channel seems to represent some successional trend, resulting in the establishment of Nasturtium officinale and the increasing abundance of Chara vulgaris. In disagreement with the tested hypothesis, only fluctuations are observed at the two temporal scales in the other vegetation zones. The amplitude of cyclic trajectories observed in the seasonal study depends of the degree of hydraulic disturbances (floods, drought) that affects each vegetation zone. The channel that is closer to the river is maintained at a steady state by the periodical inputs of kinetic energy during river overflows and fast floods; the disturbances wash away fine deposits and rejuvenate the vegetation mosaic. In the other former channel that is less disturbed by floods and is characterized by a thick layer of fine sediments, the groundwater inputs from numerous limnocrene springs carry away organic matter and slow down ecological successions.
20046385|Water levels were raised 1 m for two years in 10 cells of an experimental wetland complex located in the Delta Marsh, Manitoba, Canada. The mean area covered by each of the 5 dominant emergent species in these cells declined significantly during the first year of flooding. There was no significant difference in the total acreage of emergents between flooding years. Three species were completely (Carex atherodes Spreng, Scolochloa festucacea (Willd.) Link) or almost (Scirpus lacustris L. spp. glaucus (Sm.) Hartm.) eliminated from the cells. Typha glauca Godr. and Phragmites australis (Cav.) Trin. still covered in the second year of flooding about 40 and 25%, respectively, of the area that they had occupied in the cells in the preflooding year. The mean elevation at which the two surviving species were found both increased 0.1 and 0.2 m over preflooding elevations during the first and second year of flooding, respectively. There is no evidence that during the flooding years any species migrated upslope toward more optimal water depths. Aboveground standing crop for all five species declined significantly during the first year of flooding, but was not significantly different between the two flooding years. Total belowground biomass did not differ between spring and fall, but declined significantly (about 20%) during the first year of flooding and remained about at that level during the second year. In the spring following the two years of flooding, mean total belowground biomass was only 40
20046394|Seed densities, estimated from germinations under glasshouse conditions, were determined for fire-treated and control soils sampled from north and south facing stands of mixed Adenostoma fasciculatum -- Ceanothus greggii chaparral that last burned 10, 17, 36, 62 and 86 years before 1987. A total of 53 species was recorded. Total germinable seed density was not influenced by aspect nor by an experimental fire treatment, however, densities varied significantly, but not predictably, over the time since fire sequence. Species diversity was significantly lower in the 86 year old stand, but neither diversity or richness was influenced by the fire treatment. Soils from north facing slopes supported a higher species diversity overall, and seed densities of six species were significantly higher on north than on south slopes. We identify two functional groups in the seed bank on the basis of the direct effects of fire on seed densities: a fire-dependent group, comprising 6 species and about 21% of the total seed bank, in which germinable densities increased after the fire treatment, and a fire-independent group, made up of 11 species and almost two-thirds of the seed bank. The fire-independent group is further separated into two: a shrub-centred sub-group (Crassula erecta, Filago californica, Pterostegia drymarioides, Streptanthus heterophyllus and Cryptantha intermedia) maintained larger seed banks in older stands and was associated with shrub cover; and an opportunistic sub-group (Camissonia hirtella, Gnaphalium chilense, Mimulus pilosus and Senecio vulgaris) tended to have larger seed banks in younger stands and was associated with canopy gaps. Overall, the soil seed assemblage from this mixed chaparral does not appear to be tightly coupled to fire-generated opportunities for recruitment. The reason for this is that the fire-dependent group represents only 6 species. In addition, among the fire-independent species, the shrub-centred group of 5 annuals made up almost 40% of total soil seed density. This group shows ecological and taxonomic affinities with desert annuals.
20046395|A three-year study involving 1300 marked shrubs of three species differing in palatability to sheep provided evidence that changes in the demographic structure of shrub populations in arid rangelands are a function of seed availability. Sheep reduced canopy size and flowering of their preferred forage species but had no effect on survivorship of seedlings or established plants during the study. Although annual turnover in all populations was low (&lt6%), abundant recent recruitment of non-forage species was observed on degraded rangeland. Natality of all three species was positively correlated with flower abundance. Mortality was correlated with natality because seedlings had a low probability of surviving their first year. Recruitment of both forage and non-forage species, appeared to be inhibited by competition and seedlings seldom survived near adult plants of the same growth form.
20046396|Eight grassland associations with ten phases and two riverine forest associations were identified on the floodplains of Chitwan National Park in lowland Nepal. Two Themeda arundinacea associations were primarily stable edaphic associations on mollic soils, often with aquic moisture regimes. Themeda associations were floristically similar to adjacent sal forest. Four mixed tall-grass associations primarily of Narenga porphyrocoma, Saccharum bengalense, and Saccharum spontaneum were identified. These and Themeda arundinacea types were characterized by a very weak component of woody species. Two grass-shrub associations of Saccharum bengalense and Narenga porphyrocoma with a strong woody species component typical of riverine forest were described. Trewia nudiflora-Bombax ceiba riverine forest and mixed riverine forest types also were identified on the basis of understory composition. Mixed tall-grass and grass-shrub associations appeared to represent early and late phases of grassland succession to riverine forest. Trajectories of succession are controlled primarily by fire and wildlife grazing. The classification refines the general classifications applied to the central Terai of Nepal and India, and should provide insight for classification of other Terai riverine grasslands.
20046397|At altitudes between 1300 m to 2100 m in the Etna massif (Sicily), an endemic species of the Betula genus, Betula aetnensis Rafin, grows in a well-defined microclimatical context. Aboveground biomass and nutrient content studies within one stand revealed no significant differences from the other Betula species, normally found in colder more temperate climate regions. Throughout the studied sites, biomass production, nutrient cycling and various structural or physiological characteristics (leaf area index) varied very little. Other researches indicate that the originality of Betula aetnensis lies more in the histological or anatomical characteristics of its water conducting system which enables the species to adapt to Mediterranean-climate summer droughts in the Etna massif. /// Sull'Etna, tra 1300 e 2100 m d'altitudine, in una zona microclimaticamente ben definita del versante nordorientale, si rinviene la Betula aetnensis Rafin. Dallo studio della fitomassa e della mineralomassa aerea del bosco di Monte Baracca,  emerso che non vi sono differenze notevoli con le altre specie indagate del genere Betula, pi caratteristiche dei climi temperati e freddi. La produzione di biomassa, cosi come la gestione degli elementi nutritivi,  molto simile ai diversi popolamenti gi indagati, cosi come certe caratteistiche strutturali e fisiologiche (leaf area index). L'originalit della Betula aetnensis  da ricercarsi nel vantaggio che ne ricava, a livello endogeno, sfruttando le caratteristiche istologiche ed anatomiche del suo apparato conduttore, che le consentono un efficace ed eccellente adattamento alle condizioni di siccit estive particolari del clima mediterraneo del vulcano.
20046398|Studies on the survival and establishment of seedlings in coastal and lacustrine sand dune systems suggest that nutrient deficiency, lack of moisture, sand accretion, salt spray and predation are probably the most important limiting factors. Seedlings employ both avoidance and tolerance strategies to withstand the different stresses. For example, seedling recruitment of dune species coincided with periods of high moisture availability and occurred in years with high well distributed rainfall. The seedlings exhibited rapid vertical elongation of roots, avoided moisture stress by leaf rolling, dense hair on leaves, fleshy cotyledonary leaves, and by growing in the shade of nurse plants. A certain proportion of seedlings of all species survived partial burial and showed stimulation of leaf growth, total leaf area, number of tillers and total dry matter. Seedlings of most species could not survive complete burial, however, some species did grow through the sand deposit by an increase in the number of nodes and length of internodes. Plants responded to salt spray by inhibition of seed germination, developing resistance, increase in leaf thickness and reduced uptake of Na and Cl ions. Several characters such as higher vigour of seedlings, larger seed size and seed polymorphism were also of adaptive significance to the species.
20046399|The distribution and frequency of bryophyte and lichen vegetation on ice-free regions of the Windmill Islands are presented using data derived from aerial photography and ground surveying. The qualitative and quantitative plant cover of sites are listed and related to the topography and major soil characteristics of each site. The richest associations of macrolichens and bryophytes occurred on the metamorphic northern peninsulas. Species richness and frequency was generally reduced on the charnockitic southern peninsula and the islands which have been deglaciated longer. Salinity varied significantly throughout the region with the highest levels in the northern islands reflecting the presence of penguin colonies. In such sites bryophytes and lichens were virtually absent. Wind blown sea-spray contributed far less salts than direct excretion from penguins. On the peninsulas snow cover and site exposure appeared to delimit plant distribution. Higher salt levels from sea-spray on the northern aspects of the peninsulas seemed to have negligible impact on vegetation patterns with the possible exception of Biatorella cerebriformis which was encountered only inland. The total phosphorus and nitrogen levels of the skeletal soils were generally low except in eutrophic sites adjacent to penguin colonies. The vegetation patterns are discussed in terms of the climate, topography and species autecology.
20046407|Over a period of 7 years the biology and phenotypic variability of Chusquea culeou were studied at 5 locations in cool temperate forests of southern Argentina. Excavated rhizomes had an average of 1.1 successful rhizome buds, and an average of 2.1 years elapsed between successive generations of rhizomes. Rhizome buds usually develop within the first four years after a rhizome forms. Height, volume and weight of a culm can be calculated from its diameter 1 m above the ground. Culm size, length of foliage leaf blades, and pattern of secondary branching differed among study sites. Dead culms were numerous and commonly remained erect for more than 7 years after dying. New culm shoots appear in spring and reach full size within a few months. Shoots can grow more than 9 cm/day. Less than half of the shoots survived a year; most were killed by moth larvae. Multiple primary branch buds emerge through the culm leaf sheaths in the second spring. The mean number of branch buds at mid-culm nodes varied between 34.8 and 81.5, and the mean number of primary branches was between 22.8 and 40.8. Number and length of branches, and number and length of foliage leaf blades at each node is related to the position of the node on a culm. Most branches grow about 3 cm and produce 1 to 3 foliage leaves annually. Foliage leaf blades generally live 2 years or more; few survive 6 years. Relative lengths of foliage leaf blades and their spacing along a branch permit recognition of annual cohorts. Both gregarious and sporadic flowering have been reported, and every year a few isolated plants flower and die. Length of the life cycle is unknown. Seedlings require up to 15 years to produce culms of mature size. Foliage branches may live more than 23 years, and culms may survive 33 years. Extensive loss of new shoots to predation suggests that gregarious flowering may be driven by a need to escape parasitism. C. culeou clumps expand slowly. Average annual rate of increase of the number of live culms in a clump was 4.6%. Methods of seed dispersal are undocumented. A dense stand of Chusquea culeou had an estimated phytomass of 179 tons/hectare (dry weight), 28% of which was underground. Net annual production was about 16 t/ha dry weight.
20046408|Two patch types were recognized in the Occidental District of the Patagonian arid steppe: i) shrubs encircled by a ring of tussock grasses, and ii) tracts of scattered tussocks. Completeness of the ring of grasses around the three dominant shrubs was a function of shrub size. Average completeness was 62, 71 and 83%, respectively for the three dominant shrubs (Senecio filaginoides, Mulinum spinosum and Adesmia campestris). A model for the cyclic dynamics of the two patch types was proposed. It includes a building phase (grass ring construction), a mature phase (maximum ring completeness) and a degenerate phase. In this last phase, triggered by shrub death, completeness of the ring progressively decreases until remnant grasses become undistinguishable from the scattered tussocks patch type. Ring formation occurred independently of shrub species. Grass species were differentially associated to the two patch types and to rings of different shrub species. Cyclical patch dynamics influenced the pattern of resource utilization, since the shrub-ring patch, with a share of only 18% of cover, contributed 44% of the total primary productivity.
20046409|I examine the process of plant community colonization through a chronosequence study of permanent plots spanning 45 years on a 70-year-old subalpine earthflow in south-western Colorado, USA. While local diversity and average density of vegetation remained stable throughout the study, the overall diversity increased through the early years of the study with little change over the past 20 years. A gradual shift in species composition occurred through time with species with good dispersal and stress tolerance abilities colonizing the site initially followed by more generalist species. After over 70 years the disturbed communities remained distinct from adjacent relatively undisturbed areas in diversity, density, and species composition. Soil translocation experiments suggest that it is the severe microclimate of the earthflow which is limiting further colonization of the site.
20046410|Four seventy-year-old broadleaved recent woods adjacent to three ancient woodland fragments, which all together covered an area of 27.5 ha, were investigated. Two of the recent woods were established naturally and two were planted. The ancient woodlands, including oak-hornbeam and oak-pine woods, were the only near source of diaspores of woodland species. The recent woods differed in area, location, soil richness and light conditions. On the basis of the data from 236 systematically located plots the similarities and differences in ground vegetation between the ancient and recent woods were studied by detrended correspondence analysis (DCA). Even after 70 yr of forest vegetation recovery in the recent woodlands differences were found in the vegetation of the woods examined. The direction of secondary succession was strongly determined by soil conditions. Mature woodlands showed higher beta-diversity. The causes of convergence and divergence in the composition of the communities were analyzed and discussed. The greatest similarity was found between recent and adjacent ancient woods growing on rich brown soils. The greatest divergence was observed in the recent woods growing on poor soils and more open to light, where the very great density of Carex brizoides inhibited the rate of succession. The results obtained indicate that with no isolation and only small distances from ancient woods the community composition in recent woods is to a greater degree dependent upon soil conditions, light and the influence of dominants than on the modes of species dispersal. The regeneration of ground vegetation of woodland communities is possible to a high degree, close to ancient woodlands, on rich brown soils.
20046411|High levels of edaphic endemism and soil-related beta-diversity in Agulhas Plain fynbos communities suggest that reproductive traits of plants growing on different fynbos soils would be related to differences in soil regime. We investigated reproductive traits in two closely related Proteaceae species-pairs growing on adjacent soil types: Protea obtusifolia and Leucadendron meridianum occurring in shallow pockets of limestone-derived soils, and P. susannae and L. coniferum on the adjacent, uniformly deep colluvial sands. We found that species growing on the limestone soil comprised smaller plants, with fewer cones and seeds per plant, than species on the colluvial sands. These differences suggest that the small soil pockets of limestone soil limit plant size, in turn limiting the number of reproductive structures. Annual variation in cones and seed was the same in all species. There were no consistent trends in degree of serotiny, or sex allocation across soil types. The higher cone and seed predation levels of both limestone species than the colluvial sands species were ascribed to the higher plant densities of the former leading to lower insect search times. It was concluded that there were no overall patterns in reproductive traits that could be ascribed to differences in soil regime, other than through size-related effects. Fire regime is likely to have played a more important role in determining reproductive traits.
20046412|The highly disturbed community types of the Haut-Saint-Laurent in southern Quebec were classified using an hierarchic approach with three levels: geomorphology, pedology and vegetation. Considered as distinct entities were, on the one hand, the herbaceous and shrub species that made up ecological groups as defined by Meilleur et al. (1992), and, on the other hand, individual tree species. Great importance was given to geomorphological variables because they are one of the most stable ecological factors of the region. We identified 47 community types from 452 sites sampled, based on a TWINSPAN analysis of the vegetation data. Binary Discriminant Analysis (BDA) showed the importance of disturbance on community composition, especially for sites included in the forest mosaic. Other important abiotic parameters included morphogenic features, topography and drainage. The BDA showed that 24 community types were found to be significantly associated with at least one morphogenic feature. The results indicate that the Beech-Hemlock association is a more stable state for mesic sites than the often cited Sugar Maple with Hickory. On glacial deposits, the presence of Thuja occidentalis is significantly associated with grazing practices. The other 23 community types are not significantly associated with any morphogenic features. On one hand, these types tend to be ubiquitous on different deposits with the same drainage class and reveal that their composition was altered through disturbances. On the other hand, some community types are more associated with microclimates as is the case of Sugar Maple with Striped Maple, or with their ecological amplitude limits as is the case of Sugar Maple with Ironwood and Aspen or Sugar Maple with Red Maple and Black Ash. A classification of the stands, given the high number of disturbed communities within the territory, appears difficult to use as a basis for ecological units.
20046417|Gaps formed by stream laid gravels in a warm temperate Podocarp-Angiosperm rain forest in New Zealand were quickly invaded by 41 free-standing woody species. Height-age curves for the eight most frequent species were used to construct a 12 yr chronosequence which showed 18 species arrived by 0.9 yr and 33 by 1.9 yr. This rapid invasion was supplied from both gaps and mature forest and fitted the Initial Floristic Model coupled with a Facilitation Mechanism. Over the 12 yr period, stem density and births peaked at 0.9 yr and deaths at 1.9 yr with a natality of 39.5/m, a mortality of 38.5/m and nearly 99% dying as seedlings. Plant height increased to 5.1 m at 12.1 yr with height increment peaking at 43 cm/yr at 7.3 yr. Maximum potential heights ranged from 4 to 60 m and were positively correlated with longevity which varied from 20 to 1150 yr for 19 known species. A decline in height increment to 0.9 yr showed a below-ground component in intraspecific competition with significant negative correlations between stem density and height indicating a later above-ground component. There was no significant height competition amongst the 11 most frequent species and only one significant negative interspecific association. This suggests high species coexistence for which 'Equal chance' was probably the major mechanism. Given this coexistence, rapid species arrival, early sexual maturity and similar density and height-age patterns, the main dynamic variables may be maximum height, longevity and height increment, all of which are, partly, genetically programmed. Most dynamic affinities are with tropical forest, although height growth and species richness are warm temperate.
20046418|The epiphytic vegetation on host trees along an altitudinal transect on the west slope of the Central Cordillera in Colombia was sampled. Bark-type restricted sampling comprised four full-grown forest trees, not necessarily four species, at altitudinal intervals of c. 200 meters from 1000 to 4130 m a.s.l. and included the canopy. Both vascular and non-vascular epiphytes, the latter often more abundant in the montane rain forest, were included in the analyses. Using a method of direct gradient analysis, canonical correspondence analysis, the variation explained by various environmental variables could be discriminated from a great amount of variation that seemed not related to any ecological factor. To a large extent, the randomness in propagule supply appears to determine the floristic composition on branch/trunk segments. The grouping of relevs in a phytosociological analysis concurred with a clustering of samples in an ordination diagram of the first two extracted constrained axes. The sample scores on these two axes were strongly correlated with the complex variables 'altitude' and 'height within the host tree'. Specialists and generalists with respect to the two variables were defined based on tolerances provided by the canonical correspondence analysis as was the position of species on the gradients involved. Independently from any of the other variables entered, a relation between the epiphytic vegetation and host species was detected, particularly in the case of Brunellia occidentalis, a fast growing tree species of higher altitude. No relation between chemical characteristics of suspended soil in the Upper Montane Rain forest and its supporting species could be demonstrated.
20046419|Patterns of tree species distribution and their structural-functional features were studied along an altitudinal gradient in the Indian Central Himalaya. The forest vegetation falls within three formation types: low to mid-montane sclerophyllous, broad-leaved forests; mid-montane deciduous forests; and high-montane mixed stunted forests. Deciduous tree species formed a considerable (49%) portion of the high altitude forests between 1500-3300 m. The upper limit of forests ranges from 3000 to 3300 m, and three taxa are commonly found at tree line: an evergreen, needle-leaved gymnosperm (Abies pindrow Spach.), an evergreen, broad-leaved sclerophyllous oak (Quercus semecarpifolia Sm.), and a deciduous, broad-leaved birch (Betula utilis Don). The high altitude forests differed from the low altitude forests of Central Himalaya in their greater proportion of microphanerophytes. Vernal flowering is common at this elevation in Central Himalaya. In general, in their elevational distribution and structural-functional attributes, these high altitude forests are similar to other forests of cool temperate zones in Himalaya.
20046420|This study evaluates the species richness, phenology and effect of environmental factors on the composition of canal and drain vegetation in the Nile Delta, Egypt. Altogether, 365 stands were sampled along the terraces, slopes, littoral zones and water zones of 28 canals and 10 drains. Smooth species compositional changes were found in the first three zones. The slope plant community has the highest total number of species and species richness and a medium value of species turnover. The water zone has the lowest values of these variables. The number of species with seedlings and vegetative plants had two peaks: one in winter and the second in summer, which was related to the contrasted behaviour of the winter and summer weeds. The number of species with vegetative and fruiting plants was relatively higher, while the number with dormant plants was relatively lower in the canal vegetation when compared to that of the drains. The number of species with vegetative, flowering and fruiting plants increased with the decrease of canal-drain width.
20046421|Vegetation of mountain areas affected by SO pollution (Krun hory Mts., Czech Republic) was analysed using multivariate methods. Communities with prevailing species Calamagrostis villosa, a rhizomatous grass expanding into deforested sites, were sampled by Braun-Blanquet relev method. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to assess the effect of environmental variables (soil removal, deforestation, and shading). To test the effects of light, moisture, soil acidity and nitrogen, mean sample indicator values were correlated a posteriori with sample axes on ordination scores. Light, soil acidity, moisture, and site history (in terms of past deforestation and soil removal applied in reclamation procedures) were found to be the main factors responsible for the community composition. Nitrogen level had not a significant effect on the community composition. When analyzing the whole data set, i.e. including also remnants of natural spruce forests, light was the factor affecting at most the composition of communities. Within the bare spot vegetation, if treated separately, the highest variation was found along the soil acidity/moisture gradient. The effect of soil removal was only obvious at early successional stages. Species diversity increased with moisture and decreased with soil acidity. Species exhibiting S- and/or R-strategy are successful on extremely acid soils whereas forbs present in bare spots appear to be supported by disturbances.
20046422|It was demonstrated that a mechanical harvesting regime can influence the species composition of ditch vegetation at the community level. This effect, however, was very small compared with those of other factors such as the between-site and the within-site spatial variation, and several soil and water quality parameters. Cutting in November had the largest effect, in that it caused the greatest extremes in species cover. The vegetation was composed of 136 plant species. The semi-aquatic and aquatic species were less numerous than the terrestrial ones (52 versus 84). The total number per vegetation type and site ranged from 5 to 49; that of persistent plant species, from 4 to 22. Only 16% of the species was significantly influenced by the mechanical harvesting regime. The significant effects of the mechanical harvesting regime on plant species were related to plant-inherent factors. Mechanical harvesting repeated within a year, on one hand, opened up the vegetation, 1) freeing sites for colonization of new species, 2) improving the light climate for seedlings which had already colonized; on the other hand, it exhausted (carbohydrate) reserves of solitary species. Mechanical harvesting once a year in November had a contrasting effect in that it caused suffocation of the shore vegetation in spring by the not yet decomposed plant material harvested in autumn. The highest species richness was attained for the aquatic vegetation: on sand by cutting three times per year (in May, July and September), and on peat by cutting once a year (in November); and for the shore vegetation: on sand once a year (in May) and two times per year (in May and July), and on peat once a year (in May or November).
20046423|A distribution of the epiphytic bryophyte and lichen vegetation of deciduous forests from the centre and north of the supramediterranean belt from the Spanish Iberian Peninsula was established using numerical (PCA, CCA) and traditional floristic characteristics. Four groups have been established in relation to several syntaxa. Derived by numerical classification, possible successional trends between the groups with respect to changes in moisture, light and diameter of the trees are described. Nevertheless, patterns with succession in epiphytic communities are very complex to establish.
20046433|Leaves of velvetleaf (Abutilon theophrasti) exhibited solar--tracking movements in several experiments using different cultural conditions near Ames, IA, U.S.A. Freely moving leaves maintained a smaller angle between the normal to the leaf and the sun's rays than did leaves fixed in one position in both greenhouse and field experiments. Freely moving leaves had higher total daily carbon gain, transpiration, and water use efficiency than leaves fixed in a horizontal position. Leaves on different sides of the plant exhibited different abilities to track the sun, with leaves on the north side of the plant least able to track the sun.
20046434|The mechanical properties of broad-leaf tree species in a maritime-wind exposed habitat in central Japan were examined. The broad-leaf trees studied were Celtis sinensis var. japonica, Ilex integra, Eurya japonica, Pittosporum tobira, Euonymus japonicus and Cinnamomum japonicum. The results obtained can be summarized briefly as follows: 1. At places with weaker wind, the number of species increased and the height of the canopy increased. 2. The fracture strength
20046435|Effects of climatic factors on the forest plant distribution were examined in Hokkaido Island, northern Japan, where boreal and temperate plants frequently co-occur, and the relationship of floral make-up with phytogeography and life form was analysed. From the climatic preference of tree species consisting of mixed forest, the co-occurrence of boreal and temperate plants was found over a wider thermal range in regions of little rainfall. However, co-occurrence in a certain forest site was more notable in the understory than in the crown. A particular case of this involves southern evergreen shrubs and herbs in a boreal coniferous forest. Another is the presence of northern summergreen herbs in a temperate hardwood forest. It is speculated that the co-occurrence dates back at least to the late Quaternary, when a decrease in temperature associated with the glacial period forced understory plants to adapt their life form or leaf habit to snowcover and the light conditions of interior forests. Recent geographical evidence suggests that the island has been isolated from the southern island for at least 70 000 years. Thus, the postglacial re-expansion of southern species does not appear to be due to immigration but rather due to their expansion from refuges on the island such as Oshima Peninsula for snow-tolerant species and Hidaka District for snow-intolerant species.
20046436|The structure of the seed bank (including Chara oospores), in relation to depth within the sediment and disturbance, was studied in two Rhne delta temporary marshes for two years. The seeds of all species were concentrated in the top 2 cm of sediment with very low numbers beeing found below 4 cm. When an exclosure eliminated disturbances of the sediment by animals, the vertical repartition of seeds at site 2 was more pronounced than outside the exclosure. In experiment 1, the emergence capacity of seeds from different depths and buried under layers of sterile equivalent to those in the field was measured. Depending of the species, 22 to 98% of the seeds germinated from unburied seeds in the top 2 cm. Only 1% of the oospores of Chara (from site 2) at 2 to 4 cm depth in the sediment emerged. In experiment 2, surface seed bank samples were placed under 0, 2 or 4 cm sterile sediment depth. The samples contained numerous recent seeds and the emergence percentage reached 41% (for Ruppia maritima). Only the seeds of Zannichellia spp failed to germinate from a depth of 2 cm or more. The emergence percentage from 2 cm depth or more was always lower than at the surface. These experiments showed that both burial and ageing of seeds decrease germination capacity. The majority of the active seeds located at the surface germinate when the marsh is flooded. Seeds located between 2 and 4 cm can be brought back to the surface by disturbances and play the role of a reserve involved in maintenance of populations that go without seed production for one or some years.
20046437|The present study provides quantitative estimates of the vegetation structure and distribution of the plant communities in Tihamah coastal plains of Jazan region. The factors affecting the species distribution and the correlations between the vegetational gradients and the edaphic variables were discussed. Eight major community types constitute the major part of the natural vegetation of the study area and are dominated by nine perennials: Ziziphus spina-christi (L.) Willd, Calotropis procera (Wild) R. Br., Leptadenia pyrotechnica (Forssk.) Decne., Suaeda monoica Forssk., Panicum turgidum Forssk., Salvadora persica L., Acacia tortilis (Forssk) Hayne, Tamarix aphylla (L.) Karst. and Cyperus conglomeratus Rottb. The results of this study confirm that the study area is a subtropical desert and belongs floristically to the Sudanian territory and also that therophytes are the most frequent life-form in this region. Analysis of the correlation between the vegetational gradients and the edaphic factors showed that soil pH, moisture, electrical conductivity, organic carbon, calcium carbonate, bicarbonate, soil cations: sodium, potassium, calcium, and the sodium adsorption ratio are the main operating edaphic factors in the area.
20046438|Ten trees (5-70 m canopy area) were selected to determine effects of tree size (crown area) on herbaceous species composition and biomass in a Quercus emoryi savanna in southeastern Arizona. Consistent with most studies in temperate savannas, herbaceous biomass was reduced beneath the canopy relative to grassland areas. However, tree size appeared to exert no influence over herbaceous biomass. In contrast to most temperate savannas, Q. emoryi trees did not affect distribution of herbaceous species.
20046439|Mora gonggrijpii seedlings were harvested on two soil types in small gaps and in the forest understorey. The seedlings appear to be intolerant of lateritic soil with poor drainage either as a result of poor aeration or reduction of the soil which is rich in iron and aluminium. Biomass allocation is not greatly affected on the lateritic soil as compared to the better drained sandy soil. During the initial two months light has no effect on the growth of the seedlings but soil type does. In the same period cotyledon depletion is equal, suggesting higher turnover rates or respiration rates on the poorly drained lateritic soil. From the second to the seventh month light stimulates growth, but Mora gonggrijpii seedlings are not plastic in their morphology. Leaf area remains constant during this period, and no branching is observed in the higher light environment. Specific leaf area, leaf area ratio, net assimilation rate and relative growth rate are all among the lowest thus far reported for tree seedlings. Evidence is presented that these characteristics are found often in large seeded (climax) species.
20046440|In the Bialowiea Primeval Forest a decrease in the extent of the Potentillo-albae Quercetum has been observed for the last few decades, both with regard to the number of stands and size of the remaining phytocoenoses. In this paper the decline of an oak forest stand is analysed in terms of species richness, species frequency, spatial pattern and proportion of various ecological groups in the patch. Investigations were carried out from 1969 to 1992 on a permanent plot of 512 square meters divided into 128 quadrats. During this period: 1) 60 species disappeared from the plot whereas only 4 species invaded it; 2) frequency of most species considerably decreased; 3) species diversity decreased; 4) spatial homogeneity of the patch increased; 5) the number of species per unit area markedly decreased; 6) domination structure changed: the proportion of hornbeam-forest species was constantly increasing, eventually reaching the value comparable to that recorded for hornbeam forests. Finally, the oak forest was replaced by a community resembling hornbeam forest, with a small proportion of heliophilous species.
20046441|Growth strategies of the two varieties of Arrhenatherum elatius were studied. The two varieties studied were: onion couch, which produces bulbous swollen internodes and is an arable weed of local importance, whilst tall oat-grass is more widely distributed. An experiment in which the two varieties were grown at different densities in monoculture and were harvested at intervals, highlighted various aspects of the competitive relation between the two varieties and an annual crop. Significant and consistent differences were found between the two varieties for most of the attributes measured during the two growing seasons. Tall oat-grass allocated a greater proportion of its whole shoot dry weight to producing vigorous aerial tillers, whereas onion couch allocated a greater proportion of its whole shoot dry weight to the development of basal internodes. The regulation of tiller number as a reaction to increasing density in tall oat-grass is achieved by high tiller mortality, whereas in onion couch, this stress is expressed by small tiller mortality. Growth pattern shown by the two varieties of A. elatius reflect the adaptive strategies evolved by them in two different habitats and are due to the genetic factors which determine the presence or absence of their characteristic basal internodes.
20046450|Three types of forests were recognised (high, disturbed and open) based on the openings in the canopy in a Tropical Monsoonal Forest at the Wasgomuwa National Park, Sri Lanka. The analysis of these forests showed that the species composition varied between forest types. The shrub vegetation, not only was very characteristic but was also a major component in each forest, unlike in the tropical rain forest. The exact role of the shrubs in the dynamics of the tropical monsoon forests is not established, but is suggested that it may act as a buffer during the dry periods under a semi deciduous canopy. The sapling composition differed from the tree vegetation and indicated that the species composition may change with time in this forest. Mosaic theory or the patch dynamics may best explain the dynamics of this tropical monsoon forest which is a mixture of forest types. More studies are required before generalisations can be made of tropical monsoon forests.
20046451|Multiscale ordination is a technique for examining spatial patterns of several species at several scales. We present a paired-quadrat method (paired quadrat covariance; PQC) to be used in multiscale ordination and test it with artificial data. Multiscale ordination with PQC successfully extracted the salient features of the data set. The method appears to be more sensitive than blocked-quadrat techniques for extracting small-scale patterns. We suggest that PQC will be useful as a complement to existing procedures or as a tool for analysing data from scattered quadrat arrangements.
20046452|Disturbances play an important role in the establishment of vegetation at Inaccessible and Nightingale Islands in the South Atlantic Ocean. Type, altitude and age of disturbance all influenced the species richness, life-form and abundance of seedlings. A few indigenous species appear to be dependent on small disturbances, such as the clearings around albatross nests, for their perpetuation, e.g. Acaena sarmentosa and Gnaphalium thouarsii. Alien forbs and grasses, e.g. Conyza albida, Holcus lanatus, Pseudognaphalium luteo-album and Rumex obtusifolius, tended to dominate large recent disturbances such as soil-slips and depressions, and to colonize man-modified sites. Alien plants were less common on the plateau at Inaccessible Island than on the lowlands. Their success appears to be enhanced by large-scale disturbances. The highest density and diversity of seedlings occurred on large soil-slips where mineral soil was exposed and vegetation cover was minimal.
20046453|A minimum variance cluster analysis of 87 species of vascular plants occurring in south Siberian birch woodlands, based on their total distribution ranges, grouped them into 9 phytogeographic elements. The main distribution patterns of each element are illustrated by means of maps obtained by automatic mapping programs, showing the joint occurrence of the species of each element on a world scale. The results indicate a predominance of Eurasiatic-temperate taxa. The south Siberian birch woodlands can be considered as the easternmost extensions of the European deciduous forest belt, which in Siberia is compressed between the taiga biome in the north and the steppe biome in the south. The marginal position of Siberian Betula stands is reflected by the persistence of plants which are 'ecologically marginal' with respect to true forest vegetation; most of the Eurasiatic species are typical, in Europe, of forest-meadows and forest-margins.
20046454|The aim of this study is to acquire insight in the initial vegetation development on active inland drifting sands in relation to geomorphological processes. For this purpose the algal vegetation and surface dynamics were monitored on a sand hill with active drifting sand, and on a bare slope within a terrain covered with Polytrichum piliferum located in the Laarder Wasmeer (The Netherlands). There is a successional development from an algal community dominated by the cyanobacterium Oscillatoria spp., through the crust in which initially the green alga Klebsormidium and later the cyanobacterium Synechococcus predominates, eventually succeeded by the green alga Zygogonium ericetorum. In this phase the sand is stabilized. The areal extent of algal crusts on the active drifting sand area is greatest during the winter, contrastingly highest biomass values are found during the summer and autumn in mature Zygogonium crusts. Substrate instability due to the action of wind clearly limits algal growth and vegetational development on the sand hill. The algal crust seldom reaches the stage of maturity. Near-flat ground is more easily stabilized. Unlike the algae found in coastal dune area and the initial pioneers in the Laarder Wasmeer area, the Zygogonium crust is water repellent when dry. Consequently increasing surface stability by algal crust development is accompanied by higher surface runoff on sloping areas.
20046455|This paper reports on the tree structure, tree dimension relationships and woody biomass production and removal of a sub-tropical natural forest in the Mamlay watershed of the Sikkim Himalaya. The forest provides fuel, fodder and timber to four villages. Only 11 tree species were found growing in the tree stratum despite the high diversity in the stand (32 tree species). The forest shows good regeneration potential with 5474 seedlings/ha and 1776 saplings/ha, but the population structure revealed a marked paucity of trees of higher diameter classes due to removal of trees of lower diameters. Standing wood biomass of 362 Mg/ha is mainly shared by 4 dominating species in the stand. The boles are removed mainly for timber and fuel purposes and about 22 Mg/ha wood biomass was removed in between 1987-1991. Net Primary productivity of woody biomass of the forest is recorded to be 18 Mg/ha/year. 3.85 Mg/ha of annual woody biomass production was removed in the form of tree boles apart from lopping of branches.
20046456|The definition of fractal dimension of natural objects, which enables to deal with scale dependence of fractal dimension is discussed. Abrupt changes of fractal dimension of spatial structure of terrestrial ecosystems are considered in the context of hierarchical paradigm. On this ground the procedure is proposed for segmentation of a territory, which takes into account the scale dependence of spatial variability of ecological parameters. Using remotely sensed data -- normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and thermal radiation in the infrared band -- fractal dimensions and critical scales are evaluated for different forest types with the help of software, developed for this purpose. The results obtained corroborate the potentialities of fractal approach in ecology. These methods and results can be used for discrimination of remotely sensed data; but further investigations, including detailed comparison of fractal characteristics of remotely sensed forest images with results of on-site field studies are necessary to validate them.
20046457|East African coastal forests possess considerable botanical importance as an area of high plant endemicity, but are little known ecologically. Quantitative botanical sampling techniques have been used to determine vegetation communities in Pande and Kiono coastal forests, Tanzania. Data from 76 quadrats established in six transects (three in each forest) and containing a total of 146 plant species have been classified using TWINSPAN. Seven species-associations and four sample-associations are recognised. Undisturbed forest supports six species-associations which are rich in plant species of restricted distribution, and these differ between the sites studied. Forest heavily disturbed by man supports one species-association composed of more generalist forest species and this association is similar between sites. Variation in vegetation types of undisturbed forests appears to be caused by edaphic conditions, rainfall and degree of exposure. Variation in the vegetation of disturbed forests appears to be controlled by the intensity of forest disturbance. Heavy human disturbance of coastal forests reduces their biodiversity values as plant-diversity and the habitats of rare plant species are lost.
20046458|Dehesa ecosystems on granite and on slate clearly differ in soil characteristics. Our aim was to find out whether floristic composition differed too. We selected an equal number of plots, on both granite and slate, in different successional stages of development and at various ages after field abandonment (the youngest 15-20 years). Plots with rock-outcrops, which had never been cultivated, were also included in the study. The results showed that floristic differences between granite and slate communities were not detectable in the younger successional stages. However, they showed up with time and on stabilized grasslands became significant. But on plots with rock-outcrops the differences were not observable. This was undoubtedly influenced by the peculiar features of these plots, characterised by poor arid soils and surface parent material. In fact they did not show significant differences in the analysed soil parameters either. Species diversity and biomass showed a similar pattern of differences to floristic composition. The highest species diversity was found on plots with lower biomass (the youngest ones). The lowest biomass in conjunction with quite low species diversity was found on plots with rock-outcrops, which again is consistent with their peculiar features.
20046463|In this study foliar sclerophyll indexes, N %, P % and K % concentrations and correlations between sclerophyll index and these parameters were investigated in Quercus cerris L. var. cerris and Phillyrea latifolia L. In addition to this soil samples were collected and some physical and chemical analysis were carried out in these samples. Finally it has been determined that sclerophyll index was correlated with leaf N % concentrations in Q. cerris var. cerris and P. latifolia and leaf K % concentration in Q. cerris var. cerris.
20046464|The interrelationship between river flooding regime, topography, soil properties and the distribution of tree and bamboo species was analysed in an area of tropical semideciduous forest on the margins of the Rio Grande, in Madre de Deus de Minas, Southeastern Brazil. A survey was carried out in a single forest plot (1.597 ha, 71 adjacent 225 m quadrats) located in the inner side of a river bend and extending from the point bar to the top of the slope. All trees (5 cm diameter at the base of the trunk) and bamboo culms were registered. Soil samples were collected and analysed for their properties and the river level was monitored during a two year period. In the point bar the forest was dominated by only two tree species, Salix humboldtiana and Inga affinis, that tended to occur in distinct areas. Differences in soil properties between these areas suggest variation in sedimentation dynamics. In the sloping part of the plot, a canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) indicated that the floristic composition was significantly correlated with three topographic sectors and their corresponding flood regimes. The Lower Slope corresponds to the sharp transition to the point bar forest, endures partial and annual floods and shows a very distinct flora that includes many light-demanding species. The Middle Slope is only occasionally reached by exceptional river floods and is characterised by a high density of the bamboo Merostachys neesii. The comparatively low density and basal area of trees, particularly for the smaller ones, provide evidence that the bamboos are probably interfering with the trees by restricting their recruitment. The Ridgetop lies entirely above the highest flooding level registered. The density of bamboos is lower and the understorey trees abundant.
20046465|A new theory about the origin of endemism in the campo rupestre vegetation type is proposed and discussed, based on the studies of endemic species which have been conducted in several campo rupestre areas. Data on endemic plant species of the studied mountain ranges are provided. New localities are reported for some rare and endemic plants of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The present knowledge of their distribution is briefly discussed. Vegetation characteristics were studied in their stands by means of vegetation relevs, and a synthetic constancy table is provided. The main phytogeographical characteristics of the studied sites are given.
20046466|We studied the water relations of 6 shrub and 3 tree species typical of the mediterranean climate region of central Spain to identify differential responses to water stress between and within species, and to determine if free proline concentration in leaves could be used as a water stress indicator. Predawn and midday water potentials (w) on a seasonal basis, relative water content (RWC), leaf mass per area, foliar nitrogen and free proline concentrations were measured. The lowest water potentials were observed at the end of the summer, with recovery to higher water potentials in the fall and winter seasons. Species differed regarding the annual w fluctuation. Thymus zygis, Halimium viscosum, Genista hirsuta and Juniperus oxycedrus exhibited the most negative midday and predawn w (both less than -6 MPa) with a large magnitude of response to changing conditions in soil moisture of the upper horizon of the soil. Lavandula pedunculata and Cistus ladanifer showed a moderate response. Quercus rotundifolia, Quercus faginea and Retama sphaerocarpa showed a modest response. The w of different size individuals of Quercus rotundifolia and Cistus ladanifer were compared. The annual w fluctuation was greater in small individuals as compared to large individuals. In every species, there was an increase in proline concentration of bulk leaf tissues when predawn w dropped below -5 MPa. Small plants of Cistus ladanifer reached lower water potentials and also higher concentration of proline than bigger plants. Proline could possibly be used as a drought stress indicator in every species except Q. rotundifolia. It is suggested that in addition to water stress avoidance due to deep root systems, some mechanisms of water stress tolerance may operate among shrub and tree species of central Spain.
20046467|Filamentous algae in eutrophic carp ponds in South Bohemia (Central Europe) were studied from 1988 to 1990. High biomass (490 g DW
20046468|Nomenclature: follows Flora Europea (Tutin et al. 1964-1980). Since the extension of the irrigation system, the water regime of most of the permanent marshes of the Camargue (southern France) have been intensively controlled. Considerable quantities of nutrient rich Rhone water are pumped into these marshes, leading to lower salinities and a higher biomass production and consequently an increasing organic matter concentration of the sediments. Myriophyllum spicatum has become abundant in these permanent marshes since large quantities of freshwater entered these systems. It has displaced Potamogeton pectinatus in several of these marshes. The different factors likely to influence the distribution of P. pectinatus and M. spicatum were investigated experimentally. The impact of Cl concentrations between 0 and 6 g l on the biomass production of both species was tested. P. pectinatus appears to be more salt tolerant than M. spicatum. The influence of sediment quality on the biomass production of both species was investigated using six sediments differing in organic matter concentration. Compared to P. pectinatus, M. spicatum had a lower total biomass production when grown on sediments with low organic matter concentration (2-4% organic matter) and a higher biomass production on sediments with relatively high organic matter concentration (9-13% organic matter). Nitrogen addition to the sediments yielded an increased biomass production of P. pectinatus and M. spicatum. On some sediments M. spicatum needed higher concentrations of nitrogen than P. pectinatus to increase its biomass production. The creation of freshwater marshes by the introduction of irrigation water, resulting in lower salinities and an increase in sediment organic matter concentration, stimulates the biomass production of M. spicatum. As M. spicatum grows less well on poor sediments and at higher salinities it seems to be unable to displace P. pectinatus in more natural systems in the Camargue.
20046482|Arnica montana, one of the character species of the replacement plant community Violion caninae on sandy acid humic podzol, is declining in the Netherlands since 1950. Locally, it is even extinct. This process of decline may be attributed to (i) autonomic succession; (ii) increased rate of acidification of the soil and/or (iii) change in competitive relations among Arnica and more productive plant species, such as the successive dominant Deschampsia flexuosa. This paper examines the last two hypothesized factors, supposedly being regulated by atmospheric input of N-input, by (a) describing the habitat characteristics of a seemingly still healthy individual-rich population of Arnica and (b) growing Arnica and Deschampsia in mixed humic podzol soil (mainly A horizon) fertilized with variously-composed nutrient solutions in order to assess the nutrient supplying capacity of the podzol soil and species-specific nutritional demands related to their respective growth capabilities. The results suggest that an increased rate of soil acidification yielding extra supply of ionic Al and Mn is presumably of less importance. The implications of growth rate differences among Arnica and Deschampsia as related to their nutritional demands are likely far more important. Arnica grows more slowly than Deschampsia in fertilized humus podzol. The latter species has a much more efficient use of nutrients. Furthermore, both species differ in K-nutrition if
20046483|This phytosociological study, carried out according to the Braun-Blanquet method and supported by cluster analysis, describes Walter's zonobiomes along the North American Pacific coast between British Columbia (Canada) and Baja California Sur (Mexico). Fourteen floristic associations have been identified and each is characterized by a unique floristic combination, a distinctive geographical range and particular bioclimatic conditions.
20046484|Leaf domatia, specialized structures on the undersides of leaves, appear to promote mutualism between plants and those mites that protect leaves from pathogenic fungi and small herbivorous arthropods. Their occurrence was surveyed on 425 plant species (368 native species and 57 species introduced from other regions of northeastern Asia), comprising 177 genera and 59 families of woody Dicotyledonae in the Korean flora. Domatia, primarily of tuft or pocket forms (84% of species), were present in vein axils on leaves of 152 species (36%) within 66 genera (37%) and 39 families (66%). Overall, we report leaf domatia in nine new families and 25 additional genera. Mites, primarily from families or suborders (e.g., Acaridida, Phytoseiidae, Tydeidae) in which arboreal representatives are primarily fungivorous or predaceous, were found in domatia on leaves of 78% of all species sampled. Domatia frequency depended upon both growth form and habit of species. They were especially common among tree species (55%), but less so on shrubs (20%) and woody vines (22%). Domatia were much more frequent on species of deciduous plants (40% of those sampled) than on evergreen species, of which only 10% had leaf domatia. This difference was consistent across a number of local deciduous and broadleaf evergreen forests in South Korea. The high frequency of leaf domatia in this survey indicates that plant-mite mutualism may be widespread in Korean plant communities. The floristic affinities of plants with domatia in Korea to those in other regions of East Asia, eastern North America, and Europe suggest that these plant-mite associations characterize the temperate broadleaf deciduous forest biome in the Northern Hemisphere.
20046485|Plants growing in extreme habitats, such as deserts, are expected to show high plasticity (variability) in life history parameters to compensate for the unpredictability of their environment. In this study variability in life history parameters and possible sources of variability were investigated in four serotinous (= seed retaining) plant species from the Namib Desert. Blepharis grossa, Geigeria alata, Geigeria ornativa and Petalidium setosum were studied in a mosaic of spatio-temporal environmental conditions represented by three sites and three rain seasons. The coefficient of variation and whether or not significant differences occurred between environmental conditions were used to determine the most variable species and parameters. The most variable species was the strictly annual B. grossa, which might be related to its life form strategy and poor competitive ability as a pioneer species. Life history parameters which responded most frequently to varying environmental conditions were source pool, flowering time and seed production. Seedling density was influenced by the source pool and intensity of rainfall, seedling establishment by timing and intensity of rain events, as well as by seed mass. Although it was expected that high within population variability in life history parameters would also result in a response to differing environmental conditions, there was no direct correlation. Variable responses in life history parameters in most species were caused by differences in site condition as well as by differences in seasons, especially with regard to timing and intensity of rain events.
20046486|The transition from open water to a swamp forest of a complex of ponds in the 'Polder Westbroek' (The Netherlands) in the period 1937-1989 is studied. Changes between structurally different vegetation types are determined using remote-sensing data and a Geographical Information System. The transition follows a clear pathway from open water through Phragmites/Typha-dominated community and Carex-dominated vegetation, to Alnus-dominated vegetation. The rate of this transition shows strong correspondence to changes in local management, demonstrating the large human impacts on ecosystems in this area.
20046487|Because the fate of seeds is critical to understanding the invasion of old fields by trees, and plant litter is an important component defining the old field microsite of dispersed seeds, I investigated the effects of litter type (Solidago spp./goldenrod, Quercus spp./oak, mixed) and litter amount (100-800 g/m) on tree seed germination and seedling emergence. I found that at all densities both Solidago and Quercus litter greatly reduced emergence of the small-seeded, bird-dispersed species, Juniperus virginiana and Cornus florida. For one of the large-seeded, mammal-dispersed species, Carya tomentosa, high density Solidago litter and high density mixed litter treatments reduced emergence. For the other large-seeded species, Quercus rubra, the high density mixed litter treatment and all levels of Solidago litter reduced emergence. Quercus seedlings emerged twice as often as the other three species in control pots without litter. Carya emerged before the other species but the high density oak treatment delayed the expansion of its cotyledons. My results suggest that litter may contribute to the slow rate of tree invasion and the low probability of tree establishment in old fields. However, old field litter studies taken together point to the difficulty in drawing general conclusions about any 'net effect' of litter on old field tree establishment.
20046488|Dynamics of annual communities are studied in Sudano-Sahelian savannas of the north of the Cameroon. The vegetation composition of three types of soil (a vertisol, a degraded vertisol and a ferruginous soil) under two rainfall conditions is compared. The study supports the idea that intense fluctuations in water availability at the beginning of the rainy season determine which species germinate, grow and survive under conditions of water stress. However soil conditions can accentuate or reduce the influence of the rainfall fluctuations while the land use history of each station tends to buffer the variations of the overall pattern determining potential vegetation.
20046497|The concept of Megamexico as a phytogeographic unit has been introduced by Rzedowski (1991) on the basis of distribution patterns of genera. Until now precise information on the resemblance between plant communities in the proposed Megamexico was scarce. This phytosociological study documents the affinities between plant communities within Megamexico, based on studies from mountain ranges in Mexico (Sierra Chichinautzin, Sierra Nevada) and Guatemalan mountain ranges (Sierra de los Cuchumatanes, Cadena Volcnica). Data, collected in the style of Braun-Blanquet during extensive fieldwork, were pooled into a single data set, and analyzed by using (1) TWINSPAN, for plant community classification, (2) ordination (DCA), (3) alpha log series biodiversity-index to measure intergroup diversity, and (4) information on the altitudinal distribution of the vegetation belts. Classification showed that four communities were common to the two groups of mountain ranges, namely, alpine bunchgrassland, pine forest, fir forest and mixed forest. Along the altitudinal gradient Mexican communities are distributed 200 m higher than their Guatemalan equivalents. This appears to be an illustration of the 'Massenerhebungseffekt'. DCA showed that the first axis represents a set of minor differences of closely related ecological factors (e.g., temperature, precipitation) and the second a humidity gradient. The biodiversity index showed that the Mexican mixed forest was significantly more diverse than the Guatemalan mixed forest. From the present results, ecological conditions among mountain ranges in Megamexico differed significantly. To conclude, phytogeographical units in Megamexico can better be defined on basis of both historical and ecological characteristics of the communities.
20046498|A 16 ha watershed in the Coweeta Basin was clearcut in 1939 and 1962. Vegetation was inventoried in 1934 and at about 7-year intervals to 1991. After the first clearcut, tree diversity remained high until after the second cut. Diversity based on density and basal area decreased significantly 14 years after the second clearcut and remained low through 1991. Diversity was highest in the early establishment stage of stand development, then declined at the intermediate stage with canopy closure. Evenness based on basal area declined more than evenness based on density because basal area of Liriodendron tulipifera increased substantially from 1977 to 1991. Trends in diversity were due to changes in evenness rather than changes in species richness.
20046499|Relationships between canopy cover and tree regeneration were determined for various species in cove forests of the Great Smoky Mountains. Old-growth stands were sampled with six plots covering a total area of 4.8 ha. Each plot was subdivided into contiguous 10  10 m quadrats. Canopy cover overlying each of the 480 quadrats was characterized with three different indices based on visual estimates of cover. Influences of: (1) overlying cover, (2) proximate openings, and (3) total area of proximate openings on quadrat regeneration densities were determined. Most species reproducing by seed and some species reproducing by vegetative means had higher densities in quadrats with openings, but only the intolerants were highly dependent on gaps. Tsuga canadensis, a very shade-tolerant species, was one of the few species with abundant regeneration beneath dense canopy cover. In general, understory areas near gaps had somewhat higher regeneration densities than other areas with overlying cover. Several shade-tolerant species showed a positive regeneration density response to canopy openings and an ability to regenerate in gaps 0.01-0.03 ha in area. These openings were too small for intolerant species. Many species exhibited a positive response to total size of the proximate opening(s). A sharp increase in regeneration density with area of the opening(s) was evident at approximately 0.04 ha for the shade-intolerant species.
20046500|The present study was carried out in the bamboo (Chusquea tessellata) pramo of 'Parque Natural Nacional de Chingaza', Eastern Cordillera, Colombia from December 1987 to April 1988. Above-ground biomass structure of bamboo pramo was quantified in 16 plots. These data are compared with previous results on above-ground biomass structure of bunch-grass (Calamagrostis spp.) pramos. The total (non-living and living) above-ground biomass of a Chusquea tessellata bamboo pramo was low (2,625 g
20046501|This study examines temporal changes in the thickness, mass, and organic carbon content of the O horizon (forest floor) of eight forested plots in northern Michigan, USA. Each plot had experienced a recent burn (prescribed or accidental); burn dates ranged from 1798 to 1980. The climax forest in this region is mixed Pinus-Acer-Betula-Tsuga, whereas the fire successional species are predominantly Populus spp. and Betula papyrifera. O horizon data were fit to logarithmic functions (chronofunctions) that depicted rapid accumulations of mass and thickness in the first years after the fire, followed by decreasing rates of increase after 100 years. Extension of the chronofunctions to 5000 years allowed for a theoretical examination of forest floor conditions, e.g., steady state and time to steady state, after long periods without disturbance. The models predicted greater O horizon thicknesses and slightly lower mass for steady state conditions than have been reported for old-growth stands elsewhere. Steady state accumulations of litter in these mixed, temperate forests requires at least 200 and possibly &gt1000 years, which is markedly longer than most other estimates. Although frequent disturbance by fire in these forests would likely preclude such values from being attained, these data provide theoretical maximum values for forest floor conditions in these ecosystems.
20046502|Biomass production was determined on burned and unburned sand prairie sites in Illinois during the 1986-89 growing seasons. Severe droughts characterized the 1988 and 1989 growing seasons with precipitation being at least 50% less in these two years than in 1985 and 1986. During the growing season following a fire, in drought and non-drought years, burned sites had higher total green biomass (all species), little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium) root and shoot biomass, and total grass and forb biomass production than the unburned sites. In 1988 and 1989, production on all sites was frequently significantly lower each month than it was in 1986 or 1987. The differences in productivity between burn and unburned sites were less pronounced during the drought years (1988-1989) than during the non-drought years (1986-87). Grass productivity (all species) declined considerably during drought years. In contrast, forb productivity did not vary significantly among years. Despite the drought, productivity of all species and little bluestem (root and shoot combined) was best predicted by the burn condition of the sites. Unlike many studies where drought alone can have significant effects on productivity, this study shows that on sand prairies the burn condition of sites, or burning regimes, and associated influences, can have a greater substantial impact on productivity than drought. Moisture deficits due to drought may, however, have longer term effects than those detected during the span of this study.
20046503|Biomass, litterfall, litter standing crop, and decomposition was studied in a native subtropical alluvial forest locally known as Selva Marginal (SM) and an exotic Ligustrum lucidum forest (LF) at the Reserva Integral de Punta Lara, Buenos Aires Province, 3447S and 581W. The alluvial forest site was at the southern limit of distribution of subtropical forests in South America. The Ligustrum forest was invading disturbed areas. Total biomass was 147.7 Mg/ha (86% aboveground and 14% belowground) in the SM, and 71.4 Mg/ha (93% and 7%, respectively) in the LF. Litterfall was 10.3 Mg/hayr and 13.8 Mg/hayr respectively. Annual leaf decomposition rate was greater for Ligustrum (k = 4.07) than for SM species (k = 1.48). The mean residence time of aboveground biomass was 12 yr for the SM and 5 yr for the LF. The k values (litterfall/standing crop) were 1.9 and 2.0 for SM and LF respectively. The influence of coastal road and wall in the hydroperiod, native forested wetland ecosystem survival and exotic forest invasion is discussed.
20046504|The vegetation at various sites within two separate areas (Mechernich and Aachen) of the Eifel Mountains, Germany/Belgium, both characterized by elevated concentrations of heavy metals in their soils, was surveyed in order to investigate the relationships between soil chemical attributes and floristic composition. In both areas, the typical heavy metal communities can form distinct zones, clearly separated from the surrounding heavy metal-sensitive vegetation. However, an intergrading of heavy metal-tolerant and -sensitive vegetation types is not uncommon and such overlaps can occupy large areas. In Mechernich, soil toxicity is primarily determined by the effects of lead, which is best expressed in terms of the Pb/Ca ratio rather than the absolute levels of this metal in the soil. Soils of heavy metal-sensitive vegetation types have a low Pb/Ca ratio, whereas it is considerably higher in areas supporting heavy metal vegetation. Zinc appears to exert little influence on the floristic composition of the investigated vegetation types. In Aachen, zinc is the predominant heavy metal determining vegetation development. Absolute zinc levels of soils do not accurately reflect zinc toxicity. Analogous to the role of the Pb/Ca ratio in the Mechernich area, the Zn/Ca ratio not only separates heavy metal-sensitive and highly tolerant vegetation units, but also gives a good indication of the gradient operating between the two vegetation types. Lead is probably only of local importance in influencing species composition.
20046509|We studied the conditions that permit the shrub, Cordia multispicata, to establish in Amazon pastures and the potential role of this shrub as a 'succession facilitator' near the town of Paragominas, Par State, Brazil. Local disturbances that reduce cover such as grazing and burning helped C. multispicata establish in pastures in active use. Germination of C. multispicata was significantly improved on sites subjected to simulated grazing and seedling growth was hastened following pasture burning. We found that below-ground competition, evaluated using root ingrowth cores, was reduced by burning and grazing. Recently abandoned pastures are frequently composed of a mix of forbs and grasses but as succession proceeds a mosaic of more discrete vegetation patches appears. At our site, a five-year-old abandoned pasture, grass patches (primarily Panicum maximum) and shrub patches (mainly C. multispicata) were common. We compared physical and biotic characteristics of zones dominated by C. multispicata and P. maximum and found: (1) the rain of bat and bird dispersed seeds of woody species was much greater in the zones of C. multispicata (92 seeds/m/year) than in the patches of grass (6 seeds/m/year); (2) the density of woody seedlings was eight times greater in the C. multispicata patches (0.65/m) than in the zones of P. maximum (0.08 woody individuals/m); (3) soil nutrient availability and litter nutrient concentrations were greater in the shrub zones than in the grass zones; and (4) photosynthetic photon flux density at the soil surface was generally more favorable for rainforest tree seedling growth in C. multispicata patches (16% of full sunlight) as compared to the grass zones (7.7% of full sun). We conclude that the shrub, C. multispicata, acts as a magnet, attracting volant seed vectors, and as a nurse plant, facilitating the establishment of woody species in abandoned Amazon pastures.
20046510|Past work on tree-to-tree interactions in semi-arid savannas, through the use of nearest neighbour analysis, has shown both a regular dispersion pattern and a positive correlation between the size of a tree and the distance to its nearest neighbour. From these results, the importance of competition has been inferred. In the present study, tree-to-tree interactions in a mesic savanna woodland at Marondera, Zimbabwe, dominated by relatively small-sized individuals of Brachystegia spiciformis and Julbernardia globiflora, were examined. Results show that the regular dispersion pattern is uncommon; that there are few significant positive correlations between size of individual and distance to nearest neighbour; and that growth rate is not consistently correlated with size and distance of nearest neighbour. Results of a study of regeneration relative to canopy cover suggest a possible mechanism for these findings: unlike semi-arid savannas, young plants often grow in under-canopy environments so that early spacing of young trees does not occur. Significant positive correlations between the size of a tree and the distance to its nearest neighbour were found in a stand of larger, presumably older, trees, suggesting that such a relationship only develops in mesic miombo woodland through a thinning process as the trees mature. Familial clumping, which is common in the study area, may mask spatial patterns.
20046511|A synchronic method was applied in order to investigate the growth process of the dominant woody plants in an undisturbed Mediterranean evergreen-sclerophyllous ecosystem in central Greece. Cover (%), biomass and leaf area data of Arbutus unedo, Erica arborea, Quercus coccifera and Phyllyrea latifolia over a period of 30 years are provided. The investigation of growth by means of the Richards function revealed two plant groups, following two different growth strategies: A 'fast growth' strategy, followed by A. unedo and E. arborea and a 'slow growth' strategy followed by Q. coccifera and P. latifolia. Furthermore, a succession pattern was described in which the fast growing initial dominants are being replaced by the slow growing plants. Two succession scenaria are proposed as alternative plant responses to grazing and fires, which are the major anthropogenic impacts in the mediterranean environment.
20046512|This paper examines one possible way of Fuzzy Set Ordination by using multi-environmental variables. FSO's function is improved through combination with Detrended Correspondence Analysis which is used to summarize environmental information. It can be used to analyse the relationships between vegetation and environment no matter how many environmental variables are involved. An example with vegetation and environmental data collected from upland grasslands in Northern Snowdonia, Wales, is presented. Its results are consistent with that of CCA and DCCA.
20046513|Two abundant tallgrass prairie forb species, Ambrosia psilostachya and Vernonia baldwinii, are commonly found intact in patches where the grasses have been selectively grazed by bison. Microclimatic patterns and physiological responses of these forbs were measured in grazed and ungrazed patches. These experiments demonstrated that bison herbivory indirectly enhanced water availability and productivity of forbs growing in grazed patches. This was due primarily to the reduction in transpiring grass leaf area in grazed patches and an increase in light availability. In grazed patches, incident light at forb mid-canopy height was 53% greater than ungrazed sites at midseason and soil temperatures were always warmer (e.g., 10 C at 5 cm), perhaps enabling forbs to initiate growth earlier in the spring. Enhanced leaf xylem pressure potential and stomatal conductance in plants in grazed areas were most evident when water availability was low (i.e., late in the growing season and over short-term dry periods characteristic of the tallgrass prairie environment). Relative to individuals in ungrazed areas, end-of-season biomass of A. psilostachya was 40% greater and reproductive biomass and head number of V. baldwinii was 45% and 40% greater, respectively, in plants in grazed patches. A favorable growing environment maintained in grazed patches during periods of water limitation enhances carbon gain in forbs leading to increased biomass and potential fitness.
20046514|The effects of soil water potential on photosynthesis and transpiration of whole Zygophyllum dumosum Boiss. shrubs were examined with a field IRGA system during a rainless summer. Daily photosynthesis and transpiration activities were not notably different on a unit phyllode area basis among shrubs at naturally differing soil water potentials. Irrigation of shrubs caused phyllodes to increase significantly in water content and new leaflets to appear. Leaflets had three times as many stomata per unit area (23 000 stomata
20046515|Latitudinal gradients of tree species composition along the Sierran/Cascade axis in northern California were explored by comparing forests of Lassen Volcanic and Yosemite National Parks, USA. A calibration procedure based on canonical correspondence analysis predicted a mean rate of elevational displacement of 172.1 m/latitude for Lassen sites in Yosemite. This is a steep latitudinal gradient compared with other temperate uplands (which average around 100 m/latitude), but it corresponds with the magnitude of the July mean temperature gradient (143 m/latitude) and the annual precipitation gradient (230 m/latitude). Elevational displacement of basal-area weighted species means showed considerable variation. The range for montane species was 20-153 m/latitude; for subalpine species the range was 142-305 m/latitude. This disparity is related to differential temperature lapse rates between regions and is reinforced by contrasting biogeographic affinities of montane vs. subalpine species. Whereas it is uniformly hot and dry during the growing season at lower elevations in both regions, growing seasons in the subalpine zone are significantly warmer and drier (at comparable elevations) in Yosemite, the more southerly locale. Furthermore, montane species are principally of Sierran affinity, whereas subalpine species are primarily of Pacific Northwestern affinity.
20046516|The woody and herbaceous vegetation was investigated around four rural settlements in the savanna area of the eastern Transvaal Lowveld, South Africa. At each settlement three transects radiating out from the settlement, representing a gradient from high to low disturbance, were sampled for community structure and species composition. In general, attributes of woody community structure (density, height, biomass, basal area and diversity) were negatively related to increasing disturbance. Herbaceous cover responded positively. Although individual woody species exhibited a range of responses to disturbance, overall species compositional changes were not related directly to the intensity of disturbance. Individual woody species were classified into behavioural species response groups according to their response along the disturbance gradient. Local wood harvesters demonstrated marked selection for particular species and size classes, which should have disproportional impacts on community structure. However, proportional size class distributions were little altered along the gradient.
20046532|The evergreen dwarf shrub lingonberry (Vaccinium vitis-idaea L.) was subjected to microtine herbivory simulations to investigate its recovery in a boreal forest. Beside the control (A), the study included three levels of herbivory: clipping of half the annual branches from 50% of ramets (B), removal of 50% of ramets (C), and removal of 100% of ramets (D). Density, growth, and fecundity of the ramets were monitored during the study. New ramets emerged rapidly from dormant basal buds at the base of the removed ramets in groups C and D. After three growth seasons, 60-117% and 42-112% of density and biomass, respectively, had been regained in the groups damaged relative to the control, the difference being insignificant between the treated groups apparently because of the small sample size. Survival, fecundity and net growth of ramets were not affected by the treatment. Mean dry weight of annual branches in new ramets was lower in the damaged groups than the control. The recovery of the lingonberry was unexpectedly good. The results suggest that, since natural herbivory seldom is as heavy as in this work, the time between population density peaks of microtine rodents is usually long enough for the lingonberry to recover in boreal ecosystems.
20046533|A phytosociological study of the juniper (locally called huito), pine (locally called sacch), pine-alder and fir forests of the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes and Cadena Volcnica in Guatemala was carried out. The Zrich-Montpellier approach was followed. In total 119 relevs were sampled and the data were organised in phytosociological tables to distinguish vegetation clusters. TWINSPAN was used to evaluate major differences among plant communities. Seven zonal plant communities were distinguished and described, namely: (1) Relbunium microphyllum-Agrostis tolucensis, (2) Werneria nubigena-Agrostis exserta, (3) Lachemilla vulcanica-Pinus hartwegii, (4) Holodiscus argenteus-Pinus hartwegii, (5) Hypnum cypressiforme-Juniperus standleyi, (6) Agave hurteri-Alnus firmifolia and (7) Sabazia pinetorum-Abies guatemalensis. This paper provides a thorough floristic characterisation of each community and outlines the major anthropogenic activities. To conclude, ecologic and floristic (dis)similarities between plant communities of the study area and those of Central Mexico, like the different altitudinal distribution of fir forests and the establishment of mid-successional communities such as the Agave hurteri-Alnus firmifolia were discussed.
20046534|In this paper, the hypothesis is tested that, in clonal grasses producing stolons and/or rhizomes, stolons always show a higher morphological plasticity than rhizomes in response to variation in light availability. Agrostis stolonifera (a stoloniferous grass), Holcus mollis (a rhizomatous grass) and Cynodon dactylon (a grass forming both stolons and rhizomes), were grown in pots and subjected to three levels of light intensities. Both stolons and rhizomes branched more intensively under higher light levels. Irrespective of species, stolons consisted of longer internodes under lower light levels, while rhizome morphology did not respond significantly. Biomass partitioning to rhizomes was lower under lower light intensities while partitioning to stolons was not affected. Rhizomes usually had more dormant buds than did stolons. Our results suggest that stolons serve primarily as foraging organs for light, whereas the main function of rhizomes is storage of meristem and carbohydrates, irrespective of whether the grass species involved produces both rhizomes and stolons or only one type of spacer.
20046535|Epiphytic lichen vegetation on Fagus sylvatica was studied in 4 sites along an altitudinal gradient from 930 to 1500 m on SE facing slopes of Mount Olympos (Greece). The crucial factor determining the spatial heterogeneity of epiphytic lichens on F. sylvatica is the altitude and not the height on the trunk at which lichen community is established. 17 out of 26 taxa are confined to a particular elevation range, while another three are clearly ubiquitous in their distribution. The number of lichen species at breast height is higher than at the base of the trunks. The results were compared with those gathered earlier in an analogous study on the vertical distribution of epiphytic lichens on Pinus nigra along an altitudinal gradient from 750 to 1510 m of the same mountain. Comparison suggests that spatial heterogeneity of epiphytic lichens on F. sylvatica is different from the one on P. nigra.
20046536|Selected life-history characteristics of Mesembryanthema species occurring on and off mima-like mounds (heuweltjies) were compared at Tierberg in the southern Succulent Karoo, South Africa. Seed production, the number of seeds retained in seed capsules and germination behaviour were measured in fourteen species of Mesembryanthema which were representatives of two sub-families: the Ruschioideae and the Mesembryanthemoideae. Species occurring on heuweltjies had low overall germination and high seed retention compared with those species occurring off heuweltjies. A strong negative correlation was found between the degree of seed retention and maximum germination. It was proposed that rapid germination and low seed dormancy in species occurring on the flats would be a viable strategy where competition for safe recruitment sites is strong. Species occurring on the flats are long-lived woody shrubs, thus the resulting high levels of seedling mortality probably do not have a major impact on population dynamics. Heuweltjies are sites of intense disturbance. Plant species that occur on heuweltjies can also occur off heuweltjies in disturbed vegetation. Opportunistic life-history characteristics allow these species to colonise disturbed areas. Heuweltjie species thus act as pioneers in a successional process which results ultimately in the re-colonisation of the long-lived flats species. Phylogenetic factors may also determine the species distributions. Members of the Mesembryanthemoideae did not occur off heuweltjies in undisturbed areas. Most Ruschioideae were found on the flats but the few species that occurred on heuweltjies shared similar characteristics with the Mesembryanthemoideae. The primitive life-history characteristics exhibited by the Mesembryanthemoideae enable them to exploit disturbed conditions.
20046537|Leaves from 38 species representing 17 families were collected from contrasting elevations (100 to 824 m above sea level) in sclerophyllous mountain fynbos vegetation near Hermanus, South Africa, and the leaf percentage dry mass (PDM), specific leaf mass (SLM) and ultraviolet-B (UV-B, 280 to 320 nm) absorbance properties determined. Leaf PDM, SLM and UV-B absorbance were generally high compared to mesophyllous plants. Leaves collected at high elevation exhibited higher absorbances per unit dry mass at both 280 and 320 nm than those from the same species at low elevation. No differences in absorbance per unit leaf area were observed. UV-B absorbance properties differed between families, with high values obtained for the Apiaceae, Asteraceae, Cyperaceae, Ericaceae, Penaeaceae and Proteaceae, but lower values for the Anacardiaceae, Fabaceae and Geraniaceae. A positive correlation was found between absorbance at 280 nm per unit leaf area and SLM. It was concluded that most fynbos species, on account of their highly sclerophyllous leaves and large accumulation of UV-B absorbing compounds (flavonoids and related phenolics) may be well protected against future increases in UV-B radiation.
20046538|Isolation effects on species richness of woody plants were investigated in a system of islands that were created by the filling of the Clarks Hill Reservoir, Georgia. This reservoir was built between 1946-1954. Some islands were logged and cleared of woody plants prior to the filling of the reservoir and others were not logged. The presence of logged versus unlogged islands in the same system allowed us to test whether and how geographical isolation interacts with island history and species-specific dispersal properties in determining patterns of among-island variation in species number. Thirty-six years after the islands were created, logged islands had significantly fewer species of woody plants than unlogged ones. On logged islands, total number of woody species was negatively correlated with distance to the closest mainland (r = -0.95). On unlogged islands, variation in species number was very low (CV = 4.9%) and was not correlated with distance to the mainland. These results indicate that the studied system as a whole has not yet reached equilibrium. However, the mean number of species on unlogged islands was very close to the intercept of the regression obtained for logged islands, suggesting that islands close to the mainland have already reached their equilibrium species richness. This conclusion is consistent with predictions of island biogeography theory. When species representing different dispersal properties were analyzed separately, statistically significant distance effects were obtained for bird-dispersed species (r = 0.88) and for species with no adaptations to bird or wind dispersal (r = 0.81). Wind-dispersed species did not show a decrease in species number with increasing isolation, but their relative frequency was positively and significantly correlated with distance to the mainland (r = 0.94). Historical factors, as well as differences among species in dispersal properties, are important in explaining patterns of among-island variation in species number.
20046539|Seeds of Pinus halepensis and Pinus pinaster subsp. pinaster were subjected to four heat treatments (90, 110, 150 and 200 C) for 1 and 5 min to investigate their tolerances to high temperatures resulting from fires. Another group of seeds of each species were not heated and considered as a control. Information on responses of seeds to high temperatures would help to determine whether or not the species are pyrophytes. Heating for 1 min at all temperatures did not affect the average germination of Pinus halepensis seeds whereas that of P. pinaster subsp. pinaster seeds was decreased significantly when they were heated to 200 C. However P. pinaster seeds were more resistant than that of P. halepensis when heat treatment was 150 C for 5 min. Data obtained also indicated that, in general, P. halepensis and P. pinaster subsp. pinaster seed germination is not favoured by a temperature increase that can be reached in soils during a fire. Thus, the species are not pyrophytes but colonizers of burnt sites.
20046540|Thirty-four vegetation clusters identified in the present study, after the application of TWINSPAN and DCA multivariate techniques, were assigned into 8 vegetation types, each of definite vegetation and habitat characters. The suggested vegetation types are well segregated along the DCA axis one which reflects soil moisture, salinity (as indicated by EC values), fertility (as indicated by the organic matter and nitrogen contents) and species diversity gradients. In general, soil moisture and soil fertility increase and species diversity decreases with the following sequence of vegetation types: Echinops spinosissimus-Ononis serrata on inland sand dunes, Pancratium maritimum on coastal sand dunes, Halocnemum strobilaceum-Salsola kali in saline sand deposits, Atriplex halimus-Chenopodium murale along the terraces and slopes of drains, Arthrocnemum glaucum-Tamarix nilotica in salt marshes, Chenopodium murale along the slopes of drains, Phragmites australis along the littoral zones of drains, and Lemna gibba-Potamogeton crispus in the water zone. This sequence reflects also a gradient of human interference, starting with the vegetation of the less disturbed habitats (sand dunes and saline sand deposits) and ending with the fully man-made habitats (drain zones).
20046541|The relationship between environmental parameters (bedrock type, temperature and moisture index) and understorey species richness was studied from a large phytosociological data base on Pyrenean Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris L.) forests. Generalized linear models were used to test this relationship. Total species richness and species richness of the different life forms were considered. The results suggest different patterns for the different life forms, and that the richest forest was on the calcareous bedrock of north-facing slopes at low altitudes.
20046546|There is still disagreement as to whether plant communities can be described as conforming to certain assembly rules. We searched for such rules in the vegetation of four dune slacks in west Wales by examining variance in richness, guild proportionality, biomass constancy and dominance/diversity relations. To test for the occurrence of niche limitation, variance in quadrat species-richness was compared to null models of species occurrence. Using an Overall-model, one site showed a deficit of variance, but this disappeared when a Patch-model analysis was used. It therefore seems likely that the effect observed was due to equality in the species pools adapted to different microenvironments. The proportional representation of functional guilds was examined, in guilds based on morphology and life history. Significant constancy of guild proportions was seen for the annual guild in the only site in which it occurred, perhaps reflecting a regeneration niche. Total biomass per quadrat was examined, and compared to a model in which the biomass of each species was determined at random from the biomasses of that species at the site. Surprisingly, the observed biomasses showed no departure from the null model. However, there was considerable discrepancy from an alternative null model in which biomasses were allocated at random irrespective of species. This would imply that competition limits species coexistence, rather than performance. Examination of the proportions of species from different potential-size classes in each quadrat gave limited confirmation. The local abundance of species (mean biomass) was significantly correlated with the frequency of the species within a site, parallelling the geographical-range/local-abundance correlation previously reported. Five dominance/diversity models were fitted to the biomass data. The best fits were given by the Geometric or the General Lognormal models, though which fitted best varied between and within sites. Between sites, there was some indication of a consistent difference in Preston's 'gamma'. Most of the results are compatible with Gleason's Individualistic concept of the plant community, though there are several pointers that assembly rules have some impact on community structure.
20046547|The impact of hydrological manipulation of an unfertilised, Dutch peat grassland area on plant species composition on ditch banks and in ditchwater was studied. The hydrological manipulation involved raising the groundwater level by admitting nutrient-poor, Ca-rich groundwater in one compartment, and by retaining precipitation in another compartment. A third compartment served as control. The plant species composition showed significant correlations with the following hydrochemical parameters: in bank vegetation with K concentration, and winter and summer groundwater levels, water depth and elevation; in aquatic vegetation with pH, the concentrations of Cl organic-C and
20046548|Seeds of ten species of Cistaceae, Ericaceae and Poaceae were examinated to compare their responses to high temperatures and ash, simulating the direct effect of fire on germination. A variable response to these factors between families and within species from the same family was detected. In Cistaceae, heat treatment pre-sowing stimulated germination. In Ericaceae, germination was stimulated by thermic shock, but a wide range of response was detected (between all four species), from Erica ciliaris, very sensitive, to Daboecia cantabrica and Calluna vulgaris which showed no significant response. The range of reaction shown by the species of this family suggest that the size of the seeds is directly related to the difference in response, at least in species with a similar structure. In Poaceae, germination was not found to be dependent upon thermic shock. The effect of ash varies in magnitude. Although it decreased the germination percentage in all species, in Avenula marginata (Poaceae) the effect was not statistically significant, whilst in Ericaceae, particularly in those showing the highest levels of germination in the control (C. vulgaris and E. umbellata), the effect is to inhibit germination completely. In respect to the effect of ash the families could be arranged in the order Ericaceae&gtCistaceae&gtPoaceae. Complex interactions between various dormancy types and seed size could explain these results. In species which depend on physical dormancy temperature has an important role. When other dormancy type is dominant in the control of germination, the medium characteristics could have a relevant role on seed response. In addition, the seed-size could determine the threshold of tolerance to temperature.
20046549|The Eume woods in northwest Spain are an important refuge for a number of endangered ferns, including Culcita macrocarpa, Cystopteris diaphana, Dryopteris aemula, Dryopteris guanchica, Hymenophyllum tunbrigense and Woodwardia radicans. Because some of these species are inconspicuous or difficult to identify in the field, we attempted to develop simple floristic criteria to identify sites important or potentially important for these species ('high-value sites'). Having drawn up field-layer vascular plant inventories for 44 plots in the study area, we considered two major strategies. Under strategy 1, we looked for those conspicuous species which best discriminated between plots containing the endangered species ('current-high-value plots') and all other plots. Under strategy 2, we first carried out a global plots-by-species classification using indicator species analysis (Hill et al. 1975) and then looked for those conspicuous species which best discriminated between groups containing current-high-value plots and all other groups. For our data set, the second strategy proved more effective. The best criterion identified was 'If two or more of Luzula sylvatica, Viola riviniana and Rubus spp. are present, then that plot is high-value'. We include a listing of a BASIC program for the discriminant analysis algorithm, which we consider to have a number of potential applications in vegetation science and biogeography.
20046550|Mangrove vegetation and soil were analysed with a view to understanding the community structure and soil relationship in mangrove ecosystems. Coverage values of all plants, frequency, density and basal area for trees were obtained. Soil properties measured included pH, field moisture, bulk density, organic carbon,
20046551|To understand the human influence on the successional process of vegetation, structures of the pine forest as a dominant vegetation were compared between in Yanghwa-ri of rural Korea and Miwa-cho of rural Japan. The secondary pine forests are well developed around the villages in both regions. In rural Korea, pine forests are still used intensively for several traditional purposes. The pine forests in Yanghwa-ri of Korea, therefore, are stayed in the early stage of the succession. The floristic composition in pine forests of Yanghwa-ri was similar to that in the secondary grasslands. The fertilizer trees such as Robinia and Alnus contributed to develop the stratification of the forest. On the other hand, in Japan, almost all pine forests in rural regions had been abandoned due to the changing of traditional use because of the economic growth and the development of alternative energy sources since 1960s. In the case of pine forests of Miwa-cho, those in the early successional stage were few in number and small in patch size. Several woody plants covered under the pine canopy. The shade-tolerant shrub invaded into pine forest floor, because the undergrowth as a traditional energy source had no longer used. Pine forests were partly succeeded by deciduous oaks in Miwa-cho corresponding to the social changes. On the contrary in Yanghwa-ri, the vegetation replacement will not present because traditional management such as collecting fuels and making graveyards will be remained as a Korean ideology in the rural landscape.
20046563|The structure and dynamics of approximately 64 ha of undisturbed gallery forest were studied over six years. Trees from 31 cm gbh (c. 10 cm dbh) were measured every three years from 1985. They were in 151 (1020 m) permanent plots in the Gama forest in the Federal District of Brazil. Natural regeneration (individuals under 31 cm gbh) was measured in subplots (of 22 m, 55 m and 1010 m) within the 200 m plots. The total tree flora (gbh  31 cm) consisted of 93 species, 81 genera and 44 families in 1985. The Leguminosae, Myrtaceae and Rubiaceae were the families richest in number of species. Most individuals and species were under 45 cm diameter and 20 m high while the maximum diameter per species ranged from 30 to 95 cm. The density structure of trees and natural regeneration was similar, in which the densities of c. 80% of the species represented less than 1% of the total density. The periodic mean annual diameter increment for trees from 10 cm dbh, was c. 0.25 cm/year. Variability was high with coefficients of variation c. 100% or more. The Gama community may maintain tree diversity and structure in undisturbed conditions. Regeneration of c. 80% of the species was found in the establishing phase (poles); the diameter structure was typical of native forests with the number of individuals decreasing with increasing size classes and showing little change over the six years; recruitment compensated for the mortality of most of the abundant species. The soils in Gama gallery forest were dystrophic with high aluminium content. Multivariate analysis suggested the stream, natural gaps and edges as the main causes of floristic differentiation at the community level.
20046564|Analysis of leaf canopy overtopping relationships was carried out using a non-destructive point quadrat method followed by a destructive stratified harvest of the above-ground phytomass in Dutch chalk grasslands with different management: summer sheep grazing and annual autumn mowing. The two methods of analysis are compared: e.g. relative leaf overtopping can be recorded by the point quadrat method but it is obscured in vertical vegetation profiles based on stratified phytomass distribution. However the stratified harvest method describes the relationship between canopy phytomass and light microclimate, recorded by measuring Photosynthetically Active Radiation (PAR) at different heights in the vegetation. Plant growth from during peak standing crop is of greater significance than Raunkiaerian life form in determining structure of chalk grassland vegetation. In annually mown grasslands, the tall graminoid growth form, shown by Brachypodium pinnatum, reduces PAR in the lower canopy and suppresses most other growth forms except those which can reach the higher canopy levels, e.g. clumped herbs such as Origanum vulgare. In contrast, grazing can result in a reduction of dominance from the tall graminoids and reduction of the abundance of taller, grazing-sensitive herbs, e.g. clumped and climbing herbs such as Origanum and Lathyrus pratensis, and an increase in grazing-tolerant species, e.g. smaller rosette herb growth forms, e.g. Leontodon hispidus and shorter rhizomatous or stoloniferous graminoids, e.g. Carex flacca and Briza media. Changes in both the overtopping hierarchy at the peak of the growing season and the intensity of overtopping in the course of a growing season are of conclusive importance in determining the relative abundance of species in the vegetation.
20046565|An ecomorphological analysis of the tallgrass prairie of central North America divided representative species of the native grassland flora into eight guilds or groups of species with similar life-form, phenology, and ecology. The guilds, segregated by multivariate analysis, are: (1) warm-season graminoids with Kranz anatomy and the Hatch-Slack photosynthetic pathway ('C4' grasses); (2) cool-season graminoids without Kranz anatomy, but with the common Calvin or C3 photosynthetic pathway (C3 grasses and sedges); (3) annuals and biennial forbs; (4) ephemeral spring forbs; (5) spring forbs; (6) summer/fall forbs; (7) legumes; and (8) woody shrubs. The study was based on 158 plant species indigenous to three upland prairie sites in northeastern Kansas. Each species was scored for 32 traits which fall into five broad categories: plant habit, leaf characteristics, stem structures, root structures, and reproductive traits, including phenology. A multivariate, detrended correspondence analysis sorted the 158 species into the eight principal groups or guilds. These groups were further supported by a cluster analysis and discriminant function analysis of the same data set. The discriminant function analysis determined that 94.3% of the species were correctly classified in their respective guilds, and that the guilds were statistically different. Results indicate that guild analysis offers a basis for detailed classification of grassland vegetation that is more ecologically focused than species composition, as the myriad of species (about 1,000 prairie species on the central plains of North America) vary in presence, cover, and importance with their individualistic distribution.
20046566|The population structure and regeneration of canopy species were studied in a 4 ha plot in an old-growth evergreen broad-leaved forest in the Aya district of southwestern Japan. The 200 m  200 m plot contained 50 tree species, including 22 canopy species, 3,904 trees (dbh 5 cm) and a total basal area of 48.3 m/ha. Forty one gaps occurred within the plot, and both the average gap size (67.3 m) and the total area of gap to plot area (6.9%) were small. Species found in the canopy in the plot were divided into three groups (A, B, C) based on size and spatial distribution patterns, and density in each tree size. Group A (typical species: Distylium racemosum, Persea japonica) showed a high density, nearly random distribution and an inverse J-shaped size distribution. Species in group B (Quercus salicina, Quercus acuta, Quercus gilva) were distributed contagiously with conspicuous concentration of small trees (&lt 5 cm dbh) around gaps. However, the species in this group included few trees likely to reach the canopy in the near future. Group C included fast-growing pioneer and shade intolerant species (e.g. Cornus controversa, Carpinus tschonoskii, Fagara ailanthoides), which formed large clumps. Most gaps were not characterized by successful regeneration of group B and C but did appear to accelerate the growth of group A. Group B species appear to require long-lived or large gaps while group C species require large, catastrophic disturbances, such as landslides, for regeneration.
20046567|The influence of mediterranean pine vole (Microtus (Terricola) duodecimcostatus) mound-building activity in two Western Spanish Pyrenees plant communities (Mesobromion erecti and Festucion eskiae-Nardion strictae) were studied. The plants colonizing the gaps in these areas are different in the two cases considered. The plant composition of surrounding plant communities seems to be the main factor in revegetation. Mound-building activity changes the species' relative frequency and life-form spectrum, decreases the monocotyledonous/dicotyledonous ratio and increases diversity by diminishing the presence of dominant plant species.
20046568|The heterogeneous vegetation mosaic of the South Turkana region of north Kenya is associated with diversity in the region's physical environment. The abundance and distribution of the dominant species are related to gradients in those abiotic factors that influence water availability, including precipitation, soil texture, and topographic relief. Research focused on three Acacia species that are a major component of the Turkana vegetation; A. tortilis, A. senegal, and A. reficiens. These species each exhibit a different response to variations in abiotic factors. Consequently, species abundance varies independently across the landscape, creating a continuum of intergrading populations. Community types can be identified within the mosaic of intergrading populations. Although community borders are not discrete due to continual change in species abundance, types are identifiable and are repeated in areas with similar environmental conditions. The landscape patterns are representative of Whittaker's (1953) climax-as-pattern, with communities created by individual patterns of populations responding to environmental gradients, creating a continuum of community change across the landscape.
20046569|The paper describes the structure and the developmental trends of old-growth Pinus sylvestris stands in the Wigry National Park, in north-eastern Poland. The stands represent a transitional zone between deciduous forests of Central Europe and boreal, coniferous forests of north-eastern Europe. Besides P. sylvestris, the most important tree species are Picea abies and Quercus robur. Among the subcanopy species, Corylus avellana and Sorbus aucuparia occur most frequently. On the basis of the data from 6 permanent sample plots (total size: 1.90 ha), several parameters and stand indices are analysed including species composition of the canopy and the regeneration, diameter distribution, age structure of main tree species, and the relationship between canopy and spatial dispersion of woody regeneration. The most striking feature of the stands studied is the almost complete absence of natural regeneration of P. sylvestris. This seems to be in contradiction with the apparently natural origin of this species in the stands, and a common occurrence of natural disturbances resulting in openings and gaps in forest canopy. The main tree species replacing P. sylvestris in the canopy are P. abies and Q. robur. Also increasing are some broad-leaved species typical of high fertility sites: Acer platanoides, Tilia cordata, Ulmus glabra, and Fraxinus excelsior. A shrub C. avellana occurs extensively competing with tree species and delaying tree replacement processes. While no direct data on the changes in the site conditions can be provided and the 'recovery' hypothesis appears to be the most straightforward explanation of the changes in P. sylvestris stands, the possible role of the allogenic changes in environmental conditions (climate warming, nitrogen deposition) is also discussed.
20046574|The work summarizes and discusses the basic conditions and rules for the use of the deductive method of syntaxonomic classification. This method develops and supplements classification procedures of the Braun-Blanquet approach. It enables to classify the communities which cannot be characterized by their own character- and differential-species. The deductive method incorporates into the inductively constructed system of abstract units of the Braun-Blanquet approach (classes, orders, alliances and associations) really existing communities on the basis of the presence or absence of diagnostic characters (character- and differential-species) of these abstract units. Some communities are incorporable only at the class level, others at the level of lower units. To objectify the process of incorporation of the communities represented by the respective phytocoenological relevs, an algorithm of the deductive method was constructed which uniquely incorporates individual relevs and groups of relevs into the phytocoenological system on the basis of the presence, coverage and diagnostic value of species. The work includes a detailed description of this algorithm and examples of its application on concrete phytocoenological material. Examples of hitherto use of the deductive method are also discussed and its nomenclatural rules briefly explained.
20046575|A standardized sampling technique for measuring plant diversity is needed to assist in resource inventories and for monitoring long-term trends in vascular plant species richness. The widely used 'Whittaker plot' (Shmida 1984) collects species richness data at multiple spatial scales, using 1 m, 10 m, and 100 m subplots within a 20 m  50 m (1000 m) plot, but it has three distinct design flaws involving the shape and placement of subplots. We modified and tested a comparable sampling design (Modified-Whittaker plot) that minimizes the problems encountered in the original Whittaker design, while maintaining many of its attractive attributes. We overlaid the two sampling methods in forest and prairie vegetation types in Larimer County, Colorado, USA (n = 13 sites) and Wind Cave National Park, South Dakota, USA (n = 19 sites) and showed that the modified design often returned significantly higher (p &lt 0.05) species richness values in the 1 m, 10 m, and 100 m subplots. For all plots, except seven ecotone plots, there was a significant difference (p &lt 0.001) between the Whittaker plot and the Modified-Whittaker plot when estimating the total number of species in the 1000 m plots based on linear regressions of the subplot data: the Whittaker plot method, on average, underestimated plant species richness by 34%. Species-area relationships, using the Modified-Whittaker design, conformed better to published semilog relationships, explaining, on average, 92% of the variation. Using the original Whittaker design, the semilog species-area relationships were not as strong, explaining only 83% of the variation, on average. The Modified-Whittaker plot design may allow for better estimates of mean species cover, analysis of plant diversity patterns at multiple spatial scales, and trend analysis from monitoring a series of strategically-placed, long-term plots.
20046576|The ecological structure and diversity of woody species in the Cistus landanifer shrubland ('jaral'), one of the most widespread Mediterranean scrub systems in the western half of the Iberian Peninsula, was studied in Extremadura (CW Spain). 57 points were sampled for presence/absence and abundance (line interception) of woody species. Several diversity indices were calculated to elucidate the role of both C. ladanifer and bare soil in the jaral structure. The sites were classified by agglomerative hierarchical clustering and ordinated by Principal Component Analysis (PCA). Most of the examined scrubs have diversity within the range 1-3, evenness above 0.5 and species richness between 1 and 12. Clustering and PCA distinguished three groups of scrubs: A, those with a certain Atlantic influence and highest values of diversity and total cover, in which Lavandula stoechas subsp. luisieri, Erica umbellata and Halimium ocymoides are frequent; B, the most continental scrubs, growing on moderately acid soils with Cistus salvifolius and C. crispus, and, C, those as continental as group B but on more acid soils, characterized by Genista hirsuta. Differential species between groups basically coincide with those used in phytosociological classifications. Diversity data, together with affinity and PCA analyses, emphasize that the ecological structure of Mediterranean shrublands is strongly influenced by humidity and the annual temperature range.
20046577|To assess the natural range in habitat parameters of the once common rich-fen bryophyte Scorpidium scorpioides, water chemistry and vegetation were studied in different regions characteristic of its NW-European distribution area: the Netherlands, Ireland, Denmark and Fennoscandia. Scorpidium scorpioides was found in an environment with circumneutral pH. The variation in solute content and composition was large and nutrient (N and P) concentrations ranged from zero to values indicative of more eutrophic conditions. Six different vegetation types with S. scorpioides were distinguished, resembling Caricion davallianae, Caricion curto-nigrae and Hydrocotylo-Baldellion communities. Type of substrate and solute levels were strongly correlated with the first ordination axis (DCA) and nutrient status and geographic position with the second axis. Habitat and vegetation characteristics in Dutch rich-fens with S. scorpioides indicated that mineral status was higher than in Fennoscandia and Ireland; solute-poor habitats with S. scorpioides have disappeared from the Netherlands. Trophic status was higher in the Netherlands than in Fennoscandia, but in some cases lower than in Ireland. Acidification and eutrophication may have played a role in the decrease of the species in the Netherlands. However, the wide ecological ranges suggest that the decrease of S. scorpioides is not a physiological effect of unsuitable environmental conditions per se.
20046578|The vegetation of shallow depressions on Ivorian granite inselbergs was studied along a gradient from the savanna zone in the north to the rainforest zone in the south of the country. Short-term inundation and prolonged drought are typical features of this habitat. In total, 64 taxa belonging to 25 families were recorded, with the Poaceae, Cyperaceae and Fabaceae accounting for the greatest proportion of species. Annuals represent the predominant life form and comprise nearly two thirds of all species recorded. DCA ordination of the sample plots illustrates that diversity decreases from north to south, and is accompanied by a gradual transition in the ambient vegetation from savanna to rainforest. This decrease is in marked contrast with diversity of surrounding vegetation types. In the drier northern area, it appears as if the less favourable environmental conditions prevent a state of community equilibrium being attained in the shallow depressions. This enables weak competitors to co-exist along with more vigorous species, which, in the south of the country, form species-poor stands. Furthermore, the fact that inselbergs in the rainforest zone are more isolated enhances the probability of extinction of less competitive associates.
20046579|The area between Ensenada and El Rosario (Baja California, Mexico) has long been considered as a transitional zone in which two great ecoclimatic regions (Mediterranean and Tropical-Desert) overlap. The floristic and biotypical diversity of this area was evaluated by analyzing its shrubland formations from a phytosociological point of view. This phytosociological study, carried out according to the Braun-Blanquet method and supported by cluster analysis, describes sixteen shrubland associations from Northwestern Baja California. Floristic diversity of the transitional zone was evaluated using two indices, endemic value (EV) and endemic community value (ECV), which are related to the degree of endemism in the flora and plant associations. The phytosociological analysis showed that the high number of shrubland associations found in this area reflected its transitional character. The closer the associations are to the transitional zone, the higher their biotypical and floristic diversity.
20046590|Classification of wetlands is extremely problematical, definition of the term wetland being a difficult and controversial starting point. Although considerable effort has gone into the development of national and regional wetland classifications, the only attempt at establishing a global system has been under the auspices of the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance. In view of the fact that the Ramsar Convention has 70 Contracting Parties world-wide, it is suggested that the Convention's definition and classification system should be adopted generally for international purposes. Much of the world has been covered by preliminary wetland inventories, but there is an urgent need to extend coverage to those areas not yet included. It is essential that all inventory projects give adequate attention to meeting the real information needs of agencies and individuals which have an impact on the conservation and wise use of wetlands. Attention should also be given to providing for wide dissemination and regular updating of information and establishment of procedures for monitoring ecological change at the sites identified.
20046591|The status of wetland inventory and classification is considered for 44 European countries, as well as for the continent as a whole. Data and information were obtained from questionnaires compiled by the International Waterfowl and Wetland Research Bureau, the MedWet sub-project on inventory and monitoring, and the Ramsar Bureau. Nine European countries have national wetland inventories, and 32 have inventories of sites of international importance listed under the Ramsar Convention. There has been a trend in producing regional or continental inventories for wetlands that are important as waterfowl habitat. There is an urgent need to produce wetland inventories for all European countries. The Ramsar database takes into consideration hydrological and economic wetland values, as well as ecological ones. The Ramsar classification lists a total of 35 wetland types, and is sufficiently flexible that it could be used for classifying European wetlands at the national scale.
20046592|Mires have been classified in northern Europe at two levels: (1) mire complexes are viewed as large landscape units with common features in hydrology, peat stratigraphy and general arrangement of surface patterns and of minerogenous vs. ombrogenous site conditions; (2) mire sites are considered as units of vegetation research and used in surveys for forestry and conservation. This paper reviews the development of site type classifications in Fennoscandia (Finland, Sweden, Norway), with a discussion on circumboreal classification and corresponding mire vegetation types in Canada. The scale of observation affects classifications: small plot size (0.25-1 m) has been used in Scandinavia to make detailed analyses of ecological and microtopographical variation in mostly treeless mire ecosystems, while larger sampling areas (up to 100-400 m) have been commonly employed in Finnish studies of forested peatlands. Besides conventional hierarchic classifications, boreal mires have been viewed as an open, multidimensional, non-hierarchic system which can be described and classified with factor, principal component or correspondence analyses. Fuzzy clustering is suggested as an alternative method of classification in mire studies where only selected environmental and vegetational parameters are measured or estimated.
20046593|The Indian subcontinent has a large variety of freshwater, saline and marine wetlands. Whereas the mangroves are relatively well documented, very little is known about the other wetlands, with few exceptions. Only recently an inventory of these welands has been prepared but no effort has been made to classify them. A vast majority of the inland wetlands are temporary and/or man-made, and they have been traditionally used and managed by the local human populations. In this paper, first, we evaluate the classification schemes of the IUCN, US Fish and Wildlife Services and those of the Australian wetlands, for their applicability to Indian wetlands. Then, we propose a simple hierarchical classification of wetlands based on their location (coastal or inland), salinity (saline or freshwater), physiognomy (herbaceous or woody), duration of flooding (permanent or seasonal) and the growth forms of the dominant vegetation. We stress upon the hydrological factors which determine all the structural and functional characteristics of the wetlands. We consider that the various growth forms of wetland vegetation integrate the totality of hydrological variables and therefore, can be used as the indicators of different hydrological regimes.
20046594|China supports a great variety of wetlands, including some of the most important in the world. However, an appropriate classification system applicable to all wetlands is not available. Based on a preliminary inventory, a new classification system for Chinese wetlands is proposed. This system classifies natural wetlands into three categories on the basis of their natural features and distribution: peatlands, coastal and estuarine wetlands, and riverine and lacustrine wetlands. Each category is divided into several sub-classes. The areal extent of wetlands in each Province has been estimated and their ecological importance assessed.
20046595|The status of wetland inventory effort and availability of maps and other data sources is reviewed for the ten countries of southern Africa: Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe. The aims and strategies for inventory are discussed and the main survey methods compared. Prior to commissioning new inventory work, careful collation of existing maps and imagery is recommended together with targeting of strategic inventory at Province level, reserving high resolution effort only for certain important sites.
20046596|Studies of wetlands in Australia, as in other countries, have taken a wide variety of approaches to defining, surveying and classifying these environments. Past and current approaches in Australia are reviewed for each of the States and Territories which provide the context for much of the natural resource investigation in the country. While there are obvious advantages of national, and perhaps international, agreement on definition and types of wetlands, a variety of approaches to inventory and classification will always be necessary for particular purposes. More fundamental than general agreement on approaches is the need for wetland scientists and managers to maximise the accuracy of survey information, to test the assumptions involved in the use of classifications, and to ensure that the classifications they use are the most appropriate for their purposes. The issue of a global wetland classification scheme is discussed on the basis of a representative range of views by Australian wetland workers.
20046597|A geomorphic classification of inland wetlands on criteria other than vegetation is proposed, based on their host landform and degree of wetness. Thus, the classification addresses the underlying structure of most inland wetlands, i.e. their landform setting and their various types of hydroperiod. Landforms host to wetlands include: basins, channels, flats, slopes and hills/highlands. Degrees of wetness include: permanent, seasonal or intermittent inundation, and seasonal waterlogging. From combining the landform type with hydroperiod, thirteen primary types of common wetlands are recognized: 1. permanently inundated basin = lake; 2. seasonally inundated basin = sumpland; 3. intermittently inundated basin = playa; 4. seasonally waterlogged basin = dampland; 5. permanently inundated channel = river; 6. seasonally inundated channel = creek; 7. intermittently inundated channel = wadi; 8. seasonally waterlogged channel = trough; 9. seasonally inundated flat = floodplain; 10. intermittently inundated flat = barlkarra; 11. seasonally waterlogged flat = palusplain; 12. seasonally waterlogged slope = paluslope; and 13. seasonally waterlogged highlands = palusmont. Water, landform and vegetation descriptors can augment the nomenclature of the primary units: e.g. salinity of water; size and shape of landform; and organisation, structure and floristics of vegetation. The classification can be used in many settings, regardless of climate and vegetation types. Using the approach adopted in this classification, in principle, more landform types and degrees of wetness, if necessary, can be added to the system to define additional wetland types.
20046598|Thanks to the efforts of the International Waterfowl Research Bureau, during 1982-1984, geographic and biotic data from 368 wetlands across South America were gathered. However, the conservation impact of this inventory has not been as striking as expected because of two reasons. First, since most contributors did not work for governmental agencies, the major points stressed in the document have been overlooked by local authorities. Second, because of logistic limitations of the inventory, large wetlands (i.e. those across the Amazon basin), were not inventoried using the IWRB criteria and thus considered as one large wetland. A critical, comparative, review of the results of the inventory revealed that in addition, the reliability of the inventory is questionable because of the differential effort put into the compilation of the information. Several countries appear to contain only a small percentage of South American wetlands, while in fact they have as many wetlands of international importance as countries that have many times their estimated area of wetlands.
20046599|The Canadian Wetland Classification System is based on manifestations of ecological processes in natural wetland ecosystems. It is hierarchical in structure and designed to allow identification at the broadest levels (class, form, type) by non-experts in different disciplines. The various levels are based on broad physiognomy and hydrology (classes); surface mophology (forms); and vegetation physiognomy (types). For more detailed studies, appropriate characterization and subdivisions can be applied. For ecological studies the wetlands can be further characterized by their chemical environment, each with distinctive indicator species, acidity, alkalinity, and base cation content. For peatlands, both chemical and vegetational differences indicate that the primary division should be acidic, Sphagnum-dominated bogs and poor fens on one hand and circumneutral to alkaline, brown moss-dominated rich fens on the other. Non peat-forming wetlands (marshes, swamps) lack the well developed bryophyte ground layer of the fens and bogs, and are subject to severe seasonal water level fluctuations. The Canadian Wetland Classification System has been successfully used in Arctic, Subarctic, Boreal and Temperate regions of Canada.
20046600|In 1979 the US Fish and Wildlife Service published and adopted a classification of wetlands and deepwater habitats of the United States. The system was designed for use in a national inventory of wetlands. It was intended to be ecologically based, to furnish the mapping units needed for the inventory, and to provide national consistency in terminology and definition. We review the performance of the classification after 13 years of use. The definition of wetland is based on national lists of hydric soils and plants that occur in wetlands. Our experience suggests that wetland classifications must facilitate mapping and inventory because these data gathering functions are essential to management and preservation of the wetland resource, but the definitions and taxa must have ecological basis. The most serious problem faced in construction of the classification was lack of data for many of the diverse wetland types. Review of the performance of the classification suggests that, for the most part, it was successful in accomplishing its objectives, but that problem areas should be corrected and modification could strengthen its utility. The classification, at least in concept, could be applied outside the United States. Experience gained in use of the classification can furnish guidance as to pitfalls to be avoided in the wetland classification process.
20046601|In 1974, the US Fish and Wildlife Service directed its Office of Biological Services to design and conduct an inventory of the Nation's wetlands. The mandate was to develop and disseminate at technically sound, comprehensive data base concerning the characteristics and extent of the Nation's wetlands. The purpose of this data base is to foster wise use of the Nation's wetlands and to expedite decisions that may affect this important resource. To accomplish this, state-of-the-art principles and methodologies pertaining to all aspects of wetland inventory were assimilated and developed by the newly formed project. By 1979, when the National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) Project became operational, it was clear that two very different kinds of information were needed. First, detailed wetland maps were needed for site-specific decisions. Second, national statistics developed through statistical sampling on the current status and trends of wetlands were needed in order to provide information to support the development or alteration of Federal programs and policies. The NWI has produced wetland maps (scale = 1:24 000) for 74% of the conterminous United States. It has also produced wetland maps (scale = 1:63 360) for 24% of Alaska. Nearly 9000 of these wetland maps, representing 16.7% of the continental United States, have been computerized (digitized). In addition to maps, the NWI has produced other valuable wetland products. These include a statistically-based report on the status and trends of wetlands that details gains and losses in United States wetlands that have occurred from the mid-1970's to the mid-1980's. Other wetland products include a list of wetland (hydric) soils, a national list of wetland plant species, wetland reports for certain individual States such as New Jersey and Florida, and a wetland values data base.
20046602|The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) initiated the Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP) in 1988. The wetland component (EMAP-Wetlands) is designed to provide quantitative assessments of the current status and long-term trends in the ecological condition of wetland resources. EMAP-Wetlands will develop a wetland monitoring network and will identify and evaluate indicators that describe and quantify wetland condition. The EMAP-Wetlands network will represent a probability sample of the total wetland resource. The EMAP sample is based on a triangular grid of approximately 12,600 sample points in the conterminous U.S. The triangular grid adequately samples wetland resources that are common and uniformly distributed in a region, such as the prairie pothole wetlands of the Midwest. However, the design is flexible and allows the base grid density to be increased to adequately sample wetland resources, such as the coastal wetlands of the Gulf of Mexico, which are distributed linearly along the coast. The Gulf sample network required a 49-fold increase in base grid density. EMAP-Wetlands aggregates the 56 U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's (FWS) National Wetland Inventory (NWI) categories (Cowardin et al. 1979) into 12 functionally similar groups (Leibowitz et al. 1991). Both the EMAP sample design and aggregated wetland classes are suitable for global inventory and assessment of wetlands.
20046603|Regional, national and local wetland classifications have been developed and successfully applied. These have invariably been orientated towards conservation and management goals, and the information used to assess wetland loss or to assign management priorities. Existing national and regional classification systems have not only been useful, but they provide an essential base for developing an international system. At the international level, differences among existing systems in the definition of a wetland and how wetland types are defined assume great importance and need to be resolved. Classification is an essential prerequisite for wetland inventory. A number of international inventories have been undertaken, although these have not generally utilized the available high technology and data storage systems available through remote sensing and geographic information systems. More extensive international inventories will require standardization of techniques for data collection, storage and dissemination. A minimum data set needs to be defined with standards for data accuracy. An international committee under the auspices of an international agency (e.g. IWRB, Ramsar Bureau, IUCN) needs to be established to develop an international classification system and guidelines for carrying out a complete inventory of the world's wetlands.
20046608|Many of the natural forested ecosystems that still remain in mainland China are being cleared with potentially detrimental effects on woody plant species diversity on both local and regional scales. The most extensive stand of subtropical broad-leaved forest remaining in China is located in Yunnan Province. In an effort to document the influence of human-induced disturbance on Yunnan's woody flora, floristic inventories were conducted in a stand of primary forest and in regrowth stands located in its interior and along its outer margin in the Xujiaba Nature Sanctuary in the Ailao Mountain Range. Of particular interest was the location of the disturbance relative to the primary forest source area. A total of 134 woody plant species representing 74 genera and 43 families were recorded. The floristics of the two regrowth stands were significantly different from each other, with &lt 10% of their respective floras comprised of co-occurring species. The interior regrowth stand had a higher number of co-occurring species with the primary forest; however, &gt 40% were still non-co-occurring. The principal families represented in the primary forest and the interior regrowth stand were Aquifoliaceae, Berberidaceae, Fagaceae, Lauraceae, Rosaceae, Smilacaceae, Symplocaceae, Theaceae, and Vacciniaceae. The three dominant species with relative importance values ranging from &gt 5% to 18% in both the primary forest and the interior regrowth stand were Castanopsis wattii, Lithocarpus jingdongensis, and Symplocos sumuntia. The edge regrowth stands had the lowest species diversity and were dominated by the native pine Pinus yunnanensis, with a relative importance of 24%. The principal families represented in the edge regrowth stand were Betulaceae, Ericaceae, Fagaceae, Myricaceae, Pinaceae, and Theaceae. Only the Fagaceae and Theaceae were well-represented in all three stands. The results of the study document the low species diversity in post-cutting regrowth on the margins of the primary forest as compared with post-cutting regrowth in the forest interior.
20046609|Many studies have indicated relationships between individual species, but none have related combinations of overstory variables to understory herbaceous vegetation in a Ponderosa pine/Gambel oak ecosystem. Our objective was to determine not only the general relationships between the two sets of variables, but also identify the highest contributing variables. We used canonical correlation analysis to relate overstory variables (canopy cover, basal cover and density) to herbaceous vegetation cover variables. Canopy, basal, and ground cover were measured by the line intercept method using a 12.2 m tape as a sample unit. Tree density was measured by the Point-Center-Quarter method. The analysis was made with selected overstory variables and 5 understory herbaceous cover variables. This analysis revealed a significant canonical correlation between the two canonical variables (r = 0.69). The analysis showed that among herbaceous cover variables, Oregon grape, Kentucky bluegrass, sedge, and foxtail barley; and among overstory variables, the density and the basal cover of Ponderosa pine indicated the highest positive contribution to the correlation of the two linear combinations while the density and canopy of Gambel oak negatively affected the canonical correlation.
20046610|The presence of species and their cover values together with soil and topographic characteristics were recorded at 40 sites along an altitudinal gradient of the Puna Belt at Pozuelos, in the High Andes in northwest Argentina. Classification and ordination of plant assemblages showed that soil and topography were the best predictors of the variation in species distribution. The different plant assemblages which occur along the topographic gradient follow the geographic variation in rainfall in this Andean region. Perennial bushes and grasses colonize the plains and slopes with fine textured soils which retain their water content. In contrast, deciduous bushes and cactuses grow on steep, rocky, dry slopes. Open woods also occur on east-facing steep, rocky slopes which are sheltered from winds.
20046611|Juniperus excelsa subsp. polycarpos (K. Koch) Takhtajan is found in mountain areas from Turkey through to India and as an isolated population on Jebel Akhdar in the northern mountains of Oman. Juniperus is one of the dominant plant species in these mountains and a major landscape feature of several proposed National Nature and Scenic Reserves and of Hayl Juwari, a wooded valley at 2250 m altitude proposed as a Botanical Site of Special Interest. Above 2400 m altitude the Juniperus woodlands generally appear to be regenerating and in good condition, both on exposed slopes and in wadis and sheltered gullies, whereas below 2400 m most stands are in poor condition and exhibit few signs of regeneration. If the apparently poor condition of the lower altitude woodlands is due to any long term change in climatic conditions, both tree status and regeneration would be poorer in relatively more xeric habitats. To test this prediction we have carried out a detailed survey of the status and ecology of a 32 ha area of Hayl Juwari, and analysed differences in tree status and regeneration between wadis (relatively more mesic sites) and non-wadi areas (relatively more xeric). Approximately one third of the trees are dead, and an analysis of the height, condition, regeneration, female cone production, preferred germination sites and spatial distribution of trees indicates the importance of topography, hydrology and microclimate for growth. However, although there are relatively greater numbers of dead and poor-condition trees in the more xeric non-wadi habitat, there is no unequivocal evidence that the present distribution of small, sexually immature trees in both habitats could not form a pattern of larger, sexually mature trees similar to that seen today. We speculate, however, that the climate at this altitude may be marginal for the survival of a J. excelsa subsp. polycarpos woodland and that even small increases in climatic stress could imperil the woodland's present status.
20046612|In neotropical alpine grasslands (pramo), the natural tussock grass vegetation is extensively grazed and occasionally burned. The low productivity of the tussock grass seems to be the reason for the disappearance of this growth form in the most frequently intervened areas. The structure, microclimate and leaf elongation rates of new emerging leaves were studied for the dominant tussock grass species Calamagrostis effusa, at an undisturbed, a moderately grazed (7 year after fire) and a heavily grazed (3.5 years after fire) site. In absence of grazing and burning, the tussocks had a high standing crop (
20046613|An investigation was made in a mixed broad-leaved forest in Japan to determine the three-dimensional structure of the crowns of the component species. Vertical extensions and positions of foliage above a circle with a 20-cm diamter on the forest floor were measured using a grid of 177 points in the forest. The first leaf layer above a point was defined to be the highest aggregation of the foliage above the point, and the second leaf layer to be the one below. There were generally two leaf layers above each point, the first and the second. Each of the nineteen species in the plot belonged to either the first leaf layer or the second. Because the leaf layers varied in height from place to place in the forest, the two leaf layers were not separated clearly. Mean vertical depth of each leaf layer was about 2 m irrespective of the leaf layers and component species. Since the depths were similar among the species, species mean crown volumes (volumes of the spaces occupied by foliage) per unit land area mainly depended on horizontal extensions of their crowns, or the coverage. That is, species varied in their horizontal rather than vertical crown extensions. There was an upper limit (6 m) to the sum of vertical depths of the leaf layers above a point on the forest floor. On an average, about three species occurred above a point.
20046614|Soil samples from burnt and unburnt sites dominated by Quercus pyrenaica Wild. forests in Len province (NW Spain) were collected, separated into an upper layer (0-2 cm depth) from a lower layer (2-5 cm), put in a greenhouse, and seeds allowed to germinate. A total of 670 identified seedlings comprising 56 species and belonging to 24 families were recorded. Most seedling were herbaceous perennials (hemicryptophytes: 59%), followed by annuals (therophytes: 23%). Many species that germinated from buried seeds were not observed as plants at any site, and came from exogenous communities. The principal means of seed dissemination were anemochory (45%) and autochory (23%). The number of species as well as seedlings was not significantly different between soils from the burnt and unburnt sites, but seedlings were more numerous in samples from the unburnt sites, as the number of seedlings was always highest in the upper soil layer. Germination behaviour of four particular species was characterized. Seedlings from the seed bank temporarily were found in the early stages of recovery of the burnt Quercus pyrenaica forests.
20046619|Biodiversity, although recognized as encompassing several levels of biological organization, is often thought of as species diversity. Three diversity estimates were calculated for the conterminous United States using satellite data acquired from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR): land cover richness, vegetation richness, and vegetation clustering. Vegetation richness and vegetation clustering showed a scale-dependent relationship to elevation across the range of quadrat sizes from
20046620|The effects of habitat and timing of growing season fires on resprouting of shrubs were studied in second-growth longleaf pine savannas of the west Gulf coastal plain in the southeastern United States. Within the headwaters of three different drainages of the Calcasieu River in the Kisatchie National Forest in western Louisiana, replicated permanent transects were established that extended from xeric upland longleaf pine savannas into downslope hydric seepage savannas. All shrubs were mapped and tagged, and numbers of stems were counted prior to any fires. Replicated prescribed fires were set early (June) and late (August) during the 1990 growing season; maximum fire temperatures were measured within both upland and seepage habitats within each transect. Shrubs were relocated; stems were recensused two and twelve months after the fires. At least some shrubs of all species resprouted from underground organs; none regenerated solely from seed banks in the soil. There was no reduction in total numbers of stems one year after fires compared to before fires, either in the upland or in seepage savannas. In addition, there was no reduction in total numbers of stems one year after early or late growing season fires. Fire-related mortality was restricted to small shrubs (&lt 18 stems) and was not associated with high fire temperatures. The rate of resprouting varied among species and between habitats. Resprouting occurred more rapidly in seepage than upland savannas, but more resprouts were produced in upland than seepage savannas one year after fires. In contrast to other upland species, Vaccinium arboreum and V. elliottii delayed resprouting more than two months following fire. Stems of Rhus copallina and Pyrus arbutifolia, species with long rhizomes, increased more after fires in June than fires in August. We suggest that growing season fires may block further recruitment of shrubs into longleaf pine savannas, but reduction in numbers of large shrubs may require additional management.
20046621|Abiotic and vegetation data were collected along two altitudinal transects through mature montane Quercus forests on the Pacific and Atlantic slopes of Costa Rica's Chirrip Massif. Between 2000 and 3200 m asl twenty-four 0.05 ha forest plots were selected at altitudinal intervals of 100 m, and eight soil profiles were described at intervals of 200 m. A TWINSPAN classification aided in the determination of eight zonal forest communities on the basis of their floristic composition. They are grouped in two sets of four: (i) the palm-rich lauraceous-fagaceous Lower Montane Mollinedia-Quercus Forests (2000-2600 m asl) and (ii) the bamboo-rich myrsinaceous-fagaceous Upper Montane Schefflera-Quercus Forests (2500-3200 m asl), respectively. Vegetation changes seem correlated with two major climatic gradients: (i) a temperature gradient (altitude), and (ii) a moisture gradient (wet Atlantic vs. moist Pacific slope). Most soils are Andepts, and residual, colluvial or derived from volcanic material. Humus layers are thicker on the wetter Atlantic slope. A total of 431 vascular plant species consisted of 86 pteridophytes, 1 gymnosperm, 296 dicots and 48 monocots. Species richness, canopy height and stem diameter decrease with increasing altitude, while the canopy surface becomes more flattened. A comparison with other studies shows that Chirrip's montane Quercus forests fit within the environmental ranges known from altitudinal zonations elsewhere in the Tropics.
20046622|The floristic composition (trees) of 26 forests in the state of So Paulo, Brazil, was compared using cluster analysis and Principal Coordinates Analysis (PCO) with simple Euclidean distance. The results obtained indicate the existence of two floristically distinct groups of forests. One group contains forests from higher areas (above 700 m) with a colder climate (Cfa and Cfb) and includes surveys from Angatuba, Atibaia, Guarulhos, Jundia, So Jos dos Compos and So Paulo. The second group is floristically less homogeneous and includes forests of the central and western parts of the state, usually at lower altitudes (500-700 m) and subject to hotter climatic conditions (Cwa).
20046631|The development of the Hawaiian montane rainforest was investigated along a 4.1-million-year soil age gradient at 1200 m elevation under two levels of precipitation, the mesic (c. 2500 mm annual rainfall) vs. wet (&gt 4000 mm) age gradient. Earlier analyses suggested that soil fertility and foliar nutrient concentrations of common canopy species changed unimodally on the same gradients, with peak values at the 20,000-150,000 yr old sites, and that foliar concentrations were consistently lower under the wet than under the mesic conditions. Our objectives were to assay the influences of soil aging and moisture on forest development using the patterns and rates of species displacements. The canopies at all sites were dominated by Metrosideros polymorpha. Mean height and dbh of upper canopy Metrosideros trees increased from the youngest site to peak values at the 2100-9000 yr sites, and successively declined to older sites. A detrended correspondence analysis applied to mean species cover values revealed that significant variation among sites occurred only on one axis (axis 1), for both soil-age gradients. Sample scores along axis 1 were perfectly correlated with soil age on the mesic gradient, and significantly correlated on the wet gradient. Higher rainfall appeared to be responsible for the higher rates of species turnover on the wet gradient probably through faster rock weathering and greater leaching of soil elements. We concluded that the changes in species cover values and size of the canopy species was a reflection of the changing pattern of nutrient availability associated with soil aging.
20046632|To detect the factors that affect sapling species composition in gaps, we investigated 55 gaps in an old-growth temperate deciduous forest in Ogawa Forest Reserve, central Japan. Gap size, gap age, gap maker species, topographic location, adult tree composition around gaps, and saplings of tree species growing in the gaps were censused. For gaps  5 m, mean gap size was 70 m and the maximum was 330 m. Estimated ages of gaps had a tendency to be concentrated in particular periods relating to strong wind records in the past. The sapling composition in gaps was highly and significantly correlated to that under closed canopy, indicating the importance of advance regeneration in this forest. However, some species showed significant occurrence biases in gaps or under closed canopy, suggesting differences in shade tolerance. The result of MANOVA showed that gap size and topography were important factors in determining the sapling composition in gaps. Species of gap makers affected the sapling composition indirectly by influencing gap size. The existence of parent trees around gaps had effects on sapling densities of several species. Gap age did not have clear influences on sapling composition. Variations in gap size and topography were considered as important factors that contribute to maintenance of species diversity in this forest.
20046633|Dynamics of forest floor biomass, pattern of litter fall and nutrient return in three central Himalayan high elevation forests are described. Fresh and partially decomposed litter layer occur throughout the year. In maple and birch the highest leaf litter value was found in October and in low-rhododendron in August. The relative contribution of partially and more decomposed litter to the total forest floor remains greatest the year round. The total calculated input of litter was
20046634|Relationships between the spatial and temporal distribution of long-lasting snow-cover and the spatial distribution of plant communities above timberline were studied on Mount Prado (2054 m), a representative sample area of the summit vegetation of the Northern Apennines (Italy). The spatial analysis was carried out by creating a geographic information system. Vegetation map and two snow-cover maps were both georeferenced to a scale 1: 2000. The vegetation map is formed by 28 plant communities (including 7 combinations of communities, or vegetation mosaics) distributed into 277 map polygons. The maps were compared by an overlay procedure. The results show that the six plant communities (including three mosaics) which have a June snow-cover higher than 60% are diversified by a snow-melting gradient from early June to mid-July. The slowest snow melt corresponds to a snow-bed community (Salicetum herbaceae) and to a mesophytic grassland (Trifolium thalii -- Festuca puccinellii community, Luzula alpino-pilosa variant).
20046635|The recovery of a Cistus shrubland after experimental treatments (cutting, burning and ploughing) was studied to determine qualitative and quantitative differences in the secondary succession. The study was carried out in three experimental plots of 100 m each, in which five 1 m sampling units were fixed and surveyed for five years, estimating cover percentage of each plant species. The data were analysed by means of affinity indexes (Sorensen and Steinhaus Indexes). The results indicated that the cover of the woody species increased progressively, but the degree of recovery depended on the treatment, as well as on the time afterwards. The number of these species remained almost constant throughout the whole period. The herbaceous species diversity was higher in the two first years in all treatments. When treatments were compared, the greatest diversity occurred after cutting. The regeneration of the community occurred by autosuccession in which the diversity decreased when the dominance of Cistus increased, unlike the general trend of the classical theories. The recovery was very quick after all three treatments, which can be interpreted as a great resilience of this ecosystem.
20046636|The paper presents a detailed analysis of woody forest vegetation of Corbett National Park, at the foothills of Garhwal and Kumaun Himalaya. Twenty nine stands of tropical forest vegetation were studied. The vegetation consists of nine community types. Tree density was higher in Shorea robusta dominated communities and lowest in the Anogeissus latifolia-Acacia catechu community. Total tree basal cover was maximum in Shorea robusta dominated communities. Sapling and seedling regeneration was poor in Shorea robusta communities. Mallotus philippensis, Syzygium cumini and Diospyros tomentosa showed good regeneration both in sapling and seedling layers across the communities. Sapling and seedling species diversities showed negative relation with total tree basal cover. Most of the dominant tree species exhibited significant positive relationship between tree height and circumference at breast height in all the communities.
20046637|A biogeographic analysis of 26 species of trees and shrubs occurring in the Paran River Delta (32  to 34  30 South latitude, 58  to 61  West longitude, Argentina) was performed to study the floristic and structural differences among deltaic woodland communities. Traditionally these variations have been interpreted as a consequence of the differential influence of local island geomorphology and flood dynamics on floristic successions. We performed a cluster analysis of collection site, obtained maps showing the joint occurrence of the species of each community, and related species ranges with the presence of possible migration corridors. Results suggest that, in addition to local variations in topography and flood persistence, changes in floristic richness can be understood as a consequence of the differential efficiency of the Paran and Uruguay Rivers as migration corridors for tropical species into temperate latitudes. Geomorphical stability of riverbeds and fluvial dynamic differences between rivers are discussed in relation to how they may explain the more efficient migration of species along the flood plain of the Uruguay River compared to the Paran River. Results allows us to re-interpret the relative importance of both rivers in the establishment of tropical and subtropical species in temperate latitudes, and to add a regional explanation for the observed floristic heterogeneity.
20046642|As part of an integrated forest vegetation and soil survey, tree species composition (DBH  10 cm) was recorded in 95 plots of 0.1 ha, distributed over the principal physiographic units in the middle Caquet area, Colombian Amazonia. A total of 1077 tree species was found, classified into 271 genera and 60 families. Leguminosae and Sapotaceae show high familial importance values in all physiographic units. Lauraceae, Chrysobalanaceae, Moraceae, and Lecythidaceae are more important on well drained (flood plain or upland) soils, while Palmae, Guttiferae, Bombacaceae, and Apocynaceae are more important in swamps and on podzolised ('white sand') soils. Plots on well drained soils show a lower degree of dominance than plots in swamps or on podzolised ('white sand') soils. The composition of the most dominant species in the plots changes continuously. Most species (59%) are only recorded in one plot. Individual plot pairs generally show a low overlap of about 2-5 tree species, resulting in Jaccard coefficients below 20%. Complementary to a previous forest classification based on TWINSPAN analyses, detrended and canonical correspondence analyses were carried out, using CANOCO 3.1. Despite of a low amount of tree species variance explained (only 6.2% by the first two canonical axes), meaningful patterns of tree species composition were recognised. These are most strongly related to drainage, flooding, humus forms, and soil nutrient status. Forest types are well separated in the CCA ordination diagram. The most frequently found tree species are listed according to their preference with respect to drainage, flooding, and soil nutrient status. Tree species composition in the well drained upland forests was analysed separately. In view of the model explaining high NW Amazonian tree species diversity on the basis of dense community packing and high beta diversity along soil gradients, the canonical analysis here focused on the effect of soils. By means of partial canonical ordination it was found that patterns of tree species composition depended significantly on soil properties, even though the edaphic component explains only a small fraction of the tree species variance. The results show that the well drained uplands of the middle Caquet area are covered by a complex of two intergrading tree species assemblages. The first assemblage (community of Goupia glabra-Clathrotropis macrocarpa) is associated to somewhat less poor, clayey soils developed in Andean origin deposits or Tertiary sediments from the Pebas formation. The second assemblage (community of Swartzia schomburgkii-Clathrotropis macrocarpa) shows affinities to very poor, loamy soils developed in parent materials derived from the Guiana shield. This simple dichotomous pattern of geology, soils, and forest types is incompatible with concepts of high soil heterogeneity and associated beta diversity controlling tree species diversity in well drained uplands of NW Amazonia. The gradient length of tree species in the detrended correspondence analysis was low (3.7 SD), also suggesting a low beta diversity.
20046643|The distribution and abundance of Thelypteris limbosperma, Athyrium distentifolium, and Matteuccia struthiopteris are modelled statistically in relation to 14 environmental variables along the major climatic, topographic, and edaphic gradients in western Norway. The data are from 624 stands from which measurements or estimates of mean January and mean July temperatures, humidity, altitude, aspect, and slope are available. From 182 of these stands eight soil variables have also been measured. The species responses are quantified by two numerical methods: Gaussian logit regression and weighted averaging (WA) regression. The estimated WA optima suggest that A. distentifolium has an ecological preference for low July and January temperatures, high altitudes, and soils of low-medium pH and base content. The species shows statistically significant Gaussian responses with summer temperature, humidity (= Martonnes humidity index), altitude, slope, aspect, pH, cation exchange capacity, and base saturation with optima of 8.7 C, 188.9, 1220 m, 28, 29, 4.8, 13.77 mEq 100 g dry
20046644|The traditional sampling method for estimating frequency (the number of sub-quadrats containing a basal part of the organisms) is compared, using both computer simulations and direct comparison in the field, to two new methods that use a compound series of variable-sized concentric sub-quadrats. Both the new frequency-score and the new importance-score methods are closer approximations of density than is the standard frequency method, and the estimates produced by both of the new methods are less affected by the choice of sub-quadrat size and the spatial distribution (dispersion) of the organisms (i.e. clumping and regularity). Thus, the two nested-quadrat methods appear to ameliorate the usual frequency limitations associated with sub-quadrat size and organism dispersion, by the use of a range of different sub-quadrat sizes. This is important in community studies, where the component species may show a wide range of densities and dispersions. Both of the new methods are easily employed in the field. The importance-score method involves no more sampling effort than does standard qualitative (presence-absence) sampling, and it can therefore be used to sample a larger quadrat area than would normally be used for frequency sampling. This makes the method much more cost-effective as a means of estimating abundance, and it allows a greater number of the rarer species to be included in the sampling. The frequency-score method is more time-consuming, but it is capable of detecting more subtle community patterns. This means that it is particularly useful for the study of species-poor communities or where small variations in composition need to be detected.
20046645|The most important environmental gradients of Maine peatlands are geologic substrate and alkalinity. Other gradients are coastal-inland climate, moisture content of the peat, P and K concentrations, and shade. Abundance weighted means of pH, Ca, and moisture content of peat are given for the 48 most frequently occurring bryophyte and lichen species. A TWINSPAN differentiated twenty associations. Environments of the first four TWINSPAN dichotomies differed largely by pH and related variables, though Fe, %HO, shade, microtopography, and degree of humification were also significant. A CCA with forward selection entered pH, P, Fe, Na, %HO, shade, and a climate factor as the minimum number of variables which best account for the species variation. Bryophyte and lichen distributions are determined primarily by edaphic and hydrologic factors, which determine the kinds and amounts of mineral solutes in peat interstitial water. Two independent chemical gradients were identified: (1) the acidity-alkalinity gradient related to base cation concentrations, and (2) a gradient of Fe, Al, Mn, and Si related to shallowness of peat and inputs from granitic lithologies.
20046646|Inland dunes in northwestern Europe support a number of dry vegetation types. These ecosystems are poor in nutrients and it has been suggested that accumulation of nutrients triggers succession in such systems. We studied the accumulation of organic matter and N and P over a 30 months period in two adjacent ecosystems, the Spergulo-Corynephoretum and the Genisto-Callunetum. Amounts of plant matter and soil organic matter significantly accumulated during the sampling period in the Genisto-Callunetum but not in the Spergulo-Corynephoretum. While nutrient concentrations of live and dead phytomass in the Spergulo-Corynephoretum were significantly higher than in the Genisto-Callunetum, total nutrient contents in the systems showed the opposite pattern. N and P concentrations in litter were relatively high compared with the other fractions of plant matter and the amount of N significantly increased in both ecosystems during the sampling period. Soil moisture contents showed a seasonal pattern. It was highest in the top soil layer and higher in the Genisto-Callunetum than in the Spergulo-Corynephoretum. The estimated annual increase of total N in these two ecosystems was consistent with rates of atmospheric N deposition (wet fall + dry fall) measured in comparable Dutch sites.
20046647|This study examined the temporal patterns of establishment, suppression, and release of major tree species in two old-growth Ohio forest remnants as a means to determine the past disturbance history of these forests. Increment cores were taken from a total of 154 trees from two well-drained, upland plots and two poorly-drained, bottomland plots in each of the two forested areas. Acer saccharum and Fagus grandifolia exhibited multiple episodes of suppression and release prior to becoming canopy trees, and could tolerate suppressions as long as 84 years. In contrast, Quercus macrocarpa, Q. muehlenbergii, Prunus serotina, and Acer saccharinum rarely exhibited any tolerance to suppression and appeared to have entered the canopy after single disturbances had opened large areas of canopy. There was clear synchrony in the temporal pattern of establishment and final release from suppression among trees from bottomland plots scattered throughout the stands, indicating that relatively large disturbances were important in these poorly- drained areas. In contrast, there was little synchrony among trees from well-drained upland plots, except in a single instance where selective cutting of Quercus trees opened the canopy. Thus, the canopy of upland site was likely subjected only to small disturbances resulting from the death of one or a few trees. At the whole of forest level, there was evidence of episodic recruitment of canopy trees in both forests. Establishment of Fraxinus spp. and Quercus spp. were particularly episodic, and few Fraxinus or Quercus trees alive today established during the last century. These data suggest that large disturbances have affected canopy dynamics of both upland and bottomland areas prior to 1900 and in bottomland forests through this century. In contrast, disturbances in upland areas during this century have been restricted to small, treefall-generated canopy gaps.
20048600|A new template for mountain vegetation zonation along latitudinal gradients is proposed for examining geographical pattern of various forest attributes in humid monsoon Asia. The contrasting temperature regime in tropical and temperate mountains, i.e., the former is a non-seasonal, temperature-sum controlled environment, and the latter is a seasonal, low temperature limiting environment, leads to different altitudinal patterns of tree height distribution and species richness. In the tropical mountains, both tree height and species richness decrease steeply, and the tree height often stepwise. The decline of tree height and species diversity in the temperate mountains is far less pronounced except near the forest limit. Both trends are explained by their temperature regime.
20048601|The distribution, diversity and structure of boreal forests of monsoon Asia are reviewed. The boreal zone is circumscribed by the isotherms of 15 C and 45 C of Kira's Warmth Index (WI) and includes the territory of the Amur basin, the seashores of the Sea of Okhotsk, Kamchatka, Sakhalin and the Kuril islands. Boreal forests also occur on the mountains of Hokkaido, Honshu, Korea and NE China. The oceanic sectors of the boreal zone are composed mainly of birch forests, the marine sectors of spruce-fir forests and the continental sectors of larch and pine forests. The upper limit of the boreal forests ascends from the lowest level in the North to ca. 1500 m a.s.l. in the South of the zone, and reaches above 2500 m in the mountains of the temperate zone. In the boreal zone the secondary forests are common. They form after fires and cutting. Volcanism is an essential factor in the forest dynamics in the oceanic part of the region. It is suggested that as a result of global warming one may expect a strong alteration in vegetation pattern, especially in the northern and mountain areas.
20048602|Temperate deciduous forests in Monsoon Asia are classified into three forest types which differ in floristic composition, dynamics and disturbance regime. The cool temperate mixed deciduous broadleaf/conifer forest, dominated by Quercus spp. (mainly Q. mongolica or Q. crispula) and conifers, is distributed in northern parts of the temperate zone. The cool temperate deciduous forest, dominated by Fagus crenata, is distributed in Honshu, Japan under a humid climate through the year. The warm temperate deciduous forest dominated by Quercus spp. (mainly Q. acutissima or Q. serrata) occurs in the continental areas, the Korean Peninsula, and the Pacific Ocean side of Japan. The species diversity of cool temperate deciduous forest was lower than the other two types because of the intensive dominance of Fagus crenata. The disturbance regimes also varies among the three types; small scale treefall gaps are prevailing in the cool temperate deciduous forest, while larger scaled disturbances are important in the other two forest types. Fire seems to be important in the warm temperate deciduous forest, and both fire and large scale blowdowm seems important in the cool temperate mixed broadleaf/conifer forest. These differences in forest composition and disturbance regimes associated with climatic conditions and ancient human impacts have a close analogy with the Northeastern Hardwood forests in North America.
20048603|This paper is intended to provide a brief review of the tropical seasonal forest, one type of the tropical moist forests in monsoon Asia. It will also focus on and summarise issues of current concern in relation to their depletion and global environmental issues. Tropical moist forests occur in the rainy tropical and monsoon tropical climate types. The tropical moist evergreen forest or the tropical rain forest, which account for two-thirds of the tropical moist forests are rich in biodiversity and contain valuable tropical hardwood. The tropical moist deciduous forest or the tropical seasonal forest which lie along the fringes of tropical rain forest, are less complex than the tropical rain forest and have more distinct wet and dry periods. Broadleaved deciduous trees of the genera Tectona, Shorea, and Dipterocarpus are predominantly in this forest type. Currently estimates have found that more than 17 million hectares of forest mainly tropical moist forests are being lost each year. There is a widespread recognition that agriculture and the burning of tropical moist forests contribute to global warming but to a much lesser extent than the combustion of fossil fuels and industrial activities in the developed world.
20048604|People living near or in tropical forest ecosystems have traditionally extracted forest products, i.e. timber, food and medicinal plants for their livelihood. Such practice does not create too much disturbance when the population is still sparse, and the product is used only for their own needs. When population pressure becomes greater, and when the motive of extraction is profit, then the disturbance become serious and creates environmental problems. Major exploitation of the Indonesian rain forest for timber began in the 1960s and is continuing today. The lowland rain forests of Sumatra and Kalimantan have been particularly logged. Exploitation has often been destructive because Forest Department rules have been widely ignored. Moreover, once roads have given access to formerly inaccessible areas, farmers have often moved in after the timber companies and then cleared the relict, regenerating forest for either permanent or shifting cultivation. The traditional shifting cultivations have been practised for years, producing millions of ha of impoverished secondary types of forest, degraded lands and alang-alang (Imperata cylindrica) grasslands. Forests have also been lost through conversion of land to plantation agriculture and transmigration programmes, mining, construction roads and railways and also natural disturbances, such as drought and fire. This paper will discuss the human impact upon tropical forest dynamics in general, with examples from Indonesian and other Southeast Asia countries' tropical forests.
20048605|The International Geosphere-Biosphere Program has proposed a set of large-scale terrestrial transects to study the effects of changes in climate, land use, and atmospheric composition ("global change") on biogeochemistry, surface-atmosphere exchange, and vegetation dynamics of terrestrial ecosystems. The transects ( 1000 km) will be located along existing environmental and land use intensity gradients that span transitions between biomes in regions likely to be widely affected by forcing from components of global change or where the impacts of global change are likely to feed back to affect atmospheric, climatic, or hydrologic systems. Experimental studies on the transects will examine short-term changes in ecosystem function and biosphere-atmosphere interaction in response to variation in primary controlling variables. A hierarchy of modeling approaches will develop predictions of long-term changes in biome boundaries and vegetation distribution. The proposed initial set of IGBP terrestrial transects are located in four key regions: (1) humid tropical forests undergoing land use change, (2) high latitudes including the transition from boreal forest to tundra, (3) semi-arid tropical regions including transitions from dry forest to shrublands and savannas, and (4) mid latitude semi-arid regions encompassing transitions from shrubland or grassland to forests. We discuss here the rationale and general research design of transect studies proposed for each of these priority regions.
20048606|To assess the long-term effect of increased CO and temperature on plants possessing the C photosynthetic pathway, Chenopodium album plants were grown at one of three treatment conditions: (1) 23 C mean day temperature and a mean ambient partial pressure of CO equal to 350 bar; (2) 34 C and 350 bar CO; and (3) 34 C and 750 bar CO. No effect of the growth treatments was observed on the CO response of photosynthesis, the temperature response of photosynthesis, the content of Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (Rubisco), or the activity of whole chain electron transport when measurements were made under identical conditions. This indicated a lack of photosynthetic acclimation in C. album to the range of temperature and CO used in the growth treatments. Plants from every treatment exhibited similar interactions between temperature and CO on photosynthetic activity. At low CO (&lt 300 bar), an increase in temperature from 25 to 35 C was inhibitory for photosynthesis, while at elevated CO (&gt 400 bar), the same increase in temperature enhanced photosynthesis by up to 40%. In turn, the stimulation of photosynthesis by CO enrichment increased as temperature increased. Rubisco capacity was the primary limitation on photosynthetic activity at low CO (195 bar). As a consequence, the temperature response of A was relatively flat, reflecting a low temperature response of Rubisco at CO levels below its
20048607|We examine conductances for evaporation from both vegetation and soil in response to environmental variables. Data from a vertically-structured pristine forest of Nothofagus are presented as an example of the effects of biodiversity on the scaling of conductances between tiers of plant organisation. Available data sets of maximum leaf stomatal conductances (
20048608|Any theory of leaf phenology must predict leaf longevity, leaf habit, leaf expansion and its timing among other variables. These phenological traits may be important keys to understand the response of trees to climatic change. Here I concentrate on and review two of these critical phenological traits, leaf longevity and leaf habit. Theories of leaf longevity were re-evaluated and leaf longevity is concluded to be optimized to maximize plant carbon gain. From this perspective, three points are predicted. Leaf longevity is short when the photosynthetic rate of the leaf is high, when the photosynthetic rate decreases rapidly through time, or when the construction cost of the leaf is small. These predictions are well supported by empirical as well as experimental results on various plant species. The theory, which is extended to seasonal environments, is general and applicable to seasonal as well as aseasonal environments. The theory simulated the bimodal geographic distribution of evergreenness.
20048609|Plant functional types have been identified by the International Geosphere Biosphere Program as functionally similar basic plant types, especially trees, as needed for global ecological modeling. Based to some extent on an earlier set of pheno-physiognomically defined plant types, a Global Biome Model was produced but has not satisfied all the desired functional criteria posed by IGBP physiologists and modelers. This paper asks two questions: what are the main environmental factors which limit terrestrial plant types, especially tree types; and how many types of potential vegetation are needed to cover the world's terrestrial vegetation patterns? Based on the main environmental factors recognized, a model of world potential dominant vegetation types was produced and used to estimate the minimal number of vegetation types needed. The resulting set of 40 potential dominant vegetation types may serve as an initial basis for a structural-functionally based set of world plant functional types.
20048610|A geographically extended model of the dynamics of tree size structure of forests is proposed to simulate the change of forest zonation along latitude in response to global environmental change. To predict the response of forests to global change, it is necessary to construct functional models of forest tree populations. The size-structure-based model requires far less memory and steps of calculation compared with individual-based models, and it is easy to incorporate the dimension of geographic locations into the model to describe large-scale dynamics of forest-type distributions. The effect of increasing size growth rate, expected from increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide, was diminished at the stand-level basal area density, because of regulation by one-sided competition. Model simulations of a century-long global warming at around 3 C predicted that (1) biomass changed in resident forests rather simultaneously in response to warming, and that (2) there was a considerable time lag in movement at the boundaries of different forest types, particularly under the existence of resident forest types that would be finally replaced. It required several thousand years after a century-long warming spell for forest types to attain new steady-state distributions after shifting. As a consequence, global warming created a zigzag pattern of biomass distribution along a latitudinal gradient, i.e., an increase in the cooler-side boundary of forest types and a decrease in the warmer-side boundary.
20048611|The species diversity of trees maintained in tropical rain forests is much higher than in temperate, boreal, or seasonally dry tropical forests. Many hypotheses have been proposed for higher diversity in tropical rain forests, including: (i) higher specialization of resource use, (ii) different mode of disturbance, (iii) smaller opportunity for competition on oligotrophic soil, (iv) higher productivity, (v) more active specific herbivores and pathogens, (vi) evolutionary/ecological history. In this paper we report mathematical models for tree-by-tree replacement. First the analysis of random drift model shows that the effect of gap size to species diversity is not very strong. Second we study phenological segregation model, which has the following assumptions: Basic mechanism for many species to coexist in the community is assumed given by the storage effect of lottery model, as species differ in seasonality in peak fruit production and in the subsequent period of high regeneration ability. Gaps formed during unfavorable season accumulate and become available for regeneration in the beginning of the growing season. The resulting synchronization of regeneration opportunity jeopardizes the coexistence of many similar species in seasonal environments. Analysis of a mathematical model shows: (1) the existence of unfavorable season can greatly reduce the diversity of coexisting species. (2) Diversity in the equilibrium community can be high when niche width of each species is broad and resource use is strongly overlapped. (3) Equilibrium community may include several distinct groups of species differing in phenology of regeneration. Effect of unequal niche width and frequency dependent regeneration are also examined.
20048612|Gap-phase replacement is a general phenomenon found in forest ecosystems, worldwide. Different tree species can be expected to produce different sizes of gaps when they die. Species also vary in their regeneration success in gaps of different sizes. In this paper, the gap-phase interactions among tree species in a forest stand are simulated by a role-type stand model called ROPE. By incorporation of environmental effects on tree height, ROPE can simulate forest composition and stand leaf area under different climate conditions. The model was developed for forest ecosystems in northeastern China and was used to simulate the forest landscape structures under current climate conditions and under four climate change scenarios for greenhouse gas related warming. These scenarios were obtained from general circulation models developed by different atmospheric research centers. Korean pine-broadleaf mixed forest and larch forest are the major stand types in the study area under present conditions. Under the four climate change scenarios, Korean pine-broadleaf mixed forest would be expected to occur only on the higher parts of large mountains. Larch forest only would be found north of the study area. Broadleaf forest would become the dominant vegetation over the study area. Use of the Kappa statistic to test for similarity in spatial maps, indicates that each climate change scenario would result in a significant change of forest distributions.
20048613|A simulation model of soil carbon cycling was developed based on the data observed in a mid-temperate forest in Yoshiwa, Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan, and soil carbon cycling and carbon budget in a mature forest stand and following clear-cutting were calculated on a daily basis using daily air temperature and precipitation data. The seasonal change in the amount of the A layer was characterized by a decrease from spring to autumn due to rapid decomposition of litter, and recovery in late autumn due to a large litterfall input. There was little change in the amount of humus in mineral soil. These estimates coincides closely with those observed in the field. Most flow rates and the accumulation of soil carbon decreased very markedly just after clear-cutting. The A layer reached its minimum in 10 years, and recovered its loss within 50-60 years after cutting. A large loss of carbon was observed just after cutting, but the balance changed from negative to positive in 15 years after cutting. The total loss of soil carbon following cutting recovered within 30 years, and nearly the same amount of carbon as that stocked in the timber before harvesting accumulated 70-80 years after cutting. The calculation by the simulation model was made using the assumption that the increase in atmospheric CO promoted the primary production rate by 10% over the last three decades. The result suggests that about 8 t C
20048614|The global flask network data indicate that the temperate and boreal forests of the northern hemisphere are a significant sink for anthropogenic CO. Bowen ratio and eddy covariance technology have been used to measure the net CO exchange of deciduous and coniferous forest. Some results from an earlier study on spruce with the Bowen ratio technique are presented. New technology that has been developed to measure fluxes continuously by forest stands is described and data are presented to show the net exchange flux of CO by temperate forests. These data support the hypothesis that temperate and boreal forests are significant sinks for carbon dioxide. An extensive programme of experimental impact studies is being carried out by a network of 12 laboratories in Europe funded by the European Commission. Parallel studies are in progress in North America and elsewhere. These studies indicate that doubling the atmospheric CO concentration results in increases in tree biomass of 30-40%. Interactions with nutrition are particularly significant. If nitrogen is added at a commensurate rate, the overall effect is that trees grow larger more quickly in elevated CO than in ambient air but they are essentially very similar in structure and physiology. However, if nutrients are in short supply, developmental and physiological changes occur. Then elevated CO causes changes in dry mass allocation to roots, in phenology of bud burst and set, in photosynthesis, in respiration, and in tree water relations. These changes are exaggerated in low nutrition situations. Process-based models have been developed to scale-up from leaf and tree to the stand scale. These models contain explicit description of processes affected by CO, and are parameterised using the data collected in the impact studies. It is concluded that forests in the temperate and boreal region can effectively contribute to the removal of anthropogenic CO from the atmosphere and that tree growth and production of long-lived wood products should be encouraged as a major contribution towards off-setting the greenhouse effect caused by the burning of fossil fuels.
20048615|The High Resolution Biosphere Model (HRBM), which has been developed by the group of the author, was used to investigate the carbon balance of the vegetation and the soil in the ecosystems of Monsoon Asia in comparison to the rest of the world. The HRBM is a global grid-based (0.5 degree resolution) model with a monthly time step. It includes modules for natural vegetation, land use, vegetation fires, vegetation composition. A historical carbon budget was calculated for the period 1860-1978 and, on a global scale, validated using atmospheric CO data. Based on the per-country development of the population and their requirements, different reasonable scenarios were used to investigate the potential impacts of land use and deforestation in the period 1990-2050. The HRBM calculates considerable contributions of Monsoon Asia to the global CO emissions due to land use changes in the past. Between 1860 and 1978, about 1/4 of the global releases from land use changes came from South Asian and Southeast Asian biota. The future contributions in the period 1990-2050 depend on the assumed development of the agricultural methods. If the intensity of agriculture and the agricultural productivity will stay the same as in the 1980s, there will be a strong need to increase agricultural areas, and thus deforestation will dominate. If there will be a change over to intensive methods of agricultural production, the presently used areas might be sufficient to provide resources to the growing population.
20048621|We examined the response of understory vegetation beneath monotypic, even-aged stands of lodgepole pine to increasing tree mortality following an epidemic of mountain pine beetles. We hypothesized that understory biomass would increase continually as the tree canopy was reduced and competition with trees for light and soil moisture decreased, but that plant species diversity and heterogeneity would peak at intermediate levels of beetle-caused tree mortality. Mean understory biomass clipped from 50 1-m circular plots/stand was an order of magnitude greater (
20048622|Macrophyte recolonization after two major flood disturbances (winter 1990 and autumn 1991) was studied for 3 years in 11 contiguous permanent quadrats located along a transect from one bank to the other across a former channel of the Rhne River. Floods induced changes in substrate grain-size from fine to coarser sediment and swept away all the plants present before disturbance. Re-establishment of species started on or near the banks in fine sediment areas that can act as refuges for propagules during disturbance or as regeneration niches for propagules brought in by floods. From the banks, the species expanded towards the center of the channel in coarse sediment. The transect was fully colonized by macrophytes the second year after a major flood. All these species, as well as those observed before the 1990 flood, can be considered as pioneer species adapted to frequent disturbances. Information identified from personal previous observations and collected in literature concerning selected species traits was analysed statistically using a fuzzy-coding technique and confronted with date of re-establishment of each species after disturbance. Species composition before disturbance and selected species traits allow us to predict species composition in disturbed areas. The first species to re-establish were able to produce turions or other non-subterranean vegetative organs. Species that disseminate both by lateral spread and regeneration by stem fragments re-establish later, before helophytes that also disseminate by lateral spread but flower each year.
20048623|Nutrient content and seasonality of the leaf component in cork-oak litterfal were studied over a two year period in two cork-oak forest sites differing in biomass and edaphic condition in the north-eastern Iberian peninsula. Fallen senescent leaves compared to young leaves showed higher non-mobile nutrient concentrations and lower mobile nutrient concentrations, specially P, N, K, and Mg. At both sites, seasonal fluctuations affected both leaf production and leaf mineral content. The maximum leaf fall period correspond to the start of the vegetative growth and to the lowest N and P concentration in the falling leaves. The opposite was true for the winter, when litterfal was minimal and N and P content in falling leaves was at a maximum. The comparison between falling leaves and canopy leaves suggests that the analysis of fallen leaves can be a useful measure of N and P nutrition in cork-oak. We found site dependent differences in nutrient content and nutrient remobilization. In comparison with Q. ilex, although litter production was in the same range, nutrient retranslocation was greater for Q. suber.
20048624|Forest regeneration on soil and on decaying wood was studied in natural mixed stand of Facus sylvatica L., Abies alba Mill. and Picea abies Karst. in Babia Gra National Park, Western Carpathians. Downed wood, divided into five decay classes covered around 6% of the forest floor. Among seedlings, Fagus and Abies codominated, while Picea was less numerous. The average seedling density on the soil with herb layer (240 ind./100 m) was higher than on the logs, even on the strongly decayed ones (177 ind./100 m). However, the density of Abies and Picea seedlings was higher on the rotten wood than on soil. Seedling survival of all species was better on the logs, especially in conifers. Because of the total dominance of Fagus among saplings, the presence of Abies and Picea in the next generation of canopy trees can strongly depend upon their regeneration on decaying wood.
20048625|Reproductive patterns are analysed in annual legumes of west Asia, and their relationships to increasing aridity determined by multivariate analysis. Dormancy, seed size, dispersal and fecundity are shown to be partially substitutable in terms of their effect on survival and population growth. The range of patterns show greatest diversity under mesic conditions in coastal, mediterranean areas with high winter rainfall, low incidence of frost and long growing season. Increasing aridity leads to increasing reproductive homogeneity, in which a subset of patterns -- those composed of high levels of seed dormancy, high seed to pod ratios, restricted dispersal capabilities and early flowering -- become predominant. These findings corroborate earlier theoretical and empirical evidence concerning desert annuals. The majority of widespread species are shown to possess "arid-type" patterns. This exerts considerable influence on both the type and degree of ecotypic differentiation within species. The only feature that responds consistently to climatic change is flowering time, particularly among species characterized by high seed dormancy. In the few widespread species that do not display "arid-type" characteristics, ecotypic differentiation appears more frequently in a larger suite of traits. The unequal environmental demands made on species showing different levels of dormancy (e.g. variation in length of growing season from year to year and place to place) leads to strong asymmetries governing the relationships between reproduction and ecological amplitude. In this respect "arid-type" strategists with high seed dormancy appear to have greater chances of expansion than others. This has implications when choosing pasture legumes to improve mediterranean grasslands.
20048626|The leaf life span, leaf habit (evergreenness and deciduousness), and species diversity of trees were simulated by a cost-benefit model of leaf longevity (Kikuzawa 1991), using monthly mean temperature values and their decreasing rate with altitude of 6 C with 1000 m of sites of different latitude and altitude in eastern Asia. Numbers of tree species in tropical regions with different lengths of favorable period for photosynthesis were also simulated. The following results were obtained by the model simulation. 1. In tropical areas, evergreen forests predominate from lowlands to the altitudinal limit of forests. 2. However, leaf longevity is shorter in the lowland than that at a higher altitude. 3. Percentages of deciduousness are high in mid latitude, and the percentages of evergreenness again increase in even higher latitude, resulting in a bimodal distribution in percentages of evergreenness with increasing latitudes. 4. Altitudinal distribution of percentages of evergreenness and deciduousness in mid latitude duplicates the latitudinal distribution. In low altitudes, percentages of evergreenness are high. But in mid altitudes, percentages of deciduousness become high, in even higher altitudes, however, evergreenness again predominates. 5. Number of species is highest in the non-seasonal tropical region and decreases towards seasonal tropics and higher altitudes and latitudes.
20048627|We compared the flowering and fruiting phenology of Symphytum tuberosum L. (Boraginaceae), Hyacinthoides non-scripta (L.) Chouard (Liliaceae) and Melittis melissophyllum L. (Labiatae) in a beech wood and an oak wood situated in the same valley, taking into account their different microclimatic and edaphic characteristics and carrying out correlation and simple regression analyses. Differences observed in the phenological cycles of the species studied included earlier flowering and longer cycles in the oak wood, except for H. non-scripta. The most important climatic factors were soil moisture and the relative humidity, followed by temperature and the number of daylight hours and photosynthetically active radiation (P.A.R.). The M. melissophyllum cycle depended mainly on water availability, H. non-scripta on solar radiation, soil moisture and a temperature threshold value, while no specific climatic parameter was found to affect S. tuberosum. Temperature was found to be less important than previously believed as it seems only to correlate with S. tuberosum flowering. The strong correlation observed in the fruiting of the three species indicated clear synchronization.
20048628|In early stages of primary succession, colonizing plants can create resource patches that influence the abundance and distribution of other species. To test whether different colonizing shrubs generate contrasting patches on coastal sand dunes, we compared soil characteristics and light availability under the nitrogen-fixing shrub Lupinus arboreus, under the non-nitrogen-fixing shrub Artemisia pycnocephala, and between shrubs on dunes at a site in northern California. Concentrations of inorganic nitrogen and net nitrogen mineralization rates were generally 1-10 times greater in soil under Lupinus than under Artemisia or between shrubs. Soil water content was mostly lower under shrubs. Mean photon flux density near ground level was reduced by at least 80% at  35 cm inside shrub canopies. Topography appeared to have more effect on soil moisture but less direct effect on nitrogen availability than did Lupinus. However, Lupinus probably increases nitrogen levels more on higher, drier dunes. Microhabitats under and between nitrogen-fixing shrubs constitute a mosaic of individually poor but complementary patches in which high levels of light and moderate levels of soil nitrogen are present but tend not to occur together.
20048629|The relationship between distribution and abundance of epiphytic lichens on five different substrates (Fagus sylvatica, Pinus nigra, Quercus coccifera, Pinus heldreichii and Quercus pubescens) has been studied. For the first three substrates the above relationship has been studied hierarchically. It was concluded that this relationship is partly represented by the core-satellite distribution. This abundance-distribution pattern could probably be explained by more than one hypothesis and it is probably related with the life strategies of lichen species.
20048637|The vegetation of a forest-steppe region in Hustain Nuruu, Mongolia, was studied by a phytocoenological approach. Eleven plant communities were recognized, comprising four steppe communities, two meadow communities, a tussock grassland, two shrub communities, a scrub community and a woodland community. The botanical and ecological characteristics of the different communities are discussed, with reference to the existing classification of Mongolian plant communities. Analysis of the present data indicates that a refinement or extension of the classification system is desirable, especially concerning the steppe(-related) communities. Discussion of the relative distribution of steppe and forest reveals that in the relatively dry location of Hustain Nuruu grassland and shrubland dominate the natural vegetation (88% of the area). Forest covers ca. 5% of the area, it is limited to sites where ground water is within rooting depth: north slopes above 1400 m (Betula platyphylla woodland) and along erosion gullies (fragmentary Ulmus pumila gallery woodland). Under natural conditions forest cover might reach 12%, but it is speculated that wild ungulates could maintain its extension at a lower level. The importance of forest is greater in forest-steppe regions with higher rainfall, but the factors determining the distribution of grassland and forest are expected to be similar.
20048638|In the 1940s extensive floating marshes (locally called 'flotant') were reported and mapped in coastal wetlands of the Mississippi River Delta Plain. These floating marshes included large areas of Panicum hemitomon-dominated freshwater marshes, and Spartina patens/Scirpus olneyi brackish marshes. Today these marshes appear to be quite different in extent and type. We describe five floating habitats and one non-floating, quaking habitat based on differences in buoyancy dynamics (timing and degree of floating), substrate characteristics, and dominant vegetation. All floating marshes have low bulk density, organic substrates. Nearly all are fresh marshes. Panicum hemitomon floating marshes presently occur within the general regions that were reported in the 1940's by O'Neil, but are reduced in extent. Some of the former Panicum hemitomon marshes have been replaced by seasonally or variably floating marshes dominated, or co-dominated by Sagittaria lancifolia or Eleocharis baldwinii.
20048639|Halophytic coastal communities in Bahia Blanca, Argentina, were examined in relation to soil salinity along a transect from inland to the sea. The relationships between soil electrical conductivity and dominance-abundance values for different species were determined. The 'Chaaral' community with its most conspicuous species Geoffroea decorticans was present in soils with the lowest salinity levels in the area. Halophytic underbush develops at soil salinity values of intermediate soil electrical conductivity, the characteristic species being Cyclolepis genistoides, Atriplex undulata and Salicornia ambigua. Halophytic shrub-like steppe vegetation, dominated by Allenrolfea patagonica or Heterostachys ritteriana, is present in soils with high salinity. It is concluded that the ionic composition of plants was a stable characteristic for different species and did not vary with changes in soil salinity.
20048640|To evaluate alpha diversities, various variables such as density, cover, volume, and weight have been used. However, density is often a distinct variable from the remaining three. To clarify differences in diversity measured by those two kinds of variables, the data collected in fourteen 2  5 m permanently-marked plots on Mount Usu, Japan, which erupted during 1977 and 1978 in growing seasons from 1983 to 1989 was analyzed, using Shannon's species diversity (H) that is represented as a result of combination of species richness and evenness (J). H and J were evaluated by density (density H and J) and cover (cover H and J). Cover H and J were significantly lower than density H and J, indicating that cover H has different characteristics from density H. Those differences are due to differences in evenness, because species richness is the same. The rank orders of species density are different from those of cover. The predominance of a few perennial herbs greatly decreases cover evenness, while seedling establishment success influences density evenness. Therefore, I propose that, during the early stages of succession on harsh environments such as volcanoes, density diversity represents seedling establishment success rate while cover diversity expresses vegetative reproduction success rate.
20048641|Modes of recruitment of each regenerated species after fire were investigated quantitatively in a Pinus densiflora forest in central Japan. There was a continuum of regeneration modes from species with abundant seedling populations (more than one individual
20048642|Tall and short Amazonian caatinga at La Esmeralda (rainfall 2600 mm
20048643|The spatial distributions of species of tree 10 cm gbh were examined in two 4 ha plots and related to the local variation in topography and soil chemistry. The plots were similar in their species composition, particularly in terms of the densities of small trees, and they showed very similar edaphic characteristics. Size class distributions varied little within and between plots. Ordination of 0.25 ha subplots highlighted parallel gradients in the vegetation of both plots when the densities of trees 10 cm gbh were considered. Focusing on understorey trees in the 10-&lt50 cm gbh class at the 0.04 ha subplot scale showed a similar vegetation gradient in both plots closely associated with change from lower slope to ridge. No relationship with soil chemistry was found. On the ridges a special group of understorey species formed clumps and these species contributed importantly to the ordinations. Borneo has a regional history of occasionally severe droughts. It is suggested here that the observed patterns in the understorey are due to differential responses to low soil water supply, the ridges probably tending to dryness more than the lower slopes. Within the large and diverse family Euphorbiaceae, which dominates the understorey at Danum, there may be ecophysiological groupings of species. The long-term effects of disturbance interacting with local edaphic factors on forest structure and composition are discussed.
20048648|We analyzed the long-term dynamics of aboveground biomass of Leymus chinense steppe in relation to interannual variation of precipitation and temperature during 1980-1989 at levels of community, growth form and species in the Xilin river basin, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, China. Annual aboveground net primary production (ANPP) varied from
20048649|The present paper reviews the literature on reproduction, survival, dispersion and competition in aquatic plants of mostly European rivers. The specificity of the strategies of colonization in aquatic plants in comparison with terrestrial plants is noted. The importance of the knowledge of these life history traits in the control of the harmful effects caused by aquatic plants and for ecosystem management is also considered. The difficulty of applying current ecological theories concerning adaptative strategies to aquatic plants is discussed, focusing on the great interest of studying the species traits of aquatic macrophytes for testing such theories and interpreting recolonization patterns of disturbed areas. Knowledge of strategies of reproduction, dispersion and competition among aquatic plants remains very fragmentary, particularly from a quantitative view-point, and further studies are required both for theoretical and practical applications.
20048650|Growth strategies of six species of trees are compared and used to analyze forest architecture. They included the overstory species Fagus grandifolia, Magnolia grandiflora, Pinus glabra and Liquidambar styraciflua, and the understory species Ostrya virginiana and Ilex opaca. The six species were abundant in Woodyard Hammock, and old-growth forest in northern Florida, USA. Height, stem diameter, crown projection and radial growth were measured in trees between 5 and 35 m tall. Three different, but non-exclusive, growth strategies were identified for the tree species: 'survival' (Fagus grandifolia, Magnolia grandiflora, Ilex opaca), 'occupy open space' (Fagus grandifolia, Ostrya virginiana, Ilex opaca), and 'reach above competitors' (Liquidambar styraciflua, Pinus glabra). In two transects (0.42 ha) and one quadrat (1 ha), heights of dominant trees were used to distinguish different phases of forest development, which were mapped. In the quadrat, juvenile canopy trees in the undergrowth were mapped. The combination of presence of different developmental phases, presence of juveniles in the undergrowth, growth strategies of main tree species, and disturbance regime was used to assess forest development in the near future. Fagus grandifolia is predicted to become the main dominant species, but the frequent hurricanes open the forest canopy and provide opportunities for understory species (Ostrya virginiana and Ilex opaca), and light-demanding overstory species (Liquidambar styraciflua and Pinus glabra).
20048651|Effects of seed size and phenology on the establishment of five deciduous broad-leaved tree species were examined in deciduous woodland. Treatments included absence and presence of litter in the forest understory, a small gap, and a large gap. Seedling emergence of large-seeded species Quercus mongolica var. grosseserrata and Acer mono was not reduced by accumulation of litter in the forest understory, but was promoted in the large gap where litter was less. Seedling emergence of small-seeded species, Alnus hirsuta, Cercidiphyllum japonicum and Betula platyphylla var. japonica, was reduced by the litter in almost all of the sites. Seedlings of large-seeded species avoid shade stress phenologically by unfolding all of their large leaves in a short period before canopy closure in the forest understory. These species had little mortality after seedling emergence. In contrast, small-seeded species have a longer duration of leaf emergence, shorter leaf longevity, and rapid leaf turnover in all the sites. These seedlings attained similar height to those of the large-seeded species at the end of the second year in the large gap, but survival and height growth rate decreased after canopy closure in the forest understory. We suggest that the importance of seed size in determining seedling establishment largely depends on the relationships between seasonal changes of environmental conditions and phenological traits of seedlings, which are related to seed size.
20048652|Tillers and seedlings of Hordeum jubatum L. from three sites with contrasting salinity regimes in central Saskatchewan, Canada were reciprocally transplanted in order to examine the tolerance of populations of this species to salinity and related habitat factors. Survival, growth and fecundity of the three populations were controlled more by transplant site characteristics than by genetic differences, i.e. differences among populations at a site tended to be smaller than differences among sites. Survival, growth and reproduction of all three populations were best at the non-saline site. The population originating at the non-saline site showed the poorest growth in the two saline habitats, but still had substantial salt tolerance. Fecundity was greatest when the populations were grow at their site of origin.
20048653|Seasonal variation and depthwise distribution of dry matter in roots of different diameter classes and their annual production were studied using sequential core sampling. The investigations were carried out in three stands of a subtropical humid forest of north-east India representing different stages of regrowth after tree cutting. The mean annual standing crop of fine (&lt2 mm in diameter) and coarse (2-15 mm diameter) roots increased gradually from 5.4 Mg
20048654|This study investigates the understory dynamics of two mixed-oak stands following fire of varying intensity. Composition and diversity of woody and herbaceous species in the understory were measured in two stands 7-8 years after a prescribed burn. On both sites, unburned areas, low-intensity fire areas, and areas where the overstory had been severely damaged were measured. Patterns of species presence and absence following fire were consistent with an initial-floristics model. Most species increased in density and frequency following fire; only Aralia nudicaulis and Quercus alba showed statistically significant decreases in density. Overall, 29 species increased in density following fire, while 8 declined; 29 species increased in frequency, while 6 declined. However, diversity and equitability measures were depressed on the moderately burned sites, due to rapid regrowth of Kalmia latifolia. Ordination using binary discriminant analysis suggested species responded individualistically to both burning and site variation.
20048655|The phenology of seed production in natural savanna grasslands was studied in the grass species Aristida congesta, Cymbopogon plurinodis, Cynodon dactylon, Digitaria eriantha ssp. pentzii, Eragrostis rigidior, Eragrostis superba, Panicum coloratum, Schmidtia pappophoroides, Tragus berteronianus and Urochloa panicoides. Maximum seed production varied according to life history strategy and growth form from 0.03 mg seed
20048656|Net aerial primary production (NAPP) of marsh macrophytes is usually estimated either by destructive sampling techniques or by phenometric techniques. Destructive methods, however, are thought to be inaccurate while phenometric techniques are very labour intensive. In this study a new method is presented which allows an accurate and more efficient estimation of NAPP. The method combines destructive sampling to determine end-of-season biomass and phenometric techniques to estimate the mortality of biomass before the end of the season. NAPP is derived through summation of these two estimates. Techniques needed to calculate the precision of the NAPP estimate are provided. The so called hybrid technique was used to estimate NAPP of Scirpus maritimus L. in a brackish marsh along the Westerschelde estuary, the Netherlands. Estimated NAPP was 1372 g
20048661|Fine root productivity was estimated in a lowland tropical rain forest at Los Tuxtlas (SE Mexico) and examined in relation to climatic factors. Two root diameter classes were defined (class I, &lt 1 mm; class II, 1-3 mm). Total root productivity was estimated to
20048662|Demography, spatial pattern, and diversity of canopy and subcanopy trees, shrubs, and lianas were compared in two cool and two warm temperate North American forests, paired at 30 and 40 north latitudes. All woody stems 1 cm dbh in 16 randomly located, non-contiguous plots totalling 1 ha at each of the four sites were measured, mapped, and identified. Basal area and overall density did not differ between latitudes. Demographic and spatial analyses revealed remarkable similarity in spatial dispersion, irrespective of density or species composition. At all sites, dispersion of canopy trees was random but all understory stems were uniformly distributed relative to all canopy trees. Species diversity and vertical structure differed between the warm and cool temperate sites, especially in species composition of individual strata. Associations of understory species relative to canopy species were more random at 30 than at 40 north, where a higher degree of association between canopy and understory species' patterns, coupled with their size class distributions, suggested more lengthy regeneration cycles and an alternation of species assemblages. The forests at 30, those subject to periodic canopy disturbance by hurricanes, had more vertical mixing of species (i.e., canopy species represented in all size classes), more tree saplings, and significantly more shrub and liana species.
20048663|The pre-climax epiphytic communities of forests from the Spanish Mediterranean region (Central Plateau) were studied by numerical and traditional floristic methods. One hundred phytosociological relevs were analyzed through a classical numerical approach based on hard partitions improved by PCoA -- Principal Coordinates Analysis -- ordinations. Two groups easily related to two different suballiances included in Frullanion dilatatae Lecointe 1975, Ulotenion crispae (Barkman 1958) Lecointe 1975 and Fabronienion pusillae Barkman 1958 were detected. Two new syntaxa within the ass. Ortotrichetum lyellii (Allorge 1922) Lecointe 1975 are proposed. Phytogeography, syntaxonomy and ecology of these communities are discussed.
20048664|Sustained elephant browsing and intense burning could result in the loss of woodlands under conditions where elephant densities are high, such as in northern Botswana. Three woodland types dominated by Acacia erioloba, Baikiaea plurijuga and Colophospermum mopane were monitored in plots and contemporary recruitment rates of woody plants were compared with the associated local elephant densities and fire occurrences. Woodland types differed with respect to structure, extent of elephant damage and the occurrence of fire. Canonical correlations indicated that high extent of fire damage and high elephant densities did not covary within the woodland types investigated. Low tree densities in some woodland types were associated with high elephant densities and new elephant damage to plants increased with high elephant densities during the dry season. Plots with an apparent high fire frequency had lower tree densities and higher cover abundance of shrubs and seedlings. The annual rates of tree recruitment/loss in each woodland type were estimated through a model based on observed seedling recruitment, mortality and reversal to lower height classes due to combinations of fire occurrence and elephant browsing. The model suggested that elephants induce tree loss in woodlands dominated by plant species which are principal food sources. Fire however, seems to have a widespread effect across woodlands which could result in extensive tree loss.
20048665|The species-rich fynbos of the southern Langeberg Mountains, South Africa was studied along three transects (a) to evaluate the compatibility of a floristic classification of the southern Langeberg vegetation with a fynbos biome-wide structural classification of mountain vegetation, (b) to describe the environmental gradients to which the vegetation responds and (c) to investigate the relationship between the vegetation and the abiotic environmental variables which determine the pattern of distribution of the fynbos communities on the southern Langeberg. Principal Components Analysis (PCA) was used to determine correlations between environmental variables independent of vegetation data. Similarities between the 46 communities (determined by floristics) from the three transects were determined using cluster analysis and grouped into 14 higher-level units. Detrended Correspondence Analysis (DCA) was then used for indirect gradient analysis after which Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA) was used in a direct gradient analysis of the vegetation with the environmental variables. Compatibility between the floristic and structural classification of the vegetation was analysed. The PCA principal gradient was defined as one from sites with high rock cover, shallow soils and north aspects to those with low rock cover, deeper soils and south aspects. The second gradient is most strongly positively correlated with percentage organic carbon and most strongly negatively correlated with soil clay content. In contrast to the PCA, the DCA showed that the principal gradient is a precipitation gradient, with the response of the vegetation dominated by the change from wet to dry conditions and from low to high winter incoming radiation. The CCA showed that the variation in the mountain habitats to which the vegetation responds can be predicted from a combination of a few environmental variables. The principal gradient was one of change from high to low mean annual precipitation with an opposite change in winter incoming radiation. The second gradient was described by percentage surface rock cover and soil clay content. A simple model using the environmental factors selected in the CCA was proposed for predicting the distribution of floristically determined community groups in the fynbos vegetation of the Langeberg and the southern Cape coastal mountains in general.
20048666|This paper examines morphological plasticity of clonal plants of contrasting habitats and of contrasting architectures in response to nutrient supply. The hypotheses were tested that plants from rich habitats possess greater plasticity in response to variation in resource supply than species from poor habitats, and that rhizomatous species are less plastic in their response than stoloniferous species. Two sympodial rhizomatous herbs (Carex flacca, C. hirta) and two monopodial stoloniferous herbs (Trifolium fragiferum, T. repens) were subjected to four levels of nutrient supply in a garden experiment. One of the two species of each genus (C. hirta, T. repens) is from fertile and the other from infertile habitats. We measured 1) whole plant characters: total plant dry weight, number of modules (product of a single apical meristem) and number of ramets; 2) ramet characters: ramet leaf area and ramet height; and 3) spacer characters: branches per module, length per module and length per module internode. All measured characters in the Trifolium species significantly responded to treatment: the values for all measured characters increased with higher levels of fertilization. The differences in plant characters between fertilization levels were larger in Trifolium repens than in T. fragiferum in terms of whole plant characters, ramet characters and stolon internode length. The two Carex species did not differ in their responses to treatment in terms of most characters measured. In ramet characters and in some whole plant characters the species from fertile habitats were more plastic than those from infertile habitats. In spacer characters this pattern was not found. Foraging could not be demonstrated unequivocally. Morphological plasticity in the stoloniferous (Trifolium) species was much larger than in the rhizomatous (Carex) species. This seems in accordance with a foremost storage function of rhizomes, as against a foremost explorative function of stolons.
20048667|In the oceans of the tropical and warm-temperate zone (40 N - 40 S), only a small number of islands are high enough to show timberline and alpine vegetation. Excluding large islands with a more continental climate, only the following oceanic islands are relevant: Pico (Azores), Madeira, Tenerife, Gran Canaria and La Palma (Canary islands), Fogo (Cape Verde islands), Fernando Poo (Bioko) and Tristan da Cunha in the Atlantic Ocean, Runion and Grande Comore (Ngazidja) in the Indian Ocean, Yakushima (Japan), Maui and Hawaii (Hawaiian islands), and Mas Afuera (Juan Fernandez islands) in the Pacific Ocean. Timberline and alpine vegetation exist here under a unique combination of a highly oceanic climate and a marked geographic isolation which contrasts with the tropical alpine vegetation in the extended mountains of South America, Africa and Southeast Asia. This review seeks to identify common physiognomic patterns in the high elevation vegetation that exist despite the fact that the islands belong to different floristic regions of the world. Based on the existing literature as well as personal observation, an overview of the elevation, physiognomy and floristics of the forest (and tree) line and the alpine vegetation on 15 island peaks is given. The forest line ecosystems are dominated either by conifers (Canary islands, Yakushima), heath woodland (Azores, Madeira, Runion, Grande Comore, Fernando Poo) or broad-leaved trees (Hawaiian islands, Juan Fernandez islands, Tristan da Cunha). In the subalpine and alpine belts, dry sclerophyllous scrub occurs on island mountains that are exposed to the trade winds (Canary islands, Cape Verde islands, Hawaiian islands, Runion, Grande Comore). These peaks are more or less arid above the forest line because a temperature inversion restricts the rise of humid air masses further upslope. In the summit regions of the remaining islands, which are located either in the wet equatorial and monsoonal regions or in the temperate westerly zones without an effective inversion layer, mesic to wet vegetation types (such as grassland, alpine heathland and fern scrub) are found. Compared to mountains at a similar latitude in continental areas, the forest line on the islands is found at 1000 to 2000 m lower elevations. The paper discusses four factors that are thought to contribute to this forest line depression: (1) drought on trade-wind exposed island peaks with stable temperature inversions, (2) the absense of well-adapted high-altitude tree species on isolated islands, (3) immaturity of volcanic soils, and (4) an only small mountain mass effect that influences the vertical temperature gradient.
20048668|Fruit color, fruit size and phenology of bird-disseminated plants were examined in different climatic zones of Japan and the relationships between the plants and frugivorous birds were disscussed. Black fruit was the most common in warm-temperate areas and red was the most common in cool-temperate and subarctic zones. Red was more dominant in the lower layer of the forests in all climatic zones. Bicolor fruits were frequent in trees and were not found in herbs. Both in warm- and cool-temperate zones conspicuous fruits which are red and bicolored display were more frequent in summer than in winter. The diameter of most fruits were 4-11 mm. Fruits in warm-temperate were somewhat bigger than those in cool-temperate zone. In forest strata the fruits of shrubs were smaller than those of trees and herbs in width. However I found no relationships between fruit size and fruit color. The frugivorous birds could have influenced not only the evolution of seasonal differences in the proportion of fruit color between warm-temperate and cool-temperate region, but also affect the fruit size.
20048675|The response of Japanese beech (Fagus japonica Maxim.) sprouts to canopy gaps in natural beech forest in central Japan was studied using two contrasted gaps in which tree-ring chronologies of regenerating stems were analyzed. The gaps were created by uprooting of a single Quercus mongolica var. grosseserrata stem (diameter: 50 cm; gap size: 40 m; 23 years old) and by concurrent uprootings of four F. japonica stolls (gap size: 180 m; 30 years old). Japanese beech sprouts emerged before and after the gap formation and dominated stem populations in both gaps. In gaps, growth of F. japonica sprouts was equal or lower than growth of stems of seed origin, but most sprouts (F. japonica, Acer mono var. marmoratum) appeared a few years before emergence of seedlings. The small gap created by single stem fall was dominated by some beech sprouts from stools adjacent to the gap. The multiple gap was not closed by beech sprouts from stools surrounding the gap, but some dominant beech stems were resprouts from the uprooted beech stools. The existence of a 'sprout bank' under the canopy may play an important role in the closing process of gaps in natural Japanese beech forest.
20048676|The variation in topo-edaphic conditions, woodland composition and physiognomic structure of a semi-arid savanna woodland, namely the 59 400 ha Klaserie Nature Reserve, was studied with multivariate techniques. Spatial variation in the texture and chemistry of both the A- and B- horizons was substantial. One gradient of the A-horizon was of increasing clay, silt, organic matter, pH and conductivity, while a second gradient was of increasing rockiness, slope and gravel content, associated in part with upper landscape positions. Physiognomic structure of the woodland also displayed substantial spatial variation. Variation in tree density had the greatest effect on total canopy volume, and the density of coppice and dead individuals were closely correlated. Topo-edaphic variation, after the effect of vegetation composition had been accounted for, had a direct effect on woodland structure, as clay content of soils or rockiness influenced shrub density, and catenal position together with silt- or gravel-content of soils influenced coppice density. Ordination analyses identified that the included topo-edaphic variables accounted for a significant amount of floristic variation, but also showed that important environmental variables were omitted. Floristic variation of woody elements was of the nature of a large number of relatively equivalent, independent gradients rather than of a few simple primary gradients. Ten woodland types were identified by TWINSPAN which differed in their topo-edaphic and physiognomic character. Distinctive woodland assemblages were found on rocky outcrops or alluvial areas, on deep, sandy soils or on clay- or silt-rich soils. Colophospermum mopane formed the densest woodlands. Characteristics of the B-horizon were often dissimilar to those of the A-horizon, and seemed important for woodland composition.
20048677|Population structure (size, age, spatial patterns) and radial growth patterns are used to analyze regeneration patterns of Abies faxoniana, Betula albosinensis, Betula utilis, Larix potaninii, Picea purpurea, and Sabina saltuaria and reconstruct disturbance history in 8 subalpine forest stands in Wang Lang Natural Reserve, Sichuan, China. In old-growth stands tree regeneration occurs in tree-fall gaps whereby A. faxoniana, Betula sp., P. purpurea, and S. saltuaria persist at stand scales by gap-phase regeneration. Clump sizes of young populations are similar to canopy gap sizes but clumps sizes vary among species. Young Betula patches are larger than those of A. faxoniana suggesting that gap-partitioning by size contributes to species coexistence in mixed stands. Picea purpurea and S. saltuaria are longer lived than A. faxoniana which may compensate for lower recruitment and prevent their replacement by A. faxoniana. Tree regeneration and community structure are also influenced by the understory bamboo Fargesia denudata. Seedlings, saplings, and shrub density all decline with an increase in bamboo cover. Species that regenerate in old-growth forest also regenerate after flooding as do species that establish only on bare substrates (i.e. Larix potaninii, Prunus sp.). Structural and compositional patterns in Wang Lang forests are a reflection of disturbance history, canopy species life history attributes such as dispersal ability, shade tolerance, growth rates, and longevity, and competition of trees and shrubs with understory bamboos.
20048678|Transported distance and mortality of acorns scattered by rodents were investigated with magnets inserted into acorns (40 of Quercus serrata and 20 of Quercus acutissima) and a magnetic locator in a natural forest stand. All the treated acorns were transported, and 60% of them were discovered again with a magnetic locator from autumn to the next spring. Most transported acorns suffered predation within one month after the start of the experiment. Several acorns were rehoarded at least two or three times. Average transported distance of scattered acorns was 22.1  8.9 m (max = 38.5 m) and the survival rate was 3.0%. The magnet method is one of the most effective methods for tracking acorns through the winter.
20048679|The historical process of the decline of the thermophilous oak forest was studied at 11 selected localities within the whole area of the association in Poland. The comparative analysis of phytosociological data from the periods of 1929-1981 and 1987-1991 has shown the total decline of Potentillo albae-Quercetum at nine localities as well as symptoms of regression at two localities. It has been stated that in Eastern Pomerania and in Greater Poland in the places of Potentillo albae-Quercetum phytocoenoses the communities of Galio-Carpinetum and Calamagrostio-Quercetum have appeared. In the central, north-east, south-east and southern part of the country, the thermophilous oak forest has changed into Tilio-Carpinetum phytocoenoses. The results of the study indicate that the recession of Potentillo albae-Quercetum is taking place in the whole area of the association in Poland. The size of the area is changing, the number of localities is decreasing. The consequence of the thermophilous oak forest decline is the unification and impoverishment of woodland vegetation and flora. These localities of the association which exist up to date are 'refuges' for many interesting helio- and thermophilous species. Their presence to a great extent determines the genetic pool and diversity of Polish flora.
20048680|The seasonal changes in leaf emergence and leaf-fall in a Japanese alder stand of the fen in Kushiro Marsh were studied, and survival curves for the leaves were drawn. Leaves collected in litter traps were dried and weighed to study the seasonal changes, peaks in mid-August and late September to October suggested a bimodal annual curve. Study of the seasonal changes in the number of emerged and fallen leaves per shoot revealed a third peak about one month before the August peak, showing a trimodal annual curve. First and second leaves had a longevity of about 40 and 50-60 days, respectively. The longevity increased until the fifth leaf. With the sixth and following leaves, longevity decreased. Leaf size increased with leaf rank, with the first leaf being the smallest. The first leaf had only about 10% and the second leaf only 20% of the area of the fifth leaf. On this basis, the early to mid-July peak in number of fallen leaves was composed of first and second leaves which were smaller and short-lived. The early August and September/October peaks were high in both number and mass of fallen leaves. Compared to reports on Japanese alder of other mountainous districts in Hokkaido, the alder trees of Kushiro Marsh had about the same number of leaves per shoot, but had a season of leaf emergence which was about 6 weeks shorter. In addition, the longevity of the longest-lived fifth leaf was about 30-40 days shorter. The short life span of the leaves could be considered as an adaptive strategy of this species to environmental constraints of its habitat.
20048681|Whether aquatic animals rely primarily for sustenance upon vascular macrophytes or attached algae has been often debated. A compilation of carbon isotope data from the literature for coastal seagrass meadows, estuarine salt marshes, and freshwater lakes and rivers indicates that animal
20048682|Vegetation of 127 sites on different aspects of dune-interdunes in the Indian Thar Desert was classified using TWINSPAN. TWINSPAN groupings of sites separated better vegetated dunes of the northeast form the poorly vegetated dunes of the northwest and the southwest. Of the different ordinations using noncentred, centred and centred and standardized principal component analysis, reciprocal averaging and detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), the site and species classes in DCA correlated well with ten edaphic and ten vegetational attributes of each site. Strong correlation of vegetation groupings with soil texture, moisture holding capacity and low correlation with pH and electrical conductivity revealed the possible importance of soil physical properties in affecting vegetation composition. The 11 species classes in TWINSPAN were regrouped into 18 species classes in DCA, which separated highly frequent species from those of less and least frequent species. Based on dominance-diversity attributes, Calligonum polygonoides-Lasiurus sindicus was brought out as bioedaphic climax stage. Correlation of ordination scores in different site groupings with vegetational attributes showed specific trends: From the zero of x, y and z axes to their maximum, the ordination scores of grasses and browse species declined while score of spinous species increased. The sites near the origin of the x, y and z axes were therefore least degraded and those at or near the maximum of x, y & z axes were most disturbed as was confirmed by the dominance diversity trends. Thus trends of compositional and functional attributes of vegetation of sites in different groupings helped in inferring a site's degradation status.
20048683|Association of species abundance with a continuous environmental variable is frequently tested with regression or correlation analyses. However, because these methods ignore the range and frequency distribution of levels of the variable occurring in the study area, they may generate misleading results. We give examples to illustrate the argument. A better approach to test the association between species abundance and a continuous variable should compare levels of the variable in the study area to levels of the variable occurring in sites occupied by the species. If a particular species abundance is not associated with a given continuous variable, then the frequency distribution of levels of this variable measured where individuals of the species occur should mirror the frequency distribution of levels of the variable measured over the study area. We explain how to use the one- and two-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistics to compare the cumulative relative frequencies of levels of the variable where individuals are present with points in the study area. We discuss the statistics, assumptions, limitations, and advantages of these tests.
20048684|Seed weight, percentage germination, seedling growth, and nutrient concentrations (Mg, Na, K, Zn, Cu and P) of whole seeds, and of seed coats and embryos separately of two tree species, the native Prosopis cineraria and the invasive alien P. juliflora from semi-arid and arid areas of north and north-west India, were analysed to understand the differences in their ecology. Seeds of P. cineraria were heavier than those of P. juliflora. Percent germination was similar in the two species, but seedling growth was faster in P. juliflora than in P. cineraria. Nutrient concentrations of seeds of the two species were similar (except Cu). Nutrient concentrations in the embryo were higher in P. cineraria, while those in the seed coat were higher in P. juliflora. The relative allocation of nutrients to seed coat was higher in P. juliflora than in P. cineraria. Nutrient-rich embryos and slow growth, along with a staggered seed germination pattern in the native P. cineraria could be linked to delayed establishment as well, in the substratum. Faster growth of the nutrient-poor embryos in P. juliflora along with its simultaneous seed germination pattern, and creation of a favourable microenvironment through leaching of nutrients from a nutrient-rich seed coat can facilitate immediate and successful establishment of this alien species in the invaded habitats.
20048685|Plant species richness of twenty old-growth forest reserves in the cool-temperate zone in the Kanto region, Japan were investigated to detect the effect of forest fragmentation. The species richness of trees and forest floor plants were analyzed by multiple regression models relating to nine variables on the characteristics of landscape, local habitat and forest stand. The total species diversity did not have a significant correlation with any variables of landscape patterns. In this study, single large reserve in the 'SLOSS' discussion did not seem very effective to preserve more species. However, forest reserves in large patches tend to have relatively infrequent species. Large patches of natural forests were regarded as one of the important factors to preserve infrequent species.
20048690|We investigated successional trends on windthrow mounds in two old-growth Tsuga heterophylla - Picea sitchensis forests in northern southeast Alaska to determine the influence of windthrow disturbance on the maintenance of plant diversity. We were particularly interested in assessing the value of mosses in detecting long-term effects of disturbance in temperate rainforests. Mosses established a dense carpet on windthrow mounds within the first few decades after the disturbance. No consistent changes were noted in total moss and vascular plant cover, moss biomass, or species diversity between young mounds ( 50 yrs), intermediate mounds ( 150 yrs) or old mounds (&gt 200 yrs), or between mounds and the undisturbed forest floor, despite consistent differences in soils development. Classification and ordination of the vegetation data did not show a consistent relationship between soil surface age or soil depth and overall species composition on the two sites. Young mounds were the most compositionally distinctive, primarily due to moss species. Pogonatum alpinum var. sylvaticum, P. contortum and Polytrichum formosum were generally confined to young mounds with unstable substrata, while Dicranum majus and Sphagnum girgensohnii were associated with old soil surfaces and deep organic soils. Vascular plant species with affinities for riparian or deep shade habitats (Tiarella trifoliata, Coptis asplenifolia and Dryopteris expansa) showed a general preference for the forest floor. Gymnocarpium dryopteris was the only vascular plant with a significant association with young mounds. Mosses comprised approximately 25% of understory plant biomass and as much as 50% of understory productivity. In cool temperate forests, the inclusion of mosses in vegetation analysis may provide valuable insights into the nature of vegetation patterns over subtle environmental gradients. The distinctiveness of the temperate rainforest type and the unique ecological effects of windthrow disturbance in this type are also suggested by this study.
20048691|Three aspects of the pramo vegetation's response to fires were investigated: the measurement of fire temperatures, general observations of changes in plant communities following fires, and monitoring the fate of individual plants after burning. Fire temperatures were strongly influenced by the physiognomy of the vegetation, dominated by tussocks of Calamagrostis spp. Temperatures were highest amongst the upper leaves of the tussock (sometimes &gt500 C). The middle levels of the tussock experienced temperatures in excess of 400 C, but in the dense leaf bases temperatures were often below 65 C. On the ground between tussocks, temperatures were variable, whereas 2 cm below ground temperatures failed to reach 65 C. Plant survival depended on the intensity of the fire and the plant's position within the tussock structure. Survival was often the result of high temperature avoidance (with buds shielded by other plant parts or buried beneath the soil surface). Post-fire Calamagrostis tiller mortality rates were high and tussock regrowth was slow. Some other species appear to maintain their populations by exploiting this recovery phase for seedling establishment on tussocks. Between tussocks, changes of occupancy at the level of the individual plants were greater after fire than in control vegetation. Most transitions were random. Those which departed from random often involved gaps and were related to post-fire mortality, regrowth from below-ground parts, colonisation or, in the case of a clonal mat-forming species, to spatial rearrangement of rosettes. Recovery was slower at higher altitude. Recovery was much slower in burned plots when the upper 2 cm of soil was removed (along with buried plant parts) compared with burned plots. Qualitative observations suggest that recovery may consist of a cyclical process, mediated by the serial dominance of several species that are physiognomically important. The frequency of fires determines the amount of fuel accumulated within grass tussocks and some plants may be unable to survive repeated burning. Chance survival of species in unburned patches of vegetation and random colonisation of gaps may be important determinants of subsequent community structure.
20048692|Variation in leaf size (area per leaf) and leaf dry weight per area (LWA) in relation to species shade- and drought-tolerance, characterised by Ellenberg's light (ELD) and water demand (EWD) values, respectively, were examined in 60 temperate woody taxa at constant relative irradiance. LWA was independent of plant size, but leaf size increased with total plant height at constant ELD. Canopy position also affected leaf morphology: leaves from the upper crown third had higher LWA and were larger than leaves from the lower third. Leaf size and LWA were negatively correlated, and leaf size decreased and LWA increased with decreasing species shade-tolerance. Mean LWA was similar for trees and shrubs, but trees had larger leaves than shrubs. Furthermore, all relationships were altered by plant growth-form: none of the qualitative tendencies was significant for trees. This implies the considerably lower plasticity of foliar parameters in trees than those in shrubs. Accordingly, shade-tolerance of trees, having relatively constant leaf structure, may be most affected by the variability in biomass partitioning and crown geometry which influence foliage distribution and spacing and finally determine canopy light absorptance. Alteration of leaf form and investment pattern for construction of unit foliar surface area which change the efficiency of light interception per unit biomass investment in leaves, is a competitive strategy inherent to shrubs. EWD as well as wood anatomy did not control LWA and leaf size, though there was a trend of ring-porous tree species to be more shade-tolerant than diffuse-porous trees. Since ring-porous species are more vulnerable to cavitation than diffuse-porous species, they may be constrained to environments where irradiances and consequently evaporative demand is lower.
20048693|Pollen records of Holocene sediment cores from the Costa Rican Cordillera de Talamanca (La Chonta bog, 2310 m and La Trinidad bog, 2700 m) show the postglacial development of the montane oak forest zone from ca. 9500 to 1500 yr BP. During the early Holocene (ca. 9500-7000 yr BP), alder vegetation covered the La Chonta and La Trinidad bogs and their adjacent hills. The upper forest line is inferred to be at 2800-3000 m elevation. A Podocarpus-Quercus forest characterised the middle Holocene (ca. 7000-4500 yr BP). The upper forest line is located at &gt3000 m reaching the present-day altitudinal distribution. A Quercus forest characterised the late Holocene (ca. 4500-1500 yr BP). Compared to modern conditions, the early Holocene has similar average temperatures, but the moisture level was probably higher. Pollen evidence for the late Holocene indicates drier environmental conditions than today. In order to improve the paleoecological interpretation, we described the local vegetation and used moss samples as pollen traps at both montane bogs along strong soil moisture gradients.
20048694|Data from systematic sampling may be independent or autocorrelated. In the latter case geostatistical tools are used to identify the spatial patterns within the universe sampled. Special formulas have been derived by Russo & Bresler (1982) to estimate the variance of a value averaged over several transect samples. We applied these formulas to the green biomass of the dominant perennial steppe grass, Stipa tenacissima or alfa, in a 400 km region in North-West Algeria; thirty years ago, this region was considered one of the best sites for alfa. A two-level sampling design was implemented with stratification of the region and systematic sampling within each stratum; globally the study included fifteen transects, representing 713 l m quadrats. Autocorrelation up to 500 meters was detected in five semi-variograms or correlograms, which were fitted to linear models with a sill. Biomass averaged only 165 (55) kg
20048695|Repeated patterns, of a type that would be expected to result from limitations to species coexistence (i.e. 'assembly rules') were sought in the Park Grass experiment. This classical grassland experiment was sampled in two years, using replicated biomass samples. Variance in a number of measures was examined, and compared to the variance expected under appropriate null models, the latter based on assumptions of no interactions between species. In each case, an assembly rule would result in low variance. Examining variance in species richness between quadrats within a treatment, there was no indication of constraint on species co-occurrences; variance in richness was actually greater than expected under the null model, attributable to environmental variation or perhaps positive interactions between species. However, there was control on biomass, evidenced by variance in total biomass (i.e. over all species) within a treatment being significantly lower than expected under the null model. There was no indication of community structure based on guilds (i.e. functional types). Although there was in 1991 some, non-significant, indication of a constant proportion of species from the legume guild, there was no sign of such an effect in 1992. Searches for intrinsic guilds failed to converge. There was no indication at all of constancy in the proportional representation of guilds by biomass. Thus, there is good evidence for competitive control on plant growth, but none for control of species occurrences. There is no convincing evidence for guild structure in this community at the scale sampled. Possible conflict is discussed between the existence of evidence for temporal stability but the absence of evidence for spatial uniformity. It is concluded that most of the mechanisms proposed for temporal stability will not necessarily lead to control on spatial variation. For many mechanisms, this would depend on the spatial scale examined.
20048696|The understanding of succession from rich fen to poorer fen types requires knowledge of changes in hydrology, water composition, peat chemistry and peat accumulation in the successional process. Water flow patterns, water levels and water chemistry, mineralisation rates and nutrient concentrations in above-ground vegetation were studied along a extreme-rich fen -- moderate-rich fen gradient at Biebrza (Poland). The extreme-rich fen was a temporary groundwater discharge area, while in the moderate-rich fen groundwater flows laterally towards the river. The moderate-rich fen has a rainwater lens in spring and significant lower concentrations of calcium and higher concentrations of phosphate in the surface water. Mineralisation rates for N, P and K were higher in the moderate-rich fen. Phosphorus concentrations in plant material of the moderate-rich fen were higher than in the extreme-rich fen, but concentrations of N and K in plant material did not differ between both fen types. Water level dynamics and macro-remains of superficial peat deposits were similar in both fen types. We concluded that the differences observed in the moderate-rich and the extreme-rich fens were caused by subtile differences in the proportion of water sources at the peat surface (rainwater and calcareous groundwater, respectively). Development of an extreme-rich fen into a moderate-rich fen was ascribed to recent changes in river hydrology possibly associated with a change in management practices. The observed differences in P-availability between the fen types did not result in significantly different biomass. Moreover, biomass production in both fen types was primarily N-limited although P-availability was restricted too in the extreme-rich fen. Aulacomnium palustre, the dominant moss in the moderate-rich fen, might be favoured in competition because of its broad nutrient tolerance and its quick establishment after disturbance. It might outcompete low productive rich fen species which were shown to be N-limited in both fens. We present a conceptual model of successional pathways of rich fen vegetation in the Biebrza region.
20048697|A method of detecting the density-dependent dynamics of a size-structured population is developed. The method is applied to a Japanese broad-leaved forest and the density-dependent and -independent projection matrix models are constructed based on the data of the forest. Then, the difference between the density-independent and density-dependent dynamics is compared in terms of several statistical quantities obtained from the matrices. Three kinds of sensitivity matrices are proposed for the density-dependent matrix model. At earlier stages, the sensitivity when the population density is low are higher than at the equilibrium. On the other hand, the inverse result is obtained at later stages. Moreover, the responses of the forest is analyzed to a decrease in survival rate and to an increase in the probability of gap formation. The decrease in survival rate leads to an extreme decrease in the density of the forest. However, the decrease in recruitment rate gives little effect on it because the effect of density-dependence in recruitment of new individuals is strong. The forest has the optimal rate of gap formation such that leads to the maximum population density.
20048702|The purpose of the present investigation was to examine the composition and the spatial variability of the arable soil seed bank in one large, coherent landscape segment, where the cultivation practice of neighboring farms and the gradients in soil properties determine the distribution of the weed seeds in soil. To this end, a 50  50 m grid of 338 reference points was fixed throughout a 143 ha area in southern Bavaria. The seed bank contained a median density of 4950 seeds per m able to germinate. These values showed remarkable variation throughout the investigated area. Thus, 27% of the sampling area contained less than 2500 seeds per m, another 23% were below 5000 seeds per m and 19% ranged among 5000 and 10 000 germinating seeds per m. Among the remaining sites, 22% showed seed densities between 10 000 and 20 000 and 9% more than 20 000 seeds per m. To visualize the spatial distribution of the weed seed bank over the whole study area, the interpolation method kriging was used. For this purpose the spatial continuity must be described by means of a semivariogram analysis. The goodness of the interpolation results depends on the fit of the semivariogram model which shows the spatial dependency. Two important characteristic parameters of this model are the nugget and the range. The nugget expresses the sampling error and the local variability up to the 50 m sampling distance, which cannot be detected by the semivariogram. Therefore the interpolation cannot describe the seed bank variation on a scale below this threshold. In our investigations the nugget comprises about one third of the total variance. The estimation error increases towards the border of the investigated area. In general, this is due to missing sampling points at the field edges. The range observed in the present investigations was 340 m. Beyond this no more spatial variability exists and the measurements are independent of each other. The species occurring in more than five of the investigated samples were ordinated by Detrended Correspondence Analysis and classified by k-means cluster analysis of the ordination axes. Five weed communities were recognized from this analysis which distinctly differed in their relation to the soil type and to the preceding management.
20048703|Clearcutting, a commonly used silvicultural practice in southeastern Ohio, often results in a forest stand with a different species composition than the parent stand. The time frames during which shifts in species composition occur on different sites are unclear. While some studies have documented species composition at specific points in time, none have attempted to examine differences throughout the first decades of stand development. This study focused on the early successional dynamics of young, mixed-species forests of southeastern Ohio. Species compositions were examined across a chronosequence of sixteen stands that developed following clearcutting. Stand ages ranged from six to 26 years. The sample was limited to dry-mesic hardwood forests on southerly aspects and on soils derived from residuum or colluvium. Across the chronosequence, stand density ranged from 17 636 stems
20048704|Responses in stomatal conductance (
20048705|Relic charcoal hearths are prevalent throughout the Appalachian Mountains as reminders of the wood charcoal era and are evident today by the characteristics of forest stand structure, composition and understory vegetation. The importance of the soil resource to the stability and recovery of these anomalies in the plant community is not well understood. This study was conducted to compare forest floor and soil chemical properties, and vegetative characteristics on relic charcoal hearths to adjacent, non-hearth areas. Overstory tree cover and density was significantly lower on hearths than for adjacent areas. Overstory richness and diversity were consistently, but not significantly, lower on hearths, as were density and species richness of understory and ground vegetation. Little difference between hearth and adjacent forest floor properties was observed; however, soil calcium concentrations, pH, and percent carbon were higher on hearths, and phosphorus concentrations were generally lower. We discuss the effects of releasing large amounts of base-forming cations through repeated use of the hearths and the subsequent long-term effects on soil fertility and vegetative development.
20048706|Populations of two rhizomatous species, Asarum europaeum (asarabacca) and Maianthemum bifolium (May lily), were examined in two, and four forest habitats respectively, in the Roztocze National Park (south-eastern Poland). May lily populations were studied in habitats: the Carpathian beechwood, upland mixed fir forest, subboreal moist mixed coniferous forest and bog-alder forest. Asarabacca was studied in two habitats: beechwood and Scots pine community (an 80-year-old plantation). In both the species studied intra- and inter-populational differences of the size of genets in terms of above- and below-ground parts of individuals as well as the biomass and area occupied were observed. In May lily populations the greatest mean number of shoots per genet was found in the fir forest (11.62  3.29), a value almost twice as great as that in the moist coniferous forest and nearly three times greater than in the bog-alder forest. Total rhizome length was also the greatest in the fir forest (351.9  98.7 cm) followed by moist coniferous forest, beechwood and alder forest habitats. In all populations of May lily a greater part of total dry weight biomass is in below-ground organs. The greatest biomass value of a genet was found in the fir forest (4.275 g), the smallest in the bog-alder forest (0.110 g). All populations differed significantly in terms of leaf area, leaf length (with the exception of fir forest and beechwood habitats where the values were the greatest), and leaf width (excluding moist coniferous and bog-alder forests which had the smallest values). In the case of asarabacca, both the mean number of ramets per genet (3.36  0.45 vs. 2.49  0.20) and total rhizome length (40.3  6.4 cm vs. 21.1  1.8 cm) were greater in the beechwood habitat than in the pine community. In the first population genets had 3-5 times greater the total biomass of those from the pine community. Only genets of the latter had proportionately more dry weight biomass in above-ground parts. It seems to be correlated with greater rhizome dieback and disintegration of genets into smaller units. Both populations were significantly different in terms of all examined parameters of leaves. Genets of both the species studied were found to have their own structure of developmental phases that often differed for shoots and rhizomes.
20048707|Within a subprogram of Integrated Monitoring (IM), understorey vegetation in Swedish natural forests was observed at fifteen reference sites over the country for twelve seasons, 1982-1993. The main task of the subprogram was to assess the impact of atmospheric deposition, mainly sulphur and nitrogen, on natural vegetation through time. The present study is focused on the variability of plant species diversity at community level and the possible impact of sulphur and nitrogen deposition. Species richness, evenness and diversity varied greatly among the sites, and between years within each site. Regarding only coniferous forests the species richness was higher in the north than in the south. But the effects of site condition and atmospheric deposition were not clarified. Changes in species diversity through time differed from site to site. No overall temporal trend was found. The atmospheric deposition of sulphur and nitrogen demonstrated a clear geographical pattern being low in the north-west and high in the south-west. Sulphur deposition declined significantly in Southern Sweden during the period. We concluded that the species diversity of understorey vegetation at the Swedish IM sites was not significantly influenced by atmospheric deposition. The changes observed are explained as natural processes.
20048708|The polycarpic perennial Bunias orientalis L. (Brassicaceae) introduced to Central Europe in the 18th century recently entered a phase of rapid spread accompanied by sudden establishments of extensive dominance stands mainly on roadside locations. We studied vegetation structure and expansion rate of B. orientalis stands and performed a series of experiments to investigate key factors that underlie the colonizing and establishment of B. orientalis. Reiterated observations exposed a high current expansion rate of B. orientalis populations and vegetation surveys of B. orientalis stands showed that these stands were mainly composed of Artemisietea and Arrhenateretea species. Regeneration experiments with root fragments revealed high regeneration capacities: root fragments of 3 cm length showed 93% regeneration, varying water content (10-50% water loss) and separation into root cortex and root stele yielded regeneration of 30 to 50%. In a field study high regrowth after mowing with varying mowing intensity indicates B. orientalis to be well adapted to disturbed sites as its preferential locations for development of dominance stands. Vegetative growth parameters were studied in two controlled growth experiments with elevated nutrient availabilities. B. orientalis exhibited a high sensitivity to nutrient addition and rosette sizes of maximal 90 cm were reached. Biomass was comparable or even higher than that of native ruderals grown in the same experiment. Measurements of reproductive parameters revealed a high reproductive effort (0.2 to 0.45 g
20048709|The infections of two species of mistletoes in Baja California, Mexico were investigated for spatial patterns of abundance, and for an effect of the dispersal patterns of mistletoe seeds on these spatial patterns. Mistletoe distributions were mapped and the dispersal of mistletoe seeds was observed. Most mistletoes seeds were dispersed locally to the parent tree or to nearby trees. While mistletoe distributions were highly clumped at the level of the individual tree, no spatial pattern was found above the scale of the individual tree. Infected trees were no more clumped than the overall host population, and infected trees had no more mistletoes on nearby surrounding trees than did uninfected trees. Trees showed no spatial autocorrelation in the number of mistletoes they supported. Simulations using a spatially explicit simulation model with local dispersal and stochasticity in seed dispersal, host mortality, and mistletoe mortality were used to interpret the field results. Simulation results suggest that dispersal patterns affect the overall level of variance in the number of mistletoes per tree but do not lead to spatial patterns in abundance above the scale of the tree. Thus, both simulation and field systems give the surprising result that local dispersal does not lead to spatial autocorrelation in the numbers of mistletoes per tree.
20048710|The main focus of this paper is to establish the community diversity pattern of vegetation in exposed-cliffs in the Mediterranean region and the relative importance of some environmental factors. Consequently, a study of a calcareous mesa in C-N Spain has been carried on, based on constrained ordination -- CCA. The spatial scale approach for sampling was the patch on the cliff. The total number of taxa was 117 and the average per patch was 15. It is remarkable that the highest frequency plants are not rock specialists (chasmophytes), but generalist nanophanerophytes and chamaephytes. A community pattern has been detected and related to the geomorphology and lithology of the cliff -nine communities. However, those patches of the vertical areas are very heterogeneous in number of taxa and size. Nevertheless, the community pools seem constant for each vertical cliff zone. Based on the ordination results and linear models, this variability may be interpreted as different succession stages of a cyclic process. The primary colonization of the bare rock by chasmophytes leads to the accumulation of soil because of the biological activity and the stock-trampling ability of these specialist plants. After that, the patches may be invaded by generalist chamaephytes (Festuco-Poetalia) and later even by several nanophanerophytes (Sideritido-Salvion lavandulifoliae and Berberidion vulgaris). The root activity of these plants in combination with other erosive events can return the system to the beginning. A second objective included in the paper was related to the capacity of phytosociological approach, widely used in the Mediterranean region, to describe this type of community pattern. The surveyed mountain had previously studied in phytosociological terms. These relevs were compared through an assignation procedure - see text -- to our community pattern. Both approaches seem to agree with high correspondence, but there are some differences that must be pointed out. They are related to the fact that spatial/ ecological heterogeneity does not always agree with the idealized phytosociological vegetation models, where only chasmophytic elements are considered.
20048715|The Towada-a (To-a) Tephra from A.D. 915 allowed reconstruction of the local and regional vegetation at and near Ohse-yachi Mire from pollen samples taken just below the tephra. In earlier studies the tephra was dated from
20048716|The soil algal communities of forested and reforested, limed and unlimed plots were compared in the acid rain impacted Krusn hory Mountains. The floristic composition of unlimed plots is similar to that found in acid forest soils with a naturally low pH and no effect of the acid rain on these communities can be detected. Chlorophyceae are the only group present in these soils. In limed areas with a higher soil pH, algal diversity is significantly increased while algal densities remain similar. Chlorophyceae, while still the dominant group, are accompanied in these soils by Bacillariophyceae, Xanthophyceae, Eustigmatophyceae and Cyanophyceae. Total vegetation cover and thus light hitting the soil surface seems to be most important in determining the algal biomass.
20048717|A comparative field study of caudatum and arachnoideum, the two Pteridium aquilinum varieties of the caudatum subspecies known to grow in the neotropics, was performed in a montane savanna habitat of the Venezuelan Andes that was affected by wildfire. Frond size, ramet density and spatial distribution, blade and rhizome biomass, and frond elongation and expansion rates were measured in separate, isolated stands each containing only one bracken variety and covering approximately the same area (540 m). In addition to clearly discernible morphological differences, caudatum and arachnoideum were found to possess distinct features: caudatum tends to develop open stands of relatively shorter blades of 76.6  0.89 cm(  SE) of rachis length and lower ramet density (1.6 fronds
20048718|In comparison to countries with a tradition of vegetation studies, a comprehensive, hierarchical classification of plant communities in the province of British Columbia has not yet been developed. Such a classification is needed for systematic ecological studies and coordinated conservation of vegetation. As the culmination of fifty years of detailed surveys, tabular and multivariate analyses of 3779 relevs of natural, old-growth, submontane, montane and subalpine forest communities in coastal British Columbia were used to develop a hierarchy of vegetation units according to the Braun-Blanquet approach. At the highest level, we distinguished seven orders: Quercus garryana, Pseudotsuga menziesii-Mahonia nervosa, Tsuga heterophylla--Rhytidiadelphus loreus, Tsuga mertensiana, Thuja plicata--Tiarella trifoliata, Populus trichocarpa, and Pinus contorta--Sphagnum. Diagnostic table, ordination, and climatic and edaphic regimes were used to show floristic affinities among the orders and to interpret their relationships to regional environmental gradients. Plant communities of each order were briefly characterized by their floristic composition, physiognomy, succession, and environment. The synopsis for all delineated vegetation units (order, suborder, alliance, and association) of coastal British Columbia is included.
20048719|In arid regions, the effects of grazing or sparing management on natural communities of long-lived plants generally take decades to become evident. Event-driven dynamic behavior, unpredictable and low rainfall and complicated interactions between species make it difficult to assess probabilities and time scales of vegetation change. To gain a better understanding of the main processes and mechanisms involved in vegetation change, we have developed a spatially explicit individual based model that simulates changes in plant communities over long time spans. The model, based on life-history attributes of the five dominant component plant species of a typical Karoo shrub community, follows the fate of each individual plant within the community, the sum of which is community dynamics. The model explores the differential effects of a realistic range of rainfall pattern on the abilities of these species to compete, survive, grow and reproduce. The specific aim of the model is to identify key processes of vegetation change and to calculate probabilities and timespans for transitions between different vegetation states. Such knowledge is needed for species conservation and sustained animal production. We show that the time-scale for changes of the dynamic state of the system are long compared with human lifespans. Employing the full range of possible rainfall scenarios showed that short-term community dynamics (years to decades) and species composition depend strongly on the short- term (years) sequence of rainfall events. In all simulation experiments the final vegetation state varied by more than 37% after a 60 year simulation period. Simulating resting of an overgrazed part of the shrub community indicated that little improvement in rangland condition was likely during a period of 60 years. Even such active management, as (simulated) clearing of unpalatable shrubs, resulted in only a 66% probability that degraded shrubland would be in good condition after 60 years resting. Simulated overgrazing of a rangeland in good initial condition only became obvious 40 or 50 years after the initiation of heavy grazing, and after 70 years the mean vegetation state eventually reached that of an overgrazed rangeland.
20048720|The relationship between plant size and vegetative reproduction in clonal plants appears complex because vegetative expansion, growth, and reproduction are not clearly separable in such plants. In 'pseudo-annuals', which are clonal plants surviving the winter only as seeds and hibernacles produced by the rhizome apices, vegetative growth and reproduction are clearly separate processes so that the relationship between vegetative reproduction and plant size can be studied. We used the pseudo-annual Helianthus  laetiflorus Pers. to study the relationship between plant size and total rhizome biomass, rhizome (hibernacle) biomass, and number of hibernacles. We manipulated resource acquisition of the plants by reducing leaf area (leaf-clipping) and by fertilization, thus affecting plant size. Furthermore, we studied the success of thin and thick hibernacles in terms of future growth and reproduction in a separate experiment. The results showed that vegetative reproduction was positively related to plant size. The ratio between the number of hibernacles and mean hibernacle weight was affected by plant size in such a way that in small plants both number of hibernacles and mean hibernacle weight were reduced to the same extent as compared to those in large plants. However, the size distributions of plants of the next generation growing from thin and thick hibernacles did not differ. It remains unclear therefore why this pseudo-annual species produces thick hibernacles at all.
20048721|Key processes during recruitment of Quercus petraea and Corylus avellana were investigated in abandoned calcareous grasslands and adjacent scrub using the following methods: (1) observation of hoarding animals during the main period of ripening of acorns and hazel nuts, (2) exposition of seeds on the soil surface and in 5-6 cm depth to test differences in predation and germination, and (3) mapping of seedlings in the grasslands. European jays (Garrulus glandarius) and mice were the main disperser of seeds. Jays preferred acorns, whereas the rodents were less selective, but probably more important for dispersal of nuts. The maximum dispersal distance was about 10-20 m for mice and was estimated several hundred metres for jays. Mice collected hoards of several seeds in about 2 cm depth in the soil, whereas jays stored single seeds. Seed predation and probably hoarding by mice were highest under scrub and in unmown grassland, while jays preferred mown sites for hoarding. However, hiding of seeds in the soil reduced losses in all sites. Predation of nuts was slightly less intensive than that of acorns. Seeds of Corylus were more sensitive to desiccation than Quercus, but in both species germination was lower for seeds exposed on the soil surface and in drier sites. Quercus and Corylus were the most abundant woody species in the fallow grasslands, probably due to the effective multi-staged dispersal by jays and mice, whereas wind-dispersed and fleshy-fruited species were less common; the latter restricted to margins of adjacent scrubland. The study provides several examples for discordance in suitability of patches for seeds and seedlings due to different habitat requirements of successive developmental stages. This result emphasizes the need for studies in the multiple stages during recruitment of vertebrate-dispersed plants.
20048722|The macroscopic algae Characeae are usually assumed to occur in waterbodies supplied by groundwater with low phosphate content, but the indicative value of the species is seldom defined in bibliography. Former braided channels of the Rhne river are supplied with groundwater originating from the main channel (seepage) or from hillslope aquifer. The aim of the present paper was to determine if it possible to use the Characeae as indicators of physico-chemical characteristics of water in order to assess the origin of groundwater supplying former river channels. Four former braided channels of the Rhne River colonized by Characeae were investigated, and the physico-chemical characteristics of i) the channels, ii) the groundwater and iii) the river were measured over a period of several months. Species are arranged along a gradient of conductivity, alkalinity, ammonium and phosphate content of the water. Charophyte species can indicate the origin of groundwater, either seepage or hillslope nutrient-poor aquifer, and integrate both the average value of the chemical parameters, and their variations. C. hispida occurs in a nutrient-poor channel mainly supplied by highly calcareous groundwater coming from hillslope aquifer. Chara major has requirements close to those of C. hispida, but is more tolerant to periodic inputs of nutrients. C. vulgaris and N. syncarpa both tolerate mesotrophic waters originating from both hillslope aquifer and seepage, and C. globularis is associated to a channel mainly supplied by mesotrophic to eutrophic river seepage.
20048731|Fens depend on inputs of groundwater or surface water. In Western Europe especially soligenous fens, receiving groundwater, are threatened by human hydrological intervention. We demonstrate the impact of artificial versus natural hydrologies on such fens by comparing 3 case areas: the Biebrza valley (reference) and the Gorecht and Vecht river plains (both reclaimed and drained). The patterns found in the fairly undisturbed Biebrza area suggest local water quality is governed by a strong regional groundwater flow emerging in the fen near the valley margins and seeping through it down to the river. Hence water quality gradients are smooth: there is little variation in water type over large distances. The pattern is determined by the natural geomorphology. In the reclaimed Vecht and Gorecht river plains large differences exist at short distance. Regional water flow from the adjacent ridges into the plains is weak here and governed primarily by water management (polders and pumping wells). However, the relations between specific water types and fen species and communities in this artificial pattern are quite similar to those found in the natural landscape. Low-productive rich fens are fed by calcium-rich and base-rich, nutrient-poor groundwater in both cases. While conservation of such rich fens is served best by maintaining the natural groundwater flow, some opportunities for restoration with an artificial hydrology are discussed.
20048732|A hydrochemical analysis of the groundwater composition was carried out in a degraded dune slack complex in order to assess the prospects for regeneration of low productivity, basiphilous vegetation types, typical of natural dune slacks. Two hundred and fifty water samples, most of them obtained from minifilters installed in deep borings to a depth of 24 meter below the soil surface, were analyzed for macro-ions,
20048733|The seasonal variation in groundwater composition was studied in an old dune slack complex on the Wadden Sea island of Schiermonnikoog that recently had lost practically all rare basiphilous plant species. In order to assess its restoration perspectives the groundwater acid neutralization capacity (
20048734|The habitat of low growing, herbaceous rich-fen vegetation (Caricion davallianae) is now threatened throughout Western Europe. Its conservation, restoration and even recreation receives increasing attention. In the Campine area of Belgium a rich fen, that depends entirely on an artificial river water infiltration system for its alkaline discharge, is present. The rich fen vegetation cannot be older then a century, i.e. the age of the infiltration system. This illustrates that poor-fen precursors can be transformed into rich fen by alkaline ground-water discharge. The possibilities for restoration and the difficulties with use of allochtonous water for nature conservation are discussed. Finally, the hydrochemical consequences of the alkaline discharge in the fen soil are considered: in dry summers periodical acidification of the peat soils occurs.
20048735|The Jegrznia floodplain has been deprived of flooding since the late 19th century. Human influence has been limited to haymaking and cattle grazing without land reclamation. Therefore, the present vegetation reflects the impact of hydrological changes, without being much disturbed by changes in other factors. A drainage gradient on the former floodplain was examined for nutrient deficiencies and compared with an intact floodplain. For this purpose we analyzed nutrient concentrations in above ground biomass, we measured redox potentials and peat variables for a rich fen vegetation, a well-developed fen meadow as well as an impoverished fen meadow vegetation. According to P:N-ratios in above ground biomass, all vegetation types appear to be limited by phosphorus, whereas the impoverished fen meadow is also limited by potassium. These results are supported by the chemical composition of the peat, redox characteristics and the physical changes in the peat induced by drainage. It is concluded that hydrological changes in combination with an annual mowing regime resulted in a shift from no nutrient limitation to P- and/or K-limitation in the former Jegrznia floodplain. Changes in hydrology at Jegrznia stopped the input of nutrients, increased the leaching of K and turned P into unavailable Al and Fe-complexes. Continued mowing increased P- and K-deficiency.
20048736|The wet heathland communities of the Ericetum tetralicis and the Cirsio-Molinietum have declined in the Netherlands due to acidification, eutrophication and lowering of the water table. To investigate the prospects of restoration of both communities, the effects of sod cutting and hydrological measures on vegetation and soil chemistry were studied in two nature reserves where these plant communities occurred decades ago. The combination of sod cutting and hydrological measures has restored several rare, groundwater dependent heathland communities. Sod cutting has restored the Ericetum tetralicis, but not the Cirsio-Molinietum. This might be due to the absence of viable seeds of characteristic species of the Cirsio-Molinietum and/or the absence of optimal site conditions, especially high phosphorus concentrations in the top soil. The high phosphorus concentrations might be a consequence of high mineralization rates and/or prolonged inundation with iron-poor water and the decreased flux of iron-rich groundwater into the topsoil. Restoration of the Cirsio-Molinietum only seems possible when sod cutting is carried out together with hydrological measures that counter prolonged inundation and reinforce the discharge of base and iron-rich groundwater.
20048737|How closely the vegetation of restored wetlands resembles that of comparable natural wetlands is a function of the probability of propagules of wetland species reaching reflooded wetlands and how similar environmental conditions in the restored wetland are those in the natural wetlands. Three years after reflooding, we examined the vegetation composition, water level fluctuations, soil organic carbon content, and soil bulk density as well as surface water pH, alkalinity, conductivity, and calcium and magnesium concentrations of 10 restored and 10 natural wetlands. In the restored wetlands, more species of submersed aquatics colonized than were found in natural wetlands, and they rapidly spread to form extensive beds that were larger than those found in natural wetlands. Emergent and wet meadow species in restored wetlands, however, were found in only sparse stands as were a variety of annuals. The vegetation of natural wetlands was predominantly large stands of emergent species. Fluctuations in water storage volume and basin surface area were similar for both restored and natural wetlands. The surface water in restored wetlands had higher pH and lower alkalinity, conductivity, and calcium and magnesium concentrations than that in natural wetlands. Soils of restored wetlands have a lower organic carbon content and higher bulk density than do those of natural wetlands. Our results suggest that for submersed aquatics, dispersal of propagules to restored wetlands is rapid and environmental conditions in restored wetlands are very suitable for their establishment. For other guilds of wetland species, e.g., sedges and other wet meadow species, dispersal to restored wetlands is likely much slower and may pose a serious problem for the re-establishment of these species in restored wetlands. Even if dispersal is not limiting, low surface organic carbon and high bulk density may prevent the establishment of these species in restored wetlands.
20048738|Most wetlands in the central European lowlands have been severely altered by cultivation. As a consequence they no longer fulfil their function as habitats for specialised species and communities, nor as retention areas for water and solid materials. Therefore, a number of renaturation experiments are in progress, which intend to develop and test strategies and measures to improve this defect in landscape diversity. For this purpose experiments on re-wetting, nutrient depletion of eutrophicated areas and re-establishment of typical wetland plant species and phytocoenoses have been performed. An ecological development concept defining the aims and describing their feasibility precedes such experiments. Preliminary results indicate that the reconstruction of the former state (regeneration) is impossible within reasonable time spans. In drained raised bogs overgrown with heather, as well as in those which have been industrially exploited, the primary aim must always be to restore efficient peat formation as far as possible; as a rule one succeeds only with well-growing and nutrient-demanding fen and transitional bog species. In cultivated fens the aim is to reduce peat loss. As a first step this is accomplished by converting arable fields and sown meadows into permanent grassland, if possible with reduced fertilization and low mowing or grazing frequencies, and accompanied by rewetting during winter. Many experiments have sought to impoverish eutrophicated fen soils and introduce typical fen species by sowing or planting, so well tested techniques are available. However, the total prevention of peat loss is only possible by permanent rewetting throughout the year, so that peat accumulation can start again. Only in this way could fens regain their former function as sinks in landscape processes.
20048744|Climate is a major factor affecting the development and form of peatlands, as well as the distribution of individual bryophyte species. This paper examines the climatic and ecological gradients affecting the distribution of peatland types along a north-south gradient in the Mackenzie River Basin. Based on a TWINSPAN analysis of bryophyte abundance from 82 peatlands in the Mackenzie River Basin, seven peatland types, two with southerly geographical distributions are recognized. In the Mackenzie River Basin, such local factors as surface water chemistry, pH, and solute concentration as well as height above the water table play a significant role in determining bryophyte species distributions. Climate is secondary. Amongst the climatic variables, precipitation, length of the growing season, and annual temperature are the most significant. The seven peatland groups are: widespread poor fens; peat plateaus with thermokarst pools, low-Boreal bogs; bogs and peat plateaus without thermokarst pools; low-Boreal dry poor fens; wet moderate-rich fens; and wet extreme-rich fens.
20048745|Structural changes in altitudinal vegetation zones along a 30 N parallel were studied based on vegetation data from 20 mountains in East Asia, from 85 E to 130 E longitude. The altitude of comparable vegetation zones showed a sharp increase of 1400-1900 m from east to west. Forest limit reached an altitude of 4400-4600 m in the eastern Tibetan Plateau, being the highest forest limit in the world. The limidng factor for the upper limit of a vegetation zone was different in the east and west. Low temperature in winter controlled the upward distribution of the evergreen broadleaf forest in the east, whereas the limiting factor was growing season warmth in the west. A close correlation was found between the climatic indices and annual range of monthly mean temperature (ART) at the upper limit of a vegetation zone. Component genera of each vegetation zone along the 30 N parallel were analyzed, and it was found that the alternation of component genera from east to west was much more apparent in cool-temperate forests, reflecting their response to macrotopography and air masses. The distribution of Fagus extended into winter-cold regions, whilst Tsuga occurred principally in oceanic and warm climates. The northern limit of Tsuga corresponded well to an ART isotherm of 23 C and its southern limit coincided with that of Fagus. According to the distribution of Fagus and Tsuga, the cool-temperate forests in East Asia along the 30 N belt were divided into three types: deciduous broadleaf forest (represented by Fagus), mixed forest (dominated by Fagus, Tsuga and others), and mixed evergreen forest (consisting mainly of Tsuga and sclerophyll oaks).
20048746|This paper is an attempt, using statistical modelling techniques, to understand the patterns of vascular plant species richness at the poorly studied meso-scale within a relatively unexplored subarctic zone. Species richness is related to floristic-environmental composite variables, using occurrence data of vascular plants and environmental and spatial predictor variables in 362 1 km grid squares in the Kevo Nature Reserve. Species richness is modelled in two different way. First, by detecting the major floristic-environmental gradients with the ordination procedure of canonical correspondence analysis, and subsequently relating these ordination axes to species richness by generalized linear modelling. Second, species richness is directly related to the composite environmental factors of explanatory variables, using partial least squares regression. The most important explanatory variables, as suggested by both approaches, are relatively similar, and largely reflect the influence of altitude or altitudinally related variables in the models. The most prominent floristic gradient in the data runs from alpine habitats to river valleys, and this gradient is the main source of variation in species richness. Some local environmental variables are also relatively important predictors; the grid squares rich in vascular plant taxa are mainly located in the lowlands of the reserve and are characterised by rivers and brooks, as well as by abundant cliff walls. The two statistical models account for approximately the same amount of variation in the species richness, with more than half of the variation unexplained. Potential reasons for the relatively modest fit are discussed, and the results are compared to the characteristics of the diversity-environment relationships at both broader- and finer-scales.
20048747|Formation and closure of canopy gaps was monitored for three years in 12 ha of primary rain forest at Nouragues, French Guiana. At the first inventory, in April 1991, 74 openings in the canopy &gt4 m (sensu Brokaw 1982a) were located; 60 of these gaps were formed before January 1990. Between January 1990 and December 1993, 5 to 15 gaps were annually formed, opening 0.64-1.33% of the forest canopy each year. Of all gaps, 41% were created by a falling, snapped tree, 34% by a falling, uprooted tree, 22% by a falling branch, and 3% by a falling dead stem. A refined nearest neighbour analysis showed that gaps formed after January 1990 were clustered: uprooting of trees seemed to be related to shallow soils, and relatively many other trees fell when a tree uprooted, independent of the dbh of the uprooted tree. In 37 gaps, canopy openness in the gap centre (determined by hemispherical photographs) was monitored over three years. In 54% of the gaps, canopy openness increased in two successive years. It is reasoned that edges of especially large gaps may frequently be re-disturbed by falling trees or branches. Results suggest that gaps have closed after around 15 years. More data are needed to verify this.
20048748|Species type in 42 samples was examined using ordination analysis to establish whether the vegetation pattern displays gradation due to environmental factors, and whether the pattern was being altered by human disturbance. The analysis displayed two patterns. First, the ordination on axis 1 demonstrated vegetation gradation from xeric communities on the plains to humid forests on the highland. This pattern is explained on the basis of moisture and nutrient variations. Vegetation vectors based on species presence-absence were correlated with average rainfall, carbon, nitrogen and zinc. The second was separation of disturbed and undisturbed forest and bushland site categories on axis 2 of the ordination space. This pattern suggests that disturbance response is interactive with moisture so that only in moist communities does a significant vegetation response to disturbance occur.
20048749|Although the summit of Mount Usu was deforested by the 1977-78 eruptions, vegetative regeneration on the caldera rim was rapid due to the erosion of thick volcanic deposits by snow and rain. To obtain the mechanisms underlying regeneration patterns after the eruptions, we monitored the growth of permanently-marked stems from 1983 to 1990. Regeneration was from resprouting-branches buried in the volcanic deposits on the caldera rim, while on the crater basin, where thick volcanic deposits accumulated, regeneration was from seedlings. The seedling regeneration lagged approximately 3 years behind vegetative regeneration. Stem densities averaged 14,000
20048756|Plant sectoriality implies physiological subdivision of physically coherent plant structures. It is largely determined by vascular structure. Sectorial transport of carbon assimilates, mineral nutrients, water or hormones may be an essential component of plant phenotype in ecological interactions. Most studies of sectoriality have focussed on its effects on plant growth, resource allocation and herbivory. Since sectoriality allows semiautonomous reactions to environmental stimuli to be displayed by different plant parts, it also needs to be considered in discussions of selfishness vs. altruism of plant parts. Future lines of research should include analysis of the genetic basis of sectoriality, investigations into root sectoriality and its effects, studies of the impacts of sectoriality on plant life histories, and analyses of intra- and interpopulation variation in traits related to sectoriality.
20048757|The physiological organisation of plants is considered in relation to the carbon economy of plant parts. Although assimilate is partitioned according to the relative strength of sinks, in many species there is also a very close relationship between partitioning and shoot phyllotaxy, giving rise to sectorial patterns of allocation whereby only certain sinks are supported by any source leaf. Essentially these sinks are in the same orthostichy as the source leaf. This constraint of the vascular architecture on assimilate distribution to developing sinks such as leaves, flowers and fruits is not always absolute, as following the loss of their principal source leaves these sinks can in many cases be supplied with assimilate by other leaves via new inter-orthostichy pathways. The supply of assimilate to major sinks such as developing fruits becomes more and more localised with time so that a fruit in an axillary position becomes largely supported by its subtending leaf; the reproductive node -- a metamer -- can thus be regarded as a relatively autonomous unit of the plant (an IPU). Similarly, once established after a developmental phase of assimilate import, tiller ramets and branches in unitary plants tend to become physiologically autonomous modules. However, the functional autonomy of tillers is reversed following defoliation or shading as they are then sustained by the import of assimilate, subject to its availability, from unaffected tillers. Consequently the plant becomes physiologically integrated by the flow of assimilate from one part to another. The mainly autonomous ramets of many stoloniferous and rhizomatous species display a similar pattern of physiological integration in response to source manipulation, but in some species the ramets appear to maintain their independent functioning as a normal feature of the carbon allocation within the clone. In other clonal species, as the clone develops and becomes more structurally complex, vascular constraints start to restrict the movement of resources, and the clone becomes composed of a number of semi- autonomous IPUs. In unitary plants branches appear to remain very physiologically isolated in terms of their carbon economy once they become established, irrespective of a range of source-sink manipulations. These different patterns of physiological integration and organisation are discussed in relation to different strategies of assimilate utilisation and conservation.
20048758|Asymmetries in root growth in response to localized aerial defoliation were examined in Coleus rehneltianus (Lamiaceae). We confirmed that assimilate transport was sectorial by examining the distribution of
20048759|Snow (1931) showed that the fate of a branch of a plant that had suffered local herbivory could be determined by correlative effects of other branches. This neglected work was continued in the current study, herbivory being simulated by the removal of leaves of different ages from pea plants with two branches. A damaged branch was suppressed when an undamaged alternative branch was present; otherwise the damage never prevented continued development. The removal of mature leaves had a smaller effect than the removal of immature, expanding leaves. When leaves were removed from both branches it was the branches that suffered less damage to their immature leaves that continued shoot development. Branches from which all photosynthetic leaves were repeatedly removed developed only when they retained their immature leaves and remained dominant, inhibiting the development -- but not the photosynthesis -- of the other branch on the same plant. Accounting for these results requires mechanisms that compare the different branches of the plant and 'select' for development the ones that have the greatest potential for future, rather than present, photosynthesis. It is concluded that a compartmentalized or sectorial distribution of essential substrates can be modified by correlative relations that are probably mediated by hormones.
20048760|An experimental study was undertaken to assess the extent to which better-situated branches correlatively inhibit other branches on the same plant which are growing in relatively inferior conditions. The experiments were carried out on naturally-grown Onobrychis squarrosa L. (Papilionaceae), a dominant annual plant of the Mediterranean region of Israel. Treatments were carried out (i) on young plants that only had a seminal shoot, and (ii) on plants after lateral branches had started growing. Differential shade conditions were achieved by the repeated removal of neighbours on one side of the plants. The plants were either left intact or damaged by removing different parts of their branch system. In intact plants, growth responses to the differential light conditions which were expressed by the number of branches, leaves and fruits showed some evidence for support of the shaded branches by the exposed branches on the same plant. In contrast, heterogeneous treatments of both shade and branch damaging led to development that reflected marked correlative inhibition of the shaded parts of the plant. The results show that a latent potential for correlative inhibition between branches exists throughout plant development and that in Onobrychis it can be readily realised when plants are damaged. This could depend on known traits of auxin acting as a correlative signal of growing branches. The observed responses of Onobrychis can be understood as an adaptive strategy which reflects the low reliability of environmental signals and the high cost of changing the course of development, especially in short-lived annual plants.
20048761|The causes of sectoriality and consequences for clone behaviour are examined using data from the stoloniferous herb Glechoma hederacea. The proximal causes of physiological integration patterns are investigated using anatomical studies, acid fuchsin dye to reveal patterns of xylem continuity between ramets, and
20048762|Plant ecologists have spent considerable effort investigating the physiological mechanisms and ecological consequences of clonal growth in plants. One line of research is concerned with the response of clonal plants to environmental heterogeneity. Several concepts and hypotheses have been formulated so far, suggesting that intra-clonal resource translocation, morphological plasticity on different organizational levels (e.g. leaves, ramets, fragments), and other features of clonal plants may represent potentially adaptive traits enabling stoloniferous and rhizomatous species to cope better with habitat patchiness. Although each of these concepts contributes substantially to our understanding of the ecology of clonal species, it is difficult to combine them into a consistent theoretical frame-work. This apparent lack of conceptual coherence seems partly be caused by an uncritical use of the term 'habitat heterogeneity'. Researchers have not always acknowledged the fact that 'heterogeneity' may refer to a number of fundamentally different aspects of environmental variability (i.e. scale, contrast, predictability, temporal vs. spatial heterogeneity), and that each of these aspects may, on one hand, allow for the evolution of specific plant responses to heterogeneity and, on the other, severely constrain the viability of potentially adaptive traits. Since adaptive responses are operational only in a narrow range of conditions (delimited by external environmental conditions and constraints internal to plants) it seems imperative to clearly define the context and the limits within which concepts regarding clonal plants' responses to heterogeneity are valid. In this paper an attempt is made to review a number of these concepts and to try and identify the necessary conditions for them to be operational. Special attention is paid (1) to different aspects of environmental heterogeneity and how they may affect clonal plants, and (2) to possible constraints (e.g. sectoriality, perception of environmental signals, morphological plasticity) on plant responses to patchiness.
20048763|It is hypothesised that somatic mutations are an important source of genetic variance within long-lived plant individuals, and that shoot ontogeny and sexual reproduction are two processes that decrease the mutation load of the shoot population and the offspring. This paper focuses on the way in which sympodial and monopodial shoot branching may influence intra-plant genetic variation and on the role of physiological integration between plant modules for the phenotypic expression of this variation. I also discuss some possible consequences of the interaction of somatic mutations and shoot ontogeny for the study of seedling recruitment and phenotypic plasticity in plant populations.
20048764|Within-tree variability in leaf characteristics of the mountain birch (Betula pubescens ssp. tortuosa) was bioassayed for the autumnal moth (Epirrita autumnata) by rearing larvae on birch leaves in a laboratory and measuring their growth, consumption rate, approximate digestibility, efficiency of conversion of ingested food and efficiency of conversion of digested food. Only short shoot leaves, i.e. leaves of the same age, were used. The highest hierarchical level, which included trees and ramets within trees, accounted for most of the total variance in almost all the measured traits. Short shoots (within branches) accounted for more of the variance than branches (within trees/ramets) in most of the traits. The results suggest that differences in leaf quality were reflected in larval growth mainly by differences in food utilization efficiencies (postingestive effects) and less by differences in consumption rate (preingestive effects). The observed within-tree variation is probably a consequence of the modular structure, sectoriality and partial functional independence of tree parts.
20048765|The evolution of tolerance is one potential plant response to selection imposed by herbivores. Plant architecture, and in turn, sectoriality may influence a plant's ability to tolerate tissue loss. However, each may either constrain or facilitate a plant's ability to compensate following herbivore attack depending on the plant part damaged and the identity of the damaging herbivore. Plants are limited in their ability to respond to localized damage by chewing insects because carbon does not flow freely from damaged to undamaged plant parts, particularly between branches. Thus, defoliation of individual branches invariably results in decreased growth and reproduction of those branches. Within branches, carbon flow via vascular connections between orthostichies may ameliorate the effects of damage restricted within an orthostichy. Local induction of secondary chemicals to spread damage by folivores throughout a plant's canopy, redistribution of resources within and between IPU's, and delaying reproductive activity until resources have been pooled may all alleviate the constraints on response of plants to grazing. In contrast to the effects of damage by grazers, the metameric construction of plants typically ensures points of regrowth from dormant buds when apical meristems are destroyed either by vertebrate browsers or galling insects. Sectoriality constrains the ability of sap-sucking insects to tap the entire resource base of a plant, thus having a positive effect on plant fitness. However, both the site and timing of attack mitigate the degree of limitation imposed by sectoriality. During peak periods of assimilation, photosynthate flow is mainly over short distances (between sources and sinks within the canopy), and thus sap-sucking insects have a small resource base to draw upon. In contrast, when sucking insects tap into vascular elements in which the flow is from roots to leaves and vice versa, resource availability to the insect (and in turn, potential resource loss from the plant) are only limited by the resources present in those vascular elements. Studies of specific traits in species which demonstrate differential tolerance would greatly add to our understanding of herbivore impacts on plant growth and reproduction. In particular, intraspecific variation in tolerance has been documented for individuals within and among populations with different grazing histories. A number of traits related to sectoriality and architecture probably contribute to such variation in tolerance, and because they are easily manipulated and easily quantified, represent potentially profitable avenues of research. These traits include distribution of leaves and buds, ability to release secondary meristems from dormancy, and the timing of resource movement both before and subsequent to damage.
20048766|Because the impact of induced resistance on herbivores is often too small to have a considerable impact on herbivore populations, it has been suggested that the function of defenses is not necessarily to affect herbivore densities perse, but to spread the damage evenly throughout a plant. Some observations suggest that evenly-distributed herbivory results in a smaller decrease in growth and reproduction than the same level of herbivory concentrated on only one part of the canopy. One possible reason for this is that plant parts are able to compensate for small amounts of local damage spread all over the plant but not for larger concentrated damage of the same extent because of the of resource distribution patterns in a plant. Models were constructed to analyze how to optimally distribute damage among modules so that the total performance (growth, subsequent reproduction) of a plant, measured as the sum of the module performances, is maximized. According to the models, spreading damage is profitable when the performance of all or most modules decreases slowly with small damage levels and then faster as damage increases. In addition, the pattern of resource movement between modules must be tolerant to damage. It is proposed a hypothesis that the resource distribution system is often tolerant to at least small or moderate total damage levels, since there are several alternative pathways of movement for assimilates and water through the plant's structure. It has been suggested that defense and compensatory growth are alternative strategies for a plant in the struggle against herbivores. The present models suggest that can also work together to increase fitness under herbivore pressure.
20048771|We assessed the effects of enhanced ultraviolet-B radiation (UV-B; 280-320 nm) on biomass allocation to roots, shoots, leaves and flowers in the annual Brassica rapa. In addition, we investigated how concentrations of chlorophyll and UV-B-absorbing compounds in leaves, ovaries and pollen changed in response to enhanced UV-B. Plants were grown for 38 d in a greenhouse under lampbanks providing daily biologically effective UV-B doses equivalent to those under ambient mid-March stratospheric ozone levels or 16% ('low-enhanced UV-B') or 32% ('high-enhanced UV-B') ozone depletion levels for Morgantown, WV, USA. Total and aboveground biomass of plants was less under low-enhanced UV-B, but similar to ambient controls under high-enhanced UV-B. Concentrations of UV-B-absorbing compounds in leaves (area basis) increased under high-enhanced UV-B by about 20%, but were similar to ambient controls under low-enhanced UV-B. More effective protection due to higher screening-compound concentrations in plants under high-enhanced UV-B may explain why biomass production was not reduced. Plants under high-enhanced UV-B also had more reproductive biomass and produced more flowers, and had less root mass, than plants under ambient or low-enhanced UV-B. Concentrations of leaf total chlorophyll were not affected by UV-B treatment. While UV-B treatment had no affect on concentrations of UV-B-absorbing compounds in ovaries, concentrations in pollen from plants under both enhanced-UV-B treatments were &gt40% greater than ambient controls.
20048772|Hierarchy theory has provided a valuable conceptual framework for studies of heterogeneity. However, there have been few empirical studies of hierarchical structure and little is known about how hierarchical structure originates or varies among systems. Here, I explore how scale dependency can influence the detection of hierarchical structure. Specifically, I compared how heterogeneity changed with scale in patches of larkspur (Delphinium spp). The distribution of Delphinium nelsonii inflorescences was quite uniform over the range of measured scales (1 m-2500 m) and only a single level of patchiness was observed. Aggregations of D. barbeyi inflorescences were much more pronounced and this patchiness was evident at many scales. The number of hierarchical levels and the scales at which patchiness occurred varied both within and between plots of D. barbeyi. Because patchiness was not strongly scale-dependent for either species, discrete patch boundaries and well-defined hierarchical levels were not usually apparent even when multiple scales of patchiness were present. In several cases, the scales of detected patchiness depended on the difference in scale between grain (resolution) and extent. I predict that because of the lack of dominant and strongly scale-dependent processes, microlandscapes such as Delphinium meadows, may be less likely to exhibit well-defined hierarchical structure than larger-scale landscapes, especially those heavily altered by human activities.
20048773|Ksudach Volcano, southern Kamchatka Peninsula, erupted in 1907 and impacted over 2000 km of forests with air-fall pumice deposits. We identified three impact zones. In Zone I, deposits deeper than 100 cm destroyed all vegetation. Two early successional stages occur, a lichen-dominated desert and isolated patches of a pioneer herb stage. Zone II is defined by pumice deposits 30 to 100 cm deep. Deposits of 70 to 100 cm destroyed all vegetation, but left scattered snags. Here primary succession dominates recovery, but its rate varies. Isolated trees survived in deposits of 30 to 70 cm and primary and secondary successional stages form a complex mosaic termed an intermediate succession. In Zone II, the primary stages found in Zone I are joined by a dwarf shrub-herb stage and a secondary birch forest stage. Zone III occurs where thinner deposits permitted some vegetation to survive in all locations. Secondary succession dominates in deposits of 10 to 30 cm. Trees suffered damage, but survived deposits of 20 to 30 cm, while other vegetation layers were eliminated. Deposits of 10 to 20 cm eliminated mosses and lichens and but only reduced the number of dwarf shrubs and herbs. Deposits of less than 10 cm damaged herb, moss and lichen layers but did not eliminate any species. All sampled vegetation remains in a pre-climax state, having yet to recover fully from earlier eruptions. Reconstructed vegetation maps for before 1907 and for ca. 1925 are compared to the map of vegetation in 1994. Based on degree of soil formation, vegetation recovery and colonization rates at different pumice depths, and the current vegetation, we estimate that full recovery of the soil-vegetation system will take more than 2000 years.
20048774|The subalpine vegetation structure of Mt. Vysokaya, the Central Sikhote-Alin, is described. This vegetation consists mainly of subalpine spruce-fir forest, a complex of subalpine meadows, shrubs, groves of Betula lanata (B. ermanii s.l.), krummholz of Pinus pumila and alpine tundras. Significant disturbances in the vegetation structure were noted, especially in the forest-tundra ecotone accompanying a sharp reduction of the belts of Betula lanata and Pinus pumila. The altitudinal level of the upper timberline reaches 1600 m a.s.l. which is 250 m less than the expected altitude calculated by Kira's warmth index. An undergrowth of scattered trees of Picea and Betula are growing up to the mountain top. Based on these data and a review of the literature, we concluded that a catastrophic lowering of the timberline and devastation of the subalpine vegetation belt occurred several centuries ago, probably as result of fires.
20048775|The abiotic conditions and fen vegetation in three lowland mires were analysed. Two of these mires are in the Netherlands. They have deteriorated considerably as a result of human pressure. One mire complex is in Poland. Its hydrology is almost undisturbed. The variation in the water composition in the fens was associated with the variation in the amount of regional groundwater discharge originating from the uplands, and to a lesser extent by the infiltration of polluted water pumped into the fens. The 26 vegetation types ranged from poor fen to eutrophic reedland. Most types were typical for only one region. There were clear differences between the three regions. Both the species composition and the water quality for the vegetation types indicated that the fens in the Vecht river plain are eutrophicated, whereas the fens in Northwestern Overijssel suffer from acidification. The Biebrza valley fens are well developed and are mainly fed by fresh calcareous groundwater. Stepwise logistic regression performed on 28 fen species revealed that the hydrochemical variables explained only a part of the variance: the regional variable 'area' explained a considerable amount of the variance for most species. In 27% of the cases it was possible to fit an optimum curve for the species response to relevant hydrochemical variables. Monotonic curves could be fitted in 64% of the cases; mostly they described the response to variables in a way that is supported by ecological literature. It was concluded that the dataset should be constructed differently to enable the calculation of generally applicable standards.
20048776|We examined the long-term dynamics of plant biomass of Filifolium sibiricum steppe, Stipa baicalensis steppe and Leymus chinense) (syn. Aneurolepidium chinense) steppe relative to interannual variation of precipitation and temperature during 1981-1990 in the Tumugi, Xingan League, eastern Inner Mongolia of China. On the average, annual precipitation was 41.1 cm. Peak live aboveground biomass (PLAB) was 152 g
20048777|Gap regeneration of major tree species was examined, based on the pattern of gap phase replacement, in primary old-growth stands of warm-temperate, cool-temperate and subalpine forests, Japan. Using principal component analysis, the gap-regeneration behavior of major tree species could be divided into three guilds and that of Fagus crenata (monodominant species of cool-temperate forests). The criteria used for this division were total abundance of canopy trees and regenerations and relative abundance of regenerations to canopy trees. The gap-regeneration behavior of species in the first guild was that canopy trees regenerate in gaps from seedlings or saplings recruited before gap formation; they had higher total abundance and more abundant regenerations relative to their canopy trees. The gap-regeneration behavior of F. crenata was same as species in the first guild, but F. crenata had less abundant regenerations relative to its canopy trees. Species in the second guild had lower total abundance and less abundant regenerations to their canopy trees. The guild contained species whose canopy trees regenerate in gaps from seedlings or saplings recruited after gap formation or regenerate following largescale disturbance. The third guild consisted of species with lower total abundance and more abundant regenerations relative to their canopy trees. The gap-regeneration behavior of some species in this guild was that trees regenerate in gaps from seedlings or saplings recruited before gap formation, and grow, mature, and die without reaching the canopy layer, while the gap-regeneration behavior of other species was same as that of species in the first guild or F. crenata. Major tree species of subalpine forests were not present in the third guild.
20048778|The variability in the cover distribution of vascular plants, accounted for by soil chemical properties and soil depth, on a granite slope with shallow autochtonous soil in southeast Sweden was evaluated using multivariate statistical regression and graphical methods. Soil acidity and soil depth were, to an often high degree, able to account for the variability in the distributions of the ca. 30 most frequent species, including Rumex acetosella, Vincetoxicum hirundinaria, Filipendula vulgaris, Satureja acinos, Geranium columbinum, Silene rupestris, and Arenaria serpyllifolia. The best expression of soil acidity was pH-KCl, though exchangeable Ca and Al were also important measures of the soil-plant relationships. The Ca:Al ratio was inferior in this respect. Also exchangeable or acid soluble phosphate was significantly related to the distribution of several species, whereas soil organic matter content was almost unrelated.
