43809623|The role of the world's religions may be crucial in rethinking the relationship of humans to the natural world in a mutually enhancing manner. I first acknowledge, although briefly, the scale and complexity of the environmental crisis. Next, I suggest the need for seeking common grounds to work toward a resolution of the crisis. Then I highlight the call for the co-operation and action of the world's religions from particular sectors such as environmental groups, the United Nations, political leaders, scientists, and ethicists. Finally, I document some of the responses and the resources of the world's religions in evoking new attitudes toward nature.
43809624|An ethic of environmental stewardship can find valuable support in the world's existing cultural and spiritual traditions. This paper emphasises the Vedic heritage for eco-care, citing as examples numerous passages from Hindu sacred writings, including the Vedas, the Upanishads and the Bhagavad Gita. These scriptures demonstrate an early understanding of the need to temper our material appetites, and most importantly, to treat the earth with care and respect.
43809625|The idea of nature's sacrality, contrasting starkly with industrial modernity's overwhelmingly instrumental valuation of non-human nature, visibly inform philosophical positions such as deep ecology and Gaia theory. But at a more unspoken level they can also be seen as suffusing a wider societal sensibility, evident not least in popular values regarding nature. But, granted that many people would ascribe such a value to nature, how are such beliefs embodied in their lives? An attention to the theological or cosmological level can only take us so far in understanding the dynamics of culture; we need also to attend to questions of practice, ritual, community and relationship, for it is through such elements that more abstract ideas about humanity's place in the universe are given both support and expression. It is in this spirit of inquiry that this paper proceeds, arguing that religious forms of action and corporateness characteristic of monastic, sectarian, churchly, and folk religiosity have shaped the way that contemporary environmental values are embodied in the practices and experience of everyday life.
43809626|The current debate on the sources, meaning and implications of Arne Nss's Deep Ecology often refers to Spinoza, Gandhi and Socrates as the main inspirations of his vision. This essay explores the less familiar, Norwegian sources of Nss's thought and its rootedness in the Scandinavian Enlightenment. The context of the native tradition illuminates both the underlying central values of Deep Ecology - and its famous inconsistencies.
43809751|In Earth's Insights Baird Callicott develops a science-based but religiously influenced global environmental ethics that attempts to resolve the relationships between science, religion, and morality. He proposes to privilege science and relegate religion to a supportive and corrective role in environmental ethics. I argue, on the contrary, that a rationally compelling environmental ethics is dependent on religion and that, ironically, the only way to resolve conundrums regarding science, religion, and morality, is to stand environmental ethics on sacred ground.
43809752|The ecological wisdom from cross-cultural and religious insights provides needed historical references, guidance and ethical ideals for the ecological crisis. However, while supporting the project undertaken in Earth's Insights, this article challenges the tools used to develop a postmodern worldview. The lack of adequate discussions about the postmodern discourses, the new science, a 'universal' postmodern worldview, and the infusing of cross-cultural ecological ethics into such a worldview, leave the project vulnerable and utopian.
43809753|Callicott convinces us that diverse religious traditions provide resources in constructing an environmental ethic. However, his use of the term postmodern, while rejecting most of postmodern thought, is not helpful for his project. Callicott also presumes that nonanthropocentrism and holism are necessary for a universal environmental ethic, and provides only one version of ecofeminism. There are reasons to prefer pluralism in environmental ethics and ecofeminism.
43809754|J. Baird Callicott's argument in Earth's Insights that a global conservation ethic resonant with Leopold and postmodern science is emerging emanates from a particular point of departure and method of justification. I provide a perspective on Callicot's rationale and method as a way of critically examining this argument's underlying basis, and in the spirit of fostering greater interaction between geographers and others with an intellectual interest in environmental ethics.
43809755|Using the term, lifeway, this article emphasises the cosmology-cum-economy coherence of indigenous traditions. It explores the role of indigenous traditions in the formation of a global ecological ethic as put forward by J. Baird Callicott in his work, Earth's Insights. Recommending a cosmological approach, the article makes connections to advocacy issues. Finally, the significance of ordinary life in indigenous societies is foregrounded as the arena for teaching local ecological ethics.
43809756|Czllicot's Earth's Insights is a remarkable survey of resources from the world's religions for formulating a global ethics. He mentions, in particular, the rich symbolic and conceptual resources available from East Asia. This paper supports such an assertion and develops more fully the teachings of Japanese Shingon Buddhism which helped to foster a deep identity with the natural world by means of ritual. Moreover, the paper suggests that the literary and artistic resources of Japanese culture are also important sources for further exploration.
43809757|In Earth's Insights, Baird Callicott argues that Hebrew scripture, because of its more communal and this-worldly standpoint, is more amenable to environmental ethics than the New Testament. I enumerate other insights from this tradition, portraying a three-way relation in which nature has its own autonomy, as well as reciprocal interrelation with the human and with God.
43809758|The foregoing criticisms of Earth's Insights notwithstanding: there is an environmental crisis; reconstructed postmodern science provides a privileged discourse, more particularly, an evolutionary-ecological master narrative; in which a globally credible environmental ethic may be grounded; and by comparison with which, in turn, the several local environmental ethics grounded in traditional and indigenous worldviews may be validated.
43809649|This article suggests that people endowed with an ecosystem operate within their own tradition of knowledge and can offer a useful critique of the increasingly globalised schemes of nature conservation such as parks, sanctuaries and biodiversity preserves. I compare and contrast two competing proposals for nature conservation. While one is the conservation strategy based upon in-farm nurturing of the biodiversity that adheres to the cultural diversity of people residing in an ecosystem, the other is a strategy that excludes the ecosystem people in order to conserve nature. But the contest between the two is not about whether nature should be kept pristine or be made available for human use; it is about the scale of use and the mode of use. It is about who should use, how much, and for what purpose. The debate is also about what kinds of technologies are going to be used in preserving as well as harvesting, using as well as enhancing nature. Ultimately, it is about the very nature of the relationship between human collectivity and non-human collectivity.
43809650|The Sahel region has become fairly well known as an environmentally vulnerable region where human inventiveness and collective organisation have been able to reverse processes of land degradation, brought about by earlier 'maldevelopmen'. This paper sets out to explore schisms between local accounts of the spiritual significance of environmental decay, and regeneration involving interventions by external development agencies. It focuses on the case of two Northern NGOs. The two project-level examples are located in Mali; one is a World Vision-sponsored tree seedling project, the other an SOS Sahelsponsored well-digging scheme. Each presents a contrasting approach to local beliefs in God; the first attempts to 'correct' what are seen as wrong beliefs: the second seeks to build on existing beliefs and religious practices. In the one, relations between humans and the natural environment are conceived as being spiritually laden, in the other they are seen as almost purely functional. If Sahelian people are to be held responsible for environmental regeneration, then their religious beliefs about nature, however complex, need to be incorporated into the design of development interventions from the outset.
43809651|Although Mohandas K. Gandhi died before ecological concern was a pervasive issue, his ethical and religious approach to the treatment of all fellow creatures, was founded on an identification with all that lives. Such an identification is a prerequisite to the understanding of the profound biological and spiritual interconnectedness advocated by the modern deep ecology movement. For Gandhi the broad ideal of ahimsa, or non-injury, was out of reach without such an awareness of the interdepency of all of life. And ahimsa was also impossible without 'self-purification', a largely ascetical life of renunciation of material and physical indulgence. Gandhi was an early pioneer of both the more-with-less approach to ecologically-sound living, and deep ecology's perspective of the oneness of all elements of the biosphere, and their spiritual link.
43809652|The ecological problem seems to be the perennial personal problem writ large: a consequence of the alienation between myself and the world I find myself 'in'. If so, the solutions we seek require a more nondual relationship with the objectified other. Asian philosophical and religious traditions have much to say about the nonduality of subject and object. This paper discusses and compares the relevant insights of Taoism. Buddhism and deep ecology.
43809112|Indigenous and traditional peoples, who often attribute a sacred quality to nature, have made major contributions to the enhancement and conservation of the world's biodiversity. Although this is increasingly recognised in international discourse, rights of these peoples to continue their traditional practices are threatened by the globalised economy. Likewise, science implicitly denies their contribution to biodiversity conservation and enhancement by referring to their lands as 'wild' or 'wilderness'. It also effectively undermines their rights by claiming that the biodiversity fostered by their traditional practices is a global resource. In order to counter these threats, we need, not only to strengthen the rights of indigenous and traditional peoples, but also to reverse global trends that substitute economic and utilitarian models for the holistic concept of the 'sacred balance'.
43809113|Biodiversity is not exclusively a product of pristine natural processes but is also, to a considerable degree, caused by human activities. This is demonstrated by a detailed inspection of the use and classification of plants by the people of Nokopo village in the Finisterre Range of Papua New Guinea. Nokopo people recognise and value biodiversity on all its levels - genetic diversity, species diversity and diversity of ecosystems - and their activities enhance overall biodiversity. This can be partly explained by the usefulness biodiversity has to them, in terms of resource access and other utilitarian considerations. On the other hand, aesthetic concepts and values make a significant contribution. Both these intrinsically interwoven components - the utilitarian and the aesthetic component respectively - form the base for understanding the major role humans play in creating and maintaining biodiversity, the role of keystone species enhancing overall biodiversity in a given ecosystem.
43809114|Anthropologists have in recent years been grappling with the popular notion that indigenous peoples have a relationhip of oneness with nature. These debates have been strongly influenced by theories of the psychology of perception and cognition, but this paper argues that dimensions of power need to be recognized in expressions of indigenous relationships with nature. Using narratives from the Tamang people of Nepal, it is argued that notions of natural type and species relationality cannot be divorced from the ideology of natural difference between castes and the effects of naturalized inequalities of power. Tamang myth attributes trees and animals with potential for trans-species reproduction in a logic that mirrors the conceptual fragility of boundaries between human types. Indigenous conversations with nature may appear to some as fantastical, but listening to them leads to an appreciation of how connectedness with natural process operates as a discourse of power.
43809116|This paper gives an account of the recent history and the international and national policy background with respect to the planning and administration of Bhutan's nine national parks, nature reserves and sanctuaries, and sheds light on their current problems. Although more than 25 per cent of Bhutanese territory has been declared protected area over the last three decades, little data is available on the local population's perception of the aims, present status and the benefits of national parks, and their future role in the regional political setting and national resource use policy. Local communities are exposed to the legal limitations of resource use. A national park regime faces the problems of integrating issues of local management with the international community's demands on biodiversity preservation and conservation, and with the objectives of a national resource use concept.
43809117|Western approaches to biodiversity are starting to recognise the relevance of local environmental knowledge and community forests, but mostly ignore the conservation potential of sacred places because of their culture bound modernism and scientism. We argue that sacred places are in effect an ancient and widespread system of community based and religiously sanctioned protected areas that promote biodiversity conservation. We also compare the advantages and disadvantages of government and community based protected areas, and consider them to be complementary.
43809659|This paper draws attention to the significance of the concepts used in ecological ethics to describe nature and its parts. One of those concepts is 'place'. Place is often used to appreciate the distinct dignity of a natural situation. The meaning of that concept is explained and analysed. Four elements are proposed: (i) Places have to be seen with a special subjective inclination; (ii) places are perceived as meaningful and the relation towards them is of the hermeneutic type; (iii) places appear as open textures of relationships that cannot be demarcated; (iv) places are described from within and have centres. The perception of observers lets them participate. For observers involved in the perception of places (in this sense), responsibility for the place and its inhabitants is a direct relationship of care.
43809660|I examine a puzzle concerning the role of humans in the appreciation of place that arises in Christoph Rehmann-Sutter's paper in this volume, specifically the problem of the irreplaceability of place. If places are designated as valuable in part because they are irreplaceable, and if any human can appreciate any place, then how can humans ever be part of a place if they are ultimately substitutable as agents who appreciate places? After identifying the puzzle I briefly discuss two possible ways to answer this problem though the literature on bioregionalism. Two kinds of bioregionalism, liberal bioregionalism (LB) and communitarian bioregionalism (CB) are identified and distinguished. A brief appeal is made to embrace LB for now (which entails avoiding the irreplaceability problem by jettisoning the need to focus on the special qualities of a particular place) and to hold off on CB as a goal down the road which would re-establish the importance of specificity in the value of place.
43809661|The motorcar is a mobile embodiment, expression and encapsulation of modernity's economic, environmental and ethical relations. The moral ambiguities of the automobile, as a vehicle of both individual freedom and environmental destruction, distil the equivocal costs and benefits of modernity itself. Any environmental critique of 'car culture' must recognise the automobile's role in expressing and constituting our individualistic and instrumental ethical Sittlichkeit - the ethical architecture that dominates the public and private lives of the modern citizen.
43809662|This paper discusses some cultural implications of technology for the place where we live. Two opposed thinkers, Martin Heidegger and Emmanuel Levinas, give an account of the cultural impact of technology and articulate the meaning of the place we live in. The paper proposes a systematic point of view that might take their contradictory positions into account. Helmuth Plessner can serve as a mediator with his theory of eccentricity. First, I turn to Ernst Juenger who frames the fundamental issue of modern technology ushering in a revolutionary period of history. Juenger's work is important to consider since his influence on Heidegger is large and not well known.
43809663|In response to what postmodern thinkers have called 'homelessness' and to the increasing destruction of the natural environment, some thinkers have suggested that humans should organise themselves into bioregional communities. These communities will be self-governing, relatively autonomous, small groups based on watersheds, river drainages, lakeshores, or other bioregional features. Their core values will be identification with, and care for, the land. I explore a form of this viewpoint, called 'homely bioregionalism'. I argue that this position has little real connection with postmodern thoughts on place and home, it has totalitarian overtones and, even when interpreted as an empirical recommendation, incorporates an optimistic and romanticised conception of 'home'. The phenomenon of ignoring or denying our environmental surroundings is, I argue, a real one, and can be called 'bioregional denial'. Homely bioregionalism, however, does not constitute a workable alternative to bioregional denial.
43809664|This paper examines the ideal of community as imagined by Ame Naess and the Deep Ecology Movement. In particular the authors address such questions as: Is pluralism of lifestyles reconcilable with the main ideas of the biocentric community? Is liberal justice possible within it? And how realistic is the proposal of education towards a 'biocentric identity'? The analysis shows that, while the deep ecological vision is by no means 'fascist' as some of its critics insist, its inconsistencies, silences and omissions point to an incomplete project which has a dystopian conclusion written into its scenario.
43809665|Alfred North Whitehead's and Charles Hartshorne's process thinking presents a complex and sophisticated metaphysical underpinning for a theory of self and self-identity. Their construction of the self has significant implications for understanding of the (human) community and the natural environment. Process thinking, I argue, undercuts the idea of self unity; of self-continuity over time; and of self-differentiation from the world. When combined, these three elements mean that it is hard to separate the individual, personal self from the community and the natural world. I compare these implications from process thinking with what might seem similar implications from radical ecological philosophies. Although there are ethical and metaphysical differences between process thinkers and deep ecologists, both kinds of theory need to be treated with caution in application to our thinking about the environment.
43809666|The argument of this article is that perceived landscapes are the results of processes of articulation of territory. Landscape features, be they mountains or rivers, nature reserves, man made monuments, or technological artefacts (roads, bridges, lighthouses etc.), have been reproduced socially and culturally through a number of text genres, art forms, media, and through scientific description, particularly the field sciences and the historical and museum sciences. The results of these processes are perceived, 'inner', landscapes which are deeply embedded in the image and self understanding of nations and regions. Articulation of territory is in itself an important part of the historical emergence and growth of nationalism and regionalism.
43809667|In post-war Sweden, overt demonstrations of political nationalism have been considered bad taste. In middle-class culture, the construction and emotional charging of Swedishness have instead taken place in terms of an idiom of love for nature. Conceptions of freedom and equality are by this idiom tied up with symbolic references to childhood and to the flora of forests and meadows. The Swedish 'Every Man's Law' regulating access to flowers and berries and mobility in the natural landscape in this context comes to stand as a central national symbol.
43809668|This article is a discussion of the cosmological and ontological bases of ecological thinking in cross-cultural terms. It is argued that there are two different sources for much of modem ecological thinking. One has its origins in the various developments in systems theory and cybernetics and is rooted in a hard 'engineering' framework. The other, which is the basic focus of this discussion, is based on constructions of 'nature' (not necessarily an explicit category in all societies) as temporally variable, and on the transformation of 'nature' in conditions of crisis. Newer approaches in ecological anthropology have rightly emphasised an understanding of the way nature is socially constructed, as, for example, an autonomous entity, or as totally integrated within other social and personal relations. It is suggested here that ecological thinking is related to the inversion of cosmological relations that occurs in many societies in crisis. Examples of the transformation of expansionist chiefdoms into ecologically more stable yet crisis-ridden egalitarian societies are used to argue that ecological thinking is not a product of a particular kind of society but of a particular condition that develops within societies that enter into crises after an earlier phase of growth and expansion. Modern ecological consciousness is argued to be the same kind of phenomenon, even if it develops in a very different kind of social system - one that reconstructs the 'primitive' societies of the Western periphery as the ecologically moral and balanced world that we have lost rather than the backward world of a previous modernist evolutionism.
43809121|This paper puts into relief the religious dimension of the fierce fight over the federal forests in Oregon. My purpose is to describe and comment on some of the religiously based normative pictures that underlie the institutional dynamics of the dispute. Oregon's religious contours are sketched as backdrop. Strands of civil religion Oregon style are teased out. Oregon Lutheran and Catholic visions are examined. Based on field observations, interviews and analysis of public documents, the essay finds a vital, though marginalised, religious dimension to the debate. Yet, moral vocabularies of a religious nature, evident in the personal convictions of forest debate participants, tend to drop out in public discourse, especially at the level of policy. While preserving the Enlightenment critique of religion, I argue, religion should be brought back in to the public square to give voice to religious persons and groups. Citizens and national forest policy makers must create the conditions in which religious voices are heard along with biological and economic ones. Not doing so violates a fundamental principle of political liberalism: inclusion. Suggestions are made as to how public debates, which include religious voices, might proceed.
43809122|The paper seeks to analyse Japanese vernacular architecture in terms of geomancy. There is a widely held belief that the orientation and shape of the house, as well as the location of the various rooms and objects (e.g. altars, water basins, stoves) therein, have profound impact on the wellbeing of its residents. The main features of the geomantic compass are outlined, and it is argued that the northwest-southeast and northeast-southwest axes are of particular importance. Whereas the former is seen as representing wealth and the continuity of the household, the latter represents danger and the threats that face the household due to its reliance on other households for in-marrying 'strangers' (i.e. women).
43809123|A recurrent question in the modern world is the place of people in nature, and bioregionalism offers some ideas in the debate over the kinds of technology that belong in Arctic wilderness areas, with a focus on northern Alaska. Some interests argue that people should only visit these areas, on foot or by paddle, to achieve a wilderness experience. Rural residents, most of whom are Alaska Natives, hold that access to these lands by motorised vehicles is essential to maintain hunting and gathering traditions. The debate over managing wilderness areas in northern Alaska originates in conflicting views of the meaning of wilderness. A bioregional vision offers some common ground in the idea of wilderness as a place of respect for non-human life forms, but political conflicts will not be easily resolved.
43809124|Elaborations of the Marxian dicta about the connections between economic modes and worldviews with an environmental component have been made largely in a social frame. Here, some attempt is made to tease out such linkages over a 10,000-year period and to see if they necessarily comprise the same parameters in each major period of economic history. It is concluded that here as in so many ways the late 19th century sees the beginning of a different kind of era, and that one of its characteristics is a technological determinism that had never existed before in such strength.
43809140|This article explores the spiritual dimensions of modern back-to-the-land (or homesteading) practices in contemporary American culture. Drawing on historical and ethnographic research, it examines the ways in which nature is sacralised and everyday life is ritualised by those who have chosen to lead lives of partial self-sufficiency in rural locales. Through an examination of oral and literary source material, and several case studies, this study demonstrates the ways in which nature is constructed as a source of meaning and authority for those who are disaffected from traditional religious institutions. This article also seeks to unfold the complexities involved in living 'close to nature', such as the dangers in seeing 'natural living' as the only standard for the moral life and the tendency for 'back to the land' practices to be advocated by those whose class location is a privileged one. The analysis offered here is intended as a point of access into broader tensions in American culture: between traditional and alternative forms of religious practice, between the idealisation of rural life and the realities of rural living, and between the desire for freedom and the desire for self-imposed constraint in the face of modernity.
43809141|In this article gender-based knowledge systems are related to the cosmology and worldview held by hunter-gatherer men and by female swidden cultivators among the Tanimuka and Yukuna Indians of the Northwest Amazon in Colombia. The terms 'cosmology' and 'worldview' are differentiated conceptually, to distinguish the scales of cosmoview and worldview as Amerindians contrast these. The positions of each gender in knowledge politics, property rights, environmental management strategies and in chiefdom polities are analysed to inquire why the cosmology and worldview asymmetrically empower the men and women to recreate social and environmental sustainability, endorse consciousness of ethno-eco-cosmic linkages and foster respect for life-enhancing dynamics. An analysis of the concepts of Thought or of Knowledge as the basis of existence itself across society, nature and cosmos is made to inquire why this Amerindian theory of knowledge and its application by gender-based agency consolidates ethnic alterity and a wise use of resources. The Tanimuka and Yukuna rejection of alien or unwanted Thought-Knowledge of other cultures and of rainforest forces is interpreted as a politics of distantiation. This affirms notions of a negotiatory universe with long term communitarian and environmental well-being, as the knowledge claims of the cosmology and worldview resist hegemonic ecocidal and ethnocidal dynamics.
43809142|One of the deepest roots of the environmental crisis is the contempt for matter per se which follows from the materialism which is a presupposition of modernity. Forms of environmentalism which share this contempt by favouring the natural, the wild or the ecological over the urban, the architectural or the artefactuai in fact perpetuate the deeper presuppositions and psychodynamics of modernity and thus unwittingly betray their own goals. A position which is genuinely counter to modernity will involve dwelling within and affirming the given, whatever form the given takes. Nativism is such a position.
43809149|Although there has been little if any discussion of Mormon environmentalism outside the tradition, it is increasingly apparent that such an ethic does existthough whether this ethic is with or against the current of formal LDS teaching is less clear. This article provides an overview of contemporary Mormon ecological thought and its roots within the LDS tradition, and highlights some of the tensions connected with environmental issues within the Mormon community today in Utah and elsewhere.
43809150|In this paper, I compare deconstructive ecofeminism and traditional Japanese worldviews, particularly those of Shinto. I identify similarities between the two at crucial points, and suggest that this implies considerable difficulties with deconstructive ecofeminism. Traditional Japanese worldviews, in particular those deriving from Shinto, are not unproblematic from the viewpoint of both ecology and feminism. Although deconstructive ecofeminists are eager to break through nature-women oppression, what they propose will not necessarily lead to what they want to create.
43809151|Environmentalists, especially old-growth activists, often rely on expert discourses which effectively disempower those whose livelihoods depend on forest products. They are often said to do this by fetishising nature as the other. In Finland, which is perhaps the world's most forestry-dependent country, old-growth activism opposing the forest products industry and sustained-yield forestry clearly expresses both desires to seek connection with sublime nature, but also to control and manage nature in an expert idiom much like that of the forestry profession itself. To help explain the prominence of expert discourses the paper charts the historical emergence of Finland as a nation-state, made economically dependent on timber products, but also characterised by a national culture emphasising forest-nature as something quintessentially Finnish. These two national narratives helped seal a national "forest consensus" which is now, however, being challenged with the very language that created it in the first place.
43809152|In this article, the thought of the late Protestant theologian, Paul Tillich, is considered as a resource for a contemporary environmental ethic. Tillich's ontology of love is revisited through the filter of the present global ecological crisis as a way of clarifying the various relationships that exist among the different forms of love. The paper concludes by going beyond Tillich's usage of agape love strictly as a form of love between human persons to include the non-human community within the orbit of humanity's unconditional concern for the 'other', that is, toward an ethic of 'bio-agape'.
43809161|In the eighteenth-century stampede to categorize and name the newly discovered flora and fauna of the world, kangaroos, platypuses and the Barbadoes wild olive trampled the classical taxonomie works of the Greek, Roman and Medieval worlds into the dust. Eden was no longer populated simply by cows, sheep, royal lions and the occasional snake. It was a dangerous place filled with rabbits the size of people, otters with a duck's bill and snails that looked like fruit. New and strange animals presented problems both for the classifiers, who fought among themselves to discover sites of taxonomie rigour, and for the religious, who, all at once, had to re-interpret the Pentateuch to take account of the fact that many more animals had avoided drowning in the universal deluge than had been hitherto thought. The latter led to an even more serious problem for the understanding of how language worked: if God had named the animals for Adam in Eden as the basis of language, what was this new deluge of species for? This paper explores how for one religious poet, Christopher Smart, the host of new species presented an ideal opportunity to put right some of the mistakes in the strictly Biblical Adamic theory of language, which had been brought to light by recent developments in Newtonian science.
43809162|John Ruskin (1819-1900)art critic, architectural historian and writerbecame, in his later work, increasingly interested in the relationship between human and animal life. As an art critic, he was concerned with the representation of human and animal figures and, in particular, with anatomical studies; whilst he had a longstanding interest in scientific concepts, in particular in the ways in which evolutionary theory changed understandings of animals. This paper explores how Ruskin rejected both the anatomical approach to animals studied in art, and the dissection of animals by scientists. Instead, this paper argues, Ruskin proposed that the lives of animals should be regarded with respect, reverence and responsibility.
43809163|This paper examines the changes T.H. White made to The Sword in the Stone between its first publication in 1938 and subsequent appearance as the first part of the Once and Future King in 1958. These changes are related to the immediate historical context of World War II, and also to the wider context of children's literature dealing with the relationship between the child and the natural world. Rather than seeing White's texts as reflecting a post-Enlightenmcnt idealisation, placing both child and nature beyond the bounds of culture and human limitation, the essay argues that even in the first version White's medieval worldview is constructed from a sophisticated and deliberately anachronistic medley of discourses including medieval codes of hunting and chivalry, Renaissance tragedy and Victorian natural history. These combine to create an exclusively male world, which is analysed as part of the ideological construction of a masculine relationship to the environment based on a natural nstinct to hunt and kill. White's growing pacifism leads to the insertion in the later version of episodes replacing this relationship with models of cooperative animal behaviour, and even introducing a female mentor for the hero.
43809164|This article offers an ecofeminist reading of representations of non-human animals in Alice Walker's The Temple of My Familiar. It takes as its starting point Warren's definition of ecofeminism as a term that encompasses "a variety of multicultural perspectives on the nature of connections within social systems of domination . . . and the domination of non-human nature. (Warren 1994: 1). Walker's own identifications of connections between 'social systems of domination' particularly of 'people of colour' and 'nonhuman nature' are examined within the context of Warren's definition and with reference to Walker's poetry collection Horses Make A Landscape Look More Beautiful and the essay 'Am I Blue?' The article then focuses on The Temple of My Familiar, arguing that throughout this deeply intertextual novel, Walker transcends stereotypical representations of women and people of color by choosing to celebrate the perception that they are "close to nature".
43809171|From the Iron Age to the modern period, authors have repeatedly restructured the ecomythology of the Siegfried saga. Fritz Lang's Weimar film production (released in 1924-1925) of Die Nibelungen presents an ascendant humanist Siegfried, who dominates over nature in his dragon slaying. Lang removes the strong family relationships typical of earlier versions, and portrays Siegfried as a son of the German landscape rather than of an aristocratic, human lineage. Unlike The Saga of the Volsungs, which casts the dwarf Andvari as a shape-shifting fish, and thereby indistinguishable from productive, living nature, both Richard Wagner and Lang create dwarves who live in subterranean or inorganic habitats, and use environmental ideals to convey anti-Semitic images, including negative contrasts between Jewish stereotypes and healthy or organic nature. Lang's Siegfried is a technocrat, who, rather than receiving a magic sword from mystic sources, begins the film by fashioning his own. Admired by Adolf Hitler, Die Nibelungen idealizes the material and the organic in a way that allows the modern "hero" to romanticize himself and, without the aid of deities, to become superhuman.
43809172|Literally translated as 'wind and water', Fengshui has been used as a special and important tool to harmonize people with their built environment and with the surrounding natural world. By examining some aspects of Fengshui as it was employed in traditional villages in southeast China, this paper aims to explore how Fengshui influences the interactions of Chinese people with their natural world. It focuses on two aspects of the employment of Fengshui in the outer spaces of villages in Southeast China: site selection and the entrance organisation. The methodology employed in the research involved both field investigation and archival study with a special emphasis on the historical records of family trees in the villages of Southeast China. Some modern psychological and architectural principles are borrowed as a frame of reference for analysing the Fengshui models. This analysis concludes that Fengshui satisfies not only physical needs, but also environmental, psychological and aesthetic ones. It demonstrates one of the most distinctive and sensitive treatments to aspects of the natural environment and landscape. It has been able, therefore, to improve the quality of the environment.
43809173|Exploration of the roots of accumulating environmental degradation has reached to the very foundations of Western civilization. The dominant critiques of these foundations primarily focus on two cosmologies: monism and dualism. The purpose of this paper is to examine these foundations from a Weberian perspective and to offer a little known alternative: immanent dualism. This alternative cosmology suggests that religion could help reorganize late industrial capitalism.
43809174|This article carefully examines the roles that sacred mountains play in Mescalero Apache religious tradition and "religious paradigms" of sacred space and ceremonial practice. For the Mescalero, sacred mountains are intimately associated with conceptions of spiritual ecology, ceremonial traditions, prayer, and cultural identity. To understand these aspects of Mescalero tradition as they relate to cultural practices, this article focuses on the Mescalero Apache Mountain Spirit tradition. In this tradition men are masked, painted as "Mountain Spirits" and are understood to embody the power of the sacred mountains, the four cardinal directions, and the power of the Creator. Through analyzing this ceremonial tradition, Mescalero conceptions of how spiritual power is linked to sacred geographies and spiritual ecology is brought to light. The Mountain Spirits are also analyzed for how, through oral tradition and spiritual revelation, mountains become significant for the Mescalero within their religious system. The Mountain Spirits and their connections to sacred mountains are furthermore contrasted with the female initiation ceremony of the "Big Tipi." It is proposed in this paper that these two ceremonial traditions, through their different relationships to the land and sacred geographies, feature differently in Mescalero self-conceptions of their cultural and religious identity.
43809671|De Quincey's writings contain 'reveries' that extend a Wordsworthian response to landscape and combine a sense of the infinite with a recognition of earthly labours. In the context of his troubled orientalismin his articles 'Ceylon', 'The Kalmuck Tartars', and 'Russia in 1812', for examplehis representation of landscape reveals a disturbed mixture of history and Christianity. His militant vision of civilisation secured by the apocalyptic battle of Waterloo is questioned by his construction of 'Eastern' Others and his powerful recognition of mortality. This pervasive sense of doubt also haunts his handling of 'The Apparition of the Brocken' and the vision of England put forward in 'The English Mail-Coach'.
43809672|John Ruskin, on significant public occasions in his later life, affirmed the healthiness of the human imagination that found in nature not divine truths, but human histories. He celebrated as a sign of a community's well being, the capacity of the eye to look at landscape with awareness of its (imagined) history. Perceiving the environment in this way was to enter imaginatively into association with one's own society's past and ancestral heritage, and to recognize a meaningful and personally relevant continuum between the present and history. But when writing his own life history, Ruskin realized with regret that he could not fully memorialise his ancestors because he had been 'profanely' indifferent to their history. Aware of the value of a memorial landscape but importantly detached from his own history, Ruskin sensed himself adrift. But the uneasy dislocation he felt here was more than personal: it was culturally suggestive as a pre-echo of the more dramatically deracinated self, detached from history and community, which characterized modernity's notion of selfhood.
43809673|Much current scholarship has concentrated on Virginia Woolf as political writer. Such scholarship argues, on the one hand, that Woolf has little truck with nationalism, and, on the other, that she endorses the value of an inclusive community. This essay explores, through a concentration on her treatment of landscape, how Woolf's vision of art and of England comes to be grounded in the inter-war zeitgast of Neo Romanticism, a grounding that significantly alters our perception of the role both nation and community play in her work.
43809674|Simon Armitage defines his own position as a poet as on the border where urban and rural environments meet. I explore how the influence of this geographical location can be traced in Armitage's poetry, both in its content, and in its form. The paper ends with a consideration of Armitage's hybrid poetic voice and how this too reflects a borderland identity.
43809675|Writing in the founding years of the Irish state Daniel Corkery observed that the land was a 'huge force in Irish life' and constituted one of the three elements which made up 'the Irish national being'. But while sacralised in the period of the Literary Revival as the 'hidden spring' from which the Irish nation drew its 'vitality', allegiance to the land has also been seen as a limitation. Working through plays from The Land (1905) to After Easter (1994) this article focuses on the dramatisation of responses to the demand to 'stay on the land and you'll be saved body and soul' as Ireland experiences the physical and psychological deracination consequent upon globalisation.
43809183|The Maryknoll Ecological Sanctuary, Baguio, Luzon, The Philippines, is Berry's "Great Work" already underway. The mountain knob at the intersection of Marcos Highway and Santo Tomas Road is home to the Center for the Integrity of Creation, the Environmental Theater, the Fourteen Stations of the Cosmic Journey on the grounds, and the Bio-Shelter and its own cosmic journey in the stained glass of the chapel. The entire complex, spirituality, and eco-justice work is the new amidst the old, often the new resurrected from the old. It is ancient and avant-garde at once, the transformation of deep Christian traditions now as Earth-honoring faith. Thomas Berry's stamp is clearly here, yet this is Filipino in art, architecture, and spiritual expression. Local community is integral to Earthand cosmosas the comprehensive community. The Sanctuary already embodies the transition from "the human devastation of Earth" to a time "when humans [are] present to the planet in a mutually beneficial manner" (p. 3, The Great Work).
43809184|Thomas Berry breaks new ground in The Great Work, with a reassessment of "wild" as it applies to both humans and nature. He challenges traditional western dualisms, showing how creative or chaotic energy is in continuous relationship with the stabilizing force of discipline or form. In his view of modern globalization, all conflicts reduce to the central tension between environmentalist and developer, a clash of worldviews and resource uses. Berry urges a serious rethinking of what it means to be human in order to break the deep entrancement with industrial civilization.
43809185|This paper salutes four contributions of Berry's book: its return to creation rather than redemption as the central doctrine of Christianity, its expanded paideia beyond the male West, its focus on ecological problems as the agenda for all world religions, and its redefinition of the self in terms of orientations to nature and institutions. The paper then poses two questions. Why emphasize the Earth's ecology, with an emphasis of preservation and stability, rather than cosmic process which is entropie and a matter of trajectories? Why emphasize symmetry at the basis of the cosmos, with the emphasis on unity and order, rather than the asymmetry of unique creation with an emphasis on particularity and change?
43809186|There is much to applaud in Berry's book The Great Work. However this response questions the framework of purposive, hierarchical progress of the universe which is outlined in Berry's narrative. It suggests that an alternative view is to see cosmic change as non-progressive and contingentand that this perspective encourages the affirmation of wonder at the universe.
43809187|This article affirms Thomas Berry's description of our cultural predicament and the responses he offers in terms of the Universe Story and the 'great work'. After articulating aspects of this new story, the article proceeds to discuss the implications for a new politics and a new economy. The three elements of the 'great work' that of telling the story, the creation of a new politics and the creation of a new economy are essential to the transformation of society. Yet the political and economic transformation are dependent on real democracy, and all are in need of profound reform.
43809188|Are we indeed ethically destitute, as suggests Thomas Berry? We are in an era of a barrage of ethical discourses, and yet Berry claims that are unable to respond to the radically new problematique facing any human communities. This article explores the idea of the macro and micro dimensions of ethics, noting the conventional reference points as well as the change of reference points Berry suggests. The discussion dwells on these two dimensions, and the interplay between them. The article also suggests that the religious/spiritual experiences of awakening, and presently to the cosmos, could also be considered as a source for ethics.
43809189|In this commentary on Thomas Berry's recent book, The Great Work, Rosemary Radford Ruether argues that the transformation that is needed to achieve a sustainable society must contain a dynamic interaction of three components: transformation of consciousness and culture, transformation of technology and transformation of social, legal and economic relations between humans. There cannot be a focus on only one or two of these components at the expense of the other(s). The transformation of culture and consciousness includes a profound deconstruction of the patterns of hierarchical dualism in Western theological, philosophical, psychology and scientific thought and their reconstruction in terms of relations of dynamic mutuality.
43809190|The time-honored traditions of prudence of small communities are based on a deep respect for the integrity of creation. However they are confronted with economic and development agenda that are unraveling the very capacity of peoples to sustainable livelihood. This article explores the relationship between Berry's vision and the realities of these communities who are attempting to maintain their ecological traditions. Berry's vision of progress is challenged from the perspective of small poor communities, as well as the problem of the universalizing of knowledge.
43809191|In this review essay, Thomas Berry's The Great Work is contextualized within Berry's overarching cosmological project. Special attention is paid to Berry's critique of economic corporations, as well as his interpretation of globalization and his assessment of an alleged decline of the nation state, claims that run counter to certain contemporary social scientific research offering more complex depictions of such phenomena. The critique of democracy in Berry's work, and its potential implications, is also critically addressed.
43809202|Sigmund Freud's analysis of the childhood dream of the Wolf Man, in The History of an Infantile Neurosis, has come to be seen as one of the defining moments of psychoanalysis. Freud interpreted this dream in terms of the Oedipus complex, concluding that the wolves which threatened to devour his patient were, in effect, father-substitutes, the archaic trace in the unconscious of the individual of the threat posed by the tyrannical father of the 'original' human family. In this article I argue that this conclusion conceals a problematic reading, on Freud's part, of the human/animal border, which is evidenced, in The History of an Infantile Neurosis, as well as in his writings, as an anxiety as to the ontological status of the human subject and the 'nature' of civilisation, and as a repressed acknowledgement of the animal as sublime presence. However, in trying to negotiate similar questions today, and despite this marked ambivalence toward the 'animal', I also argue that Freud's insight into the mechanisms of repression remains a valuable way of exploring the relationship of the human to the nonhuman.
43809203|Many environmentalists draw upon religious teachings to argue that humanity ought to transform its relationship with the natural world. They maintain that religious systems teach that the earth is sacred and has an intrinsic value beyond its use value to humanity. However, whilst many cultures have religious practices or teachings associated with the natural world, such traditions of nature religion ought to distinguished from religious environmentalism. This paper suggests that religious is limited because it is a product of Western ideas about nature, in particular a 'romantic' vision of nature as a realm of purity and aesthetic value. Although in India, for example, people worship certain trees, this is not evidence of an inherent environmental awareness, if only because such practices are very ancient and pre-date concerns about a global environmental crisis. Moreover, many people in developing countries, such as India, are directly dependent upon the natural world and cannot afford radically to alter their behaviour towards nature to accommodate religious environmentalist goals.
43809204|The recognition that ecological problems often extend beyond nation-state boundaries has prompted environmentalists, politicians, and academics to call for and generate problem-solving discourses meant to be global in perspective. Free-market rhetoric has emerged as one of the more prominent of the global discourses, even though the free market's commodification of human beings and nature causes many environmental problems. To discredit this economic rationality, many scholars have compared it to religion. These comparisons are intriguing, but they have lacked the critical analysis necessary to appear as anything more than name-calling. This paper clarifies the definition of religion and uses it to examine the origins of economic rationality's fundamental presuppositionthat greedy self-interested competition generates more social benefits than altruistic cooperationwithin eighteenth-century Natural Law vs. Ecclesiastical Law debates. Despite economic rationality's adoption of sophisticated empirical methods and mathematical rigor over the past two centuries, it is a religion because it retains vestiges of the Protestant Christian and Stoic beliefs of how social life is governed by supernatural intervention when it uncritically promotes policies based on that presupposition. Recognizing economic rationality is a religion may benefit those who are striving to develop systems of governance based on democratic principles by leading to a greater understanding of economic rationality's normative attraction.
43809205|Rachel Carson is well known as a founder of the modern environmental movement. This article argues that her life and writings have much to offer contemporary environmental philosophy. I begin by discussing the environmental ethics articulated in Silent Spring. I next examine Carson's earlier natural history writings and the non-anthropocentrism they express. I conclude with some suggestions for how Carson points the way forward for environmental ethics.
43809214|In his poetry and essays, Gary Snyder has developed a syncretic blending of two cultures: Buddhist and Native American. He has written about their similarities and historical links, and has noted how their differences complement one other. Such an intercultural project has been criticized by those who have claimed that one cannot simply take ideas and values from foreign cultures: they are culturally embedded and we are bound to the character and limits of our culture. In addition, some Native Americans have called his cultural borrowing from their culture an inauthentic "white shamanism." Snyder, however, would argue that shamanism and animism are world-wide human phenomena and have been kept alive in what he calls the Great Subculture. Modern people can have access to them through serious and humble spiritual learning. Two concepts can help us understand Snyder's intercultural project. The first is Bahktin's notion of "anotherness," in which difference is affirmed but dialogue and exchange are possible. The second is an ecological theory of culture, which argues against cultural essentialism by recognizing that cultures are both distinct and interwoven and ever changing. Thus authentic intercultural borrowing is a possibility. For Snyder, it is also a necessity if we are to develop a healthy relationship to each other and the natural world.
43809215|It is often claimed that environmental problems facing the world today can be attributed to dualism and anthropocentrism rooted in Christianity. Hence, it is argued that a solution to these problems can be sought in holism and ecocentrism inherent in non-western thought. Native American and Asian religions have in particular been heralded as potential sources of inspiration. Using Japan as a case, this paper challenges this view, arguing that religions are not coherent constructions and that their claimed benevolence to nature are based on selective reading of these non-western religions. As to Japan, both Buddhism (not least Zen) and Shinto have been regarded as ecocentric religions with a holistic approach to the world. This has not prevented serious degradation of the environment taking place, however. On the contrary, it will be argued that there are features in these holistic religions that might facilitate such degradation. It is therefore far too simplistic to attribute environmental problems to modernization and westernization.
43809216|Having introduced the writing of Thomas Merton, this paper pulls together strains of thought scattered throughout Thomas Merton's Conjectures of a Guilty Bystander (1965) that shed light on Merton's increasing concern with the destructive effects of modern technology on humans and the earth. The paper explores Merton's understanding of relationships between a myth of progress, technological advance, the idea of 'worldliness' and the 'technological mind'. It moves on to examine the importance of experiences of nature in inspiring Merton's writing, and in underpinning his meditations on alternatives to current understandings of technological progress, before concluding by considering Merton's ideas about hope for humanity.
43809217|What are the presuppositions for policy-making to be a sensible endeavor? At a minimum the policy-maker must believe that mere is more than one alternative future (non-determinism), and that some possible futures are truly better than others (non-nihilism). The combinations of acceptance and denial of these two presuppositions are considered, along with a deeper look at what ultimately limits possible alternatives. The focus then shifts to the difficulty many thinkers have in accommodating the fact of purpose implicit in the assumption that some alternative futures really are better than others. Neodarwinists seem to have the most difficulty accepting these two presuppositions of policy, and yet feel called upon to engage in public policy dialogue. They are invited to reflect deeply on the fact that their premises rule out policy as a meaningful activity.
43799337|This article explores the growing movement of environmentally activist Roman Catholic women religious in North America and the implications of this movement for theorizing new directions in religion and culture. Sisters' creative efforts to conserve traditional religious and cultural forms while opening up these forms to "greener" (ecologically-minded) interpretations reveals the very protean process of religious meaning-making. It also subsequently challenges more static and conventional theoretical models of religion. In particular, the author documents and analyzes the intertwining of bioregional philosophies of "reinhabitation," expressions of American Catholic religious life, and manifestations of "green culture." Integrating geographic, ethnographic, and historical methodologies, the author argues that when researchers approach the study of religion as "biogeographers," they discover complex levels of religious understanding and expression that are otherwise overlooked. Significantly, it is these frequently-missed dimensions of the religious landscape that more accurately reflect the "living and lived" quality of religion.
43799338|This paper focuses on the assertion of the Norwegian philosopher Arne Naess (1989: 20) that "ethics follow from how we experience the world." I discuss what the statement might mean when applied to Naessian Deep Ecology. There follows a discussion of the close cohesion between experience and practice in Naessian thought. I attend to Naess's descriptions of the relationship between mystical nature experience and "ecological enlightenment," in which he suggests that an intense union with nature will lead the experiencing individual to enact Deep Ecological thought, as Naess formulates it. I seek to amplify the definition of mystical nature experience with reference to William James's The Varieties of Religious Experience, particularly to James's assertions about the effects of religious experience on individual action. Naess (1986: 225-239) has cited James's work as a significant influence on his understanding of the terms "self" and "experience." Is Naess advocating a need to reeducate people to experience nature, in the hope that environmental awareness will increase accordingly? What experience of nature would inspire an environmental ethic? I conclude by arguing that Naess's reformative agenda stands in a complex relationship to the emphasis on individual, mystical nature experience as the catalyst to "ecological enlightenment." This complexity has not been satisfactorily resolved within Naessian Deep Ecology.
43799339|Rural children in Rajasthan, North India, express their connections with trees through storytelling and other artistic media, as well as recognizing trees' multiple uses in everyday life. In both imaginative and pragmatic views, trees are seen as vulnerable and requiring protection, but also as shelters for all creatures and bounteous givers of many blessings. Children's perceptions of trees and nature are shaped by local history in which narratives of deforestation are integral to political changes. Current government initiatives to promote environmental awareness and ecological regeneration also influence young people, who take these lessons to heart.
43799340|The subject of wolf recovery in North America sparks heated controversy, both for and against. This paper explores how this subject is informed by cosmopolitan worldviews. These worldviews pull nature and culture into a common orbit of ethical meaning, with implications for the normative relationships that ought to pertain in landscapes shared by people and wolves. This theoretical outlook is illustrated using the controversy over wolves in the northeastern region of the United States. I conclude with a set of reflections on theorizing the cosmopolis, the interpretation of cosmopolitan landscapes, and living with cosmopolitan wolves.
43809226|Bernard Lonergan, S.J. and Jane Jacobs have devoted much of their intellectual careers to thinking out the dynamic natural-human environment. Lonergan and Jacobs worked in very different lines of researchsystematic theology and urban economics, respectively. Despite predictable differences in their thought, there are also remarkable commonalities in their analyses. Both thinkers have argued that the same dynamic principles that govern the functioning of natural ecologies are also to be found when human social and economic systems function well, but are absent when human systems go wrong. Both have argued that the violation of principles that pertain to natural ecologies is destructive not only of the natural environment, but of communal and economic well-being as well. Jacobs came to prominence with the 1961 publication of her classic, The Death and Life of Great American Cities. She has since gone on to extend her analysis to the unique characteristics of urban economics in several books and articles. In her most recent book The Nature of Economies (2000), Jacobs draws the results of her previous work on urban economic patterns into a synthesis with recent insights into biological systems. She argues that exactly the same principles (or "processes" as she prefers to call them) that sustain vital, evolving natural ecologies also underpin robust and dynamic economies. Where Jacobs's work gives a richly detailed account of the processes shared alike by natural and human systems, Lonergan developed a parallel, integral account of natural processes, human social and economic organization, and the "economy of salvation." In his classic work, Insight, Lonergan argues that the dynamics of human innovations and self-correction correspond in striking ways to the emergence, growth, development, and decline in the natural order. Unlike natural ecologies, however, the possibilities of genuine social and economic development are distorted, Lonergan argues, by the forces of "bias." In his role of theologian, Lonergan goes on to explore how divine grace heals the distorted dynamics of natural and human ecologies.
43809227|The central hypothesis of this paper is that idealization of nature may fuel environmental racism when combined with dual interpretation of human religious or spiritual states. Medieval typological Biblical exegesis, originally based on historic rather than racial differentiation, encouraged presentation of Christianity as "natural" and Judaism as contra-natural. During the Gothic period, the stained glass of St. Denis Cathedral presented Judaism as occupying the material rather than the transcendent spheres of existence. In numerous stained glass windows, Jews appear as threats to nature by attacking Christ on a green cross, which symbolizes the renewal of all life, or the Lignum Vitae. As Christian architects and scientists increased their focus on the divine light of creation, prejudicial portrayals depicted Judaism as blind Synagogue, unable to fully appreciate nature. Pagan motifs, such as the Green Man, syncretized with Christian theological dualism, also serve to separate Judaism from living nature. These depictions purposefully conflict with Gothic aesthetic emphasis on proportion, clarity, and integrity and were intended to imply that religious minorities have no legitimate role in Christian European society. Modern religious scholarship must be cautious not to describe some religions as natural or nature religion, while neglecting others, particularly Judaism and Islam.
43809228|As defined over time, biotic community has meant anything from superorganism to ecosystem. Some ecologists entirely reject any such holistic concept. This spectrum of positionsfrom holism to reductionismreflects a divide among ecologists. Ordinarily, such battles pass with little notice beyond the confines of science. Ecology, however, has impact well outside its borders. In the popular arena the expression "biotic community" is widely, albeit sometimes uncritically, accepted. Even though both scientists and philosophers disagree about the validity of the concept, arguments for or against rely upon a common principle: novel properties signify a new reality. Conclusions divide based upon what may count as real. Must the new entity be a material object or is it merely conceptual? I review the evolution of meanings for biotic community and examine representative objections to either the reality or the utility of the concept. I argue that what is lacking in all discussions of biotic community is attention to the mode of existence of community, and conclude that biotic community is real, although its mode of existence is relational, not material.
43809229|The English philosopher/theologian Colin Gunton argues that many of the problems besetting the contemporary Western world, including those dealing with the environment, are traceable to a mistaken understanding of the relationship between the One and the Many in practical life. A solution, however, is available in retrieval of the doctrine of the Trinity promoted by the early Greek Fathers, in particular the notion of perichoresis as the dynamic bond of unity among the divine persons. While agreeing with Gunton on this point, the author believes that perichoresis can only be applied to the world of creation in terms of a metaphysics of universal intersubjectivity such as he developed in a recent book. After laying out the basic contours of this new 'relational ontology', the author concludes by calling attention to the work of another process-oriented thinker, Douglas Sturm, with the latter's work on the 'politics of relationality' and an ethic of solidarity.
43809230|The recent fad of removing glacial boulders from native Midwest prairie to create walls for urban wildflower gardens provides the context for thinking about how a theistic stewardship ethic addresses the environment. The three commands of Genesis 1 and 2 provide the basis for a theistic stewardship ethic, where God as the Creator/Landowner establishes humans as stewards to administer his kingdom. Contrary to the oft-repeated view that the injunction to rule over justifies a mere instrumental use and hence abuse of the environment, the command gives value to the biotic environment because the created has interests and thereby moral standing. Consequently, the environment must be considered in the for-whom of moral calculation. However, a theistic environmental ethic adds that the value of nature is neither merely intrinsic nor instrumental, but derives from the value accorded it by its Creator, who in seeing it function declares it good. The command to care for allows for sustainable conservation and human use rather than mere preservation. And the command to fill connects with the need to preserve and foster genetic and ecological diversity. Throughout we apply these commands to the case study about boulders and native prairie.
43809231|The ideal of an ecological community uniting humans to the earth is an important normative ideal in environmental ethics. In this paper I will briefly look at one of the more popular stories that provides the philosophical underpinnings for this ideal. This is the story told by Baird Callicott, through his interpretation of Leopold's land ethic. In the critical portion of this essay, I point to problems with this account. The goal is not to prove this story false, but to indicate its inadequacies. In the constructive portion, I will discuss the philosophical underpinnings for an alternative story for realizing the hoped-for ecological community from the perspective of the Judeo-Christian tradition. This alternative story relies on an account of moral agency found in the narrative ethics of Alasdair Maclntrye. But it also reclaims neglected insights from Josiah Royce. In this account a community narrative is required that formed through a dialogue between the scientifically informed idea of the ecological community and the Judeo-Christian narrative of creation.
43809232|Attitudes towards the natural world are complicated by all sorts of preconceptions and out-dated ideas. Some of these arise from different interpretations of the same data, but others are hangovers from past debates in science, philosophy or religion. The result is a herd of 'sacred cows' which need drastic culling. I suggest that Francis Bacon's insistence that we should read both Books of Godof words (the Bible) and of works (scientific understanding)is a key part of this process; it could provide a positive way of testing scientific and theological interpretations, and hopefully undergird progress towards a sensible basis for a robust environmental ethic.
43809233|There is an increasing consensus among ecologists that global ecosystems are under strain from unsustainable consumption habits and human overpopulation. However, there is no such consensus among many religious persons. Many Christians for example, are quite concerned about both overconsumption and overpopulation while others are uncomfortable with any discussion of either, or specifically with discussions about overpopulation. This discomfort may be due to concerns about undermining God's sovereignty or opposition to specific family planning policies. Two other reasons for this lack of consensus are misunderstandings of science and of Scripture. Central to the ecological understanding of the world is a belief in the concept of limitation. Some Christians, however, appear to believe that natural laws and limitations do not act on human populations. Furthermore, some Christians interpret the Bible as promoting high fertility. In contrast, I describe the ecological principles of allocation, optima, and limiting factors, which derive from the limitation of matter and energy. I propose to integrate these scientific principles with three scriptural principles: balance, wisdom, and corporate responsibility and to apply them to the current issue of overpopulation.
43809234|A theological model of the human is needed to prompt responsible thinking about and acting within the physical world. Some basic components for modeling the human as a virtuous cooperator appear in the teachings of Thomas Aquinas. When appropriated cautiously and informed broadly by contemporary scientific findings, this model provides a promising way of thinking about humans in relation to other species and ecological systems, a framework for acting responsibly, and the motivation for making this behavior habitual.
43809235|Economic globalization suggests that sustainability will be threatened more by consumption than by population. While technology should prove helpful, our major environmental threat appears to be the rising demand for products and services. Hence, in the long run, sustainability requires human actions to prevent systemic harm rather than technical solutions that might merely reduce specific harm to the environment. In general, Christianity has dealt only weakly with the ethics of sustainability, and especially with the continuing consumption of global resources by affluent nations. In this paper, I analyze the potential for a new Christian focus on the satisfaction, satiation, and sublimation of material needs and desires. Important queries considered by the analysis include the following: (1) Does technology create metaphysical desire? (2) Is consumption thus inherently addictive? (3) Can religion help control this addiction? Employing dispositive and operative aspects of responsibility theory, I argue that a convivial future requires that we give prime attention to the demands of both distributive justice and environmental sustainability. On this basis, Christianity ought to place greater emphasis on equity issues associated with conservation, resource reduction, and renewable energy. Unfortunately, responsibility theory is inherently responsive rather than proactive, and thus probably more appropriate for avoiding a worse rather than creating a better future. My suggestion is that an eschatological approach to sustainability may offer new hope for the control of rampant materialism. In particular, Christianity must take seriously the need for an eventual re-integration between technology and religion. This re-integration should focus primarily on respecting physical limits, especially in an uncertain world characterized by a rising rich-poor gap. Such respect defines a new kenotic technology, which leads naturally to an allied kenotic consumption. As a result, Christian responsibility suggests that we can best imitate Christ by moderating profligate life-styles. From this perspective, the Church's prime responsibility in an environmental age is to model much better than it currently does the re-conversion of modern material growth to post-modern spiritual growth.
43809252|In what sense(s) is the Earth Charter a global ethic? The Earth Charter is a global ethic as a set of values and norms which can be supported from many worldviews rather than as a "set of values and norms plus a particular worldview"; and the Earth Charter is also a global ethic as an ethic which is widely shared across the world rather than as one which is universally shared by all. What kinds of resistance does promoting the Earth Charter meet? A number of intellectual positions are addressed, such as realism in international relations and the neoliberal paradigm. The Earth Charter thus raises many issues in global ethics as an intellectual enquiry, particularly if it is thought of as a tool to be used in the spirit of critical loyalty.
43809253|There is increasing conviction that to enjoy and promote the mutual flourishing of human life in mutual relationship to the flourishing of all life on Earth is the ultimate meaning of human history. Yet the contemporary human condition is one of profound alienation from that meaning. The metaphor and model of a new global covenant, a new covenant with Earth, provides the most constructive and practical way individuals and communities can respond to this spiritual situation, and inspires efforts such as the Earth Charter, and draft International Covenant on Environment and Development, to articulate a new global ethic. The new model of Earth covenant has emerged over a long course of history from interactions between Earth-affirming religious sensibilities, evolutionary/ecological understandings, and democratic ideals. Although it is still very much in the making, and requires much wider global dialogue, we can extrapolate ten major normative themes central to the new covenantal vision.
43809254|After a brief review of the spirit and content of Charter principles, this essay proposes that integrated ethical reflection should deliberately: draw on main principles and supporting principles as interactive imperatives for a sustainable way of life; think across the four parts of the Earth Charter to emphasize combinations of principles; and bring Charter principles to bear both as general ideals and as practical guidelines. Moreover, these principles become quite lively, and we gain multi-dimensional issue perspective, when we hold the Charter in one hand and material presenting a contemporary issue analysis in the other. The essay moves on to illustrate how to make integrated use of Earth Charter principles in ethical reflection on three key global issues: destructive economic integration, loss of biologically diverse habitat, and close confinement of animals. In each case, the author "gathers" Earth Charter principles that illumine the problem's philosophical, ecological, socio-economic, and political dimensions, and help to shape a constructive response.
43809255|Western legal traditions are anthropocentric in character and largely hostile to ecological principles. However, domestic and international environmental law show signs of an ecocentric orientation. In the search for a legal framework for ecologically sustainable development the Earth Charter marks an important step forward. Among its ground-breaking principles are ecologically defined concepts of sustainability, justice and rights.
43809256|The concept of ecological integrity is deeply embedded within the Earth Charter. Ecological integrity refers to the full functioning of a suite of natural processes. "Natural" refers to processes that exist without human input. Arguments against the scientific validity of ecological integrity are based on the proposition that the current state of ecological systems merely reflects past contingencies and consequently there is no natural, healthy condition that can be prescribed scientifically. Hence, nature conservation and environmental management goals are a matter of individual and social values and priorities. This argument can be rejected largely on the grounds that integrity of ecosystem processes can be empirically demonstrated, and that the continued wellbeing of humanity depends on the ecological integrity of various natural processes known as Earth's life support systems. The main policy implications of ecological integrity flow from accepting that the future wellbeing of the human endeavour is irrevocably coupled to the ongoing integrity of the total Earth system. The caring and compassionate attitude towards wild animals also promoted by the Earth Charter provides additional moral impetus to protecting habitat in situ and consequently ecological integrity. Protecting ecological integrity will require both reorientating the human endeavour towards new patterns of production and consumption together with a commitment to making room for wild nature.
43809257|This essay argues for considering the Earth Charter as a text requiring ongoing interpretation, embodying a philosophic worldview (or worldviews) needing continuous exploration. The author offers his own interpretations, explorations, and critiques of the Earth Charter from a philosophical naturalist perspective, centrally informed by evolutionary biology and ecology, which he finds insufficiently presented in the Earth Charter as it presently stands.
43809258|In this paper I give reasons for holding that the Earth Charter's support for the preservation of natural ecosystems needs to be undergirded by rigorous theory. To assist with this, I offer a continuum-based definition of the concept of "Natural Primordial Space" (viz. NPS) and then offer reasons for believing that NPS is worthwhile both (1) intrinsically, and (2) contingentlyas an enhancer of the moral quality of human life. I conclude by suggesting that the merits of this part of earth's environment justify giving the preservation of NPS a pre-eminent ranking on any prioritized list of Earth Charter concerns.
43809259|This essay explores the Earth Charter through an ecological feminist lens. In a previous essay on the Charter (Davion 2002), I argued that although basically consistent with ecological feminist approaches, the charter fails adequately to consider issues of ethical responsibility, social location, and power. I shall now argue that while my original observations remain troubling, the Charter does have profound implications for the morality of war. In what follows I first introduce ecological feminism. I then review my earlier conclusions concerning the charter, explaining why I believe they remain crucial. I conclude with a discussion of why, despite some important flaws, the Charter has important moral implications concerning the morality of war.
43809260|This article examines the relevance of the Earth Charter to ethical debate on biotechnology. It uses the New Zealand Bioethics Council as a case study to demonstrate the positive contributions that the Charter could make to a nation's efforts to articulate ethical principles. It begins by examining the general tasks of the Council and demonstrates that the Charter is primarily useful as a fundamental source document and a critical tool for stimulating ethical dialogue. But its articulation of universal responsibility, together with its inspirational and educational nature, are also of significance. Moving from the general to the particular, the article applies one of the Charter's principles, "respect for all life", to the particular issue of transgenic animals. It is argued that this principle could help to fundamentally reframe debate on this issue.
43809265|This paper addresses the problem of the declining status of philosophy and the humanities in higher education. These events have given rise to discussions of the "corporatization" of higher education and the dominance of the "Market-Model University." In the Market-Model University the chief goals are to teach marketable skills and develop marketable innovations. In responding to these developments, my thesis is that practical philosophy, exemplified by environmental philosophy, offers direction for positive reforms that will revitalize philosophy and the humanities. (While my comments focus on philosophy, I believe much of what is said can apply to other fields in the humanities.) More specifically, they point to a "Citizen-Model University" as a positive alternative to the Market-Model. In the Citizen-Model University the chief goal is education for "citizenship". This focus in education will allow democratic societies to better meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. Such challenges are increasingly characterized by difficult decisions involving environmental problems (e.g., global warming) and technological developments (e.g., biotechnology). These kinds of problems cannot be left to the "invisible hand" of the market. They require democratic citizens capable of moral deliberation, leading to intelligent choices.
43809266|Contra Dale Jamieson, the study of the metaethical foundations of environmental ethics may well lead students to a more environmentally responsible way of life. For although metaethics is rarely decisive in decision making and action, there are two kinds of circumstances in which it can play a crucial role in our practical decisions. First, decisions that have unusual features do not summon habitual ethical reactions, and hence invite the application of ethical precepts that the study of metaethics and ethical theory isolate and clarify. Second, there are times in which the good of others (including organisms and systems in the natural world) may well be given greater weight in one's ethical deliberations if theory has made clear that the good to be promoted is ontologically independent of one's own good.
43809267|The orthodox conception of environmental philosophy is of an applied or practical philosophical discipline in the service of the ethical, social and political aims of the environmental movement. In this essay I show that there is a coherent alternative conception of the subject matter of environmental philosophywhat I call an "ecological" conceptionthat can be defined independently of environmentalist concerns. I argue that, as a framework for advancing both the theoretical and applied aims of environmental philosophy, the ecological conception of environmental philosophy has a number of advantages over the orthodox conception. I conclude with some remarks on the implications of adopting the ecological conception for teaching courses in environmental philosophy.
43809268|Increased awareness of the breadth and depth of existing environmental challenges is part of an environmental education. One effect of this increased awareness that can manifest itself in the environmental ethics classroom is pessimism. I outline two varieties of pessimism that have a tendency to hold sway in the environmental ethics classroom: 1) pessimism about the general state of the environment; and, 2) pessimism about being able to do anything about the general state of the environment. After outlining a few of the potential educational and vocational consequences of allowing pessimism to take root, I offer a pedagogical method for reducing the sway of pessimism in the classroom. I argue that William James' and John Dewey's writings on the subject of meliorism offer a framework that, when combined with some of the insights of incrementalism theory in environmental policy, can not only help students to reduce the sway of pessimism in the classroom, but also in their chosen career paths by, among other things, highlighting the "possibility of possibility".
43809269|In this paper we argue for the importance of the formal teaching of environmental ethics. This is, we argue, both because environmental ethics is needed to respond to the environmental issues generated by the neoliberal movement in politics and economics, and because a form of environmental ethics is implicit, but unexamined, in that which is currently taught. We maintain that students need to become aware of the latent ethical dimension in what they are taught. To help them, we think that they need to understand how models and metaphors structure and impact their worldviews. We describe how a simple in-class exercise encourages students to experience the way metaphors organize feelings, courses of action, and cognitive understandings. This is then intellectualized by way of Clifford Geertz's concept of culture and his model for the analysis of sacred symbols. From there we present a brief interpretation of modern economics as the embodiment of the dominant modern ethos. This leads into a consideration of ecology as a science, and to the environmental ethic embodied in Aldo Leopold's "Land Ethic." We close with a personal experience that highlights how environmental teaching can make students aware of the presence of an implicit, but unexamined, environmental ethic.
43809270|Our pragmatic, cooperative approach to teaching environmental ethics at California State University Monterey Bay nurtures students' moral development in both their public and private realms by putting into practice three principles. First, to propose what "we ought to do," students must first think deeply about what "I ought to do." Second, adequately justifying what "I ought to do" and what "we ought to do" requires that students acknowledge, understand, and respect differing perspectives. Third, a course that does not advocate for a particular environmental ethic enhances rather than inhibits students' moral development. This paper describes howand whywe have designed our course in accordance to these three principles.
43809271|This paper explores the conceptual links between the intellectual mastery of the content of a course on the ecological and economic aspects of environmental preservation, and the felt commitment to environmental preservation. I discuss the sense in which a practical ethics course is necessarily oriented to the adoption of a normative agenda, in this case to making recognition of environmental value part of the requirements of the course, and present some experience from my own university's seminar on environmental studies.
43809272|This paper describes our experience of teaching environmental ethics as part of a Philosophy of Conservation field trip to Rum, off the West coast of Scotland. The field trip was formalised into an M.A. Module in 1999. After outlining the educational aims of the module, and how these are implemented in this setting, we indicate some of the key issues in ethics and aesthetics that emerge as we explore two specific conservation sites. We close with a reflection on the value of experiential education in this area, and the importance of combining experiential, emotional and intellectual engagement in any exploration of normative issues.
43809273|In this paper, the authors retrace the philosophy and method of Natural Resources 407, "Religion, Ethics, and the Environment," which has been continuously taught at Cornell University by the lead author since 1974. The works of Iris Murdoch, Stanley Hauerwas, Reinhold Niebuhr, Joseph Sax, and Thomas Merton are discussed, culminating in an aesthetic vision of environmental ethics as "praise for all things." The course aims more to foster a general moral maturity rather than to instill any any particular set of environmental behaviors in students, and the authors believe that such an aim makes a lasting contribution to environmental ethics.
43809275|This paper uses the question, "what ethical issues inform our response to nonindigenous invasive species?" as a basis to explore human relationships to nature in the context of teaching environmental ethics. While ecologists express increasing concern about the introduction of non-indigenous invasive species (NIS), the public is sometimes unaware of, or ambivalent about, the problems they cause. I argue that this ambivalence stems from conceptual problemsabout human-nature relationships, about ethical conflict and about human behaviorthat can be addressed in a course on environmental ethics. Such a course can look at NIS in the context of different ethical traditions, and the different bases for action (or not) with regard to NIS that such ethical traditions imply. I suggest ways to use NIS as case studies in either a science course or an environmental ethics course, to introduce fundamental questions and to explore basic worldviews with respect to humans and nature.
43809276|Marquette University's new Interdisciplinary Minor in Environmental Ethics moves beyond a multidisciplinary approach to learning by integrating and applying the knowledge and skills acquired in ecology, natural resource economics, environmental philosophy, earth physics, and theology courses. The first two years of this interdisciplinary program provided an opportunity for faculty and students to experiment with collaborative methods in their individual courses, and culminated in a capstone seminar that focused on the ethical implications of electricity generation and use in the United States. From this experience, a more comprehensive approach to addressing environmental problems from an ethical perspective was developed, and more effective ways of teaching and learning were identified to improve the program.
43809277|This paper discusses the teaching of the Leopoldian Land Ethic in an environmental ethics class. The Leopoldian Land Ethic is arguably the most fully formulated and developed environmental ethic to date. Moreover, at least in North America, it is also the ethical reference point of choice for conservation workers both within and outside of government service, and thus it is particularly important that students who will pursue such careers are exposed to it. Although there are a number of ways to unpack the Land Ethic in a university environmental ethics classroom, and for more public audiences, this paper outlines one method that has been highly effective in both teaching settings over a long period of time.
43809278|This essay, a personal account of teaching environmental ethics, advances two main points. First, focusing on local environmental issues makes for better classes. Teachers can take advantage of local environmental expertise at their institutions and in the wider community; local focus provides a good balance given philosophy's tendency to abstractness; students tend to feel more engaged and excited about the class. Second, environmental ethics classes should spend more time helping students articulate their own ethical positions and showing them how to act upon them. In this way, our classes will better prepare and inspire students to do right by nature.
43809279|This paper is an account of a course called Philosophy and the Environment. The course responds to problems common in environmental education: that is, either leaving the audience unmoved, or, struck by the information and the analyses, but without emotional support or positive experiences, full of even more despair, cynicism and numbness than when they began. Many of us in higher education are seeking a different path, believing that it is possible to connect our bodies and our minds, our intellects and our emotions, our analytical intelligence and our spiritual hopes. Philosophy and the Environment attempts to do just this, providing a theoretical account of the crisis with an experience of its meaning.
43809280|This paper outlines an approach to teaching environmental ethics to non-specialist students. The use of a "problem-solving" approach to ethical dilemmas is advocated as the most suitable vehicle for addressing the needs of non-specialists. This approach commences with a consideration of the existence of ethical dilemmas and of the different values that can account for the problems being contested. The approach then addresses the various methods by which such dilemmas can be appreciated and understood if not completely solved, drawing not merely on environmental ethics work but on approaches in cognate areas.
43809297|The introduction to this special issue of Worldviews goes back to the first European encounters with the New World as a way of opening up a discussion about the nature of viewing animals. I argue that, just as the Europeans transformed this New World into a recognisable one in the sixteenth century, so too do we constantly transform the natural world that we view. The process of comprehension is offered as classification followed by observation, then representation, and all of these elements of our engagements with animals take place, I argue, in particular contexts: historical, geographical, cultural, intellectual. The critic "reading" animals, and reading human observations of animals must take these factors into consideration when thinking about the act of engagement.
43809298|Through analysis of the contending ways elephants have been imagined in a mid twentieth-century circus performance and in a mid nineteenth-century hunting narrative, this essay offers a critique of several basic assumptions behind John Berger's "Why Look at Animals?" The paper argues that studying how elephants have been described and used reveals particularly well the often quickly evolving nature of our understanding of animals and their significance in our lives, and concludes that our historical comprehension of the very terms of "animal" and "human" is often surprisingly complex.
43809299|Traditional academic discourse on animal death denies non-human animals an understanding of death based on an inability to have a "concept" of death. A different view has emerged within a rabbit rescue organization to which I belong called the House Rabbit Society. HRS members live closely with rabbits inside their homes and as a matter of practice place the body of a deceased rabbit with his or her surviving partner or group for "viewing." Observing rabbits in this context, HRS members grant to them the capacity to understand that a partner has undergone a permanent and catastrophic change. This conclusion is best understood within a larger discourse of rabbits shaped by three modes of viewing rabbits while they are alive: a rationalist approach, an emotionally engaged view, and an active suspension of interpretation.
43809300|This article is a close reading of John Berger's highly influential essay "Why look at animals?" and its implications for thinking about animals in modernity. Berger analyses the alienation of human and animal as a consequence of nineteenth-century capitalism, and contrasts it with an earlier period when human-animal relations were more integrated. Despite the power and simplicity of Berger's argument, which has been taken up uncritically by a number of writers, both his historical analysis and his conception of human-animal relations in modernity are highly problematic and need substantial revision. Furthermore, the consequences of his thesis paradoxically reinforce the very processes he is criticising. Inadequate notions of the place of animals in public visual culture, and a more general bias against visual imagery in favour of text-based notions of the animal, create obstacles to theorising human-animal relations and welfare related issues in the contemporary world. The article suggests other perspectives for understanding what it means to look at animals.
43809301|Animal exhibitions served as a crucial site in which Americans struggled to come to terms with their post-revolutionary society. This essay analyzes those debates over proper ways of seeing animals in the early republic that reveal an emerging distinction between legitimate and problematic displays of animals, between exhibitions of exotic creatures that provided "instructive amusement" and those animal acts that did not. While this distinction was, in actuality, seldom clear, this effort to define what types of animal exhibitions were acceptable both reflected and helped to produce the modern divide between humans as subjects and animals as objects. It also reveals other significant transformations in American culture, including the segmentation of American audiences, the division of culture into high and low, and the place of ideas about animals in defining the citizen and the nation.
43809302|In both academic and animal welfare circles, Disney's live action films 101 and 102 Dalmatians have been criticised as a commercial exploitation of the breed. From this perspective, it was widely held that the Dalmatian has been subject to over-breeding and abandonment as a direct result of these films, and that Disney should be held responsible for this abuse. I question these assumptions. I discuss the Hollywood animal image as a form of intellectual property and provide a detailed account of negotiations between Disney and Dalmatian breed associations in America and the UK. In response to critics who described the films as "an advertisement for the breed", I suggest that Disney's animal imagery should be seen as a more complex cultural and economic negotiation between filmmaker and audience, and conclude that our understanding of the commercial deployment of the Dalmatian image must be situated in a more nuanced account of the relationship between advertising and film.
43809303|Radio-telemetry is a relatively new technology that is having powerful impacts on the way wildlife is studied. With tens of thousands of new radio-telemetry units produced each year, to be placed on animals in the wild, it is a technology that is becoming increasingly pervasive. This paper begins by examining the way radiotelemetry has been adapted for the study of macaws in Latin America. The paper argues that as a form of surveillance and monitoring, radio-telemetry illustrates some ways in which Michel Foucaul's concepts of "biopower" and surveillance can be applied to the management of wildlife. Additionally, as the new technology creates a greater sense of distance between the "sign" of a creature and its actual reality, wild animals seem to become what Jean Baudrillard terms "simulations", in which they are increasingly signs of their own disappearanceboth as creatures and as species.
43809309|I examine the Presocratic thinker Empedocles' philosophical, poetic and religious worksPeri Phuseous (On Nature) and Katharmoi (Purifications)in terms of their orientations, attitudes and sensibilities toward the natural environment. Through the development of an ethical and material framework centered upon the four rhizomata (roots or elements) of earth, fire, air and water, Empedocles provides an early but important understanding of ideas and issues that remain ecologically relevant today, including conceptions of pollution, the treatment of nonhuman animals, descriptions of organic processes, and the speculative underpinnings of evolutionary theory. I suggest that we can reasonably view Empedocles as kind of shaman-naturalist who is keenly aware of and empathetic with the workings of the physical world even if he is not strictly an "ancient environmentalist". Finally, I point to the post-structuralist work of Deleuze and Guattari, where we can find a critical exploration of the kind of "roots" Empedocles identifies and a defense of the notion of "rhizomes" that enables us both to observe continuities with the Presocratic philosopher and to make creative or constructive links with our modern environment.
43809310|In this essay, I suggest that Nina Witoszek's semiotic dismantling of Arne Nss' philosophy of deep ecology is more than just an effort to situate Nss within the tradition of his native culture. Her sociological method, perhaps unwittingly, is hostile to the phenomenological possibility of what Nss calls "spontaneous experience". Because the "decoding" of deep ecology takes place in the context of a sign-functional nexus, deep ecology's most valuable asset, the possibility for intimate experience and identification with nature, becomes expropriated within the system of signs. In other words, the cerebral and theoretical force of semiotic analysis may block access to the profound understanding of nature to which Nss' philosophy is dedicated.
43809311|Where some religious environmentalisms deploy traditional concepts according to the practical needs of cosmology, usul al-fiqh (jurisprudence) envisions an alternative practical strategy for Islamic environmental ethics. Jurisprudence governs religious adaptations according to guiding principles designed to conform practical reason to the ongoing discovery of divine will. This article shows how those principles can function as mechanisms for normative change, and reviews their diagnostic capacity for evaluating various uses of Islamic resources.
43809312|A Sand County Almanac by Aldo Leopold is arguably the most influential text for the contemporary environmental movement. It is designed to entice readers to seek direct and sustained experience of nature and to structure that experience through the lens of ecology and evolutionary biology. Part I implicitly conveys the evolutionary-ecological worldview through descriptive prose; in Part II it is expressed in more abstract, conceptual terms; Part III explores its normative implications. The wisdom of this project is problematic. Environmental education in the form of worldview remediation should be encouraged at the post-secondary level of education, but should be complemented by an effort to express positive environmental attitudes and values in terms of popular, pre-scientific worldviewssuch as that of the Judeo-Christian-Islamic tradition.
43809313|Buddhist motivations for abstaining from meat-eating draw from a wide range of traditions. Theravada themes emphasize non-harming, Right Livelihood, and detachment; Mahayana themes highlight interdependence, Buddha-nature, and compassion; Tibetan themes consider rebirth implications for human-animal relationships. These and other contemporary themes overlap with traditional western arguments promoting vegetarianism based on animal welfare, personal and environmental health, world hunger, and ethical development. This paper surveys these themes, then discusses two studies based on survey data that indicate that western Buddhists and Buddhist centers have a wide variety of practices regarding meat-eating. The first survey reports on institutional food choice practices at western Buddhist centers. The second study reports on individual food practices among western Buddhists, with data on food choices and rationales for these choices. In both surveys, Buddhist principles interact with western arguments, leading to diverse decisions about what to eat. As interest in Buddhism grows in the west, Buddhist moral concerns regarding food could influence western food choices in a significant way.
43809321|The scholarly investigation of the convergences between Hindu traditions and the natural world is a relatively recent endeavor, having arisen in the wake of similar projects seeking to identify the intersections between religion, culture, and nature. Partly a response to present and looming environmental threats, this effort has resulted in a wide range of material, from a more general "environmental assessment" of the tradition(s) in question to specific inquiries about the social, economic, and demographic factors that impinge upon contemporary Indians' understandings of nature. This literature review provides an overview of these materials and should offer readers a sense of the topics that have received the most attention from scholars to date.
43809322|This paper surveys the recent literature available for the study of the interaction between religion and nature within indigenous Asian traditions. Anyone engaging in this course of study must consider work from a variety of scholarly fields and engage with debates concerning definitions of the term "indigenous" in different Asian contexts. While this article does not represent every indigenous group and tradition of Asia, it nonetheless attempts to identify valuable starting points in key regions. While a large amount of important work exists on the indigenous peoples of Asia, there remains a need for more work drawing together different disciplines and analyzing interactions between religion and nature. We hope that scholars from different fields will find this survey useful for further research on nature in indigenous Asian traditions.
43809323|This paper is a review of the scholarly conversation relating Buddhism to environmental issues, primarily in the United States. Topics of particular concern include important scholarly benchmarks in the field, and the nature of Buddhist ethics. Also considered are the relationships between Buddhism and other schools of thought that have been important in thinking about nature and the environment. In particular I focus on Deep Ecology and related philosophies, Buddhism and Christianity in Process thought, and the relationship between Buddhism and the natural sciences. I outline current practices performed worldwide by people who self-identify as Buddhists that clearly demonstrate environmental consciousness, sometimes actively participating in environmental movements in efforts to resist globalization and, often, Westernization. In the end, this survey perspective illustrates that there is no monolithic Buddhist tradition, but rather a substantial number of adapted (and adapting) Buddhisms.
43809324|The increasing degradation of the natural environment, and the associated dangers to all life on the planet, very well might represent the greatest challenge to humankind. In response to such projections of impending danger, scholars and activists from a variety of fields are in the midst of investigating cultural resources as a means to understand both how humans went wrong and how humans can amend the damage. Out of this inquiry has emerged a vast body of literature exploring the various intersections between Chinese traditions, such as Confucianism, Daoism, Feng-Shui and folk practice; and the natural environment, ecology, and environmental ethics. This paper is a survey of this literature, seen through the lens of religious studies and ecology. Rather than offer critical evaluation of the field, this essay is meant to offer a broad survey of the material presented in an accessible manner as a tool for those new to, but interested in pursuing, this field of study. This paper is, therefore a guide.
43809683|As a material substance, essential to every organic process, water literally constitutes human "being", providing a vital "natural symbol" of sociality and of human-environmental interdependence. Its particular qualities of fluidity and transmutability lend themselves to a stream of metaphors about flows and interconnections, and to ideas about spatio-temporal change and transformation. Moving constantly between internal and external environments, water facilitates scheme transfers between conceptual models of physiological, social and ecological processes. Representing "orderly" flows and balances in each of these, it is vulnerable to pollution at various levels, with concerns about material pollution readily transferred to ideas about social and cultural disorder. In particular, metaphors employing water imagery dominate discourses about individual and cultural identities and the maintenanceor dissolutionof social boundaries. Based on ethnographic research in Dorset, this paper explores these themes and considers how human engagements with waterin the home, and through interaction with rivers and water supply infrastructuremediate individual, familial and wider collective identities in a shifting cultural "fluidscape" of social, spatial, economic and political relationships. It suggests that, in a post-modern social milieu, images of water and identity vie with more grounded metaphors of landscape, place and location, assisting debates about the potential for fluidity in human constructions of identity.
43809684|Activities to do with the coastline and the aquatic environment such as fishing, boating and seaside holidays have been mainstays of the Cornish peninsula for generations. Building on this legacy of marine leisure, this paper explores both the fluidity and materiality of waves, tides and coastal seascapes through a metaphorical framework encompassing symbolic as well as literal issues of pollution and embodiment. It examines Cornwall's distinct surf culture with regard to concerns over the effects of sewage and other malignant discharges on public health and the quality of the seashore environment. Extreme water sports are an increasingly prominent factor in the formulation of Cornish identity. Hence, the paper outlines the ways in which certain environmental pressure groups, charity campaigners and corporate surf companies have become involved in attempts to safeguard the ecological sustainability of coastal leisure pursuits. It does so primarily through ethnographic case studies concerning Surfers Against Sewage, protest-art exhibitions and environmental campaigns. On the surface, the symbolism of fluidity and pollution may appear contradictory. But through an exploration of the materiality of waves, this paper illustrates the dialectical ways in which water and the sea relate to shifting local identities and to creative forms of extreme subversion.
43809685|Underwater spear gun fishing is the most popular fishing method used in indigenous inshore fishing in Palau, West Micronesia. Two major characteristics of this method are: first, the opportunity offered to fishermen to enter and experience another sphere of the seascape, the underwater world; and, second, the extreme physical challenge involved in the fishermen's constant bodily movement in and under the water. Fishermen skin-dive deep into coral reefs in order to shoot fish with hand-made spear-guns, swimming through the water swiftly to approach their targets. In this form of fishing, they experience the fluid nature of the underwater domain at the level of their skin, and move their bodies in accord with the visibility, auditory experience and the physicality of the particular environment. This paper argues that the fishermen's focus on bodily movement contributes to their constructions of masculinity, and culturally embodies the fluidity of underwater seascapes.
43809686|How do we come to know the places we inhabit? What do places mean to us? What associations do we make with them? As an ethnographer and outsider I have grown, in a small way, to know places at sea along the northwest coast of Hudson Bay. In this paper I explore my growth into that knowledge, and how the sea became transformed from a blank space to a place filled with memory and association. I compare my short experience with that of local Inuit, who make use of the sea on a daily basis. Where and how do Inuit learn about places at sea? And how important are those places in their use of and movement through their marine environment?
43809687|Aangu, Pitjantjatjara and Yankunytjatjara people living in the north-western areas of South Australia conceptualize changes in the surface of land as evincing the presence of ancestral power. Rain is one such catalyst of change, though it is by no means a certainty on the Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Lands. When it does appear, water does not stay long on the surface: it is shimmering and unstable. This paper examines the nature of various water sources in contemporary indigenous life, the spatial relationships between earth and sky and the dialectic between life and death that they mediate.
43809688|Water, like much else in the landscape of the New Forest, England, is highly contested. Recent major environmental works have changed the flow of water by adjusting river beds, slowing flows and holding up water in parts of the Forest. These changes are elaborated as reversing past interventions, restoring rivers and increasing environmental values. Under the rubric of conservation, some of the greatest physical changes in 150 years are taking place in the Forest. This paper traces how, since the early nineteenth century, ideas about water have shaped management interventions and dramatically changed the flow of water over the Forest landscape. The works have also given new impetus to arguments about the meaning and value of water, rights of access and the control of water resources in both economic terms and in terms of social status and identity. How value is assigned by small-holders and visitors to waterscapes is compared to that of the agencies managing the environment. A key cause for conflict is shown to lie in the different ways of measuring and constructing value, and in two forms of environmental expression.
43809329|This paper examines how Protestant beliefs can influence orientations to the natural and built environment. Sweden is taken as a test case for a critical evaluation of Richard Sennett's American-focused claims that Protestant-induced anxieties encourage moves to create bland, neutralised environments in which temptation and contact with distractingly different others can be minimised. The paper documents ways in which Swedish environmental orientations fail to fit with Sennett's account and elaborates how Protestantism has the potential to generate a wider range of outcomes than he recognises. It then suggests that variations in the impact the same religion may have produced in the Swedish and American context might be linked to cross-societal differences in the relation between the individual and the collective, and in the role of the state.
43809330|Attitudes toward nature were surveyed among male and female seminary students at three seminaries, all of which were located in West Michigan. Mixed methodologies were used in the study, including questionnaires, visualization, and content analysis of discussion transcripts. The seminaries represented theological traditions that were either "communal" or "individualistic" in their perceptions of society. Previous research has confirmed that individualistic, fundamentalist belief systems hold together in such a way as to lead to a utilitarian view of nature. Beyond this fundamentalist social group, environmental attitudes were much more complex. Gender differences were present but not substantial. The results of this study began to clarify the elusive concept of stewardship. The participants from the seminary who most closely reflected this position rejected the general concept of rights, whether for humans or nature, and held neither a utilitarian nor a biocentric view of nature. However, they believed that God's sustaining power was present in nature, and that the human community was embedded in nature.
43809331|Animal liberationists generally pay little attention to the suffering of animals in the wild, and it is arguable that this is a significant proportion of the total amount of animal suffering. We examine a range of different responses of animal liberationists to the issue of non-anthropogenic suffering, but find none of them entirely satisfactory. Responses that lead logically to the conclusion that anthropogenic suffering should be eliminated can apply equally logically to the suffering of animals in the wild. On the other hand, the solution of micro-managing habitats to prevent suffering is counter-intuitive, and on closer examination eliminates the intrinsic value of animals' lives. On balance, the approach that we favour is acceptance of the intrinsic value of individual animal lives, extending this from either individual human lives (as accepted predominantly by theists), or from biodiversity, species and ecosystems (as currently accepted by ecocentric philosophies). We also suggest that the combination of animal liberation and environmentalism only really makes sense in the context of a belief in the redeemable qualities of nature, as expressed in quasi-Hindu terms or in terms of some Biblical animal liberationist worldviews.
43809332|Rather than focus solely on traditional philosophical categories, as has often been the case in the discourse on Daoism and ecology, this paper explores the connections between a Daoist theory of practice, moving meditations of Daoist origin, and environmental resonance. Major themes explored include internalized action tradeoffs, preventative and integrated health awareness, alternative epistemologies, and an extemporaneous ethic sensitive to ecological change. It is suggested that collectively, Daoist cultivational practices may contribute toward social behaviour that is at least neutral, if not benevolent, toward the non-human world. Autoethnographic journal entries vivify the arguments presented. It is hoped that this practice oriented approach will not only reveal some overlooked connections between Daoism and ecology worthy of further study, but also appreciate the religious heritage of the Daoism to which such practices owe their naissance.
43809333|"Home" may be understood as an intangible concept separate from its material manifestationthe tangible place where one dwells, the house. However, this is not necessarily the way people experience the two concepts of "home" and "house". In daily life, both the experience of the tangible and the intangible dimensions of "home" may be inextricably linked. To explore how lived religion and spirituality relate to these dimensions, we engaged practicing Buddhists and Christians in dialogue about the role of their home in the practice of their faiths. Three major topics emerged from the interview process: clutter, nature, and people. The overlapping but distinct perspectives on these topics that the two groups of participants offer illustrate common dialectics that characterize the experience of "home".
43809340|This article argues that evolution is of particular importance to those working on religious responses to the ecological crisis, despite public opposition to evolution in some quarters. To take evolution seriously, the article maintains, effects a fundamental revolution in reference points for those working in religion. The article presents the basic tenets of evolution, with a brief discussion of creationism and Intelligent Design theory. A second section discusses how attending to evolution changes the manner in which the ecological crisis is interpreted and understood. A final section explores hazards arising from, and contributions of religious responses to, the ecological crisis in the light of the revolution of evolution.
43809341|The dominant neo-Darwinian theory of evolution locates the causes of evolutionary change in the random mutation of genes and in the environment. The animal organisms are viewed as passive in this process. However, there is a great deal of evidence that animal activity plays a large role in evolution. Some of this, no doubt, is random or even mechanically determined. However, there are good reasons to think that some of it is purposive and intelligent. Animals repeat successful actions and learn them from other members of the species. These actions may prove beneficial for survival; so genes that facilitate them are naturally selected. Animal action also changes the environment. Including human beings in an evolutionary development that is partly determined by intelligent and purposive behavior does not have the reductionistic and nihilistic implications of currently standard teaching about evolution.
43809342|Darwin's "dangerous idea" challenges religious trust in a providential God, that is, one who influences and eternally cares for the world. Our religious ancestors had no knowledge of biological evolution, although they were certainly aware of the suffering of humans and other living beings. Evolutionary science vastly extends the story of life and life's suffering (and creativity as well) beyond those of traditional theological awareness. In what sense, then, after Darwin, might the doctrine of divine providence still be credible, if at all? Is it perhaps possible that evolutionary portraits of life may open up fresh ways of thinking about divine providence?
43809343|The impact on ecological theology of green and postmodern critiques of science has led to disturbing parallels between the work of some Christian environmentalists and process theologians on the one hand, and the arguments of Intelligent Design (ID) proponents on the other. At the heart of these critiques is a rejection of mechanistic science and "neo-Darwinism". Both ID proponents and ecotheologians critique the disenchanted and reductionist worldview assumed to be central to neo-Darwinism. Both groups also redefine the traditional boundaries of scientific naturalism, presenting a form of biology that shows matter to be active and valuable, rather than dead and inert. This paper examines these parallels and argues for the possibility of enchanted and theistic interpretations of modern Darwinism without redefining naturalism.
43809344|Scientific literacy in evolutionary theory and scientific methods should be a required component of graduate theological education in the United States, so that pastors and theologians may participate constructively in contemporary debates about religion and evolution. Four areas of deficiency in theological education that should be addressed include the need to (1) reintegrate scientific literacy back into theological education; (2) integrate the history of science and particularly evolution into Christian and church history courses; (3) engage in serious theological encounter with evolution; (4) integrate science into Christian ethics. I suggest that the following texts provide helpful resources for this project: Eugenie Scott's Evolution and Creationism: An Introduction; Edward Larson's Evolution: The Remarkable History of a Scientific Theory; Ted Peters and Martinez Hewlitt's Evolution from Creation to New Creation: Conflict, Conversation, and Convergence; and the work of the Center for Process Studies and John Cobb, Jr in engaging process theology with evolution.
43809345|The opening Swahili phrase, meaning "Truly my kin", was uttered by Dian Fossey's guide when both encountered their first free-living gorilla. The theme of kinship, often deemed the ultimate in evolutionary connection and a privileged relationship recognized by all ethical systems, can be used to connect our species not only to primates and mammals, but to all life. But examples abound of religious leaders who have resisted this connection, denying that humans really belong in the categories "mammal" or "primate" or, perish the thought, "ape" or "animal". Less well known is that many religious and cultural traditions have recognized these connections in profound ways, thereby providing a religious horizon for the evolutionary point of view.
43809350|By the mid-1990s scholars of religion had begun to analyze the ideologies associated with global capitalism as a new, hegemonic world faith system, which some referred to as the Religion of the Market. Many have taken polemical positions, either arguing that it is a "false faith" which needs to be exposed, or that it is the appropriate faith for our times. Still others refuse to see global capitalism as a religion and reject the analytical paradigm altogether. This essay argues that describing the ideologies of global capitalism as the dominant faith system in the world today is indeed appropriate, and even necessary if one is fully to understand the role of religious belief and behavior in contemporary society. Moreover, since discussions of global capitalism as a faith system currently lack a coherent or widely recognized framework, adopting and refining the Religion of the Market paradigm will facilitate and improve future scholarly analysis of the faith dimensions of global economics.
43809351|In the developing world, environmental issues are often livelihood issues as the poor try to protect resources necessary for their subsistence. This paper examines the opposition of the Roman Catholic Church, on the Island of Mindanao, to neoliberal policies designed by the Philippine government to encourage nonferrous metals mining by multinational corporations. Mining is an activity with substantial potential for environmental degradation that can deprive the poor of their livelihood. The Church, demonstrating the influence of liberation theology and its preferential option for the poor, has taken a stance opposing mining as an activity that may harm the poor by degrading the environment upon which they depend for their livelihood and further impoverish them. The paper examines the Church's efforts to provide alternative development programs for the poor and discusses the potential for more conflict between neoliberalism, and its "top down" methods of implementing policies, and liberation theology with its "bottom up" perspective on achieving development.
43809352|John B. Cobb, Jr and his associates offer a critique of prevailing economic theory and practice in the hopes of contributing to the reformation of both by examining the meaning and relevance of the common good in the economic sphere. This paper examines Cobb's critique of economic theory and practice and his contribution toward an understanding of economic life that would do greater justice to environmental and communal sustainability. It also examines the contours of the new paradigm for economic theory and practice that he and Herman E. Daly propose. While that paradigm stands in need of greater elaboration, their work suggests a line of further development, one that anticipates Bernard Lonergans macroeconomic dynamics. The latter, I argue, accounts for Cobb's concerns and criticisms and provides a basis for the formulation of moral precepts that promote economic progress in ways consonant with a fuller vision of human flourishing.
43809353|This essay is an articulation of various contributions to anthropocosmic environmental ethicsan approach to environmental ethics emerging within the study of religion and ecology. In an anthropocosmic approach to environmental ethics, humans are intimately intertwined with the environment. Rather than placing value on a particular center (e.g., anthropocentric, biocentric, ecocentric) and thus excluding and marginalizing something of peripheral value, an anthropocosmic approach to ethics seeks to facilitate the mutual implication of humanity and the natural world, thereby affirming the interconnectedness and mutual constitution of central and peripheral value. Although the adjective "anthropocosmic" may seem obscure or vague, an examination of the genealogy of the term, beginning with its appearance in the works of Mircea Eliade, discloses numerous resources that have important contributions to make to the development of viable environmental ethics.
43809372|This article examines the Adamah (Earth) Fellowship, a multi-denominational Jewish, sustainable and organic farming program in Northwestern Connecticut. Using a micro-sociological framework, I present an analysis of how this group of young Jews is attempting to use religious language, text and ritual to create a meaningful relationship to nature. In this effort, individuals are self-reflective, picking, choosing and trying on various religious resources within but also outside of their traditions boundaries. In conclusion, I discuss the struggle participants have in feeling "held" by the religious world they are constructing. This article contributes to understanding the growing number of land-based religious projects seeking to recover or renew a religiously inspired relationship to the earth.
43809373|In a typical Ryukyu "Feng Shui" village, a forest belt, known as village Ho:go, was planted to curve in the front and extend to the east and the west to embrace the village along with preserved forest on the rear hill. Lines of Fukugi trees (Garcinia subelliptica) were planted to embrace the houses. Compared to the more symbolic existence of Feng Shui trees in China and other regions in East Asia, tree planting on a large scale was used as a practical means to repair defective topography with little protection from the strict natural condition on Ryukus flat islands. This study focuses on village layout, forest composition in the front forest belt, habitat embracing trees, and forest plantations on the back hill. Garcinia subelliptica and Calophyllum inophyllum are the predominant species in the upper storey in the forest belt. A large number of species are also found in the under storey vegetation in the preserved forest. Thus, a Ryukyu Feng Shui village landscape, which embodies a symbiosis of the nature and human intervention, provides an ideal village landscape pattern in the Ryukyu Islands.
43809374|This paper highlights the significance of embodied, non-representational knowledge for understanding nature as a process (rather than a state). It begins by discussing Alfred North Whiteheads "first philosophy", out of which arises his profoundly original process ontology. Working from this alternative ontology, the paper then extends these insights "up" to the realms of knowledge, practice, and the corporeal poetics of everyday life. In doing this, discussion centers on what the author refers to as an ecological politics of everyday life. The paper concludes by briefly discussing a case where such a politics of the flesh is already underway.
43809375|Biodiversity conservation strategies around the world have been criticized when the goals of international organizations clash with the needs and traditions of local people. While the characterization of global conservation initiatives as a clash between scientifically-informed environmental policies and indigenous knowledge may retain discursive value in explaining the interaction of contending epistemologies, it is nonetheless an over-simplification of a dynamic, complicated and sometimes opaque and contradictory process. This paper sheds light on some of the conservation programs in southwest China as a case where these seemingly distinct knowledge regimes lie not in stark contrast, but in fact coexist within a localized discourse on biological and cultural diversity. In the example of the sacred site tradition of northwest Yunnan, disparate knowledge regimes have been negotiated and reinterpreted at the local, and even individual level to form dynamic and unique motivations for a conservation ethic. In this negotiation of indigenous and global epistemologies, classic distinctions separating global and local interests prove erroneous, or at the very least, unnecessary.
43809384|This article argues the global environmental crisis shows the need for a broad, inclusive definition of sustainability. It shows how religious traditions can help contribute to broader definitions, and describes how work from the field of Religion and Ecology has developed resources. It argues that the next step for the study of Religion and Ecology is to address sustainability, and then proposes that the Earth Charter provides an orienting framework for that engagement of religion and sustainability.
43809385|Although sustainability is a growing concern of business today, there has been little progress toward a sustainable future. This is because the idea of sustainability in academic and policy debates is too small and too beholden to the assumptions that have created todays environmental and development crises. Consequently, calls for reform have neither the vision nor the authority to sustain the relationships of self, society, and environment that define human life. Reaching beyond our profession of business management to our Christian faith, we argue for a bigger idea of sustainability that orients these relationships to God. We identify sustainability with four principles of Christian theologywhich we label anthropic, regional, ethical, and divine loveand we link economic development with eight principles of Catholic social doctrinewhich the Church labels unity and meaning, common good, universal destination, subsidianty, participation, solidarity, social values, and love. This bigger idea of sustainability transforms talk about the future from a gloomy contentiousness rooted in fear to a bright cooperation rooted in hope.
43809386|I argue that the quest for sustainability in Western societies has been shaped by the secular religion of technology. Technological endeavor and moral reflection have been held apart in this quest, with the result that reformist and transformative approaches to sustainability often overlook articles of modern faith in technology. Instrumentalist appeals to eco-efficiency and environmentalist appeals to nature implicitly invest technology with transcendent significance. In response, I rely upon accounts of practical reason in outlining a secular strategy for constituting sustainability as practical moral endeavor. Characterizing this endeavor as faithfulness in the task of sustaining a good world, I suggest that skillful handling of the moral and ontological substance of technology is the very essence of sustainability.
43809387|Responding to the environmental crisis requires a fundamental transformation of world religions. In the concept of sustainability we find a change not only in religion's understanding of the value of the natural world and the need to alter its own ecological practices, but a possible awakening to the finite nature of humanincluding religiousexistence.
43809388|The rise of pragmatism in environmental ethics in the 1990s was driven by several factors, including dissatisfaction with the field's dominant nonanthropocentrism and the desire to increase the political and policy influence of environmental ethics. Yet despite an emphasis on human experience as the foundation of environmental values and action, environmental pragmatists have paid little attention to the religious dimensions of human-nature interactions. In this paper I attempt to address this neglect by exploring the religious thought of John Dewey, arguably the most significant pragmatist philosopher of the classical period. I suggest that Dewey's understanding of religiosityin particular, his concept of "natural piety"instructs us to respect nonhuman nature as a source of human imaginative experience and self-unification. Although Deweys naturalized approach to religious experience retains a broadly instrumentalist view toward nature, it is an instrumentality that supports a humble and appreciative attitude toward the environment and a sense of caution regarding the modification ornature for human purposes. I conclude by arguing that the recovery of Dewey's attitude of natural piety provides an important constraint on more aggressively anthropocentric approaches to human-nature relations, including those promoting sustainability as an alternative to traditional limits-based environmentalism.
43809389|This paper considers how theology confronts sustainability as a global problem, and what that confrontation can contribute to the challenge of global ethics. After reviewing major models of religious engagement with global ethics, I argue for an analogical conception in which Christian social practices generate moral patterns with the capacity to meet the integrative challenge of global ethics. Theological reflection on those practices then helps sustain the discourse of sustainability as an effective working concept.
43809390|Sacrifice in the Jewish, Hellenistic, and Christian traditions involves a giving up, a surrendering of something for the sake of a greater good. Sacrifice in times past took the form of a bloody offering. In Christianity this has been replaced with the Eucharist, which promotes human conscience and adherence to a moral code. Sacrifice in the ancient Vedic traditions of India entailed the offering of an animal or the symbolic offering of a human being that correlated bodily parts to functions of society and the cosmos. Sacrifice in India in rare instances still includes the killing of animals. Ritual throughout India, known as Puja, celebrates the body, the senses, and their connection with the physical world through offerings of fruits, flowers, incense, and other ritual objects. The contemporary challenge presented by the need to develop sustainable lifestyles can draw from both traditions of sacrifice. The Mediterranean model urges people to do with less for the sake of a greater good. The Indic model encourages people to recognize the web of relations among humans, nature, and animals and develop sensitivity to the need for the protection of the earth. Both models of sacrifice can serve as inspiration for the development of reasonable patterns for resource management.
43809391|The practice of ecological restoration is the attempt to repair ecosystems that have been damaged or degraded, most often by past human activities. Restoration includes everything from removing dams to planting native trees, grasses and wildflowers to bio-reactivating soil to controlling invasive plants to recontouring land. Beyond this, ecological restoration is the attempt to restore humans' relationship with nature. In the actual activities of restoring land, humans are in important ways restored to land. This paper argues that one of the ways in which restoration practice reconnects humans to nature is in a spiritual-moral sense. In addition to performing ecological work, restoration performs sacred work and serves as a form of public witness; and it can engender spiritual-moral experiences within participants. For these reasons, we can view restoration not only as a promising contemporary environmental practice, but also as a burgeoning public spiritual practice.
43809392|Using the resources of prophetic religion, and with special reference to the blighted city of Chester, Pennsylvania, I argue that lack of access to affordable, nutritious food is an environmental justice problem embedded within a host of other social and economic problems. A holistic analysis of the dysfunctional web that ties together seemingly disparate social pathologies can make sense of, and provide solutions for, the eco-crisis, including the food crisis, in urban communities today. I offer a case study of a grocery co-op in Chester as a successful experiment in sustainable food justice and participatory democracy that directly confronts the urban crisis, including the rising incidence of obesity and diabetes in underresourced communities. By avoiding a carbon-intensive food regime, the Co-op is a living parable of how local food choices can undergird the health of consumers along with the bio-systems that support this and future generations of humans, animals, and plants. I conclude that the powers of resurrection hope and biblical justice are compelling resources for combatting the mean-spirited politics of greed and power that drive the downward cycle of American cities today.
43809393|When China's economy began to grow in the 1980's, many people throughout the world, including many people in China, hoped that China might offer the world a unique model of development. Many Chinese carry this hope even today, and some among them are turning to Whiteheadian or process thought for guidance. Of course Whitehead is a Western philosopher, but they see in his ideas deep similarities with Chinese ways of thinking, enabling Chinese to articulate traditional points of view in a modern setting. With help from Whitehead they are developing what they call a "Constructively Postmodern" approach to China's future. This essay introduces this movement, its core ideas, and some of its key figures, linking them with the theme of religion and sustainability.
43803544|This article offers a conceptual map of soteriological discourse in the field of Christian ecotheology. On the basis of an adaptation of Gustaf Auln's famous analysis in Christus Victor of three types of atonement, the following three soteriological models are identified and made relevant for Christian ecotheology: a) God's victory over the forces of evil, death and destruction; b) Reconciliation amidst alienation; and c) Moral influence in the form of environmental policy making. It is proposed that these may be related on the basis of discerning the present consequences of human sin in the many forms of evil, the deepest (past) roots of such evil in human sin and the need to limit the future consequences of evil.
43803545|In his article in this volume, Ernst Conradie proposes a "conceptual map" for speaking about salvation based on the Reformed tradition. The present essay aims to provide some vistas of a terrain for which Conradie's "map" would be largely uninformative if not misleading. We outline the basic understanding of salvation according to the Orthodox Christian tradition, with particular reference to St Maximus the Confessor, emphasizing its essential cosmic dimension and commenting occasionally on Willis Jenkins recent treatment of the subject (Jenkins 2008). Following on from Conradie's discussion of soteriological metaphors, we briefly revisit some of these and other traditional images for the way in which Christ saves and the effects of his saving work, and reflect on their relevance for a response to environmental crises.
43803546|Ernst Conradie offers a reconstructed soteriology from the perspective of the Christian Reform tradition and within the context of the ecological crises of today, especially with reference to South Africa. This paper is a response to his invitation to read and address his reconstruction from various viewpoints. I offer some ecofeminist reflections on and critiques of the traditional images, especially those of Gustav Aulen, which Conradie employs. I suggest that an ecofeminist perspective might engage very different images that would try to avoid the oppressive baggage the traditional redemption images have carried for women. Images that suggest the strongly transgressive nature of the cross in Christianity may be a better route from an ecofeminist perspective.
43803547|This paper uses the example of African Christians known as Masowe Apostles to answer Ernst Conradie's questions about the construction of culturally appropriate soteriological concepts for saving the earth. It is argued that Masowe Apostles develop a soteriological concept that is comprehensible among Shona speaking people, and hundreds of other groups African people living with problems of global warming in sub-Sahara Africa. With God conceptualized as the giver of life in whom to place hope for saving the earth, Masowe Apostles lay for us foundational ideas for a distinctly African soteriology in an age of ecological destruction. Masowe Apostles highlight their need for salvation by worshipping God in a language that draws attention to nature, and by making it a point to pray outdoors, in the wilderness, close of barren soil, and sometimes unoccupied forests, mountains and rivers. This paper begins with a summary of the background to environmental degradation in Africa. It ends with a discussion on how to go beyond instilling and reinforcing ecotheological attitudes that Masowe Apostles show through what they express on a ritual plane to making the concept of the salvation of earth a way of promoting earthkeeping.
43803548|Reflections about liberation are embedded in contexts of suffering, both among human and other creatures. Opposite to the cynical postmodern who regards and dismantles every postulate about liberation as an ideological attempt to rule over others, salvation matters because there are those who are in the need of it. The essay presents, to begin with, two conceptual toolsthe three-step-scheme of soteriology, and Gustaf Auln's view of salvation as a drama. These flow into an exploration of the classical Eastern Trinitarian view of creation's liberation and a discussion about what this means for a contemporary ecumenical approach to an ecological theology of liberation in late modernity. Trinitarian soteriology understands the space of creation within time from the perspective of a movement from the old to the new creation. The drama of salvation takes place as a transfigurating drama of space and place and also of and within time. An ecologic re-reading of Gregory of Nazianz helps us to understand the liberation of creation such that nature, instead of moving from itself toward God, moves together with God in the Spirit toward its consummation in time. In Trinitarian terms: the triune GodSpirit, Son, and Fathermoves in qualitatively different but integrated and complementary ways in, through, and with creation. An ecological pneumatology of liberation thus focuses on God's movement within creation as expressed in the formula In the Spirit through the Son to the Father at the place where creatures are set free. Through the lens of soteriology the synergy of God and his/her creation appears as a plastic process in space and time, which involves space and time in itself as a subject of the Spirit's versatile synergy in order to set Creation free.
43803549|This article, in response to Willis Jenkins' Ecologies of Grace, explores the connections between Christian ecological practices and soteriology. How do ecological practices draw Christians closer to God? For Aquinas, human sanctification takes place through knowledge of Gods creation. Conversely, human knowing and loving of creation, enabled by grace, draws all creation together into closer relationship with God. For the sanctification of nonhumans, human intellect acts as a sort of funnel pointing from creation towards God. However, it is argued here that a better account of the human-nonhuman relationship and sanctification is that humans come to know the ecological peace and abundance of the Kingdom of God by witnessing to that peace and abundance here and now, by living in conformity with the interspecies peace, justice, and abundance of the Kingdom. Human sanctification occurs through the real, concrete activities of caring for God's creation.
43803550|A central perspective in this article is the relationship between pneumatology and the dogma of creation in Pannenberg's theology. In Pannenberg's view there is a parallel between the Biblical concept of the Spirit as moving power and nature's potential for transcendation. In short, this is Pannenberg's ecological dogma of creation. Secondly: The article shows subsequently the connection between incarnationin light of the Spirit this is thought of as creative noveltyand the specific nature of the creation. The keyword here is the freedom for self-renewal, contingency and regularity. The third perspective deals with the interaction between the created and the redemption of the creation, which Pannenberg finds his basis for in the Trinity. This conception of the Trinity makes both interruption and continuity possible. Within this lies renewed arguments for the early church dogma of recapitulation. Additionally: the hope of the fulfilment of the earth contains a motive for protecting it. This leads to the fourth and last perspective, which concerns the Spirit's liberation of the senses. This liberation also finds its grounds in the Trinity: When the grace which is in Christ renews the senses so the Creator's is seen and heard the Father and the Son and Spirit are glorified. This in its turn makes it possible to apprehend that when the earth is damaged, God is wounded.
43803551|Traditional theologies of salvation tend to focus largely, if not solely, on the human condition; but by means of a hermeneutic of suspicion, this paper seeks to widen that focus to include the creation itself. The paper holds the notion of covenant as foundational for an ecologically relevant soteriology, and following Bhlmann, argues that the primary covenant is the covenant of creation. The paper views creation from the perspective of suffering, and in that perceives Christ suffering beyond the cross. The paper goes on to argue that the doctrines of creation and redemption must be held together. That leads to the recognition of the kingdom of God in the teaching of Jesus as the basis of God's holistic new creation in the world. The paper concludes with some implications for eco-mission, and Moltmann's point that the heart of creation is the Sabbath, understood as a transformation of encounter and a renewal of covenant.
43803552|A theology of redemption for today will be one that communicates the meaning of the Christ-event in a way that is faithful to the central Christian tradition and that is coherent and life-giving for believers in the twenty-first century. It will be a theology that includes the biological world as well as the world of matter. This article works towards such a theology in three steps. It first discusses the Christevent in biblical terms focussing on Romans 8. It then turns to two figures in the Greek patristic tradition, Athanasius and Maximus the Confessor. Finally it sketches a theology of redemption for today in terms of the notion of deifying transformation. Three levels of this transformation are explored, namely that of human beings, the biological world, and the material universe, along with its participatory nature.
43799347|Kenneth Rexroth was a poet and cultural critic who developed a complex organic worldview. Influenced by both Christian and Buddhist metaphysics, he presented the world as dynamic and interrelated, with the sacred wholly immanent in phenomenal reality. He strongly criticized capitalism and the nation state, and he praised anarchists who resisted centralized power. His ideal was communitarian anarchism characterized by a feeling of unlimited responsibility for all. However, he eventually lost revolutionary hope, and his later poetry focused on mystical moments in communion with nature.
43799348|Can there be genuine and lasting ecological renewal without a deep expression of grief and mourning for all that is being lost? This easy draws upon the work of Alexander and Margarete Mitscherlich, W.G. Sebald, Aldo Leopold, as well as the tradition of ancient Christian monasticism, to argue for the significance of mourning for long-term spiritual, social and ecological renewal. Genuine openness to what the ancient monks called 'the gift of tears,'a deep piercing of the heart that creates a new sense of relationship with the wholecan help us recover a feeling for and commitment to the natural world.
43799349|Though the Christian observance of Sabbath-keeping has been inconsistent throughout history, the concept has become popular in devotional literature. This paper argues that because of three characteristics of Sabbath-keepingan altered, theocentric perspective, a slower, simpler style of living, and an eschatological encounterit may be a useful "tool" for more environmentally sensitive modes of living. Observing the Sabbath reminds Christians to view Creation as God did while resting on the seventh day in Genesis; it prompts a simplification that often has environmentally salutary effects in its lessened consumption; and it draws Christians into a shared vision of a redeemed, healed creation. The paper draws on insights from Jrgen Moltmann, Abraham Joshua Heschel, John Paul II, Seventh-day Adventists and Sabbath Economics thinkers (including Wendell Berry, Marva J. Dawn, Ched Myers, Norman Wirzba, and Richard Lowery).
43799350|The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's report, Climate Change 2007: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability, outlines the risks that climate change is and will continue to bring to human and ecological communities across the globe. The report suggests it will be the global poor who will face the most devastating effects of global climate change. In light of this report, this paper will endeavor to articulate an understanding of who the global poor are today and how they are increasingly marginalized and disaffected by a warming climate. It will then identify and look to the experience of one Christian community's contextual response to the current suffering of the poor in order to identify the theological principles being lived out in the praxis of the community. After these principles are identified, the paper will evaluate them for appropriation in a theological ethic that can serve as further inspiration for continued and future faith-filled responses to the emerging challenges of climate change on marginalized communities.
43799351|The environmental degradation and social dislocations caused by industrial agriculture have created an urgency to rethink food production and consumption. The proliferation of farmers markets is one example of the public response to perceived problems with the existing food system, however the bewildering array of food choices suggest a need for new guidelines for food and agriculture. This paper asks how expanding the moral imagination through narrative can help us rethink human behavior in the context of agricultural practice. Agriculture is an inherently relational, and rethinking practice means revisiting metaphors and narratives that guide behavior in the biotic community. I use a Hindu agricultural narrative to think through existing practices and the narratives contexts. This story does not romanticize human relations with nature, but instead reflects power dynamics in human (and particularly gendered) relationships, and, more important, in human interactions in the biotic community. My analysis considers relevant tropes and themes, e.g. citizenship and community, so that we can ask "what stories about agriculture do we tell ourselves?" and "what stories might we be telling?" to address the current agrarian crises.
43809438|As a theologian seeking to evaluate the meaning of "nature" or the "natural"especially as contained in the problematic term "natural evils"I will turn predominantly to an anthropologist-poet (Loren Eiseley), a professor of evolutionary biology (Jared Diamond), and a geomorphologist (David Montgomery). Ultimately, I will assess the value of creation and the question of responsibility in light of the staggering and senseless loss of so much life. I contend that theists will find unexpected allies in historical and anthropological works that examine how human action (and inaction) causes or exacerbates much of the destruction "natural" disasters unleash. Questions to investigate include: (1) How responsible are humans for the suffering inflicted by "natural" disasters? (2) If human beings are not solely culpable for such affliction, how should this impact a theist's faith position and the value of creation? (3) How can the findings and analysis of the scientists consulted in this article support a Levinasian priority of the ethical and liberation theologians' option for the poor? (4) How can a pluralized, ambiguous interpretation of the natural spur a deeper sense of eco-responsibility? (5) Which theological approach is best able to respond to the reality of our depleted and ravaged biosphere?
43809439|On June 1 2009 Fr Thomas Berry passed away at his home in Greensboro N.C. In his final book before passing, Berry challenged human society to a carry out a transition from a period of human devastation of the Earth to a period when humans would be present to the planet in a mutually beneficial manner. This 'Great Work' encompassed religion, education, science and law. In this paper I will address Berry's argument that our current legal system supports the destruction of the environment and outline two ideas he put forward for evolving law. The first idea recognises that human law operates within and should be bound by the overarching laws of the natural world. From this perspective, the laws ornature are primary and human law would receive its legal quality and authority from its conformity with this law. The second proposal was to recognise that the earth consists of subjects, not objects and that all subjects are capable of holding rights. I will consider this argument in the context of two recent enactments of rights for nature' legislation in municipalities in the United States and in the constitution of Ecuador.
43809440|High mountains in back and facing the sea is an ideal Feng Shui village landscape in Okinawa. Such a location is perfect for semi-agricultural and semi-fishing production. When and how a Feng Shui village came into being is still a myth to the historians. The only complete records of Feng Shui village inspections of Inamine and its close neighbor, Makija hamlets, by Feng Shui masters from 1857 to 1888 exist there. These items of literature allow us to have a rough look at Feng Shui layout in then early-modern Ryukyu. On basis of Feng Shui diaries and remnant huge Fukugi trees, this study aims to clarify the settlement and the development process of Feng Shui village landscape in Okinawa. Tree planting has been highlighted in these Feng Shui diaries. Utakis, the local sacred places usually covered with lush forests, are the primary concern of village Feng Shui. Dense forests were required to be planted on the Feng Shui sites, a spot or an area of significance to the whole village Feng Shui. Tree planting around the houses, along the coastline, and even along rivers has effectively protected the village houses and paddy fields from strong winds. All remnant huge Fukugi trees older than 200 years were found in Muranaha, the hamlet center and also the oldest part of Inamine hamlet. About 14 big trees were standing in village Ho:go, among which 13 were on the coastline. Ho:go is a particular Feng Shui word in Okinawa, literally means embraced protection. Ho:go is also used to refer to forest belts that surround a house, a village or coastline. It is assumed that Ho:go might have been recommended by the central government around 1737-1750 in Okinawa. The biggest tree found in Inamine is estimated to be around 298 years old. From the remnant trees, a number of houses in Inamine might have existed early to 300 years ago. It might have been considered as an administrative hamlet by the central government around 1751, with the planting of village Ho:go. The oldest houses were first built in the center and, with the population increase, later spread to the surrounding areas.
43809441|Ecological science has at one time or another deemed nature a machine, an organism, a community, or a system. These metaphors do not refer to any metaphysical entity, but are useful fictions in terms of how they reflect the beliefs and values held by members of a scientific and cultural community. First I trace the history of ecological metaphors from the metaphysical and cultural perspectives. Then I document a gradual transition from a belief in structural natural order to a belief in conceptual natural order. Finally, I conclude by arguing that the metaphysical allegiances of ecological theories have largely been shaped by aesthetic considerations.
43809442|This qualitative research examined participants in environment-related projects in Miami, Florida, who were Black churchgoers driven by a sense of spirituality and stewardship. An examination of interviews and participant observations demonstrated that participants were strongly influenced by a shared concept of "beauty" in nature. This use of the word and concept of "beauty" to refer to nature was connected both to Black history and religion in inspiring participants' actions and attitudes toward environmental preservation. This emphasis on "beauty" as it relates to nature was independent from, yet quite similar to, the idea and language of spiritual "beauty" displayed in the writings of early U.S. conservationist John Muir. These similarities suggest commonalities where sometimes only division is perceived, and underscore the importance and applicability of interconnectedness in the contemporary environmental protection movement.
43809445|Since the 1960s, many have sought the solutions to North Americas ecological crisis in the environmental teachings of Native American peoples. However, for the most part, Native American environmental values have not been investigated in light of the cultural contexts within which they arose. This paper draws on previously published ethnographic work among the Koyukon of interior Alaska and the Hopi of the desert Southwest to elucidate the specific environmental ethics that these two peoples have developed. Based on this contextualized evidence, augmented with teachings from the environmental ethics of other Native American peoples, I then discuss what other Americans can and cannot learn from Native American environmental ethics. Finally, I suggest alternate sources upon which non-indigenous Americans might draw to develop their own traditions of caring about and for the lands they now share with Native peoples.
43809446|Confronted with a looming ecological crisis, calls are intensifying for modern China to rekindle its ancient naturalistic worldview. My paper explores the practical implications of these exhortations, namely, the requisite actions to transform contemporary Chinese into citizenry committed to sustainable living. Two trademarks of the traditional Chinese moral enterprise will be elaborated. The first is the doctrine of concentric circle. I will explain that the Confucian strategy to fulfill humankinds universal obligation is to begin with rectifying the self, the local community and extending incrementally towards the embracing of all things. The process to heal natures wounds henceforth must similarly commence with disciplined self-cultivation anchored in the nuclear family. The second is ancestral worship, which I plan to argue has efficacy in strengthening peoples resolve to subsist sacrificially for the sake of their descendents. As a platform to venerate the dead, this ritual also serves as conduit to a spiritual realm that awakens the living and reinforces our bond to the future generation.
43809447|The focus of this paper is twofold. The main part is dedicated to an exploration of a possible foundation for a notion of "immanent transcendence" in environmental philosophy. As a foil to constructivist and relativist positions on "nature" as human creation/projection, I discuss nature as a self-emerging process larger thanhence transcendent ofus that is not linked to the supernatural (either religious transcendent power or "higher" metaphysical reality), by considering and building on a phenomenological account of the lived experience of nature, including an acknowledgment of the otherness of nature. This basis of an "immanent transcendence," though distinct from religious transcendence, might nonetheless be categorized as a form of spirituality, and can be linked to the emergent "spiritual, but not religious" selfidentification. In the final part, having established this framework, I consider its feasibility as a basis for environmental action and ethics.
