42906025|Clypeaster anstralasiae is recorded for the first time from New Zealand. The species Holopneustes inflatus and Centrostephanus rodgersii, though reported from New Zealand over fifty years ago, were subsequently deleted from the faunal list for lack of reliable evidence. Accurate localities are now given for specimens taken alive, and also for other material in unmacerated condition, with adherent spines and pedicellariae. The new evidence invalidates the theory recently proposed by H. L. Clark (1946) that New Zealand records of Holopneustes inflatus are attributable to dead material of Australian origin which has drifted across the Tasman Sea on floating kelp. All three species must be recognized as true members of the New Zealand fauna. Since two of them are also known from Lord Howe Island, their geographical range probably corresponds to the shallow water boundaries of the Tasman basin on its western, northern and eastern margins.
42906026|A distributional survey, with map, of the Paryphanta lignaria group of subspecies, from Buller County, West Coast, New Zealand. Hybrid colonies resultant from river floods, attributable in two instances, to the Mokhinui River flood following the 1929 Murchison Earthquake. Evidence on speciation in support of Mayr's views on hybrid populations. New species and subspecies of Paryphanta (4), Rhytida (2), and Schizoglossa (2).
42906027|Two new species of decapod crustacea trawled in northern New Zealand waters. They are Scyllarus aoteanus n. sp. nearest allied to the Tasmanian mawsoni Bage and Ctcnocheles maorianus n. sp. which resembles collini Ward from South Queensland. Both genera are new additions to the New Zealand fauna. The paper concludes with a number of Bay of Plenty deep water records of the crab Lyreidus tridentatus.
42906029|The discovery near Warkworth, in the North Auckland district, of eggs and intracapsular embryos of Leiopelma hochstetteri Fitzinger, 1861, is described, the development of this species proving to be of the direct type already known in Leiopelma archeyi Turbott, 1942. The eggs were found in holes beneath water-logged clay. The environment of adult and developmental stages of Leiopelma hochstetteri and Leiopelma archeyi is discussed briefly with reference to speciation.
42906030|Four occurrences of the Weddell seal in New Zealand are recorded, all in winter or early spring. A summary of these and several records from other localities is given, indicating that young animals in their first year have a marked tendency to appear as strays.
42906031|The effect on the vegetation of hot lava and ash associated with the recent eruption of Ngauruhoe, and a description of the plant community in the vicinity of the new deposits. A rare opportunity is presented for subsequent recording of plant colonization of virgin ground.
42906032|An eruption of the andesite volcano Ngauruhoe took place during February, 1949. A number of hot avalanches were discharged in the early stages; this phase was succeeded by the emission of a lava flow 2,000 yards long, and the eruption concluded with a period of explosive ash-production such as has formed the only manifestation of activity previously observed. This paper describes the early part of the eruption and, in particular, the phenomena connected with the lava flow, which was the first to be observed in New Zealand. A map of the flow is presented and the petrography of the lava is briefly discussed.
42906038|A revision of the marine Chlorophyceae of New Zealand has involved a study of the plant which has previously been distributed as Micradictyon umbilicatum (Velley) Zanard. It soon became evident that the New Zealand species was not identical with M. umbilicatum, and was sufficiently different to merit the rank of a new species. A description of this species follows, together with a discussion of its affinities.
42906039|The Miridae of New Zealand are poorly known, only thirteen species having been recorded, of which three, or possibly four, are introduced. This paper adds six species, four of them new and two introduced. It is hoped to deal with other members of the family in later papers. The Miridae comprise one of the largest families of the Heteroptera, and it seems likely that many more species remain to be described, although, as is the case with most other families of this sub-order, the total will probably prove low in comparison with that in other regions of similar area.
42906042|Basic pillow lavas, submarine keratophyres and associated sediments (late Palaeozoic or early Mesozoic) are overlain unconformably by breccia, conglomerate and sandstone (perhaps upper Cretaceous). Folding about east-west axes has bent these sediments vertical. After the folding, tear faults striking north-west have displaced the country north-east of the fractures north-westwards at least 2 miles. With this movement, a dyke-like mass of basic and intermediate plutonic rocks was intruded along the plane of weakness for over 70 miles, from North Gape to south of Whangaroa Harbour. There is a marine terrace just over 100ft. above sea level and one at 50ft.
42906043|A native snail, Austrosuccinea archcyi, first discovered in consolidated sand of post-Pleistocene age at Doubtless Bay, Northland, is now shown to be a still living species on coastal dunes, with a range from Spirits Bay to Mount Maunganui and as a fossil to as far south as Cape Kidnappers. This snail is found to have an annual cycle which correlates with rainfall. The extremely specialised habitat and narrow tolerance of these snails makes the foosil occurrences useful indicators of past xerophytic phases in respect to post-Pleistocene climate.
42906044|A hard-bottom fauna from off the Continental shelf of Eastern Otago is named the Chlamys delicatula-Fusitriton community. It is compared with a similar North West American hard bottom community. The following new species of mollusca are described: Venustas blacki, Pachymclon (Palomclon) smithi, and Panopea smithae; also a new Pliocene ancestor to the latter, Panopea wanganuica.
42906052|The anatomy of Succinea (Austrosuccinea) archeyi Powell is described and compared with some of the features of other members of the group. The geo graphical range of Succinea s.s., Oxyloma, Quickella, and Austrosuccinea is discussed.
42906054|This paper is supplementary to my 1947 "Distribution of Placostylus Land Snails in Northernmost New Zealand." Further field work has resulted in the discovery of more living colonies and a number of additional subfossil sites. The primary purpose of this paper is to describe sixteen new subspecies. On the completion of the field work it is proposed to publish a distributional map and to discuss more fully the significance of the distributional pattern.
42906058|Molluscan and plant fossils collected from Albatross Point, Kawhia, indicate that the Mesozoic rocks of the area, previously regarded as Triassic, are not older than mid-Jurassic. The presence of a major fault is suggested to explain the absence, west of Arawi Point, of 10,000 feet of Upper Triassic and Lower Jurassic strata.
42906064|Microfaunal evidence indicates that the Torehine Beds of Coromandel Peninsula are Waitakian-Duntroonian in age. This determination assists in limiting the age of the First Period Volcanics of the area.
42906066|Attention is drawn to certain recent papers describing new techniques for the study of variation in plants. One of these techniques, the pictorialized scatter diagram is illustrated, using specimens of Metrosideros spp. from a known hybrid swarm on Rangitoto Island, and the results from an ordinary herbarium collection and two mass collections are contrasted.
42906067|An adult  Chelisoches morio (Fabricius) is recorded from Pitcairn Island, S.E. Pacific Ocean. This is a new locality for the species and the first earwig record from the island.
42906068|Twenty-five species of Heteroptera are now known to occur on the Three Kings. Species found also both on the mainland of New Zealand and overseas arePentatomidae: Cuspicona simplex Walker; Cydnidae: Philapodemus australis (Erichson); Lygaeidae: Pachybrachius nigriceps (Dallas); Reduviidae: Empicoris rubromaculatus. (Blackburn); Nabidae: Nabis capsiformis Germar: Miridae: Megaloceroea renteriana Buch. White, Enrystylus australis Poppius, Coridromius variegatus (Montrouzier); Veliidae: Microvelia halei Esaki. Species known only from New Zealand (Maorian sub-region)Lygaeidae: Nysius huttoni Buch. White, Rhypodes claviconis (F.) (showing some local variation), Targarema staali Buch. White, Taphropeltus putoni (Buch. White), Cymus novaezelandiae sp. nov.; Nabidae: Nabis. maoricus Walker; Miridae: Calocoris laticinctus (Walker); Sthenarus myersi Woodward. Forms not recorded outside the Three KingsPentatomidae: Cermatulus nasalis turbotti Woodward; Lygaeidae: Tomocoris insularis Woodward. In addition, one species of Anthocorid and one Aradid have been sent to specialists for determination, and there have been noted one apparently endemic species of Sthenarus and three species of Lygus, of which one is not known from the mainland. Cymus novaezelandiae sp. nov. and the nymphs of Cermatulus nasalis turbotti are described. Information is given on local variation in rostral length of Rhypodes clavicornis.
42906071|Thirteen counts of land-birds on a ten-acre square quadrat on Great Island, Three Kings group, between January 2nd and 8th, 1953, gave an average of 62 birds per count (58% were bellbirds). Different weather conditions, observer-error, time of day and bird movements caused the counts to vary between 39 and 90 birds, the larger counts being characterised by a higher proportion of sight records. Although bird density varied in different parts of the quadrat, the species retained their relative order of abundance which was similar to that in other parts of the island. The breeding population was assessed at 28 pairs (11 species). Part II contains miscellaneous observations on the breeding and feeding habits of 22 species of land and sea birds, with special reference to the effect of vegetation changes which followed the removal of wild goats in 1946. The increased ground cover provides more quail food,, but reduces the area inhabited by pipits and restricts the extent of gull colonies. Conditions are improved for burrowing petrels, except where the vegetation is especially dense.
42906073|The paper records the occurrence and optical properties of the rare mineral babingtonite in spilite. Comparison is made with other parageneses of this mineral.
42906075|Over 3,000 specimens from 150 localities in the North Island of New Zealand were used in this taxonomic and distributional survey. There are two groups of species in Liarea, one with a simple suture and the other with a margined suture. A feature of the simple sutured group is the hydrophanous epidermal pattern, which varies with the age of the individual and is best developed under conditions of maximum alternation of wetting and drying. Two new species and five new subspecies are described.
42906076|Measurements of specimens from two populations of Hebe have been plotted in pictorialized scatter diagrams. The diagrams support the existing taxonomic arrangement. The value of such diagrams for the recognition of taxa, for the illumination of relationships, and for the illustration of variation is stressed.
42906471|Evidence is presented for the occurrence of two epochs of compression in northern North Auckland Peninsula since the Middle Tertiary, in the first of which the pressure was directed from north and south, while in the second it was from east and west. East-west fold axes due to north-south compression are important in the region north of the Bay of Islands. A later system of tear faults extends from North Cape to the west head of Whangaroa Bay, coinciding with the belt of intrusion and mineralization recognised long ago by Hector, and is thought to be related to compressive force from east and west. Such successive foldings at right angles have already been indicated by Lillie in other parts of New Zealand, particularly as an alternative to Macpherson's supposed swinging strike in the Waiapu district. The idea that fold axes strike north-west in the Far North is not confirmed, except in so far as the whole New Zealand Ridge may represent a geanticline.
42906087|Descriptions are given of the vegetation of North-East I., South-West I., and West I. together with a table which compares their vascular floras with that of Great I. The natural climax throughout the Group is considered to have been a mixed coastal forest rich in small tree species. These were overtopped by an emergent stratum of Metrosideros excelsa wherever the terrain was favourable to its persistence by vegetative propagation. This forest is only preserved today on West I. The other three islands are considered to have been completely deforested by Maori settlers, and to exhibit at present stages of a sere in which Meryta sinclairii tends to form a persistent subclimax because of the scarcity of seed trees of the climax species.
42906088|Hybrid indices have been prepared for samples of pohutukawa (M. excelsa) and Rata (M. robusta) from seven localities and are compared with indices for herbarium collections. It is suggested that variation in the samples is due to introgressive hybridization. The importance of recent volcanic activity, as well as mari and his animals in clearing the land and providing new habitats for plant hybrids, is stressed.
42906089|Observations on flowers, fruit, seed, and germination of T. speciosa are recorded. The fruit has not been described previously.
42906090|A new species of Brachylabis Dohrn, 1864 from the Three Kings Islands is described. There is some variation in specimens of Anisolabis littorea (White) 1846 from the Islands by comparison with mainland material. An adult  cannot be placed within the genus Anisolabis Fieber, 1853. The problem of the isolation of the Three Kings Islands is discussed briefly.
42906091|This collection is largely the C. E. Clarke collection which was presented to the Museum in 1929. Specimens have been collected from various parts of New Zealand, but mostly in the south. From 121 specimens listed, 2 new genera and 12 new species are described. Except for Helicophidae, all families hitherto recorded for New Zealand are represented. The presence of lateral abdominal processes is recorded for the Tribe Oeconesini (Family Serieostomatidae) . The Family Beraeidae is extended to include Allaecentrella n.g. in which a discoidal cell is present in the anterior wing. In Neobiosella n.g. (Family Philopotamidat) apical fork 1 is absent from both anterior and posterior wings : this is a new character for this family. The sub-family Ecnominae (Family Psychomyidae) and the genus Ecnomina Kimmins are recorded in New Zealand for the first time.
42906092|The material upon which this paper is based was dredged by the Royal Danish Research Ship Galathea in shallow water, 58-85 metres off Raoul or Sunday Island, Kermadecs, on March 3rd, 1952. The paper contains descriptions of two new genera, a new subgenus, fourteen new species, two new subspecies, records of four described species new to the fauna and three revised identifications of previous records. The Kermadecs are subtropical, marginal only to the Indo-Pacific Region and their molluscan fauna is a mixture of Indo-Pacific, East Australian, Norfolk Island and New Zealand elements. The present paper increases the Indo-Pacific and East Australian percentages. Nanism is apparent in several pelecypod species which normally reach much greater size in the warmer waters of the Indo-Pacific proper.
42906102|Variation in isolated plants of Tecomanthe speciosa W. R. B. Oliv. reflects environmental conditions. Two seedlings show more vigour than cuttings grown under similar conditions.
42906103|A new genus is erected for two Pycnocentrodes species (Family Sericostomatidae). One new species of Hydropsyche (Family Hydropsychidae) and two of Polyplectropus (Family Polycentropodidae) are described and a new synonymy in the latter genus is recorded.
42906105|The topography and vegetation of Hen Island are briefly described. Some indication is given of the difficulties involved in determination of New Zealand beetles. Systematic, distributional and ecological notes, where relevant, are included under the name of each species in the species list. Geographical distribution is discussed and it is concluded that fairly widespread common species predominate. The relationships of the fauna appear to be with that of the mainland opposite. The origin of the fauna is discussed and it is concluded that there have been several immigrations from the mainland during low sea-levels of the Pleistocene. The water barrier is apparently not sufficient to prevent active or passive migration of most species across it. This results in many cases in a continuous flow of genes from the mainland populations, preventing divergence of the island populations. Some island populations of wingless species appear to have diverged slightly. Hen Island is of value as a sanctuary in that it provides natural habitats for rare species of animals which may become extinct on the mainland.
42906110|In this part two new species of New Zealand mollusca are described, Maurea turnerarum and Exomilopsis hipkinsi, the latter as type of a new genus. Two other species, Limdatys reliquus Iredale, 1936 a, nd Xenophalium (Xenogalea) thomsoni (Brazier, 1875) make new records for the New Zealand fauna. Still another record of an exotic species, Tenpetasus liberatus (Pease, 1868), requires confirmation before admittance as a true member of the fauna. The remainder of the paper deals with other New Zealand records of exotic species, most without legitimate claim for inclusion in the New Zealand fauna and finally two items concerning rectifications of nomenclature.
42906115|A new family, the Eatoniellidae is proposed and 23 new species, 5 new subgenera and 3 new genera are described. Classification of the 43 New Zealand species has been based, where possible, on a combination of the morphology of the shell, the operculum, the radula and the exposed animal.
42906116|The thirty recent New Zealand species previously classified in the genus Notosetia are reviewed. The revised classification of these species is based on a study of the animal, operculum and radula. The species are regrouped in three families and nine genera and subgenera. Five new species, three new genera, three new suibgenera, and one new subfamily are described.
42906117|The genus Estea Iredale is described and the recent and fossil New Zealand species are reviewed. Details of the radulae, opercula, penes, and external appearances of the animals of several species are given. A new subgenus is created for Estea angustata Powell; several species are synonymised, and two new species are described. Five species previously included in the genus are excluded.
42906118|In this part five new species and five genera new to the New Zealand Recent fauna are described or recorded; a surprise item is a new species of the Mediterranean architectonicid genus Gyriscus. Of special note is the great increase of the subtropical element, represented by the recording of the first New Zealand Recent occurrence of a true cypraeid, a large porcellanous Polinices and the subtropical or tropical Annaperenna verrucosa, Pomiscala perplexa, Bulla (Quibulla) subtropicaMs n.sp. and Atys naucum. The large North Queensland Latirus gibbulus, recorded on the basis of one empty shell is noted but further records are required before this exotic species can be admitted as a natural occurrence in the New Zealand fauna.
42906120|The occurrence of naturally fertilized fruits, and the establishment of seedlings under a parent vine, are recorded.
42906121|The discovery of Ipomoea pes-caprae (L.) Sweet on Ninety Mile Beach adds a tropical shore convolvulus to the naturalized flora of the North Island of New Zealand.
42906122|New maps are presented for the quadrats established in 1946 when goats were exterminated on the island The composition of the canopy on the two forested quadrats is now changing, mainly through additions of Melicytus rami-florus and Meryta sinclairii. A shrubbery of Leptospermum ericoides covers most of the quadrat that was laid down in grassland. Much of the island is less altered than the quadrats, so that Leptospermum ericoides still regenerates in some small forest windthrows, but there is widespread suppression of this and other arborescent species by the shrub Coprosma rhamnoides or by dense herbage.
42906123|In this part twelve species are added to the New Zealand Recent fauna, and of these, three are new species, and ten are representative of genera not previously known in this faunal areathey are Casmaria, Dolabrifera, Fusinus, Liniaxis, Lyncina, Morula, Proxicharonia, Pteropurpura, Semele and Tutufa. All of the new additions are of tropical or subtropical origin, an element that has been greatly strengthened within recent years, largely due to the increased activity of skin divers, working in the previously unexplored depths of the off shore rocky areas. Regarding origins, the influence of the East Australian Current satisfactory accounts for the genera Dolabrifera, Fusinus and Liniaxis. There is a recent survivor from a characteristic New Zealand Miocene genus in Proxicharonia palmeri n.sp. The remaining genera, however, point to a tropical South Pacific origin, except for the Pteropurpura, which comes from Japanese seas. The most unexpected addition is Lyncina vitellus, the second species of a true cowry to the found living in New Zealand waters. The first true cowry to be found here, Erosaria cernica tomlini Schilder, 1930, was recorded in these records in 1965 (Powell, Rec. Auck. Inst. Mus., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 164-165).
42906124|In this part three new species are described of the genera, Baryspira, Fusinus and Lutraria, respectively. The Baryspira is remarkable in that it belongs to the subgenus Spinaspira, which previously did not have a Recent representative. The subgenus is known from the lower Miocene to the lower Pliocene of New Zealand and the Miocene of France. The first part of this series appeared in these 'Records' (1958 Vol. 5, Nos. 1 & 2, pp. 65-85). In subsequent parts it is proposed to review the whole of the Kermadec Island molluscan fauna.
42906126|New Zealand archaeologists are becoming increasingly aware of the need to analyse and make use of non-artifactual material in archaeological sites. New techniques are being sought for this purpose. At present, however, it is the work of a few people. The history of archaeology in New Zealand is reviewed, showing that at times in the past considerable interest was taken in this aspect of archaeology, while at other times it was badly neglected. Early observers noted the presence of kitchen middens and their significance. During the first period of intensive archaeology, von Haast and others took account of all items recovered from archaeological sites. Subsequently interest lapsed and when serious archaeology got under way again in Otago the emphasis was on artifacts and material culture. In recent years there has been a diversification of problems and approaches. The work of a few people shows what could be gained from further refinements of techniques in midden analysis and the realisation by more people of its uses and applications. A comprehensive bibliography of archaeology pertaining to excavations in New Zealand is included.
42906127|A review of carvings of the human head and face, naturalistic and stylized, with seventy-six photographic illustrations arranged to demonstrate the variety and quality of art forms achieved by Maori tohunga whakairo, carving experts; a second part of fifty-seven line drawings arranged by locality considered as evidence in relation to art style-areas; a brief tentative conclusion as to Maori art sources and development.
42906129|Excavations in two earthen mounds are described. The structure of the two mounds and the method of interment within them are similar in spite of a noticeable difference in size. Both mounds were used over a period of time. Some evidence for earlier use of both sites for purposes other than burial was found. The status of burial mounds as field monuments in Tonga and their significance in Tongan prehistory are discussed.
42906130|Individual burials recovered by archaeological excavation from two prehistoric Tongan burial mounds are described. Remains (often incomplete) of some 99 individuals are analysed where possible according to age and sex and an assessment of stature and build attempted. Morphological and some metrical data for both cranial and infracranial material, and nonmetrical data on dentition are presented. A section on palaeopathology is included. Limited comparisons are drawn between the excavated sample and modern (c. 1920) Tongans.
42906131|The flowering of taro, Colocasia esculenta (L.) Schott, in New Zealand is recorded. The male flowers lack pollen. So far, ripe fruits have not been found.
42906132|"Lacewood" and "knobby wooden curios" produced by the New Zealand kauri tree, Agathis australis Salisb., are described. Correspondents advise that "lacewood" is formed following damage to the trunk and resembles a flattened branch enclosed within the bark. "Curios" are aerial roots cleaned of their bark.
42906133|Species are recorded from New Zealand, nearby islands, and the subantarctic Antipodes Islands. New species of Nesidiochernes and Apatochernes are described; Maorichthonius mortenseni Chamb is redescribed.
42906134|A new distomous cercaria is described and the possible definitive host is discussed.
42906135|Three insect species, Modicogryllus lepidus (Walk.) (Orthoptera: Gryllidae), Gislenia fulva (Sauss.) (Blattariae: Blattellidae), and Lampides boeticus (L.) (Lepidoptera: Lycaenidae), are recorded for the first time in Auckland and in New Zealand.
42906136|The fish louse Irona melanosticta Schiodte & Meinert is recorded for the first time in New Zealand ; the male state, female state, and two larval stadia being described from New Zealand specimens. Evidence of the occurrence of protandrous hermaphroditism in the species is discussed.
42906140|A survey of Motutapu Island revealed evidence of 74 sites of prehistoric Polynesian occupation. These are classified tentatively on the basis of visible surface features, and the nature of the occupation is discussed.
42906141|N38/24, a midden at Sandy Cove, Motutapu Island, was excavated in July 1963. Evidence of Polynesian occupation was found above and below the Rangitoto ash (a.d. 1188  50 years).
42906142|N38/37, an undefended site on Motutapu Island, was excavated in the 1967-8 season. Structural and artifactual evidence indicated several occupations of an undefended village, probably belonging to a Motutapu Aspect of the Early Maori Phase.
42906143|Site N38/30 was excavated in the 1967-8 season as a second sampling of the undefended sites on Motutapu. Results paralleled and augmented those from site N38/37. The excavation also revealed evidence of the association of a surface house and rectangular storage pit. A number of artifacts, especially adzes, are described.
42906144|Midden material from sites N38/37 and N38/30 consisted of shells and fishbones. At site N38/37 pipi shells, Amphidesma australe, were most common, while at N38/30 tuatua, A. subtriangulatum, were more important. This difference is probably due to separation in time. The main fish was snapper, Chrysophrys auratus, with head bones represented more frequently in the midden than body bones.
42906145|A rescue excavation on a site, N42/114, at Parnell is described. No cultural material other than two pits and some amorphous postholes was encountered. The original state of the pits and their function are discussed, and they are considered to be for kumara storage. The economic function of the site is discussed with regard to environment, settlement pattern and seasonal movements. The site is considered to be late because of its specialised nature.
42906146|Hamlins Hill is an extensive area of pits and terraces in South Auckland. Salvage excavations were conducted on a portion of the site about to be destroyed by quarrying. Tha interiors of several pits were partly exposed, revealing post-holes, and drains sometimes covered by stone slabs. Evidence of several surface houses and a cooking area was uncovered in a portion of the site unmarked by surface features.
42906147|John Edgerley collected plants in New Zealand for Mr. A. B. Lambert and the Earl of Mountnorris from 1835 to 1841. He was a nurseryman at Newmarket, New Zealand, from 1843 to 1849.
42906148|A seedling of Pittosporum bracteolatum Endl. of Norfolk Island, grown at the Auckland Institute and Museum, flowered in 1967, 1968 and 1969. Fruit formed in 1968. The flowers and fruit are illustrated.
42906149|The species and cultivars of Passiflora grown in New Zealand are keyed and illustrated.
42906150|Drawings of the principal motifs have been prepared by Linden Cowell from colour photographs.
42906151|Two hundred and three species of molluscs have been collected at Niue Island by Mr. N. McDowall between the years 1966-1968. These are listed together with six additional species from the Finlay and Sorrensen collections of Niue Island molluscs at the Auckland Institute and Museum. In the species list of Niue Island molluscs, figure references for each species have been cited. From a total of 209 Niue Island molluscs recorded, 83% are widely distributed throughout the Indo-Pacific, 14% are Pacific endemics and 3% are Polynesian endemics; none are endemic to Niue Island.
42906152|A living specimen of Proxicharonia palmeri Powell, has been collected at the Poor Knights Islands during a recent expedition. The dentition is compared to Austrotriton parkinsonia (Perry) from the same locality, and the taxonomic value of related genera is discussed.
42906153|The recovery of two specimens of Ebalia tuberculosa (A. Milne-Edwards), from coastal trawl samples, is recorded.
42906154|Seven fish species are recorded for the first time in New Zealand coastal waters.
42906155|Type specimens, from New Zealand and Chatham Islands, of species described by R. J. Tillyard, are identified, recorded, and redescribed when necessary. Helicopsyche howesi Till, is confirmed as a separate species; the genus Triplectidina Mosely is redescribed on the basis of characters of the type species, T. oreolimnetes (Till.) ; two forms are recognised in the  genitalia of Dolophilodes (Hydrobiosella) stenocerca (Till.) ; Hydrobiosis lindsayi Till, is re-established as a valid species; and Synchorema zelandica Mosely is synonymised with S. zygonsura Till.
42906156|White Island is a small active volcano off the east coast of the North Island, New Zealand. The active crater is barren but outer lower-slopes and the shore support a restricted flora and fauna of Metrosideros forest, bird colonies, and smaller animals and plants. 162 species of terrestrial invertebrates are listed ; the fauna is found to be derived from the New Zealand mainland fauna. Associations in various localities and habitats are also listed and discussed.Leaf litter and other samples were catalogued in a 'Plant/soil samples' series and invertebrates extracted per cold and top-heated funnels; comparative results are discussed.
42906160|Salvage excavations on Ruarangi Pa in 1965 are described. The pa was occupied several times and the evidence suggested a change in defence from scarps with palisades to artificially heightened scarps. Two kinds of house floor, associated with hearths and pavings of limestone slabs were found, but there were no pits in the excavated area.
42906161|The burial system at Ruarangi is described, and traditions concerning the occupation of Ruarangi Pa and the use of the Burial Ground are summarised.
42906162|Cranial and dental characteristics of the Polynesian dog of New Zealand are defined. Pathological and congenital abnormalities are discussed, and the study is shown to be relevant to wider problems of New Zealand prehistory.
42906163|Stone flax pounders from different areas are compared to suggest a pattern of distribution and a derivation of one particular group commonly known as "Taranaki" pounders.
42906164|Criteria and a key are given for the identification of thirteen fibre-plants found in New Zealand archaeological excavations, random collections from cave sites and rock shelters, and/or in the Ethnology collections of the Auckland Institute and Museum : Astelia, Bulbinella gibbsii var. balanifera, Cordyline, Cortaderia toetoe, Dracophyllum, Eleocharis sphacelata, Freycinetia banksii, Hierochloe redolens, Phormium, Rhopalostylis sapida, Desmoschoenus spiralis, Typha orientalis and Uncinia rubra.
42906165|The superfamily Cypraeacea is represented in New Zealand by 4 families and 36 species. In the Triviidae, 20 fossil species of Eratoinae and 5 species of Triviinae have been recorded; only one triviid species is found living in New Zealand waters. The Cypraeidae number 5 fossil species two of which are described as new to science, and 2 Recent species are firmly established members of New Zealand's molluscan fauna. Ovulidae are represented by 2 fossil and 1 living species and only 1 species of Pediculariidae occurs living in northern New Zealand waters.
42906166|A species of Strombus of the subgenus Dolomena from New Britain and a species of Cancilla of the subgenus Ziba from Taiwan are described as new to science.
42906167|Genus-groups of the subfamily Pisaniinae and their relationship to other buccinid genera are evaluated. Species of Buccinidae living in the Fiji Islands are described and illustrated.
42906168|The family Naticidae is represented in the Fiji Islands by 21 Recent species which are assignable to 3 genera and 3 subgenera. In addition, Ladd (1934) recorded Recent species of Polinicinae from Tertiary deposits of Viti Levu, and Ladd & Hofmeister (1945) described species of Globulariinae from Tertiary deposits of the Lau Islands. Species of the latter subfamily have become extinct in Fiji. All the Recent species recorded from the Fiji Islands have a wide Indo-Pacific distribution and no endemics have been recognized.
42906169|In this part sixteen species are added to the New Zealand Recent fauna, and of these, eight are either new species or new subspecies, and seven are representative of genera not recorded previously from trie Recent fauna of these seas  they are Cantharus, Claraxis, Gegania, Latiaxis, Pictobalcis, Terebra and Volva. The Pleistocene muricid, Pterynotus zealandicus (Hutton), previously considered extinct, is now known to occur living in shallow water, both at the Poor Knights Islands and at Whangaruru, and the record by Hedley (1916) of a Kerguelen species, Trophon albolabratus (E. A. Smith) from Macquarie Island is confirmed.
42906170|Tu'i Malila, the tortoise long kept at the Royal Palace of Tonga, and associated by tradition with Captain James Cook, died in 1966. It has been identified as Testudo radiata Shaw, 1802, a Madagascan species, and its possible history is discussed.
42906171|Seven species of fish are recorded for the first time from New Zealand waters.
42906174|Further excavations carried out at Station Bay, Motutapu Island, during 1970/71 are introduced. Radiocarbon dates for site N38/37 and source identifications of obsidians from sites N38/24, N38/30 and N38/37 are described. A prehistoric cultural sequence on Motutapu is outlined.
42906175|During the 1970/71 season additional excavations at site N38/30, an undefended site on Motutapu Island, provided the remaining information required to define all the structural features belonging to one of the occupation terraces.
42906176|Site N38/25B is a group of pits on a ridge at Station Bay, Motutapu Island. It is separated by a defensive ditch from the main area of N38/25, and is probably associated with a pre-ditch occupation of the rest of the site. Evidence recovered from excavation of the largest pit was consistent with its use for storage, and some continuity of use was shown by small oval pits dug into its floor. Several periods of occupation were indicated by adjacent external structures. Copious plant remains, chiefly in the form of charcoal, included some prepared fibres. Fire-reddened clay may indicate a local "make-do" source of red ochre.
42906177|Excavation of a coastal midden at Whangamata, Coromandel Peninsula, New Zealand, revealed two cultural layers separated by a wide band of sterile sand. Artifacts are described, and faunal remains are analysed with particular reference to the diet of the site's occupants.
42906178|The archaeological excavation of three small prehistoric Maori sites situated in a small bay on Great Barrier Island, New Zealand, is described, and the results of the analysis of the excavated material are presented. The sites comprise a beach midden dating from about the 13th century A.D., a second beach midden, and a fortified site, both of which are later in time. The data from the three sites when compared show changes in the frequency of use of fish, birds, mammals and shellfish, and changes in the individual species used in each group. Changes in the raw material used for tools also took place and the different character of the sites indicates changes in settlement pattern.
42906179|The systematics, shell-morphology, radular anatomy where known, and habitat of 55 Indo-Pacific species of the Buccinacean family Nassariidae are here recorded.
42906180|A new ovulid Primovula from the Red Sea and a subspecies of the Miocene Mitra sowerbyi d'Orbigny, are described as new to science. Three species of Mitridae are re-assigned to the genera Mitra, Subcancilla and Neocancilla. An aberrant form of Cerithium (Pseudovertagus) aluco (Linnaeus) and a recently collected specimen of Bursa (Colubrellina) condita (Gmelin), are discussed and illustrated.
42906181|274 taxa originally proposed in the family Mitridae are here re-assigned to the families Strombidae (1 sp.), Fasciolariidae (16), Muricidae (1), Buccinidae (6), Columbellidae (18), Nassariidae (1), Volutidae (67), Volutomitridae (99), Olividae (1), Marginellidae (11), Cancellariidae (6), Turridae (36) and the terrestrial Oleacinidae (1). The familial status of 10 species remains undetermined.
42906182|H. J. Finlay's type specimens of Recent and fossil mollusca deposited in the Auckland Institute and museum are enumerated. Dimensions, illustrations, relevant synonymy and bibliography are appended.
42906183|Records of Conus spp. in New Zealand are given, including authentic recent records of living specimens.
42906184|Of four species of Trichoptera now known from the Auckland Is., two are described as new in the genera Costachorema and Tiphobiosis (Family Rhyacophilidae), and two are recorded in the genera Oxyethira and Paroxyethira (Family Hydroptilidae), the last being an undetermined species known only from larval-pupal cases.
42906185|The species Cryptoscenea australiensis (Enderlein, 1906) (Coniopterygidae), Drepanacra binoculo, (Newman, 1838), Micromus tasmaniae (Walker, 1860) (Hemerobiidae) and Chrysopa basalis Walker, 1853 (Chrysopidae) are recorded, the last being the only natural occurrence of the family Chrysopidae in the New Zealand sub-region.
42906188|Analysis of artifact classes suggests that South Island prehistory can be subdivided into major periods of change.
42906189|A group of anthropomorphic and zoomorphic bowls are described and relationships suggested among them.
42906191|This paper is based on a set of photographs which records the last initiation ceremony held in the village of Gupuna on the island of Santa Ana in the Eastern Solomons. The photographic record and an ethnographic description are brought together not only in order to present facts which were not previously available but also to give a fuller understanding of what initiation in Santa Ana entailed.
42906192|Representatives of the Acaena ovina complex in New Zealand are described and illustrated. Only 2 species (A. agnipila and A. echinata) and 4 varieties of the Australian complex have so far been collected in New Zealand; A. ovina s. str. has not yet been recorded. The status of the hybrid species A.  anserovina in Australia and New Zealand is discussed.
42906193|The two species of Zingiberaceae adventive in New Zealand are Hedychium coronarium var. subditum (Turrill) Naik and H. gardnerianum Roscoe. They are described and their history of introduction, present distribution, means of dispersal and nomenclature discussed. Other species of Zingiberaceae known to be in cultivation in New Zealand are listed.
42906194|A second species of the genus Hyphalus (Coleoptera: Limnichidae), H. wisei sp.n., is described on material taken in the intertidal zone on the North Island of New Zealand. Additional localities for Hyphalus insularis Britton, on the east coast of Australia, are recorded.
42906195|The turbinellid species Benthovoluta hilgendorfi, believed to be endemic to Japan, is recorded from a specimen collected by Dr Th. Mortensen's Pacific Expedition of 1914-16 at Zamboanga, Philippine Islands. The genera Ptychatractus, Metzgeria, Benthovoluta, Surculina and Ceratoxancus are assigned to the subfamily Ptychatractinae, in the family Turbinellidae. The New Zealand genus Chathamidia is removed from the Muricidae and transferred to the Turbinellidae, in the synonymy of Surculina.
42906196|Two new species of Vexillidae and one new species and a subspecies of Mitridae from Western Australia are described as new to science.
42906197|A list of the New Zealand aquatic, semi-aquatic, and some closely associated insects, follows a general introduction and discussion by insect orders. A bibliography covering the past twenty years is given.
42906200|Ethnographic specimens of hafted shell adzes from the New Hebrides and the Northern Solomons are described and illustrated.
42906204|A large and imposing headland pa defended by three transverse ditches is described and its economic resources are discussed. After examination of the archaeological and historical evidence, the site is tentatively identified as the residence of Te Haupa, chief of the Ngati-Paoa in the early nineteenth century.
42906205|Salvage excavations, carried out in 1969 on a beach midden site, produced a considerable amount of bone, shell and artifactual material, together with carbon 14 dates and a well defined Loisels pumice horizon. There were three main layers, one of which was associated with the Loisels pumice.
42906206|Experimentally-determined functional ranges are used to analyse the obsidian flakes from four prehistoric sites. These are an inland Archaic site from Tokoroa, and three sites of differing ages from Harataonga Bay, Great Barrier Island. The results of the flake tool analysis for each site are related to other archaeological evidence of past activities, and environmental resources. The functional ranges for the flake tools were also used as the basis of a typology for inter-site comparisons in which site and inter-site implications are discussed.
42906209|Exchanges between Isaac C. Martindale, William M. Canby and other American collectors, with T. F. Cheeseman, are traced through specimens in the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and letters to Cheeseman in the manuscript collection of the Auckland Institute and Museum Library.
42906210|A lectotype is chosen for Acaena ovina var. ambigua Kirk, and its identity with A.  anserovina Orchard is confirmed.
42906211|A new name is proposed for the homonymous Cerithium pulchrum Sowerby, and a Cantharus (Pollia) species from the Fiji Islands is described as new to science. The identity of Murex dentifer Watson, Engina contracta (Reeve), E. acuminata (Reeve), E. gannita Hedley, Phos pallidus (Powys), P. notatus Sowerby, Conus excelsus Sowerby, C. pulcherrimus Brazier, C. tannaensis (Cotton), C. moluccensis Kster, C. pulcher A. Adams and C. proximus Sowerby, are elucidated on the basis of their type-specimens. Cancilla (Ziba) bantamensis (Oostingh), a Pliocene fossil mitrid from Indonesia, is recorded living in the Nicobar Islands.
42906212|The present study includes 60 species of marine Mollusca which were described and illustrated by Martini & Chemnitz in the "Systematisches Conchylien-Cabinet" between the years 1769-1795, with the exception of the type-specimen of Voluta virgo Linnaeus, from the Spengler collection. The typespecimens of the species dealt with are primarily gastropods belonging to the families Fissurellidae, Patellidae, Trochidae, Stomatellidae, Turbinidae, Neritidae, Naticidae, Cymatiidae, Muricidae, Buccinidae, Melongenidae, Fasciolariidae, Mitridae, Vexillidae, Turridae, Conidae and the bivalve family Veneridae.
42906213|Shells of the warm-water bivalve Anadara trapezia (Deshayes), no longer living in New Zealand, have been dated as more than 46,300 years old (Hokianga) and more than 40,100 years old (Marsden Point), thus probably Interglacial in age, and there is no evidence that this species returned during the Holocene after its extinction probably in the Last Glaciation. Placostylus ambagiosus priscus Powell, the oldest known New Zealand Placostylus, from consolidated dune sands near Cape Maria Van Diemen, previously classed as presumably Pleistocene, is dated as 2140  90 years old and is thus considerably younger than previously thought.
42906214|In this part, an Australian genus and species new to the New Zealand fauna is added, with the recording of Myochama tasmanica from Parengarenga Harbour; a new species of Pterochelus is described; the upper Pleistocene Thracia vegrandis is found to be represented in the Recent fauna; seven species mostly of tropical Indo-Pacific origin are added to our Recent fauna, along with five others on an at present tentative basis; four species previously recorded as new to the fauna are now found to be firmly established; and the paper concludes with some nomenclatural notes.
42906215|Six species previously recorded in Spinurosomia and Parafolsomia are transferred: Cryptopygus (= Spinurosomia) syn. n., (= Parafolsomia) syn. n.; Cryptopygus caecus (= Folsomia lunata) syn. n., (= Parafolsomia litorea) syn. n.; Cryptopygus decemoculatus comb. n. (= Parafolsomia decemoculata); Cryptopygus novaezealandiae comb. n. (= Folsomia novae-zealandiae); Cryptopygus parasiticus comb. n. (= Folsomia parasitica); Cryptopygus quadrioculatus comb, n. (= Parafolsomia quadrioculata). Cryptopygus caecus is recorded from New Zealand, Auckland Is, and Campbell I.
42906218|The evidence from excavations at Skipper's Ridge during 1959 and 1960 is reviewed. Structural remains are discussed in detail, and midden and artifacts described.
42906219|The discovery of two incomplete plans made in 1959 enables a map to be published showing the setting of the excavation at Skipper's Ridge (N40/7) at Opito, its probable relationship to the Archaic beach midden N403, and other important field evidence.
42906222|A manuscript of Ngapuhi history written by Abraham Taonui is presented together with translation.
42906223|A description of some aspects of Maori agriculture of the late 18th and first half of the 19th Centuries using Maori and European sources, is presented.
42906224|Some recent additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and re-identification of earlier gatherings, provide information on the distribution of adventive species.
42906225|Early exchanges between T. F. Cheeseman and botanists in the British Isles, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, Hungary and Germany are traced through specimens in the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and through letters to Cheeseman in the manuscript collection of the Auckland Institute and Museum Library.
42906226|The type-specimens of 57 species of Nassarudae are discussed and illustrated. Species originally described from the Indo-Pacific, i.e. Nassarius gwatkinianus (Melvill), N. corrugatus (A. Adams), N. lautus (Marrat) and N. nevillianus (Preston), are synonyms of previously described West American Nassarudae. N. hanleyanus (Marrat) and N. decayatus (Marrat) described from unknown locality, are West American nassariid synonyms while N. moestus (Hinds), originally described from West America, is an Indo-Pacific species and not conspecific with N. brunneostomus (Stearns), which is the taxon applicable to the West American species. N. scabriusculus (Powys) appears to be an earlier name for N. collarius (C. B. Adams) and the N. scabriusculus auctt. is the species N. stimpsonianus (C. B. Adams). N. antillar urn (d'Orbigny), often synonymised with N. albus (Say) is N. vibex (Say). N. pumilio (E. A. Smith) is an earlier name for the West African N. madseni (Knudsen). Cyllene owenii Gray in Griffith & Pidgeon, is considered to be a prior taxon for C. senegalensis Petit de la Saussaye from West Africa and Demoulia obtusata (Link) is the earliest name applicable for the West African species currently known as D. pinguis A. Adams. Nassarius vaucheri (Pallary) from Morocco is not a Nassarius but probably belongs to Chauvetia Monterosato. N. planocostatus (A. Adams) described from Peru is a synonym of the Indian Ocean N. foveolatus (Dunker). The new name Cyllene desnoyersi lamarcki is proposed for the homonymous West African C. lyratum (Lamarck, 1822).
42906227|The systematics of species of the genus-groups Engina, Pisania, Jeannea, Caducifer, Monostiolum, Pollia, Prodotta, Enginella, Zeapollia and Clivipollia are discussed. Cantharus (Prodotta) iostomus (Gray in Griffith & Pidgeon, 1834), is considered to be the earliest name applicable to the species previously known under the homonymous names Buccinum marmoratum Reeve, 1846, and B. gracile Reeve, 1846. The West American species Engina fusiformis Stearns, 1894, is found to be a primary homonym of E. fusiformis Pease, 1865, and will have to be replaced by its junior synonym E. solida Dali, 1917. Ricinula siderea Reeve, 1846, the type-species of the muricid genus Drupella Thiele, is shown to be a buccinid Engina species. Triton tessellatus Reeve, 1844, described from the Philippines, appears to be a finely sculptured variant of the Caribbean Caducifer (Monostiolum) swifti (Tryon, 1881), while 3 species usually placed in the buccinid genus Engina actually belong to the muricid genus Mrula Schumacher. The identity of the majority of species discussed, is elucidated on the basis of their type-specimens.
42906228|A new subgenus is proposed for the Austral-Neozelanic nassariid species Nassarius ephamillus (Watson) and the species synonymy and distribution is discussed. Eucyclotoma hindsii (Reeve), Cymatium armatimi (Sowerby) and Distorsio pusilla are defined and recorded from the Pacific while Pseudoneptiinea varicosa (Roeding) is localised from Thailand. Two new species of Microvoluta from East Australia are described. Venassa v. Martens, is considered to have been based on a teratological individual of Nassarius (Zeuxis) species. The following species are re-assigned: '' Nassa" semitexta Hedley, from the Nassariidae to the Rissoacea; Mitrea stadialis Hedley, from the Mitridae to the Volutomitridae; the Ecuadorian Mio/Pliocene Mitra (Subcancilla) musa Olsson, from the Mitridae to the Turridae. The turrid genus Mitrithara Hedley, 1922, is considered to be synonymous with Mitrolumna Bucquoy, Dautzenberg & Dollfuss, 1883.
42906231|Three recently found representative cross-sections of the excavations at Skipper's Ridge in 1959 and 1960 are presented and their significance discussed.
42906232|A pad and fourteen fishhooks, including a small trolling lure, from Nukuoro Atoll, are described.
42906233|The settlement pattern in Parua Bay is discussed in relation to the topography and economic resources of the area. A regional type of fortification is defined and a method of estimating the population is suggested.
42906234|Whakamoenga Cave was excavated by Trevor Hosking between 1961 and 1963. Eleven layers were established. A variety of faunal and botanical material together with artifacts was found. The layers have been grouped into three occupations on the basis of a major rockfall, a renewed occupation and the appearance of European artifacts. Occupation 1, the earliest, contained cultural material, moa bone, the remains of numerous birds, especially bush birds, and a considerable amount of flaked obsidian. It is dated by Carbon 14 to the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. Occupation 2 occurred after a major rockfall, which sealed off the earlier occupation. Fewer bush birds were present, suggesting considerable forest destruction had occurred. Numerous obsidian flakes were present. Carbon 14 dates suggest late seventeenth century age. Occupation 3 is represented by the four top layers. These contained artifacts of European origin. Carbon 14 results indicate that these deposits were laid down during the nineteenth century.
42906235|An occurrence of fine-grained basalt at Opito, Coromandel Peninsula was exploited extensively from about A.D. 1300 until (?) Early European times. Adzes, roughouts and flakes of this basalt are common in early sites all along the east coast of the Peninsula, and adzes are widely distributed throughout the North Island. The Tahanga source was the focus of a major industrial centre along the eastern Coromandel coast during the Archaic, and probably Classic Maori Periods.
42906236|This second list of recent additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and of some re-identified earlier gatherings provides further information on the distribution of adventive species.
42906237|Exchanges between T. F. Cheeseman and Australian herbaria are traced through specimens in the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and through letters to Cheeseman in the manuscript collection of the Auckland Institute and Museum Library.
42906238|The rediscovery of a little-known species of Gonocarpus is reported, and the taxon is redescribed in the light of this new, more complete material.
42906239|New species of Mitra from Moreton Bay, Australia, Vexillum (Pusia) from Hawaiian Islands, and a Muricopsis from the Indian Ocean are described as new to science. Murex noduliferus Sowerby, and M. euracanthus A. Adams, are defined on the basis of their type-specimens. Purpura ochrostoma Blainville, usually assigned to the genus Drupella Thiele, and Ergalatax contractus (Reeve), are re-assigned to Cronia H. & A. Adams, on the basis of their radulae. Phos textilis A. Adams, is recorded from the Pacific, and the West American Nassarius miser (Dall), is synonymised with N. coppingeri (E. A. Smith).
42906240|A species of Terebridae from the Indo-West Pacific is described as new and a substitute name is proposed for the homonymous Terebra monile Quoy & Gaimard. T. albomarginata Deshayes, T. archimedis Deshayes, T. pallida Deshayes and T. lauta Pease, are now considered to be synonyms of previously described species.
42906241|The purpose of this paper is to bring together the numerous scattered records of tropical and subtropical molluscs that have invaded northern New Zealand waters within recent years and to attempt their evaluation individually as accidental, temporary, intermittent or permanent additions to the fauna. Seventy six species of these new arrivals are discussed, but excluded are the considerable number of species of Australian or Indo-Pacific origin that are now so well established here that they have become an integral part of the fauna.
42906242|The buccal parasites Codonophilus imbricatus (Fabricius) and Irona melanosticta Schiodte & Meinert (Isopoda : Cymothoidae), were found to cause gill damage in fish through the abrasive action of peraeopods on gill lamellae, and, by virtue of gross size, to physically limit the inward growth of gill rakers. Gill damage is considered more permanent than superficial skin erosion and has been found a useful guide to previous parasitism after the parasite is removed or lost.
42906245|The construction and defensive methods of the Maori terraced pa on the volcanic cones on the Auckland isthmus is discussed in the light of recent field surveys. A group with late earthwork defences is defined, comprising Mt Hobson, Mt St John, Mt Wellington and One Tree Hill. The archaeological dating evidence is compared with the historical evidence based on Maori oral traditions recorded in the Orakei judgement of 1869.
42906246|Following the recent discovery of an archaic burial with grave gifts and seemingly associated working-floor at Hahei Beach, a small rescue excavation was conducted at N44/97. The extant stratigraphy and artifactual material from the site are described and compared to similar working-floors exposed in situ on neighbouring allotments.
42906247|Four prehistoric burials from Motutapu Island are described and estimates of time of burial are made.
42906248|Eight prehistoric and protohistoric individuals from the eastern Coromandel region are described. Estimates of time of burial are made and evidence for dietary change with time is presented.
42906249|Further information on the distribution and history of adventive plant species in New Zealand is provided in this third list of records from the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK).
42906250|Reference is made to the first publications on New Zealand ferns and to national and international exhibits of dried ferns followed by an account of the work of Eric Craig (1829-1923), fern collector and mounter of Princes Street, Auckland.
42906251|Hyphalus kuscheli, H. prolixus and H. ultimus spp. n. are described. The new species occur at and below high water mark on barnacle-encrusted rocks on beaches on the north-east coast of the North Island of New Zealand.
42906252|Type specimens of 16 species living in New Zealand are illustrated and their taxonomy is discussed. Species reported from New Zealand have been assigned in synonymy with some species from elsewhere: Labio concolor A. Adams = the European Monodonta lineata (da Costa); Vitularia candida H. & A. Adams = the South African Trophon wahlbergi (Krauss); Fusus cinnamomeus Reeve = the South African Fasciolaria lugubris Reeve. Glaphyrina caudata (Quoy & Gaimard) is an earlier name for the New Zealand fasciolarid G. vulpicolor (Sowerby), and Latirus decoratus A. Adams, is a tropical Indian Ocean Peristernia.
42906253|One Antarctic and six Subantarctic molluscan specific names are primary homonyms and are taxonomically not available. Calliotropis pelseneeri and Pareuthria powelli are here proposed as substitute names. The type-specimens of 14 Southern Ocean Mollusca are illustrated. The following taxonomic corrections have been made: Fusitriton magellanicus (Roeding, 1798) for F. cancellatum (Lamarck, 1816); Trophon plicatus (Solander in Lightfoot, 1786) for T. lamellosus (Gmelin, 1791) [= laciniatus auctt.]; and Acanthina monodon (Pallas, 1774) for A. monodon (Solander in Lightfoot, 1786) [= calcar auctt.].
42906254|A species of Mitridae from the Hawaiian Islands and a species of Triphoridae from the Samoa Islands are described as new to science. The Hawaiian Mitra foveolata Dunker, is a subspecies of Subcancilla verrucosa (Reeve). The nassarid species Nassa clathratula A. Adams and N. obtusata A. Adams, erroneously described from the Philippines, and N. annelifera Reeve, from unknown locality, are synonyms of the Caribbean Nassarius albus (Say). The nassarid genus-group Gussonea Monterosato, 1912, has chronological priority over Amyclina Iredale, 1918. Phos naucratoros Watson, is recorded from Queensland, Australia, and the Australian Pliocene Austroharpa tatei Finlay, is here compared with A. sulcosa Tate.
42906255|Evidence for the reinstatement of Hoplodactylus maculatus Boulenger is presented, based on the form of the rostral shield and the enlarged scales at the base of the tail; and the proportions of the head, ocular disc and foot. Revised synonymys and descriptions of H. maculatus and H. pacificus are given.
42906256|Two specimens of Metavelifer multiradiatus (Regan) captured in north-eastern coastal waters constitute the first record of this species in New Zealand.
42906259|Archaeological excavations in the Auckland area are reviewed. The sites, which vary greatly in size and nature, include volcanic cones, fortified sites, unfortified settlements and coastal middens, dating between approximately a.d. 1300 and 1800. Chronological changes in material culture and subsistence are defined. It is concluded that horticulture, fishing and shellfish gathering formed the basis of the economy and that changes of material culture cannot readily be correlated with changes in other aspects of culture in prehistoric Auckland.
42906260|Four radiocarbon dates are reported and their significance discussed. Results on bone collagen and on charcoal are compared.
42906261|Detailed analysis of a small assemblage of sea mammal bones from the Archaic archaeological site (N44/2) of Tairua is presented. Consideration is given to the species of sea mammals present, their age and sex, and the manner in which they were killed and butchered. The results suggest a significant difference between the breeding distribution of fur seals in the past and that extant today. Mechanisms for this change, and the implications for New Zealand prehistory are considered.
42906262|This fourth list of some recent additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and re-identification of earlier gatherings provides first records for some adventive species and further information of the distribution of others.
42906263|Presumptive type material of New Zealand Pteridophyta and Gymnospermae in the AK Herbarium is presented in an annotated checklist of 43 taxa.
42906264|An annotated checklist of 156 sheets of Herbarium specimens forming type material for 67 taxa of New Zealand native grasses is presented.
42906265|The following species are new additions to the Kermadec Island molluscan fauna: Nassarias nodiferus (Powys), N. himeroessa (Melvill & Standen), Neocancilla takiisaoi (Kuroda), Vexillum (Costellarla) sculptile (Reeve), V. (C.) castum (H. Adams), and V. (C.) angustissimum (E. A. Smith) from the tropical Indo-Pacific; Phos hirasei (Sowerby) and Ziba cf. rehderi (Webb) from Japan; Z. cernohorskyi Rehder & Wilson from Pitcairn Island; and Cancilla strangei (Angas) and Microvoluta royana (Iredale) from Australia. Ziba kermadecensis n. sp. is a new member of the family Mitridae from the Kermadec Islands.
42906266|New geographical records are recorded for Strombus (Dolomena) kleckhamae Cernohorsky, Phalium angasi bulla (Habe), Mitra pele Cernohorsky, M.hilli Cernohorsky, and Vexillum (Costellarla) takakuwai Cernohorsky & Azuma.The radula, oviposition and taxonomy of Vanikoro helicoidea (Le Guillou) are decribed and discussed. Phalium sophia (Brazier) is considered to be specifically distinct from P. bisulcatum (Schubert & Wagner), and Chicoreus steeriae (Reeve) is only a long-spined form of C. maurus (Broderip). Pterynotus barclayanus (H. Adams) has chronological priority over P. lienardi (Crosse) and the family-group name Thaidinae dates from Jousseaume, 1888 rather than Suter, 1913. Ricinula rosea Reeve, is not the Caribbean rosea of authors, and the Indo-Pacific Morula parva (Pease) is a secondary homonym of M. parva (Reeve). Risomurex muricoides (C. B. Adams) and Drupella cariosa (Wood) are primary homonyms and should be replaced with R. rutila (Reeve) and D. fenestrata (Blainville) respectively. A lectotype is designated for Oliva parkinsoni Prior, 1975, a species described without a holotype designation. A population study of Mitra chrysostoma Broderip, has shown this species to be conspecific with M. contracta Swainson. Scaphandridae Sars, must be replaced by the earlier Cylichnidae H. & A. Adams, and Tornatina decorata Pilsbry, is an earlier name for Retusa gaimardi Finlay.
42906267|This account deals with 17 species of Costellariidae. Fourteen of these inhabit the east coast of America and the Caribbean, with some species ranging as far south as Brazil. One species lives in the N.E. Atlantic and 2 species are endemic to St. Helena. Mitra rawsoni Moerch and M. brandii Verrill, are considered nomina dubia and M. pleurotomoides E. A. Smith, M. torticula Dall, and M. zilpha Dall, are transferred from the Costellariidae to the Turridae.
42906268|The larva of the Auckland I species Tiphobiosis kuscheli Wise, 1972 is described and further locality records given for this and other species. Oxyethira albiceps (McLachlan, 1862) is recorded from Snares Is and Antipodes Is for the first time.
42906271|George Graham's writings on Maori Place Names are presented.
42906272|Maori place names of Auckland collected by George Graham are presented together with their meanings.
42906273|Radiocarbon results obtained on charcoal from Site N44/97 at Hahei are reported and their significance is assessed.
42906274|Salvage excavations on Mount Roskill, Auckland, were undertaken in 1961 by R. C. Green, L. M. Groube and F. W. Shawcross in advance of reservoir construction. It was found that the crater rim had been defended by a double palisade; a series of inter-cutting storage pits of two or three periods were examined. Radiocarbon dating of stratified charcoals showed that the main occupation lay within the period A. D. 1430-1620; the latest series of pits were undated. It is likely that the pa was abandoned after about A. D. 1700.
42906275|A multivariant statistical study of straight pendants suggests at least three types exist which have significant variations in distribution through northern New Zealand. The range of styles represented by the types appears to be prehistoric and reflect local styles.
42906276|This fifth list of some recent additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and re-examination of earlier gatherings provides new records for some adventive species and further information on the distribution of others.
42906277|In continuation of an annotated checklist of presumptive type material of New Zealand species in the AK Herbarium the following families of monocotyledons are included: Burmanniaceae, Centrolepidaceae, Cyperaceae, Juncaceae, Liliaceae, Orchidaceae, Potamogetonaceae and Zannichelliaceae.
42906278|A species of Peculator (Parvimitra), family Volutomitridae, from South Australia and a species of oreotrophon, family Muricidae, from the North Island of New Zealand are described as new to science.
42906279|One hundred and thirteen taxa proposed either in the Mitracea or Costellariidae or subsequently referred to the latter family, have been elucidated. In this account 12 Recent and 9 Tertiary species from Australia and 5 Recent and 5 Tertiary species of Costellariidae from New Zealand are recognized as valid. Austromitra minute nodo sa from the Great Australian Bight, South Australia, is described as new.
42906280|New geographical records are recorded for Coralliophila squamosissima (E. A. Smith), Terebra circumcincta (Deshayes), Xenuroturris kingae Powell, Turridrupa astricta (Reeve) and Conus spiculum Reeve. Vitularia crenifera (Montrouzier) is compared to V. miliar is (Gmelin) and is reported from the Hawaiian and Marianas Is. The type species of Coralliophila amirantium E. A. Smith is illustrated and the species taxonomy discussed. Latirus gibbus Pease, is re-assigned from Nassarius and Favartia to Cronia H. & A. Adams and Nassarius metuliformis MacNeil is transferred from the Nassariidae to Phos Montfort, in the Buccinidae. Engina bonasia (v. Martens) has chronological priority over E. zatricium Melvill, Nassarius subtranslucidus (E. A  Smith) is a prior name for N. hayashii (Habe) and Vexillum citrinum (Gmelin) will replace V. regina (Sowerby). Nassarius fijiensis Ladd, is a synonym oiPhos (Philin dophos) vitiensis Ladd, and is re-assigned to the Buccinidae.
42906281|Evidence for the recognition of Naultinus grayi Bell andN. elegans Gray is given, and two subspecies N. elegans elegans and N. elegans punctatus Gray (stat. nov.) are distinguished. These findings are based on differences in the reproductive cycle, and morphological features such as size, colour of skin and tongue, and scalation. The geographical distribution of the taxa is described, and a revised synonymy given.
42906284|Thirty-two Maori fortifications of the Ornata and Oakura districts, Taranaki, are described. The majority of sites have ring-ditch defences. A high proportion enclose only a very small occupation area.
42906285|Three groups of dendroglyphs in the Chatham Islands are characterised by their main patterns and the stylistic variations between them.
42906286|The artefact assemblage from the Archaic midden site, N40/3, at Opito Bay on the Coromandel Peninsula is described. The assemblage is readily comparable with material from other early sites in the region, notably Hot Water Beach (N44/69) and Harataonga Bay on Great Barrier Island (N30/5).
42906287|This sixth list of some recent additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and re-examination of earlier gatherings provides new records for some adventive species and further information on the distribution of others.
42906288|A bone of the moa Anoimilopteryx didiformis (Owen), dated at 7520  150 years B.P. (NZ3O88B) and contained in 7500-6500 years B.P. tidal flat deposits beneath down-town Auckland city, had carbonate concretionary growths about its articular ends. The concretions, which are younger than about 6500 years B.P., were formed by precipitation of microgranular, relatively low-magnesian (6-8 mol% MgCO) calcite cement within pore waters of the sandy mud enclosing the bone, probably associated with bacterial decomposition of associated organic matter. A variety of evidence suggests that generally similar carbonate concretions encasing macrofaunal remains are relatively widespread in Holocene shore-line sediments of Waitemata Harbour, Auckland, especially in the vicinity of old buried stream channels.Precipitation of low-magnesian calcite cement into very early diagenetic concretions appears to be especially characteristic of several Holocene coastal marine deposits in essentially temperate latitude, cool water localities in both southern and northern hemispheres.
42906289|The type-specimen of Cantharidus marmoreus (Pease) is illustrated and the species is reported from Mururoa Atoll, Tuamotus.Coralliophila porphyroleuca (Crosse) has been re-discovered in Tahiti and Moorea I, and the radular anatomy of Peristernia lirata (Pease) confirms the placement in the genus Peristernia. P. sowerbyi (Melvill) described from the Galapagos Is actually lives in the Tuamotu Archipelago. The authorship of Philbertia felina and Turridrupa jubata must be credited to Reeve rather than Hinds, and a range-extension from New Caledonia to the Tuamotus is recorded for T. jubata. Viriola samoana Cernohorsky, is recorded for the first time from French Polynesia and Vexillum (Pusia) mediomaculatum (Sowerby), previously known only from the western Indian Ocean is recorded from the Tuamotus and the Hawaiian Is. The nassarid species Nassarius troendleorum and N. rehderi are described as new to science.
42906290|The taxa Lyria taiwanica Lan and L. kawamurai Habe, are placed in the synonymy of L. santoensis Ladd, and L. kuniene Bouchet is a suspected immature individual of the same species. L. grangei is described as a new species from the S.W.Pacific and is compared with the fossil L. mallicki Ladd.
42906291|New geographical records are recorded for Morum exquisitum (Adams & Reeve), Pterynotus loebbeckei (Kobelt), Latiaxis gyratus (Hinds), Ziba doveri Cernohorsky, Vexillum (Pusia) salisburyi Cernohorsky, Terebra eburnea Hinds and Turns garnonsii (Reeve). Peristernia corallina Melvill & Standen is re-assigned to the Muricidae with Nassaria mordica Hedley and Muricopsis martini Fischer in Wanner in synonymy, and Triton carduus Reeve is re-assigned to the farinosa-egregia group of Engina in the Buccinidae. Tritonidea submenkeana Pilsbry and Enzinopsis resta Iredale are synonymized with Engina menkeana (Dunker) a species which is now known to live as far south as Lord Howe I, and Nassarius fontanei (d'Orbigny) is placed in synonymy of N. exilis (Powys). The species Nassarius fraudator from Australia and Mitra deynzeri and Thala maxmarrowi from fhe Western Pacific are described as new to science.
42906292|The isopod Aega angustata Whitelegge is recorded for the first time in New Zealand waters from two male specimens collected as exoparasites of the grey-spiny dogfish Squalus blainvillei. Additional details on the morphology of their mouthparts is provided from dissected appendages.
42906293|Following tagging of Monarch butterflies (Danaus plexippus (L.)) in North America and Australia, a tagging project was carried out in New Zealand as part of a study on insect dispersal. The project is described. A corrected overall recovery of 12.4% was achieved from over 6500 releases, during the seasons 1967/68  1973/74. Only 28 flights over 20 km were recorded and these are treated in detail. Most of these are accepted as genuine flights but gave no indication of regular long distance movements or migration. Three overwintering colonies are described; seasonal presence ('winter') and absence ('summer') is known but no inward or outward movements were recorded. Adult longevity is compared with time of year. Dispersal information is included. Monarch butterflies are recorded from the length of New Zealand in summer-autumn and are confirmed as spending winter periods locally in the North Island, separate from moving groups which appear in overwintering colonies.
42906294|Species of South Pacific Odonata represented in the Auckland Museum collections are recorded. Included are species from Norfolk Island, Fiji (particularly the Lau Group) and the Cook Islands.
42906297|Items collected on the voyages of Captain Cook and by Captain Bellingshausen in 1820 are described to establish the Maori material culture of the Queen Charlotte Sound and the changes which occurred in that material culture. The description of a local material culture form for Queen Charlotte Sound has enabled a number of other items of less certain documentation to be identified as having been collected on Cook's voyages, or from the area. The material culture was found to be remarkably stable despite repeated incursions from outside the area.
42906298|In the early 1950s Mr V.F. Fisher and students of Ardmore Teachers College excavated a headland pa, N43/35. The pa was found to have been occupied in the late prehistoric and protohistoric periods. The results of the excavation are discussed and the artefact assemblage compared with that from the important Classic Maori site of Oruarangi.
42906299|Mammalian fauna from the Pig Bay site (N38/21) on Motutapu Island, most of which dates from the 14th to 17th centuries A.D. is described. The range of species identified is narrower than that observed in contemporary sites from adjacent areas, and dogs appear to have formed a significant part of the diet throughout the occupational sequence. Patterns of tooth wear in dogs show similarities with other Archaic North Island sites, and the observed butchering patterns suggest exchange or sharing of dog carcasses.
42906300|Mammalian fauna from excavations at Opito (N40/3), Sarahs Gully (N40/9) and five nearby sites is described and aspects of prehistoric economy reconstructed. Dogs were the most abundant and consistently occurring species, but throughout the period A.D. 1200-1500 sea mammals contributed a greater quantity of meat to the diet. Comparisons with several contemporary North Island sites show similar patterns and suggest a decline in sea mammal exploitation after the 15th or 16th century.
42906301|This seventh list of some recent additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and of re-determinations of earlier gatherings provides new records for some adventive species and further information on the distribution of others.
42906302|Eighty taxa proposed either in the family Nassariidae or subsequently referred to this family, have been elucidated. In this account 13 Recent and 8 Tertiary species from Australia, 2 species from the Austral-Neozelanic region and 1 Recent and 1 Tertiary species of Nassariidae from New Zealand are recognized as valid. Nassarius (Gussonea) wilsoni (Ludbrook, 1978) is a secondary homonym of Nassa wilsoni C.B. Adams, 1852, and will need to be replaced.
42906303|New geographical records are recorded for Conus barthelemyi Bernardi, C. lentiginosus Reeve, and Sherbornia mirabilis Iredale. The identity of Cronia ochros toma (Blainville) is elucidated on the basis of its type specimen and Nassarius barsdelli Ladd from the Pleistocene of the New Hebrides is re-described. Scabricola vicdani from the Philippines and Vexillum (Costellaria) malleopunctum are described as new species of Mitracea.
42906304|Five records of an Australian bulldog ant, Myrmecia brevinoda Forel, in New Zealand are discussed with a comment on the species possible establishment.
42906305|Xanthocnemis tuanuii n.sp. is described from Chatham Island, New Zealand. It is closely related to the New Zealand mainland species X. zealandica but differs largely in the form of the male superior appendages. There also appear to be consistent differences in colour pattern.
42906308|Thirty-two Maori fortifications are described from the Tataraimaka district, Taranaki, North Island, New Zealand. The majority of sites have ring-ditch defences. Much of the survey area may be characterised as having an unusually high concentration of pa, many of which are of closely similar form.
42906309|Excavations by R. C. Green in 1965-66 are described by Aileen Fox. The site is a scarped enclosure on a defensible knoll, near the west coast of the North Island of New Zealand and the ancient portage from the Manukau Harbour to the Waikato River. It was in the well populated territory of the Ngati Kahukoka, a sub-tribe of the Wai-o-hua. Excavations revealed four phases of occupation, shown by a succession of storage pits. The first was probably an open settlement; in the second the summit platform was scarped and defended by a palisade; a sleeping house with an associated working floor and a cooking shed were built. The defences were subsequently reconstructed and pits were replaced. In the final phase pit storage was outside the enclosure where one large pit with elaborate timberwork was examined. Radiocarbon dates are not yet available.
42906310|Excavations in a small rock shelter at Waihora Bay, Taupo, in 1956, established four occupation layers. Artefacts included adzes, stone flakes, pumice bowls and net floats, bone tools and broken combs. Comparison with material from the site at Whakamoenga Cave, some 20 km to the east, shows similarities between the occupation 2 period at Whakamoenga and that of the rock shelter, suggesting a date of between the seventeenth and late eighteenth century.
42906311|This eighth list of some recent additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and re-determinations of earlier gatherings provides new records for some adventive species and further information on the distribution of others.
42906312|Vexillum (Costellaria)choslenae from the West Pacific Ocean is here described as a new species of the family Costellariidae.
42906313|The identity of the related muricid taxa Cronia fiscella (Gmelin), C. margariticola (Broderip) and its sub-species crassulnata (Hedley), is evaluated on the basis of type-specimens, type-figures, original descriptions and usage by previous authors.
42906314|Cronia ozenneana (Crosse, 1861) has chronological priority over C. gibba (Pease, 1865), and the radula of C. musiva (Kiener) is illustrated. Morula porphyrostoma (Reeve) is placed in synonymy of M. dumosa (Conrad) on the basis of its type specimen. The identity and synonymy of pascula benedicta (Melvill & Standen), Maculotriton serriale (Deshayes in Laborde & Linant) and Clivipollia bella (Reeve), are elucidated from their type specimens. Latiaxis fenestratus Kosuge is placed in synonymy of L. wormaldi Powell and the type-specimen of L. sibogae Schepman, is illustrated. Nassaria incerta (King) and Trajana woodringi E.H. Vokes, are additional fossil species of the Trajana-Nassaria group, and the Australian Nassaria problematica (Iredale) is tentatively reported from New Zealand waters. The radula is illustrated and a new range-extension recorded for Nassarius ctebricostatus (Schepman), and ovoviviparity is reported in N. tabescens (Marrat). New range-extensions are recorded for Mitra subflava (Kuroda & Habe), M. vexillum Reeve, and Ziba rehderi (Webb), and Mitra pudica (Pease) is re-assigned from the genus Pterygia to Mitra on the basis of its radular anatomy.
42906315|Two unique males are described as new species in the genera Psilochorema and Edpercivalia (Family Rhyacophilidae).
42906514|Twenty-seven pre-European Maori fortifications are described from the Okato district, Taranaki, North Island, New Zealand. Many of the sites have ring-ditch defences and show marked similarities to forms in previously surveyed districts to the north. Changes in natural topography towards the south-west margin of the survey area, however, have resulted in a change from ring-ditch forms to fortifications in which artificial defences cut off sections of natural terrace, or in three cases, lahar mounds, which are backed up against coastal or river scarps.
42906515|The whaling industry played an important part in early nineteenth century contact between Maori and Pakeha in New Zealand. Shore whaling is open to archaeological investigation, to define material and other aspects of the industry itself and to examine the nature of the relationship between whaler and Maori. There were perhaps eight whaling stations on Kapiti Island and its nearby islets. Together they make up what may be the outstanding surviving archaeological landscape of New Zealand's shore whaling industry.
42906516|The excavation of four prehistoric terrace sites on the Waikato coast, near Aotea Harbour, is described. The settlement dates to the late fifteenth or early sixteenth century A.D. The excavations shed light on the nature of undefended terrace settlements. Features identified include a sleeping house, a cooking shed, working areas and a variety of storage pits. An economic analysis shows the importance of stored horticultural produce and the lesser importance of shellfish and fish.
42906517|The 1965-66 excavations at the South Auckland site of Maioro were described and interpreted by Aileen Fox and R.C. Green in the previous volume. Their report indicated that six radiocarbon samples had been submitted for age determination, and would be reported when available. The results are now to hand and provide a 13th century A.D. estimation as the age for the initial open settlement occupation of the site, and a 15th century date as the time for its major use as a stockaded pa.
42906518|A place of ritual, burial mound and "Uenuku" marker posts are reported from the western shore of Lake Taupo.
42906519|A godstick from Ngataringa Bay in Auckland recently acquired by Auckland Museum is compared with known examples. The named set in Cambridge University Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology, the examples in Wanganui Museum recorded by Barrow, the set in Auckland Institute and Museum and other named examples are examined for information on the function of such sets.
42906520|Three nineteenth-century pianofortes are described, their constructional details tabled and summarised as illustrative of various aspects of early pianoforte manufacture, and dates of manufacture estimated. The New Zealand historical background is included for one instrument.
42906521|This ninth list of some recent additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and re-determinations of earlier gatherings provides new records for some adventive species and further information on the distribution of others.
42906522|Despite the classification of many of the Three Kings Islands' endemic plants as threatened species, they were last surveyed by botanists in 1963. The most recently published detailed information on their distribution and population size appeared in 1951. The present survey was carried out to provide a current report on the conservation status of the endemic flora of the islands, on which vegetation management decisions could be based. In 1982, all the endemic taxa were found to be present in equal or greater numbers of individuals than have been found in the past. Management strategies are briefly discussed.
42906523|New range extensions are recorded for Cypraea katsuae (Kuroda), Mitra deynzeri Cernohorsky, M. bellula A. Adams, Vexillwn millecostatum (Broderip) and Clavus papulosas (Garrett). On the basis of their type-specimens Murex brachys Melville & Standen, is synonymised with Morula echinata (Reeve), Sistrum morus var. borealis Pilsbry, with Morula japnica (Sowerby), Nentadactylus ceylonicum Preston, with Cronia contracta (Reeve), Bullia strenaria Melvill, with B. melanoides (Deshayes in Blanger), Microvoluta ponderi Cernohorsky, with M. miranda (E. A. Smith), and Hindsia rewaensis Ladd, with Neadmete nausorensis Ladd. Typespecimens of Thais squamigera (Deshayes in Blanger), Microvoluta teretiuscula (Thiele) and Volutomitra hottentotta (Thiele) are illustrated, and the identity of Vexillum ochracea (Hervier) is elucidated and synonymised with V. exasperatum (Gmelin).
42906524|Included in the natural history collections of the Auckland Institute and Museum are type specimens pertaining to 34 species or subspecies of amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals. In particular there are 26 name-bearing holotypes, lectotypes or neotypes. Details of these, and of plastotypes and paratypes, are given. The species involved are from mainland New Zealand, the Kermadec Islands, the Chatham Islands and from Heard and Kerguelen Islands in the subantarctic. Some are known only from fossils or subfossils. A lectotype of the skink Leiolopisma smithi numerale McCann, 1955 is nominated from among the syntypes.
42906525|Plants of Cryptostylis subulata taken from the recently discovered colony in North Auckland were observed during flowering over seven weeks. The only potential pollinators seen in daytime were males of Lissopimpla excelsa, a parasitic wasp species long known in many parts of New Zealand. Following pseudocopulation with a flower (as in Australia) the insect carried away waxy pollinia. Most open flowers were visited, often several times, pollinia were removed from 33, but only six capsules matured. Simple experiments indicated that scent was the primary attractant, bringing wasps to newly exposed flowers within 1-2 minutes.
42906526|An introduction to this series mainly covers the Bernice P. Bishop Museum, Honolulu, projects on arthropod dispersal, 1957-1970. Continuation of these studies from the Auckland Museum started with collecting on ships at sea since 1965 and ship-board trapping in the South Pacific area in 1969. Part 1 of the series records net-trapping on ships during regular return voyages from New Zealand through Fiji, Samoa and Tonga in the South Pacific Ocean.Trapping and collecting on 29 voyages between 1974 and 1979 are reported. Tables and maps of successful net runs and collections are included. Voyages are compared and preliminary insect and other arthropod results noted.
42906527|Two lacewings and an aquatic beetle are recorded further north in the North I. than previously known: Micromus bifasciatus Tillyard, 1923 (Neuroptera: Hemerobiidae) near Auckland (Waitemata Co.), Cryptoscenea australiensis (Enderlein, 1906) (Neuroptera: Coniopterygidae) and Gyrinus convexiusculus Macleay, 1873 (Coleptera: Gyrinidae), both in the far north (Mangonui Co.).
42906528|Records of aquatic insects and lacewings are given in a table for each Order. Sources of records include references to previous publications and to known specimens. Represented in the offshore islands fauna are the Neuroptera and the aquatic Ephemeroptera, Odonata, Plecoptera, Megaloptera, Trichoptera and some families of Hemiptera, Coleptera and Diptera. In an area of prevailing westerly winds the offshore islands are mostly east of the North I mainland and the fauna comprises North I species.
42906335|The 1968 salvage excavations at Pukearuhe (N99/49), north Taranaki, are reported. Pukearuhe was for long a Ngati Tama fortification; in the period 1865-1885 it was occupied by European forces, firstly, imperial troops and Taranaki Military Settlers, later, Armed Constabulary. Ngati Tama and European occupation was based on the powerful strategic situation of Pukearuhe at the northern gateway into Taranaki. Excavations revealed evidence of the Maori and European occupation. Radiocarbon dates were obtained for Maori occupation. European material adds to the knowledge of sites relating to the period of military conflict in Taranaki which extended from 1860 to the early 1880s.
42906336|An inscribed nose-flute from Tonga is analysed for its cultural content by translating the text written on the flute and attempting to interpret the drawings. Provenance and cultural context are confirmed by contemporary ethnographic evidence.
42906337|Description and directions for the making of children's toys from Tikopia, a Polynesian outlier in the Solomon Islands.
42906338|Two groups of dog-shape bowls are described; an older group made with stone tools and a newer group made with metal tools.
42906339|A previously unpublished manuscript is presented together with illustrative material and comments.
42906340|This tenth list of some recent additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) and re-determination of earlier gatherings provides new records for some adventive species and further information on the distribution of others.
42906341|Auckland Museum holds 162 specimens of rare or recently extinct New Zealand non-passerine birds. These are enumerated for the benefit of intending users of the collection, and all known collecting data are given for their importance as biological records. Present and past systems of numbering specimens of birds at Auckland Museum are reviewed.
42906342|Dendrolaelaps (Pontiolaelaps) crenatus, D. (P.) terebratus subgen. nov., spp. nov., and Leioseius australis sp. nov., are described. All species occur on barnacle-encrusted rocks on the north-east coast of the North Island, New Zealand.
42906345|The pa, Okuratope, near Waimate in the inland Bay of Islands district, is mapped and described. In January 1815, Okuratope was visited by the Rev. Samuel Marsden and J.L. Nicholas who have both left good accounts. At that time an estimated 200-300 people lived at the pa under the chiefs Hongi and Kaingaroa. The historical descriptions are used in interpretation of the archaeological evidence. A sequence of defensive arrangements is suggested.
42906346|Ten twin-lobed pendants of the New Zealand archaic phase of Maori culture are presented and their raw material, formal variation and distribution described. Raw material and distribution point to an origin in the Nelson district. The suspension of twin-lobed pendants, their symbolism and the significance of their distribution are discussed.
42906347|Three specimens of the musical instrument, angklung, from Java, gifted to the Museum by Capt. G.A. Humphreys-Davies in 1930, are examined with reference to the organology of the angklung, its historical and social context, and to its pitch and tonality. Pitch measurements and tonal sequence in relation to traditional Javanese tone sequences are tabled. Note is made of the present-day use in Indonesia of a Westernized form of the angklung.
42906348|This eleventh list of additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) by exchange or by presentation from collectors provides new records for some adventive species and further information on the distribution of others.
42906349|New geographical range extensions are recorded for Nassarius (Hima) rotundus (Melvill & Standen), Neocancilla takiisaoi (Kuroda) and Glycymeris (Tucetona) pectunculus (Linnaeus). Chicoreus aculeatus (Lamarck, 1822) is the correct name for C. artemis Radwin & D'Attilio, 1976, and Coralliophila violacea (Kiener, 1836) must be retained in nomenclature in preference to the homonymous Fusus neritoideus Lamarck, 1816. The taxon Chicoreus trivialis (A. Adams) is elucidated on the basis of its type-specimens and Engina mactanensis from the Philippines and Mitra dondani from the Western Pacific are described as new species. Vexillum (Pusia) zythochroum (Melvill) is a valid species from Florida, while the Mississippian Oligocene "Vexillum (Costellarla) tallahalaensis" Dockery in MacNeil & Dockery, is here re-assigned to Mitrolumna (Cymakra) in the family Turridae. The subfamilial turrid name Drilliinae Morrison, 1966, must replace the homonymous Clavinae Casey, 1904, and the family name Hamineidae Pilsbry, 1895, has priority over the homonymous Atyidae Thiele, 1925.
42906350|Subfossil lizard bones from Motutapu Island (Auckland) are illustrated and discussed. They came from beneath the Rangitoto ash layer and are therefore at least 600 years old. The bones are from a skink ca. 155 mm from snout to vent, which is larger than reported for any living New Zealand specimen.
42906351|Mesadenocoris robustus gen. et sp.n. from the Whangaroa and Hokianga districts of Northland, New Zealand, is described and figured. This new genus of Prosympiestinae shares some features with Adenocoris Usinger and Matsuda, particularly the spiny antenniferous tubercles, and with Neadenocoris Usinger and Matsuda, particularly in the anterior projection of the anterior angles of the pronotum. A key to the genera of the New Zealand Prosympiestinae is included.
42906353|Results from a December 1980 expedition to Tawhiti Rahi Island, Poor Knights Islands, are given together with other known records and information for the island group. Although these islands are known for endemic species amongst other insects, none have been recognised amongst the lacewings and aquatic insects specifically determined so far.
42906356|The excavation of R11 /898, Westfield, in South Auckland is described. The site, interpreted as an undefended settlement, was excavated in response to development. Postholes, a pit and evidence of cooking was uncovered, along with a number of artefacts of various types. It is suggested that although the main occupation of the site in the 16th century was of short duration, the settlement was not intended to be of a temporary nature.
42906357|The January 1982 excavation of a portion of the upper platform of the pa, Te Pane o Horoiwi, N42/365, at St Heliers, Auckland, is reported. Excavation established a sequence of activities: an initial period concerned with the building of defensive works around the perimeter of the citadel, the construction of a series of drainage ditches, the digging of a sequence of intercutting pits, and the construction of further defensive works and structures.
42906358|New geographical range extensions are recorded for Neothais rugulosa (Pease), Engina mactanensis Cernohorsky, Peculator verconis Iredale, Oliva buelowi Sowerby, and Anachis clathrata (Brazier) [nom. praeocc.]. Nassarius (Plicarcularia) gibbosulus (Linnaeus) and N. (P.) circumcinctus (A. Adams), are recognized as valid species occuring sympatrically in Turkey. Vexillum (Costellano) martinorum from the Philippines is described as a new species and Mitra japnica A. Adams, is elucidated on the basis of a lectotype designation.
42906359|Populations of an Indo-Pacific buccinici species previously considered to belong to a highly variable species, have been examined and tabulated, and are now separated into the two sympatric species Cantharus (Prodo tia) iostomus (Gray in Griffith & Pidgeon) and C. (P.) lannumi (Schwengel).
42906360|All known collections of Collembola from Macquarie Island are recorded, from 1901 up to the 1981 /82 season. Twenty-three species are now listed for Macquarie I (including Bishop I). Ten species are recorded as before, except Polykatianna gressitti is a new combination. Five species names supercede previous misidentifications, Friesea tilbrooki (recorded Greenslade 1986) for Sub antrctica sp., Tullbergia templei (recorded Greenslade 1986) for T. mixta (part) and T. mediantaretica, Isotoma (Parisotoma) insularis for Isotoma octooculata, Isotoma (Sorensia) punctata for Sorensia subflava, Isotoma (Desoria) tigrina for Isotoma klovstadi (the last three are new records here). Specimens of eight other species have been discovered, Hypogastrura (Ceratophysella) denticulata (recorded Greenslade & Wise 1984), and seven new records here, Isotoma (Pseudosorensia) atlantica, Cryptopygus dubius, C. caecus, C. lawrencei, C. tricuspis, Lepidosira terraereginae, Megalothorax sp.
42906363|The Brambley Collection of Maori artefacts from the Manukau South Head district includes the most important early, or 'archaic', assemblage of the Auckland region. Material recovered from N46-47/17, the Matatuahu site, on the southern shore of the entrance to Manukau Harbour, is most notable for its wide range of early adzes. The assemblage also has one-piece fishhooks of early form, a rare twin-lobed pendant rendered in Nelson serpentine, a harpoon point, files, drillpoints, hoanga (grinding stones) and a variety of flake tools and fragmentary stone material. Moa bone is probably industrial raw material and not evidence of moa hunting.
42906364|This paper discusses conservation treatment needed to stabilise the fragile condition of a rare Maori kite in the Auckland Museum collection. Identifications were carried out to ascertain the materials used in the kite's construction and library and archival research undertaken to establish the history of the kite's deterioration over the century it has been in the Museum's care.
42906365|This twelfth list of additions to the Auckland Institute and Museum Herbarium (AK) by exchange or by presentation from collectors provides new records for some adventive species and further information on the distribution of others.
42906366|The type specimens of Engina gibbosa Garrett, Latirus granulosus Pease, Engina ovata Pease, Sistrum squamosum Pease, Engina variabilis Pease, Engina nodulosa Pease, and Gibbuto affinis Garrett, have been examined. Lectotypes have been designated and the species re-assigned to their appropriate families and synonymy. The species Mrula ungulata (Sowerby), Gibbuto affnis var. cognata Pilsbry, and Clanculus danieli Crosse, have also been examined and the lectotypes are illustrated and discussed. The species known to date under the homonymous name "Morula parva (Pease)" is here described as M. parvissima sp.n.
42906367|Phos naucratoros Watson, P. hirasei Sowerby, P. nigroliratus Habe, P. elegantissimus Hayashi & Habe, and P. cf. borneensis Sowerby, are new geographical records from the Philippines and Nassarius oneratus (Deshayes), N. multicostatus (A. Adams), Scabricola vicdani Cernohorsky, Hastula anomala (Gray), Lophiotoma kingae Powell and Conus consors Sowerby, are new geographical records from the Fiji Islands. Latirus martinorum sp.n., a deep-water fasciolarid from the Philippines and Terebra bratcherae sp.n., a terebrid from West Australia, are described as new species. The radulae and metapodial tentacles of Nassarius gibbosulus (Linnaeus) and N. circumcinctus (A. Adams) are compared, and the species Vexillum (Costellaria) verecundulum (Hervier) is elucidated on basis of a live-taken specimen. The authorship of the family-group name Litiopidae is credited to Gray, 1847, instead of Fischer, 1885.
42906368|The ten Turridae species treated in this paper are mostly new geographical or benthic records. The identity of Gemmula congener (E.A. Smith) is here elucidated on the basis of its type specimen, and G. cosmoi (Sykes) is considered a separate species rather than a subspecies of G. congener. The status of the holotype of G. philippinensis (Powell) is discussed and Comitas huttoni (Suter, 1914) is the appropriate name for the species known as Comitas fusiformis (Hutton, 1877).
42906369|Additional descriptive notes are given from New Zealand specimens of Livoneca neocyttus Avdeev, 1975 an ectoparasite of deepwater oreosomatid dories. The host/parasite relationship is discussed in terms of specific hosts, site selection and host tissue damage.
42906370|A new genus and species, Zelandanura bituberculata is described. It is recorded from Campbell Island south of New Zealand. This genus and Australonura Cassagnau, 1980 form a distinct southern hemisphere line within the Neanurinae. Une nouvelle espce appartenant  un nouveau genre, Zelandanura bituberculata, est dcrite dans ce travail. Ce genre et Australonura Cassagnau, 1980 forment une ligne particulire  l'hmisphre austral au sein des Neanurinae.
42906371|Archaeological features present on the four largest islands indicate that Maoris permanently occupied the Three Kings Group for one or more periods in prehistoric time. Common elongate, hillside terraces, stonework (heaps, rows, retaining walls), and shallow boundary ditches, together with early European reports (pre 1800) show that extensive areas were cleared of forest and cultivated on Great, North East and probably South West Islands. The lack of pits may indicate that the climate was warm enough for crop storage above ground or that kumara could be grown year round. Clusters of smaller terraces, often with stonework and sparse midden, probably represent the sites of shelters adjacent to the gardens. A concentration of these features in Castaway Valley and on the northern side of South East Bay is interpreted as the main undefended dwelling area. Several small terraces on remote West Island may be the sites of temporary shelters used by short-term muttonbirding parties. No pa are present on these islands. Their isolation may have been considered sufficient defence. Prehistoric clearance of most of the forest had an enormous impact on the islands' biota and probably resulted in the extinction of a number of endemic plants and small animals.
42906372|Vegetation quadrats established in 1946 following the removal of goats from Great Island, Three Kings Group, were re-surveyed in 1982 and 1983. New plans of the quadrats are presented, and compared with earlier surveys in 1946, 1951 and 1963. For the two forested quadrats basal area and density figures are presented. A broad discussion of forest regeneration patterns on the island is given.
42906373|A preliminary list of 36 mosses from the Three Kings Islands is provided, based mainly on collections held in the herbarium of the Auckland Institute and Museum. The species recorded are all known members of northern New Zealand coastal communities. Comparison with moss floras of other northern offshore islands indicates that further bryological exploration of the Three Kings would be expected to reveal a much richer moss flora than is at present recorded.
42906374|A preliminary list of 20 taxa (19 hepatics and one anthocerotae) from the Three Kings Islands is provided, based on collections held at the Auckland Institute and Museum and the herbarium, Botany Department, University of Auckland. The species reported are also found in other northern localities in mainland New Zealand. Comparison with other offshore islands and with northern mainland localities suggests that a richer flora should be expected on the Three Kings Islands.
42906375|One hundred and sixty nine lichen taxa in 81 genera are recorded from the Three Kings Islands, northern New Zealand. Although most records are from Great Island, the list also includes collections from North East Island, South West Island and West Island. More than half of the lichens recorded are cosmopolitan (35%) species or New Zealand endemics (20%), with the remainder showing the following affinities: australasian (17%), pantropical (13%), austral (7%), palaeotropical (5%) and Western Pacific (3%). A distinctive perlatolic acidcontaining strain of Neofuscelia pulla appears to be confined to the Three Kings Islands. Great Island is the type locality for Erioderma sorediatum. Endocarpon cf. adscendens, Phyllopsora cf. haemophaea and Pyxine cocoes are additions to the New Zealand lichen flora, and an undescribed species of Trapeliopsis occurs on Metrosideros excelsa bark.
42906376|Three Kings Islands are composed of hydrothermally altered submarine basalt flows and acidic tuff and breccia, represented by spilite and keratophyre (Three Kings Volcanics  new formation), together with closely associated and locally interbedded greywacke (Tokerau Formation). These rocks have been intruded by basaltic dikes and rare sills. The volcanics and associated sedimentary rocks are probably of Cretaceous age, possibly early Cretaceous. The time of origin of the islands themselves is unknown but they are unlikely to have been joined to mainland New Zealand within the last few million years. The presence of high-level Quaternary terraces preserved on the islands indicates that the area is currently being uplifted.
42906377|The igneous rocks described are spilite, olivine basalt, basaltic tuff, and keratophyre intruded by numerous dikes and sills of basaltic composition. Almost all keratophyres are shown to be hydrothermally altered rhyolitic tuffs and ash flows that have undergone potassium metasomatism. The spilites are also products of sodium metasomatism of original olivine basalt. The alteration to keratophyres and spilites was favoured by high permeability and porosity in the rhyolitic tuffs and highly vesicular and brecciated basalts. Suggested correlation is with the Whangakea Volcanics of North Cape. Sedimentary rocks are iron-stained conglomerate, clay and chlorite cemented arenite, siltstone, and calcareous argillite. It is concluded that the Three Kings Islands were a group of Cretaceous volcanic islands or seamounts, with initial submarine, but later subaerial volcanism.
42906378|Ninety-two species of fishes, representing 46 families, are recorded from the Three Kings Islands. An area influenced by both ocean surface water movements and cold water upwelling, the Three Kings region is characterised by a mixture of forms, with either warm or cold water affinities. Significant northward range extensions are noted for Pseudolabrus cinctus and Pseudophycis barbatus.
42906382|In 1967 site P5/227, Poor Hill (Ngaungau pa), near Waimate North, inland Bay of Islands was mapped after the ridge had been cleared of scrub. Three small excavations were carried out on terraces external to the pa. The lowest terrace produced a rectangle of large postholes suggesting that a big structure once stood there. The other two excavations also indicated the use of terraces for houses and living. Lack of any European artefacts and the traditional evidence suggest a late 18th century date for the site.
42906383|Non-artefact obsidian from the Westfield (R11/898) site was sourced using Xray fluorescence (XRF) chemical analysis on seven flakes of unknown origin and selected geological samples of known source. Both qualitative and quantitative methods of clustering the unknowns indicates that the obsidian from this site comes from as few as two sources. Mayor Island is the most likely source of the green obsidian, and it is likely that most of the grey unknowns came from a Great Barrier Island source. Within the constraints of possible error, the idea of only two sources fits accepted theories on the origin of this raw material for temporary sites on the Auckland isthmus.
42906384|The constructional details and action mechanism of a nineteenthcentury square pianoforte from the Museum collection are described, and the date of manufacture estimated. Brief reference is made to the New Zealand historic background.
42906385|The genus Mitromorpha Carpenter is divided in the subgenera Lovellona Iredale, Mitrolumna Bucquoy, Dautzenberg & Bouge, and Anarithma Iredale. Some Indo-Pacific species of the Anarithma group are elucidated on the basis of their type specimens.
42906386|Species of the families Mitridae, Costellariidae and Nassariidae obtained from waters around Reunion Island are enumerated. Mitra (Nebularia) boucheti and Nassarius (Zeuxis) reunionensis are described as new species, and Vexillum (Costellarla) albatum is proposed as a substitute name for the homonymous Turricula casta H. Adams, 1872, and Mitra bastata Sowerby, 1874. The Miocene fossil species Nassarius dijki (K. Martin, 1895) is reported as still living in deep water around Reunion Island.
42906387|Records are presented of birds seen, and reptiles collected, in July 1988 on Tongatapu and three islands of the Ha'apai group (Lifuka, Foa and Lofanga), Kingdom of Tonga. Sightings of birds on Tongatapu, 'Eua, Vava'u and Niuatoputapu by A.P. and E.F. Fabian are given, as are a few records of birds and reptiles based on specimens in Auckland Museum collected before 1988. The White-faced Heron Ardea novaehollandiae is reported from Tonga for the first time, and European Starlings Sturnus vulgaris seen on Foa are the first record ofthat species from the Ha'apai group. Blue-crowned Lorikeets Vini australis, now rare in Tonga, were seen on Lofanga and Niuatoputapu.
42906388|This paper is the first revision of the genus Mimopeus (formerly Cilibe) to be published since the review by Gebien in his Katalog Tenebrioniden in 1938-42. Because of the considerable length of this manuscript it has been decided to publish it in two parts. This first part contains a description of taxonomic methods and techniques, a description of the genus Mimopeus, a key to species of Mimopeus and descriptions of nine new species. These are M. neglectus, M. turbotti, M. insularis, M. parvus, M. vallis, M. clarkei, M. parallelus, M. johnsi and M. convexus. The second part of the paper, which is to be published in the next issue of this journal, will include additional information on previously described species and a critical review of previously published data.
42906389|This study of coastal tiger beetles was initiated to consider the occurrence of colour patterns on various sand colours. Historical records are included together with current collections around the northern coasts of the North Island. Early records are confused but current collections show that, in the species currently accepted as Neocicindela perhispida (Broun, 1880), three previously described subspecies, Neocicindela perhispida campbelli (Broun, 1886) on black ironsands on the more southern west coast, N.p. perhispida (Broun, 1880) on grey to cream sands on the northern west coast and N.p. g vem van Nidek, 1965 on very pale cream and glistening white sands in the far north, are one continuous series with the camp belli-perhispida change zone along Muriwai Beach and the perhispida-giveni along Ninety Mile Beach further north. Another species Neocicindela brevilunata (Horn, 1926) is found to be confined to the east coast south of Whangarei Hbr., from Marsden Pt. south to Pakiri on greyish-white sand-dunes. Differences in sand colour and composition are shown to correspond with differences in the distribution of coastal tiger beetles. Local and seasonal activity of these beetles are noted, colour and elytral colour patterns are described and the consideration of species and subspecies is discussed. Synonymic lists are provided for the two species together with details of specimens of the coastal tiger beetles in some overseas museums. The published records are compared. The results of these findings are discussed and compared with original descriptions of the two species elytral patterns which are shown to be two descriptions of the same species.
42906390|An Australian species of Hemerobiidae has recently been described and the species is now recorded for New Zealand. A further northern record is given for an endemic Hemerobiid species. A species of Coniopterygidae and one of Chrysopidae are each recorded from a single specimen.
42906393|The excavation of adjacent sites R11/887, 888 and 899 in Tamaki are described. Together the sites formed part of an extensive open settlement occupied in the sixteenth century. The rescue nature of the excavations provided a valuable opportunity to examine a greater area of an open settlement than is usually possible. Specific activities were identified at R11/887, including cooking, living, storage and stoneworking areas. Site R11/888 has been interpreted as a specialist site with huts for storage of equipment and a living floor of laid shells. At R11 /899 there were several superimposed houses and a group of deep storage pits. The layout of the sites presented an impressive illustration of an unfortified hamlet, probably associated with occupation of the pa at Te Apunga o Tainui.
42906394|Modicarventus wisei gen. et sp. n. from the Mangonui district of Northland, is described and figured. This new genus of Carventinae shares several features with Neocarventus Usinger & Matsuda. A key to the genera of the New Zealand Carventinae is included.
42906395|The genus Neocarventus Usinger and Matsuda, is redescribed and Neocarventus uncus sp. n. from leaf-litter in the Wharawara, Puketi, and Waipoua State Forests, Northland, New Zealand is described and figured.
42906396|This paper is part II of a revision of the genus Mimopeus. Part I was published in Rec. Auckland Inst. Mus. 25: 95-146 and includes a key to species on pp. 117-120. Part II contains redescriptions of previously described species and full synonymies are listed. It also includes a section of Biogeography and Ecology. References to Figs. 1-105 in this text are to figures published in Part I, as are Tables 1-4. The redescribed species are M. elongatus, M. pascoei, M. opaculus, M. buchanani, M. humeralis, M. thoracicus, M. lateralis, M. granulosus, M subcostatus, M. costellus, M. impressifrons, M. tibialis, M. rugosus.
42906397|The Gyrinid species now known as Gyrinus convexiusculus Macleay, 1871, first described from Australia, was first discovered in New Zealand prior to 1873 by F. W. Hutton and a specimen was described as Gyrinus huttoni Pascoe, 1877. The locality given was Waikato, a large area north of the central plateau in the North Island. The same species of whirligig beetles was re-discovered in the Waikato, in lakes in Waipa Co., during the late 1970s. Both occurrences are discussed here and known specimens have been examined. In early 1983 another population of the same species was found in Mangonui Co. at the northern end of the North I, in man-made 'dams' more than 350 km from the Waipa Co. lakes. This population was monitored from 1983 to early 1987 and again in 1988. The locality is described and the history of the area indicates the dams were most probably constructed in the early 1930s. Results of observations and collections are given. Two specimens, found recently in the T. Broun collection, were collected in a third area on the northern east coast in Whangarei Co. Published records and known specimens of the species in New Zealand are recorded and possible origins of the Waikato and northern populations are discussed.
42906400|Limited excavations in the interior of a headland pa at Kauri Point, Birkenhead (N42/27; R11/35), revealed signs of brief and transitory occupation, despite the strategic position of the site. This may have been due to the lack of good gardening soils in the vicinity. The small stone assemblage recovered from the excavations shows that the inhabitants were importing raw material for oven stones and tools from a number of sources. Midden deposits consisted mainly of local estuarine shellfish. Very few fish bones were found despite the traditional importance of the area for fishing.
42906401|The early or 'Archaic' beach midden at Whitipirorua, or Onemana, has produced a large and varied collection of artefacts now housed in the Auckland Museum. The artefacts are typical of those found in similar sites along the eastern coast of the Coromandel Peninsula. Decorative pendants, fishing gear, adzes and a wide range of manufacturing tools such as drillpoints, sandstone files, hoanga, hammerstones and flake tools are described. The stone artefacts show a heavy reliance on locally obtained resources and a predominance of Tahanga basalt for adze making. Radiocarbon dates from recent excavations on the site indicate the artefacts predate the 15th century.
42906402|A number of well preserved combs, some in varying stages of manufacture, collected from caves and rock shelters on the west coast of Auckland, New Zealand, earlier this century are described. One is of whalebone, while the remainder are of wood, either one-piece or composite. The one-piece combs are similar stylistically but are smaller than combs from other archaeological collections. Two of the composite combs have intact flax bindings, and all the finished combs are stained with oil and red ochre. These combs are of a form that suggests they are of the later prehistoric period.
42906403|Excavations at Raupa, near Paeroa, were undertaken to salvage some information before the site was destroyed in the course of flood control work by the Hauraki Catchment Board. The first of two seasons work in 1987 and 1988 is reported here. Raupa is a swamp pa of the Hauraki Plains. It is similar in location and environment to Oruarangi, a site which has been important in New Zealand archaeology because of the great number of artefacts found there and the use of resulting collections in describing the material culture of the 'classic Maori'. The 1987 excavations were directed to outlining the internal arrangement of the Raupa settlement and locating one of the large houses described by the Rev. Samuel Marsden during his visit of June 1820. A large house was found along with cooking and waste disposal areas, a rectangular storage pit and a variety offences, stockades and roofed structures. Obsidian and chert was abundant, artefacts included adzes and adze pieces, kokowai grinding stones, patu muka and patu onewa pieces, a pumice pot and bone needle, also fishhook, bird spear and tattoo chisel fragments. A hoanga fragment was incised with a simple design reminiscent of facial tattoo.
42906404|Eighty-four species of mosses from 32 families are recorded from the Miners Cove area of northern Great Barrier Island, Hauraki Gulf, New Zealand. Fissidens hyophilus Mitt., a moss known from Queensland, Australia, is recorded new to New Zealand. Two other species with tropical affinities, which have seldom been recorded from New Zealand, were found in the area: Syrrhopodon armatus Mitt, of the Calymperaceae and Thuidium cymbifolium (Dozy & Molk.) Dozy & Molk, of the Thuidiaceae. The modifying effects of goats and pigs on the moss communities are noted.
42906405|Records are presented of reptiles, birds and mammals seen (and reptiles collected) in September and October 1989 on six islands of the Vava'u group (Vava'u, Pangaimotu, 'Utungake, Okoa, Koloa and Kapa), Kingdom of Tonga. A few records from Tongatapu and Ha'apai are included. The Dandy Skink (Emoia trossula) is reported from Vava'u for the first time. A map shows localities where this lizard and the endemic Tongan Whistler (Pachycephala jacquinoti) were seen in the Vava'u group. Green-backed Herons (Butorides striatus) are reported from Tonga for the first time, and the second record of the White-faced Heron (Ardea novaehollandia) in Tonga is given.
42906406|Records of reptiles from Niuafo'ou, Niuatoputapu, the Vava'u group, Late, 'Eua and 'Ata, Kingdom of Tonga, are presented, based on 167 voucher specimens collected between 1969 and 1990. Emoia murphyi is reported from Niuafo'ou, Niuatoputapu, and Vava'u. E. pheonura, the recently described sibling species to E. cyanura, is reported from Niuafo'ou, Niuatoputapu, Vava'u, Ha'apai, Tongatapu, 'Eua and 'Ata based on the above vouchers and reidentification of specimens in the Auckland Museum collection. The iguana Brachylophus fasciatus is reported from Vava'u and Tongatapu.
42906407|Following an earlier study (Wise 1988), two previously unseen publications are noted and Neocicindelaperhispida is discussed. A further locality record, on Great Barrier I, is given for Neocicindela brevilunata. This species is not known to occur further south on the east coast of the North I and N. perhispida is not known to extend southwards on the west coast either on black ironsands or lighter coloured sands.
42906408|Trichoptera species are listed, in a table, for Auckland and for North Auckland counties, from previous records and from identified adult specimens. Approximately 16 species are recorded in Auckland, 50 in Waitemata Co, eight others further north and one in "Northland'. Total numbers indicate that slightly more than one third of the described New Zealand species occur in North Auckland.
42906409|Microvelia macgregori (Veliidae), Hydrometra risbeci (Hydrometridae) and Mesovelia sp. (Mesoveliidae) are accepted as the three semi-aquatic bugs (Gerroidea) on fresh water in New Zealand and all occur through North Auckland. Mniovelia kuscheli, the New Zealand terrestrial Mesoveliid is also noted for North Auckland.
42906412|Excavations at Whitipirorua, or Onemana, were carried out in 1986 and 1988, providing information to enable the large collection of artefacts previously recovered from the site to be put into an archaeological perspective. An early or Archaic beach midden, the site has three distinct periods of occupation. Radiocarbon age estimates indicate that occupation occurred in the 14th and 15th centuries. Shell midden, firescoops, postholes and a pit were found. Midden remains were typical of a Coromandel Peninsula Archaic site. Local stone materials of chert and obsidian were utilised along with imported obsidian and basalt. Artefacts were scarce in the excavated area. Whitipirorua is interpreted as a large occupation site, tending to the more permanently occupied end of the settlement pattern spectrum.
42906413|The Taylor's Hill excavation, on a small Auckland volcanic cone pa, was the first effort in stratigraphic excavation of a North Island archaeological site. It was carried out between 1954 and 1956 while part of the site was being quarried. Two separate areas were opened up, both producing a number of artefacts and some faunal material, especially dog bone. The excavation included part of a platform and some terraces, most of which had pits dug into them. No house sites were found. Radiocarbon dates suggest an occupation period sometime between the 15th and 18th century.
42906414|The life and work of Jacob William Heberley (1849-1906), Maori carver of Wellington, is examined as one example of the way in which Maori carving made the transition from a tribal art to a modern commercial art. Jacob's family relationships are traced in order to establish the precedents of his art style. It is concluded that Jacob was basically self-taught. Unlike the carvers who made the transition to the modern world by working in a tribal carving school, Jacob worked alone serving mainly European patrons, especially the politicians and collectors of Wellington. Much of his carving was commissioned as official government gifts to visiting royalty. Twenty-two documented carvings by Jacob are described and distinguished from the work of other contemporary carvers. On the basis of this examination, a further 55 items in public and private collections are attributed to the hand of Jacob Heberley. Jacob taught his two nephews, Herbert and Thomas to carve and their subsequent careers are briefly traced, including Herbert's work on a meeting house at Riverhead, Auckland and Thomas's employment as a carver at the Dominion Museum, Wellington.
42906415|A University of Auckland Department of Anthropology archaeological field school carried out excavations at the site of Waiwhau in 1987 and again in 1988. These provided a site stratigraphy, and evidence of three main settlement phases: undefended, defended and undefended, followed by the use of the site as a burial ground. The emphasis was on dispersed settlement and temporary defensive measures, in contrast to the neighbouring densely occupied site at Raupa. Historic sources support an early protohistoric date for Waiwhau. Details from these sources correlate well with excavation findings.
42906416|Two hundred and fifty-one lichen species from 96 genera are recorded from Little Barrier Island, northern New Zealand. This represents about 20% of the present total of known lichens in the New Zealand flora and this richness reflects the diversity of largely unmodified natural vegetation types and habitats on the island. These Little Barrier records include the second New Zealand records of Arthonia tumidula, Calicium robustellum, Dimerella zonata, Hypotrachyna immaculata and Lopadium monosporum (endemic); and the most northerly records in New Zealand of a further 20 species.
42906417|An annotated list of 52 species from 23 families of mosses is provided for Tawhiti Rahi, bringing the total number of mosses known from the Poor Knights Islands to 71 species. The moss flora of Tawhiti Rahi differed significantly from that of Aorangi, the other large island in the Poor Knights group, the differences being in part attributed to the different microhabitats available on the two islands. Nevertheless, there are similarities, with 40 species in common. As on Aorangi, the moss flora of Tawhiti Rahi reflects the relatively dry climate of these low-lying offshore islands and includes a significant tropical element.
42906418|The 1 Megaloptera species and 15 Neuroptera species occurring in the New Zealand subregion are listed and their distributions and suggested status given. The Neuroptera include 7 endemic, 4 indigenous and 4 introduced species. Distributions within the subregion are given in a table and illustrated in maps. Wider distributions for all species are also given in a table. The indigenous species are common to Australia and New Zealand and are considered to be wind-borne in New Zealand. The overall distribution of these species are illustrated in maps, by family. In each of three family maps another, non-New Zealand, species is shown for comparison. The endemic species may have arisen through an ancient Gondwanaland connection with Australia and South America. The distributions of all species are shown diagrammatically to illustrate possible zoogeographical relationships.
42906421|A radiocarbon date for the headland pa at Kauri Point, Birkenhead, is reported. This suggests that the site was constructed and occupied relatively recently. Analysis of charcoal recovered from the test excavations in 1971 indicates that the site was in a cleared area surrounded by kauri-dominated podocarp forest.
42906422|Archaeological excavations at Raupa, near Paeroa, in 1988 uncovered the charred remains of Maori fibrework dating from the early 19th century. Represented are rain capes, plaited pieces, and possibly a korowai cloak. Interpretation has depended upon similar fibre pieces recovered from dry cave environments in the Waitakere Ranges near Auckland. The Raupa material adds to the small quantity of Maori fibrework from securely dated archaeological contexts.
42906423|The second of two seasons work at Raupa, near Paeroa, Hauraki Plains, is reported. A further 172 m was excavated, to make up a total of 385.35 m in two years at the site. In 1988 work was concentrated on the area around a large house found in 1987. Work was also undertaken north of the house in what proved to be part of the defences of the pa. Two major occupation periods were identified. In the second (later) period an intensive stone working area was located just east of the 1987 house. Artefacts included a burnt wooden bowl and cloaks, large quantities of obsidian and chert, also adzes, patu muka pieces, hoanga, nephrite chisels and ornaments, and tattooing chisels and other bone items. Radiocarbon dates confirm archaeological indications of 18th and 19th century occupation only. The lack of items of European origin and plentiful stone material in a major settlement of 1820 indicate slow penetration of European material culture since first contact half a century earlier.
42906424|A new species, Anodontia (Anodontia) waharoaensis, is described from the Lower Miocene Waitakere Group, Motutara, West Auckland. It is the first record of the genus from New Zealand.
42906425|One hundred and thirty-one macrofossil taxa (51 gastropods, 35 bivalves, 19 corals, 9 fish (otoliths), 4 scaphopods, 4 brachiopods, 4 barnacles, 3 polychaetes, 1 shark (tooth), 1 echinoderm) are recorded from two rich, early Miocene (Otaian), Waitemata Group fossil beds exposed in Hays and Tipakuri Streams in the northern Hunua Ranges. Ninety-seven species of foraminifera (protozoan microfossils) are recorded from six faunas recovered from the associated strata. These macro- and microfossil faunas are used to interpret the paleoenvironmental history of the area. The previously unrecorded Tipakuri Stream fauna in basal Waitemata Group muddy sandstone (Kawau Subgroup) appears to be an in-situ assemblage that accumulated at mid to outer shelf depths during the early subsidence of the Waitemata Basin. The Hays Stream macrofauna, from which 35 taxa had previously been recorded, occurs in Waitemata Group strata transitional between the basal shallow water Kawau Subgroup and the deep bathyal Warkworth Subgroup flysch that filled most of the Waitemata Basin. The Hays Stream macrofauna contains a mixed assemblage that we interpret to be derived from four distinct groups of communities: i. intertidal and shallow subtidal sand and mud communities; ii. intertidal and shallow subtidal rock and coarse gravel communities; iii. inner to mid shelf silt, sand and fine gravel communities; iv. outer shelf to upper bathyal mud and sand community. Shells, gravel, sand and mud from these communities are inferred to have mixed together in a mass flow that carried them down to deep upper bathyal depths (500-1000 m), during the period of major subsidence of several thousand metres that formed the Waitemata Basin.
42906426|Five extant and one extinct populations of the local endemic landsnail Placostylus bollonsi Suter are known from Three Kings Islands. Morphometric data show that there are consistent differences between the populations in shell characters, and historical information indicates that those morphological differences are probably largely hereditary. The populations on West and North East Islands are estimated to comprise at least 100 and 200 individuals respectively. The extant populations on Great Island were reduced to very low numbers earlier this century after habitat destruction by feral goats, but have increased markedly in size and range since 1946 in response to regeneration of broadleaf vegetation following the removal of goats from the island. In March 1991 it was estimated that the P. b. bollonsi population covered an area of about 1.69 ha and numbered at least 210 individuals, the P. b. caperatus population covered an area of about 0.49 ha and numbered at least 130 individuals, and the P. b. arbutus population covered an area of about 2.7 ha and comprised at least 360 individuals. Adult P. bollonsi snails are believed to lay small numbers of relatively large eggs up to 18 mm long in spring and/or early summer, with most eggs hatching by late summer. Size frequency data indicate the possibility that juvenile snails increase in length by about 25-30 mm/year, and attain adult size at about 3 years old. Rates of turnover of adults in populations are not known, but the average age of adult snails is likely to be at least 8-10 years given the very low proportions of juvenile size classes in populations. Size frequency data for empty shells suggest that at least 60% of snails fail to attain adult size, and indicate that relative mortality rates of hatchlings (i.e. shells <20 mm high) are significantly higher than those of larger juveniles. Mortality of P. bollonsi is inferred to occur predominantly as a result of dessication or old age; there is no evidence that prdation is a significant cause of mortality. The principal factors determining the distribution of P. bollonsi snails within colonies appear to be the presence of broadleaf food plants, and sheltered microhabitats in broadleaf litter or under groundcover plants. P. bollonsi occurs at densities of up to 2-6 snails/m in local patches, but overall mean densities of populations determined from 25 m quadrats range from 0.15-0.35 snails/m.
42906427|The one described New Zealand species of Berothidae, Protobiella zelandica Tillyard, 1923, was previously known from only 2 female specimens. Additional records are noted. A new description, based on male and female specimens, is given. It is concluded that P. zelandica stands alone as a separate endemic species and is the only New Zealand Berothid.
42906430|A new species of the crinoid Nielsenicrinus is described from the late Oligocene Torehina Formation, Coromandel, North Island, New Zealand. It lived in an inner-shelf, marine paleoenvironment no deeper than 50 m.
42906431|Thirty-nine macrofossil taxa are recorded from the late Oligocene (Duntroonian to mid Waitakian) Torehina Formation at Waitete Bay, northern Coromandel Peninsula. A rich fauna dominated by infaunal suspension-feeding bivalves occurs in 25-30 m of calcareous siltstone and fine sandstone in the middle of the formation. Also recorded from this unit are 42 species of foraminiferal microfossils (3-5% planktic forms) from three faunal samples. Both macro and microfossils indicate accumulation in a sheltered marine environment at deep inner shelf depths (20-50 m). A low diversity macrofauna, containing a mixture of soft sediment and hard substrate dwelling forms, occurs in sandy flaggy limestone in the upper part of the Torehina Formation. This fauna is also inferred to have lived at deep inner shelf depths on a sandy seabed where patches of lithified bioclastic sandstone was developing. These fossil-based paleoenvironmental assessments indicate that the Torehina Formation was deposited during an interval in which sea level was raised or the area subsided 80-90 m.
42906432|Types of Phrixgnathus francesci Webster, 1904 and Phrixgnathus elaiodes Webster, 1904 contain more than one species in each case and lectotypes are here selected in line with the author's original description. Both species are transferred to the genus Taguahelix Powell, 1955. Two new species, Phrixgnathus douglasi and Taguahelix crispata, are described. These snails have been confused in the past with the Webster species. Phrixgnathus brunneus is also described, a species which A.E. Brookes intended naming about 1930, having selected prospective types from the Bay of Plenty.
42906434|Primary types (holotypes, syntypes, lectotypes and neotypes) of 265 species of terrestrial and freshwater Protista, Annelida and Arthropoda curated by the Entomology Department of the Auckland Institute and Museum, New Zealand, are listed. Collection information, derived from a combination of specimen labels and published data, and a full bibliographic reference are given for each.
42906435|A full-term embryonic Kokako Callaeas cinerea had 11 well-developed patches of natal down. These included all eight main down-patches noted on two New Zealand passerines previously studied by the author (Grey Warbler Gerygone igata and Whitehead Mohoua albicilla), plus the caudal, primary and crural patches. Twelve Kokako eggs were 34.2-42.1 mm long and 25.7-29.2 mm wide. It seems likely that South Island eggs are slightly larger on average than those from the North Island.
42906436|The endemic New Zealand species Micromus bifasciatus Tillyard, 1923 is compared with Micromus tasmaniae (Walker, 1860) a species common in both Australia and New Zealand. Three syntypes from Tasmania, Australia, are designated as lectotype and paralectotypes of Hemerobius tasmaniae Walker, 1860. Redescriptions of specimens known as 'varieties' suggest they could be hybrids of the two species.
42906439|In the First Taranaki War of 1860-61 small field works thrown up by both sides were central to the conduct and course of the fighting. Maori works included ca 30 fortified pa, also rifle pits and trenches. Thirty-one Pakeha forts were earthwork redoubts, stockades or blockhouses. Archaeological remains of the sites make up an important part of the north Taranaki historic landscape. It was a major part of Maori strategy to erect fortified pa to invite attack. By this means the enemy would be defeated and the conflict brought to an end. A notable success was achieved at Puketakauere in June I860, otherwise the strategy was to prove indecisive. European forces used fortifications to gain battlefield advantage, protect lines of communication, and defend civilian and troop concentrations. The success of the works was measured not by their having repelled an attack but by none having been attempted. The campaign saw the first major use of field fortifications by Pakeha forces in the New Zealand Wars, and their only sustained use in tactical battlefield roles.
42906440|Type material of New Zealand dicotyledons in the AK Herbarium is presented in an annotated checklist of 590 taxa. This completes the five-part annotated checklist of vascular type specimens in the AK Herbarium.
42906441|A new species of crinoid, Isselicrinus mangahouangaensis, is described from the Upper Cretaceous Maungataniwha Sandstone, western Hawkes Bay, North Island, New Zealand. It is the first record of the genus from New Zealand and the first crinoid to be described from the Cretaceous of New Zealand. It lived in an inner shelf, marine paleoenvironment and is the remnant of a Tethyan fauna that migrated to New Zealand.
42906442|Eighty-four macrofossil taxa (including 43 molluscs, nine echinoids, eight chordates, and three each of barnacles, corals and brachiopods) are recorded from the Kawau Subgroup at Fossil Point, Bostaquet Bay, Kawau Island, north of Auckland city. Nineteen species of foraminifera (shelled Protozoa) are recorded from two microfossil samples from the associated strata. The fossil faunas confirm an early Miocene (Otaian stage) age. The macrofauna is inferred to contain a mixture from three communities. Nearly half the fauna (e.g. Sarmaturbo, Haliotis, Cookia, Cellana, Crenostrea, hermatypic corals, some in situ), is derived from a subtidal rocky shore and coarse gravel community that probably lived at 0-20 m depth. Most of the rest of the macrofauna, as well as the foraminiferal microfauna is an in situ, inner shelf sand community that lived in a moderately exposed paleobay at inferred depths of 10-30 m. Also present are macrofossils that are inferred to have floated or washed in from the surrounding rocky shoreline, from a nearby estuary and from the nektonic fauna that lived farther out to sea.
42906443|Kokikora n. gen. is established containing two new species. Kokikora angulata n. sp. is widely distributed mainly in the North Auckland Peninsula, and Kokikora mimiwhangata n. sp. has been found at only a few sites on the east coast of Northland. Both snails seem to prefer a coastal habitat.
42906445|Whangape is a small Y-shaped harbour which opens to the Tasman Sea on the west coast of Northland through a narrow, 4 m deep and 4 km long gorge. The biota of the harbour floor sediments has a low diversity and is more like that of a large estuary than a northern harbour. Pipi (Paphies australis) and cockles (Austrovenus stutchburyi) are the dominant benthic organisms. Live pipi are largely subtidal and occur in the cleaner, coarser sediments of the entrance channel (up to 50 per litre) and Rotokakahi arm. Live cockle are intertidal and subtidal and mostly occur in muddy sediment of Awaroa arm, the central basin and lower Rotokakahi arm. The most diverse fauna occurs in the central basin just inside the entrance channel. Medium sand in the centre of the basin is dominated by pipi with associated hermit crabs, whelks (Cominella glandiformis and C. maculosa), chitons (Chiton glaucus), limpets (Notoacmea helmsi) and anemones (Anthopleura aureoradiata). Fine sandy mud to the sides of the basin is dominated by nut shells (Nucula hartvigiana), wedge shells (Tellina liliana) and cockles, with associated bivalves (Notirus reflexus), saucer limpets (Sigapatella novaezelandiae) and polychaetes (Glycera tesselata, Owenia fusiformis and Lumbrinereis aotearoae).
42906446|Census data on benthic foraminiferal tests in 60 seafloor sediment samples (high tide to 68 m depth; slightly brackish to normal marine) around northern Great Barrier Island, are analysed by cluster analysis. The faunal samples are grouped into eight associations. Characterising species of each association are found by calculating "association scores" for each species, based on its abundance, relative abundance, fidelity, persistence and dominance within each association. The foraminiferal associations are: A. Ammonia beccarii/Elphidium excavatum - intertidal and shallow subtidal, sheltered, slightly brackish environments, 0-5 m; B. Quinqueloculina seminula/Miliolinella subrotundata - shallow subtidal, moderately sheltered, gravelly sand, 2-17 m; C. Elphidium charlottensis/Haynesina depressula - shallow subtidal sand, 4-16 m; D. Nonionella flemingi/Bolivina pseudoplicata - muddy sediment in quiet inner shelf depths, 12-35 m; E. Gaudryina convexa/Discorbis dimidiatus -moderately exposed sand at 1-28 m; F. Discorbis dimidiatus/Rosalina irregularis -sand at 3-33 m in Rangiwhakaea Bay; G. Gaudryina convexa/Bulimina submarginata -wide range of sediment types, at 23-58 m depths on the exposed coast; H. Bulimina submarginata/Hanzawaia bertheloti - fine sand at mid shelf depths, > 50 m. In the cluster analysis dendrogram, the first order division splits the slightly brackish association A off from the remaining normal salinity associations. The second order division splits the normal salinity faunas into an eastern, more diverse, more oceanic group (E-H) and a western, more neritic group (B-D). The third order divisions split the oceanic and neritic groups into associations, presumably determined by a combination of other environmental factors, such as substrate type, energy regime, light penetration. The dominant foraminiferal species are grouped by cluster analysis into seven species associations. These correlate quite closely with the sample associations, with only two species associations being prevalent in more than one sample association. Planktics comprise 15-20% of the foraminiferal fauna in exposed situations (25-70 m depth) on both sides of northern Great Barrier Island, but the planktic associations are distinctly different. On the northeast side, the planktics are diverse in size range and taxonomic composition and indicate shoreward movement and input from the oceanic plankton offshore. On the northwest side, the planktics are all small and of low taxonomic diversity, dominated by Globigerina falconensis and G. quinqueloba, typical of nearshore neritic plankton.
42906449|Late Ordovician crinoid faunas are described from the Arthur Marble of Hailes Knob, Upper Takaka, north-west Nelson. Three camerate crinoids and the first inadunate crinoid from New Zealand are recorded with the genera Reteocrinus, Archaeocrinus, Deocrinus andAetheocrinus being recognised. They are the earliest crinoids to be described from this country and are interpreted here as having migrated from a North American midcontinental shelf environment.
42906450|One hundred and eighty-seven macrofossil taxa (including 54 bivalves, 89 gastropods, three echinoderms, three chordates, six corals, two brachiopods and four plants) are recorded from three early Miocene Kawau Subgroup sequences on Waiheke Island, east of Auckland city. This doubles the number of fossil taxa previously recorded from these classic localities. Fossils from intertidal and shallow subtidal rocky reefs, coarse shelly gravel, and inner shelf sandy seafloor are generally mixed together in varying proportions in the conglomerates and sandstone units that were deposited intertidally and at inner shelf depths (0-50 m). Fine sandstone deposited in quiet water at middle and perhaps shallow outer shelf depths (c. 50-150 m) contains fossil faunas largely composed of sand-inhabiting organisms.
42906451|Large numbers of two Australian butterflies, Hypolimnas bolina nerina and Tirumala hamata hamata, were reported in April-June 1995 in New Zealand, mostly in the north and west of the North Island. Meteorological evidence indicates that they probably arrived on 9-10 April from between about 24 and 32 S on Australia's east coast, and with a trans-Tasman passage time of 54-60 hours. A few specimens of other Australian butterflies (Danaus chrysippus petilia, Cynthia kershawi, Junonia villida calybe and possibly Melanitis leda bankia (Nymphalidae)) and moths (Utetheisapulchelloides vaga (Arctiidae) and Elygaea materna (Noctuidae)) were also recorded over the same period.
42906452|This first account of the land reptiles of the Wallis and Futuna islands is based largely on specimens I collected in 1993 and that J.-C. Thibault and I. Guyot collected in 1985-6. Four species of gecko, seven skinks and a terrestrial snake are known from the group, with a greater diversity on Futuna than on Wallis. Many are common and widespread Pacific species. Of those that are not, Emoia adspersa is confirmed from Futuna after examination of specimens collected last century. E. murphyU which was hitherto recorded only further east in the Samoa-Tonga area, is reported from Futuna for the first time. E. trossula is tentatively identified from Futuna, but further study may show that the population belongs instead to the closely-related E. samoensis. The known distribution of the snake Candoia bibroni now includes Futuna and 'Alofi. Ce premier inventaire des reptiles terrestres des les Wallis et Futuna est largement bas sur des spcimens que j'ai collect en 1993 et ceux collects par J.-C. Thibault et I. Guyot en 1985-6. Quatre espces de geckos, sept scinques et un serpent terrestre sont connus de ce groupe d'les o la diversit spcifique est suprieure  Futuna qu' Wallis. Beaucoup de ces espces sont communes et largement distribues dans le Pacifique. Parmi les espces plus restreintes, la prsence "Emoia adspersa est confirme sur Futuna aprs examen de spcimens collects au sicle dernier. E. murphyi, connu auparavant seulement plus  l'est dans la rgion des Samoa-Tonga, est mentionn pour la premire fois de Futuna. E. trossula est identifi avec rserve de Futuna; des tudes ultrieures pourraient montrer que ces populations appartiennent  l'espce proche E. samoensis. La distribution du serpent Candoia bibroni englobe maintenant Futuna et 'Alofi.
42906453|Climocella n. gen. is established to hold a group of charopid snails (family sensu Solem, 1979; 1982) with spirally lirate protoconchs that were left without a name when Climo (1981) used Mocella for the radially costate group then known as Subfectola. Climocella akarana n. sp., C. cavelliaformis n. sp., C. haurakiensis n. sp., C. kaitaka n.sp. and C. rata n. sp. are described, all living in Auckland and its environs. C. maculata (Suter, 1890) is redefined.
42906454|Isopods of the subtidal macroalgae Carpophyllum angustifolium, C. maschalocarpum, Xiphophora chondrophylla and Plocamium costatum are described the Bay of Islands, New Zealand. Isopod diversity is greatest on the carpophyllums but their communities, while stable, differ in composition because of the number of strongly host/habitat specific species. The isopods Amphoroidea longipes and Dynamenella cordiforaminalis characterise Carpophyllum angustifolium, whereas the isopods Amphoroidea media and Dynamenoides decima are specific to Carpophyllum maschalocarpum. Dynamenella huttoni was the codominant species on both Plocamium costatum and Xiphophora chondrophylla, while Scutuloidea maculata was common on all the seaweeds and had highest abundance on the three exposed seaweeds (Plocamium costatum, Xiphophora chondrophylla and Carpophyllum angustifolium). Exposure and substrate appear to play a part in the habitat preferences of isopod epifaunas.
42906455|This review, for the period 1890-1990, lists and discusses records concerning control of insect pests by neuropteroid predators in three parts: imported Raphidioptera (Snakeflies) and Neuroptera (Lacewings); non-endemic Neuroptera; endemic Neuroptera. All of many purposeful importations of neuropteroid predators to New Zealand from the 1890s to the 1970s were unsuccessful and were discontinued. The emphasis has changed to observations on self-introduced or accidentally introduced species, particularly three from Australia and one from Europe. A possible effect of non-specific predators is the loss of native insect species in the groups they attack. Two instances indicate that established introduced species could affect native species. Concerning the endemic insect fauna, both imported and introduced predators could be considered as pests.
42906458|British Army and colonial fortifications in north Taranaki in the years after 1863 tell directly of the course and success of European military strategy in the region. The purpose of most fortifications of the period was to defend the expanding frontier of settlement, and give security to farmers who were returning to their farms or taking up confiscated land. The taking of Maori land and its settlement by men who enlisted for service in the province as Taranaki Military Settlers achieved the Pakeha objective of more land, and at the same time denied Maori the means of continuing the struggle. Twenty-one redoubts, stockades and blockhouses of the years 1863-64 are described in historical narrative order.
42906459|T.F. Cheeseman, Curator of the Auckland Institute and Museum, visited Rarotonga in 1899 to study the flora. He kept a narrative diary, distinct from his field notebooks, which is transcribed here. It begins with the departure from Auckland on 9 May and ends abruptly with the entry for 3 July, near the end of the expedition. The diary details daily excursions to collect plants, traces Cheeseman's unfolding knowledge of the plants and vegetation, and describes some aspects of life on turn-of-the-century Rarotonga. Nine of Cheeseman's photographs of the expedition are reproduced.
42906460|Using four early nineteenth century field illustrations of rua tahuhu semisubterranean storehouses with carved entrances from the Whanganui district, this study assembles new information on their architecture and artistic embellishment. On this basis, thirteen carvings in museum collections in New Zealand and Europe are identified as the entrances of this type of rua tahuhu. This corrects previous interpretations of these carvings as the entrances of raised pataka storehouses. Analysis of the localities of origin and the tribal associations of these carvings enables the new definition of a Whanganui/Taranaki regional type of rua tahuhu entrance which spans the major stylistic divide between western sinuous and eastern ' square' figure carvings. The stylistic relationships of these rua tahuhu carvings clarifies the range of tribal carving styles among Taranaki, Ngati Haua, Ngati Ruanui, Nga Rauru, Whanganui and Ngati Apa tribes. Symbolically, these carvings probably represent a local tribal ancestor rather than a more remote deified creatorancestor. In contrast to this Whanganui/Taranaki regional type, three other different regional types of rua tahuhu entrance are now defined, namely an East Coast, an Eastern Bay of Plenty, and a North Auckland type.
42906461|This study synthesizes all the available information on barkcloth manufacture and use among the Maori of New Zealand. Documentary and traditional Maori records of paper mulberry trees and barkcloth show that aute barkcloth was made or known in North Auckland, Auckland, Waikato, Hauraki, central Bay of Plenty and the East Coast. Other native trees, especially Hoheria species, are discussed as possible sources of barkcloth. Broussonetia papyrifera, paper mulberry, became extinct in New Zealand by the 1840s. Specimens of actual barkcloth found in New Zealand are restricted to Otago, completely removed from the documented areas of barkcloth manufacture. Fourteen Maori barkcloth beaters have been located in museum collections, all of which are fully described here for the first time. These beaters come from North Auckland, Auckland, Waikato, Bay of Plenty and Taranaki. Displaying a diversity of form, these New Zealand barkcloth beaters have a strong affinity with nineteenth century barkcloth beaters of Eastern Polynesia. However, detailed comparisons with archaic Polynesian barkcloth beaters from the Vaito'otia/Fa'ahia site on Huahine, which are published here for the first time, reveal significant differences. Actual and supposed traditional Maori use of barkcloth is reviewed, revealing that its use was probably more restricted than generally believed.
42906462|A new species, Haliotis (Euhaliotis) mathesonensis, is described from the early Miocene Kawau Subgroup, Mathesons Bay, Leigh, Rodney District. It is the first Haliotis species from New Zealand to be assigned to the subgenus Euhaliotis. It is the fourth fossil haliotid to be described from New Zealand and the third from the early Miocene.
42906463|Seven new species in the charopid genus Climocella Goulstone, 1996 are described from the North Island: Climocella barken, C. intermedia, C. isolata, C. waenga from the East Cape area, C. mayhillae from mid Northland, and C. reinga and C. runga from the Te Paki area.
42906464|A second species of the endemic isopod genus Scutuloidea is reported from northern New Zealand waters. Scutuloidea kutu sp. nov. is distinguished from S. maculata Chilton, 1883 by having a relatively smaller eye, a slender body, a truncated pleotelson lacking an apical notch, and single plate uropods which terminate well before the posterior margin of the pleotelson. Scutuloidea kutu can live sympatrically with S. maculata but far less abundant. At this stage its only known habitat is exposed reef environments where it appears in the epifaunas of red seaweeds.
