41759499|The seed collection of the species of the Gesneriaceae on which this study is based was obtained, for the most part, during a number of visits to the herbaria of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C., and the Royal Botanical Garden of Kew, London, and Edinburgh, Scotland. The seed collection comprises well over 800 samples of about 700 species of the Gesneriaceae, representing 113 genera of the 127 in the family, and provides a good taxonomic representation of the Gesneriaceae. Following an examination of all the samples in the seed collection, over 300 species of the 113 genera were selected to represent the wide range of seed morphology characters observed among the examined species of the Gesneriaceae. A system with which to analyze and diagnose seed surface morphology, designed by the author, is based on a format of six major categories and 60 tertiary terms of seed morphology characters and a companion diagnostic table. The categories are arranged in a sequence of increasingly smaller seed characters, ranging from seed shape to the ultrastructural characters of the individual cells. To ensure that the system would also apply to seed plants in general, the seeds, achenes and nutlets of a wide variety of species from families other than the Gesneriaceae were examined. Twenty species from 13 families other than the Gesneriaceae were then selected and are included in this study and, together with the Gesneriaceae, represent eight of the ten subclasses of the flowering plants (Cronquist 1968). The seeds, achenes and nutlets of all the species included in this study are illustrated with SEM photomicrographs on the 54 plates of the Seed Atlas, and the seed morphology data of each species are recorded on the diagnostic tables that face each of the Atlas Plates. To facilitate the comparison of the taxa of the Gesneriaceae, and to assist in the identification of the seeds of the examined species of the Gesneriaceae, the seed morphology data are also recorded on a summary table at the genus, tribe, subfamily and family levels. The seed morphology of the Gesneriaceae is compared and contrasted with the current classifications of the family at the species, genus, tribe, subfamily and family levels. The seed analysis system designed for this study has proven to be a rapid, efficient, uniform, objective method to deal with the analytical, diagnostic, and taxonomic aspects of an investigation of seed morphology. In addition, the system readily lends itself to the substitution or addition of terms and categories if needed, or to programming for a computerized analysis of seed morphology. It is hoped that the system will prove useful to other investigators, as well as prove helpful to standardize future investigations of seed morphology.
41760376|The general limits of the tribe Diurideae are discussed. It is considered that the tribe should be removed from the subfamily Orchidoideae. This paper is restricted to discussions on comparative studies of species in the subtribe Prasophyllinae. Vegetative and floral morphology, frequency of flowering, general distribution, preferred pollinators, and fungal associations are examined. I conclude that there is one genus, Prasophyllum, in the subtribe and that Genoplesium and Microtis should be removed from the Prasophyllinae.
41888782|The list of vascular plant families and genera containing epiphytic species published by Madison (1977) is updated here. Ten percent (23,456 species) of all vascular plant species are epiphytes. Seven percent (876) of the genera, 19 percent (84) of the families, 45 percent (44) of the orders and 75 percent (6) of the classes contain epiphytes. Twenty-three families contain over 50 epiphytic species each. The Orchidaceae is the largest family of epiphytes, containing 440 epiphytic genera and 13,951 epiphytic species. Forty-three genera of vascular plants each contain over 100 epiphytic species.
41888783|Vascular epiphytes do not share distinguishing systematic or biological profiles. Taxonomic participation is broad although the group is dominated by higher ferns, members of a few dicot families and monocotyledons, particularly orchids. Except for some general features that promote anchorage in tree crowns and aerial dispersal of diaspores, forms and life processes associated with epiphytism also occur in soil-rooted flora. Among the more pervasive characteristics of canopy-dependent vegetation are drought tolerance and mechanisms promoting access to unusual sources of nutrient ions. Trophic mutualisms are especially common and diverse with ants playing a dominant role. Specific types of epiphytes are described along with associated water ion balance mechanisms. Research topics that seem most likely to reveal significant information on the vegetative basis of epiphytism are identified.
41888784|Epiphytes have epitomized a neutral, or commensalistic symbiosis with their hosts, and have historically been considered to only minimally affect the nutrient relations of supporting trees and the ecosystem as a whole. Research in the last decade, however, has revealed that epiphytes may significantly contribute to overall nutrient cycling despite their biomass being small, relative to the ecosystem as a whole. This has been confirmed in various forests, ranging from dry temperate oak woodland to very wet neotropical cloud forests. A general model to enumerate the inputs, pools, and outflows of mineral nutrients of the epiphyte component is presented. Studies on the effects of epiphytes on nutrient transfers from epiphytes to other ecosystem members from a temperate and a tropical rainforest show that epiphytes tend to absorb atmospheric-borne nutrients during the dry season. During the wet season, there is a greater net release of nutrients from branches with epiphytes than from those whose epiphytes had been experimentally stripped. Mechanisms by which epiphytes may enhance the nutrient status of individual host trees and the forest as a whole are summarized.
41888785|Populations of epiphytic flowering plants are often composed of scattered individuals or small, hyperdispersed clusters. These characteristics create conditions for pollination somewhat different from that encountered by many terrestrial plants. For example, plant distribution and size constraints imposed by the epiphytic habit may have limited floral apparency or competitiveness for adequate pollinator service. To cope with these problems, epiphytes employ one of several specialized pollination strategies which involve deception, or exclusive or unique rewards. Each of the specialized strategies is probably most efficient for diffusely distributed species and may have either a terrestrial or an epiphytic origin. In one system, plants produce few flowers per day for long periods. The blossoms contain a high quality reward which is exclusively accessible to large traplining pollinators. In another, pollinator attraction is based on deceit which by-passes constraints directly imposed by pollinator foraging energetics. The deception may exploit sexual, feeding or egg-laying behaviors of their pollinators. A third strategy employed by many neotropical epiphytes is pollination by male euglossine bees. The flowers produce fragrances which serve as specific attractants and perhaps precursors to sex pheromones of the bees. Pollination occurs when male bees arrive and collect the fragrance compounds. All three strategies are not unique to epiphytes. Both terrestrials and epiphytes with shared size and dispersion constraints seem to have more specialized pollination biologies than their more densely populated and floriferous neighbors. The dispersion-specialization hypothesis generates testable predictions, some of which are presented.
41888786|Hemiepiphytes are plants that either begin as true epiphytes and later establish root connections with the ground (primary hemiepiphytes) or start as climbing plants and secondarily become epiphytic through the loss of terrestrial connections (secondary hemiepiphytes). The taxonomic distribution of hemiepiphytes is quite broad, suggesting that this life history has evolved several times. Distinctive characteristics of the growth form of hemiepiphytes, including strangler trees and banyans, are discussed and features of their anatomy and physiology are considered. Particular attention is paid to the transition from the epiphytic to the terrestrial phase. Although the hemiepiphytic life history is considered as primarily a means of avoiding the dim light of forest interiors, it also may allow escape from fire, flooding, and the depredations of terrestrial herbivores.
41888787|Diversity and abundance relationships of vascular epiphytes were examined at several sites in southern Florida and Peru with reference to the patchiness of the epiphytic biotope. Mortality rates were measured for four epiphytic bromeliads in southern Florida. The number of main vertical stems produced by a tree was positively correlated with the number of epiphytic individuals supported. Stem diameter had no effect on epiphyte abundance or diversity. The average annual mortality rate approaches 30 percent for Catopsis and Guzmania in southern Florida. Several processes may account for the diversity of epiphytes including habitat diversity, niche differentiation, ecological equivalency, and mass effect (sensu Schmida & Wilson, 1985). Ecological equivalents are most likely maintained by high mortality rates. This, coupled with the inherently patchy biotope, results in highly discontinuous populations, especially when populations are small as with many epiphytic orchids. Evolutionary implications of this are discussed.
41888788|Pollinators and breeding systems of Tillandsia are poorly known. Recent observations of 85 species revealed previously undescribed characteristics of assumed pollination importance, i.e., floral architecture, flower and inflorescence pigmentations, and phenology. Examples of the diversity in these character states are described. The significance of some of the character combinations in the pollination and breeding systems of these tillandsias is discussed.
41888789|Recent results from Bromeliaceae chromosome research support Marchant's proposed x = 25 as the extant base number for the family. Mitotic chromosome numbers are variable and some discrepancies exist between mitotic and meiotic counts of the same species. These may be explicable in terms of the association with the epiphytic habit. It is hypothesized that chromosomal alterations are more likely to be retained within the cells of holdfasts that have lost most of their physiological functions as organs of absorption than are such alterations in roots whose functions are more complex. If this hypothesis is true we would expect to find greater stability in somatic counts of roots of terrestrial taxa and less stability in holdfasts of epiphytic taxa. Our observations are in concordance with this hypothesis. Polyploidy appears to have been important in the evolution of the family, and a polyploid trend in Tillandsia subgenus Diaphoranthema has recently been discovered.
41888790|The phytogeography of Anthurium (Araceae) is discussed for Central America on a sectional basis and notes are presented about the general distribution of each section represented as it occurs elsewhere. Out of a total of 221 species in Central America, Mexico has 41 species, Guatemala 25, Nicaragua 30, Costa Rica 76 and Panama 155. Section Porphyrochitonium is the largest section with 56 species, followed by Belolonchium (46 species), Pachyneurium (32 species), Calomystrium (23 species) and Xialophyllium (12 species); all of the remaining 12 sections contain fewer than eight species, with eight sections having four or fewer species. While species in section Schizoplacium and section Belolonchium (both A. andicola Liebm. alliance, and A. verapazense Engl. alliance) are predominantly or wholly Mexican, most sections have the bulk of their species in Costa Rica and Panama, especially the latter. Anthurium habitats in Mexico tend to have relatively low species diversity, while those in Costa Rica and Panama have high species diversity.
41888791|Two classes of ant-epiphyte relationships have drawn the attention of naturalists: epiphytes that provide chambers within which ants nest (domatia), and ants that plant epiphyte seeds in carton nests, producing "ant gardens." Ants are major movers and formers of organic matter in the canopies of lowland tropical forests, and ant derived accumulations of organic matter provide substrate for the establishment of many vascular epiphytes. This very general relationship may lead to some epiphyte species becoming specialized ant associates, either as components of ant gardens or as epiphytes providing domatia. In only one case is there evidence that coevolution has occurred. Epiphytes appear to have evolved specific adaptations for life with ants, but rarely have ants been shown to have specific adaptations to epiphytes.
41888792|A census of the 2,586 species of New World Melastomataceae represented in the United States National Herbarium (us) was conducted to compile a list of the epiphytic species and information on their geographical and altitudinal distribution. The 227 epiphytic species include forms that live without connection to the ground, as well as climbing species. Members of Blakea and Topobea are able to grow as climbers or as terrestrial and epiphytic shrubs or as trees. The Andean mid-elevation forests and the Colombian Choc region are the areas richest in epiphytic melastome species. The majority of epiphytic species have restricted distributions. Of the epiphytic species 85 percent produce berries, 15 percent have capsular fruits. They are mostly bee-pollinated, offering pollen as a reward; a few epiphytes offer nectar and are pollinated by a broader range of animals. The seven epiphytic species tested are self-compatible; one is capable of agamospermy.
41888793|Two new species of Clusiaceae, Clusia cylindrica Hammel and Tovomitopsis silvicola Hammel, are described. Among Central American species of Clusia three main groups can be distinguished on the basis of leaf, floral, and pollen morphology. Each group is here characterized and a list of species included in each is provided along with a key to the species in the Clusia minor group. To clarify the circumscriptions of a number of species for the floras of La Selva and Nicaragua, taxonomic synonyms concerning species of Clusia, Havetiopsis, Tovomita, and Tovomitopsis are discussed.
41888794|For over a century biologists have commented on the heterophyllous nature of certain species in the Tillandsioideae. Juvenile leaves of Tillandsia deppeana Steud. are similar morphologically to those of adult atmospheric tillandsioid epiphytes, while adult leaves resemble leaves of adult tank-forming tillandsioid epiphytes. Although both leaf types share a common photosynthetic pathway (C), juvenile leaves maintain positive rates of net CO exchange during a period of desiccation long after CO exchange has ceased in adult leaves. Because the juveniles of T. deppeana are more drought-resistant, this life-form was probably a prerequisite to the movement, in an evolutionary sense, of the Tillandsioideae into the epiphytic habitat. Conjecture regarding the derivation of modern tillandsioid epiphytes from xeromorphic or mesomorphic forms must await similar comparative investigations of juveniles and adults of other species in this group.
41888795|Two new species of Epidendrum are described and illustrated. Both have lateral inflorescences, traditionally the diagnostic characteristic of section Pleuranthium. We suggest that the section is heterogeneous and probably polyphyletic. The Panamanian species, E. brachybotrys, is allied with other species of Epidendrum sect. Pleuranthium s. str. However, the Ecuadorian species, E. aristatum, is to E. tropidioides a Colombian species with terminal inflorescences.
41888796|Previous classifications within subfam. Tillandsioideae Harms (Bromeliaceae) are based primarily on characters determined from dried specimens. Floral characters are seldom well preserved in dried material and no associated suites of characters delimiting groups have been described. Some genera and subgenera are currently distinguished by single "key characters." Taxonomically useful suites of floral traits ascertainable only from fresh or spirit-preserved flowers of 91 species of Tillandsia L. subgen. Tillandsia are used here to circumscribe five preliminary taxonomic groups. Sixteen species of subgen. Allardtia (A. Dietrich) Baker were also examined, and 13 were assigned to three of these groups.
41888797|Coryanthes pegiae Romero, sp. nov., from the Territorio Federal Amazonas of Venezuela is described. Its closest ally is C. rutkisii Foldats, from which it differs in its deeply emarginated hypochile and overall coloration.
41888798|Approximately 75 percent of the species of Cecropiaceae, Clusiaceae, Cyclanthaceae, Lauraceae, Marantaceae, and Moraceae are rare or uncommon at La Selva, 30 percent are dioecious, most are probably insect pollinated and bird dispersed, 30 percent are epiphytic, and 42 percent are found only in primary forest. To a certain degree, these characteristics are predictive of the entire flora and to the flora of the Caribbean lowland region in general. La Selva shares more species and genera in this subset of its flora with Barro Colorado Island, Panama, than with Ro Palenque Science Center, Ecuador. In general, the principal phytogeographic affinities of La Selva, as demonstrated by these six families, are to the south.
41888799|Six new species of Heliconia with erect inflorescences from Panama are described, including H. thomasiana, H. bella, H. lindsayana, H. lennartiana, H. lutea and H. barryana.
41888800|Nomenclatural changes in the Southeast Asian genera Ascochilus, Phalaenopsis, Rhynchostylis, and Vanda are proposed. The genus Kingidium is placed in the synonymy of Phalaenopsis.
41888801|An estimate of the number of species in the Orchidaceae is determined to be 19,128. This number agrees well with that of Dressier (1981) and suggests that ultimately there may be 20,000-23,000 species with an improbable maximum of 25,000. No support is given for the claim that the family contains 35,000 species. Orchid epiphytes (13,962 species) account for 73 percent of the family, and 440 of 725 genera (60.7 percent) contain epiphytes.
41888802|A new species of Guzmania Ruiz & Pavon, G. alborosea, is described from Ecuador. Its relationships and phenology are discussed.
41759747|A bibliographic list of 658 citations dealing with the biology of vascular epiphytes is provided. Papers pertinent to the systematics, ecology, physiology, anatomy, morphology, and natural history of vascular epiphytes are included. Purely taxonomic and floristic accounts are generally excluded. The bibliography is also available in electronic form.
41759748|Orchid twig epiphytes are diminutive plants that occur on the smallest axes of their hosts. In the neotropics, many of these becomeare not restricted to twigs and exhibit vegetative features indistinguishable from related taxa that occur on the larger axes, but a small subset of neotropical twig epiphytes have a series of traits unusual in the Orchidaceae. These features probably not only adapt them for the harsh and ephemeral conditions present on the outermost twigs in the canopy but also appear to be responsible for restricting them to these sites. These characteristics include shortened life cycles, psygmoid or leafless habits, seeds with testa extensions, and modified root velamen cells. Although each of these features exists in other orchid groups, they characterize a distinct subset of twig epiphytes, here termed obligate twig epiphytes, in reference to their restricted distribution on a host. Obligate twig epiphytes are a distinct evolutionary phenomenon in the Orchidaceae and are most abundant and diverse outside the center of familial diversity in the Andes of northwestern South America.
41759749|A study of the aquatic flora of two ponds in the coastal region of Puntarenas Province, Costa Rica, was undertaken in the rainy season of 1984. A floristic enumeration of 33 species, representing 20 families of vascular plants, is reported. One species, Ceratophyllum muricatum, represents a new record for Costa Rica.
41759750|An electrophoretic analysis of the western North American alveolate-fruited Chenopodium (subsect. Cellulata) was undertaken to examine the evolutionary relationships among the three diploid species C. neomexicanum, C. palmen, C. watsonii, and the allotetraploid C. berlandieri. Data suggest that eight and 16 isozyme loci code for the five enzyme systems GOT, IDH, LAP, MDH, and PGI in the diploids and tetraploid, respectively. Results confirm that C. berlandieri is an allotetraploid, originating by hybridization between at least two different diploid genomes. On the basis of the electrophoretic phenotypes, geographical ranges, and past morphological studies, C. neomexicanum and C. watsonii are suggested as ancestors to the tetraploid. Enzyme multiplicity in C. berlandieri may account for the tetraploid's widespread distribution throughout western North America.
41759751|A synopsis of the subspecific classification of Aechmea chantinii (Carr.) Bak. is presented. A new species and variety of Aechmea Ruiz & Pav. (subgenus Platyaechmea (Bak.) Bak.) are also described.
41759752|A new species of orchid, Macroclinium glicensteinii, is described from Costa Rica, and a new combination (Maxillaria nicaraguensis) is made for Neourbania nicaraguensis.
41759753|The herbarium at s has a set of Stolz specimens of African Orchidaceae. A list of 81 Stolz type specimens of species described by Schlechter in 1915 is presented.
41759754|The herbarium at s has 284 Schlechter collections (with duplicates) of Orchidaceae from the Celebes (Sulawesi), New Caledonia, Papua New Guinea, Sarawak, and Sumatra that include 107 isotypes and 46 isosyntypes. The herbarium at pr has 32 Schlechter collections of Orchidaceae from New Caledonia that include eight isotypes and five isosyntypes. Lists of these collections are presented.
41759755|Catasetum merchae G. Romero, sp. nov. from southern Venezuela is described. Its closest allies are C. bicolor Klotzsch and C. boyi Mansf., from which it differs in the fimbriation of the labellum.
41759760|Zoochory is a common mode of dispersal in the Arecaceae (Palmae), although little is known about how dispersal has influenced the distributions of most palms. A survey of the literature reveals that many kinds of animals feed on palm fruits and disperse palm seeds. These animals include birds, bats, non-flying mammals, reptiles, insects, and fish. Many morphological features of palm infructescences and fruits (e.g., size, accessibility, bony endocarp) have an influence on the animals which exploit palms, although the nature of this influence is poorly understood. Both obligate and opportunistic frugivores are capable of dispersing seeds. There is little evidence for obligate plant-animal mutualisms in palm seed dispersal ecology.
41759761|Using recently developed techniques of gamma spectrometry, we investigated patterns of nutrient uptake and translocation within the tank bromeliad Guzmania lingulata. Uptake from foliar impoundments vs. soil was traced using four gamma-emitting radionuclides (Se-75, Cs-137, Zn-65, Mn-54). Foliage appeared to be the primary site of nutrient acquisition. In general, inflorescences were stronger nutrient sinks than leaves; labeled nutrients were detectable within days after addition to foliar tanks.
41759762|The characteristics used previously to separate Ravnia Oersted from Hillia Jacq. can now be considered mistaken or inconsistent. The subgenus Ravnia (Oersted) C. M. Taylor is erected in Hillia for three species, H. triflora (Oersted) C. M. Taylor, H. allenii C. M. Taylor (nom. nov.) and H. longifilamentosa (Steyerm.) C. M. Taylor, and a new variety, H. triflora var. pittieri (Standley) C. M. Taylor, from Central America.
41759763|The rostellum of Dendrobium is normally covered by a membrane that must be broken to expose the glue. In section Pedilonum the anther beak covers and becomes attached to the rostellar membrane, so that moving the anther exposes the glue, pushes it downward toward a potential pollinator and then deposits the pollinia on the fresh glue. Some species of other sections have similar mechanisms.
41759764|Species of Spiranthes native to Mississippi include S. cernua, S. lacera var. gracilis, S. laciniata, S. longilabris, S. magnicamporum, S. odorata, S. ovalis, S. praecox, S. tuberosa, and S. vernalis. A brief introduction to the genus and a description of the physiographic provinces of Mississippi as it concerns the native species of Spiranthes are followed by a detailed discussion and key, with illustrations, partial synonymy, and habitats, of each of the native Mississippi species.
41759765|Two new species of Heliconia from Panama are described (H. cucullata and H. faunorum), one new combination is made (H. monteverdensis var. vulcanicola) and a neotype for H. marmoliana selected.
41759766|Two new species of Bromeliaceae are described: Tillandsia dexteri from Costa Rica and Guzmania madisonii from Ecuador. Four new varieties of Guzmania are also described: G. morreniana var. tenuifolia from Peru. G. sanguinea var. comosa from Colombia and two varieties of G. musaica from Panama, G. musaica var. discolor and G. musaica var. rosea. In addition, the status of Tillandsia  rectifolia is changed from that of a species to a natural hybrid and its reported range is extended to Costa Rica. New Taxa of Bromeliaceae (V) appeared in Selbyana 10: 56-59 (1987).
41759767|Previously unpublished isotypes of Orchidaceae conserved at The Marie Selby Botanical Gardens (SEL) are enumerated. These are largely derived from the personal herbarium of L. O. Williams.
41759772|Blakea costaricensis, a new species from southeastern Costa Rica is described, illustrated, and compared with B. brunnea, another large-flowered species from western Panama. In addition to its striking large flowers, the new species is notable for its puncticulate leaves, conspicuously lobed floral bracts, and calyptriform calyx.
41759773|A preliminary species checklist of the family Bromeliaceae which occur in Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil, is presented, as well as geographic distribution, habitats and degree of endemism of 245 species. These data were obtained from the available literature and by consulting the main herbaria in the State.
41759774|Three species of Tillandsia (Bromeliaceae) were surveyed at nine sites in south Florida to determine possible effects of air pollution. All three populations were healthy and reproductive. Most of the chemical elements examined in sampled foliage occurred at concentrations similar to those previously reported for the genus. However, one notable geographic trend was revealed: concentrations of S tended to be highest in mainland plants closest to the urbanized east coast. Continued use of these bromeliads and other Florida vascular epiphytes for air quality surveillance is recommended.
41759775|A key, illustrations, emendations, and descriptions of two recently described species are presented for the large Aechmea species with yellow-petaled, polystichously flowered, much-branched inflorescences that are used in tropical landscaping. Aechmea callichroma Read & Baensch is described as a new member of the group.
41759776|Sixteen new species of Bromeliaceae are described: Guzmania skotakii from Costa Rica; Guzmania dalstromii, Guzmania harlingii, Guzmania hirtzii, Guzmania jaramilloi, Guzmania Mezobromelia brownii, Pepinia alexanderi, Pepinia fulgens, Pepinia hooveri, Pitcairnia andreetae, hirtzii, Streptocalyx kentii, Tillandsia raackii, and Vriesea diantha from Ecuador; and Tillandsia novakii from Mexico. Miscellaneous New Taxa of Bromeliaceae (VII) appeared in the Journal of the Bromeliad Society Vol. 40: 206-209, 250-253 (1990).
41759777|Published infrageneric classifications of Coccothrinax are based only on Cuban species. To provide an inclusive categorization of provisional infrageneric groupings for easy recognition in future field and herbarium studies, we compared all species in the genus with statistical, phenetic, and cladistic techniques. Statistical analyses indicated that 22 of 160 characters extracted from the published literature would be useful for phenetic and cladistic analyses. Phenetic analyses produced three distinct clusters of taxa. Cladistic analyses suggested that two of the phenetic clusters are paraphyletic and the third is monophyletic. The two paraphyletic clusters were also more plesiomorphic than the monophyletic cluster. Cladistic analyses further indicated that most of the 22 characters were highly homoplasious, and only the following were reliable for classificatory purposes at the infrageneric level: loss of transverse veins in the leaf, elongation of the leaf sheath strands, fusion of sheath strands into spine-like processes, and tan, corky fruits. The recognizable groups are as follows: Argentea Group (1 complex, 6 spp., paraphyletic); Argentata Group (2 complexes, 10 spp., probably paraphyletic)C. argentata complex (8 spp., paraphyletic), C. crinita complex (2 spp., monophyletic); and Pauciramosa Group (4 complexes, 31 spp., probably monophyletic)C. miraguama complex (11 spp., probably monophyletic), C. pauciramosa complex (11 spp., paraphyletic), Haitiella complex (2 spp., monophyletic), species incertae sedis (7 spp.).
41759778|Preparation for the treatments of Pogoniinae and Triphoreae (Orchidaceae) for Flora of North America, Flora Mesoamericana, Flora de Mexico, and Flora of the Guianas has indicated the need for nomenclatural changes and clarification of authorship in several species. The following new combinations are proposed: Cleistes varogasii comb, nov.; Triphora trianthophora subsp. mexicana comb. & stat. nov. In addition, Triphora rickettii is placed in the synonymy of Triphora yucatanensis and the complete author citations for Cleistes bella, C. caloptera, and C. mantiqueirae are given.
41759779|In 1934, M. Burret published a classification of Bactris in which he segregated Guilielma and Pyrenoglyphis and in which he recognized two subgenera, four sections, and two subsections within Bactris s. str. His support of Guilielma, which includes the edible species centered around B. gasipaes, has sustained a long-standing controversy. Herein, this classification is tested by applying parsimony-based cladistic analyses to 49 representative species-level OTU'S, scored for 106 characters, which were polarized by the outgroup genera, Astrocaryum and Desmoncus. Bactris is monophyletic only if neither Guilielma nor Pyrenoglyphis is segregated. Burret's subgenus and section Bactris are paraphyletic because his other taxa are nested within them. The cladistic analysis suggests there are four major clades, none of which corresponds directly to Burret's groups. Three of the four are strongly supported by autapomorphies. Because the interrelationships among the major clades are based on a few, homoplasious synapomorphies, segregation of any clade is unwarranted. Several other well-marked constituent clades, some of which correspond to Burret's groups, are nested within the major clades. The analysis reveals that Burret weighted too heavily certain characters and incorporated too few of the cladistically most reliable characters. The reliable characters are components of diverse organs but are concentrated in a suite associated with the fruits; they include: presence of an ocrea, petiolar spines in three ranks, structure of leaflet apices, structure of rachis bracts and rachillae, arrangements of the reduced cincinni, structure of staminate petals and stamens, shape and indument of pistillate corollas, presence of a staminodial ring, fruit shape, epicarp color, mesocarp composition, endocarp shape, and the structure and attachment of endocarp fibers. The remaining characters are consistent only at lower taxonomic levels and deserve more detailed analysis in future monographic studies.
41759780|The new species Coussarea nigrescens C. M. Taylor & Hammel, Coussarea psychotrioides C. M. Taylor & Hammel, and Hillia grayumii C. M. Taylor are described. The new combinations Chione sylvicola (Standley) W. Burger, Coussarea hondensis (Standley) C. M. Taylor & W. Burger, Psychotria camponutans (Dwyer & Hayden) Hammel, Psychotria elata (Swartz) Hammel, and Psychotria guapilensis (Standley) Hammel are made. The species Borojoa panamensis Dwyer, Faramea parvibractea Steyermark, and Lasianthus panamensis (Dwyer) Robbrecht are reported from Costa Rica for the first time.
41759788|A bibliographic list of 571 citations dealing with the biology of vascular and non-vascular epiphytes that updates the list compiled by Watson et al. (1987) is provided. Papers pertinent to the ecology, biochemistry, physiology, anatomy, horticulture, morphology, and natural history of epiphytes from tropical, temperate, and boreal regions are included. Purely taxonomic and floristic accounts are generally excluded. The bibliography is also available in electronic form. Con el proposito de actualizar la contribucin de Watson et al. (1987), se presenta una lista de 571 citas bibliogrficas relacionadas con la biologa de plantas epfitas vasculares y no vasculares. Se incluyen artculos relacionados con la ecologa, bioqumica, fisiologa, anatoma, horticultura, morfologa, e historia natural de epfitas de regiones boreales, templadas y tropicales. Contribuciones puramente taxonmicas y florsticas fueron usualmente excluidas. Esta bibliografa es tambin disponible en forma electrnica.
41759789|In a 175 m sample plot of montane rain forest at 2,900 m elevation in southern Ecuador, a total of 33 families, 138 species and 3,454 stands of vascular epiphytes was found. Orchidaceae, Bromeliaceae, and Hymenophyllaceae were the most important families in terms of species richness, cover, and density. Epiphytic individuals of species that are normally terrestrial contributed greatly to the diversity. Most species had a narrow vertical distribution that in some cases was related to substrate preferences. Compared to lowland forests, the epiphytes in the montane forest had: higher density; a more even vertical distribution of abundance and diversity; and less pronounced dependence on humus accumulations. En una parcela de 175 m en un bosque hmedo montano a 2,900 m.s.n.m. en el sur del Ecuador se encontraron en total 33 familias, 138 especies, y 3,454 individuos des epfitas vasculares. Las familias ms importantes en cuanto al nmero de especies, cobertura, y densidad fueron Orchidaceae, Bromeliaceae, Hymenophyllaceae, Dryopteridaceae, Polypodiaceae, y Ericaceae. Individuos epifticos de especies que normalmente son terrestres, contribuyeron con mucho a la diversidad. La mayora de las especies presentaron una distribucin vertical estrecha que, en algunos casos, estuvo relacionada con las preferencias de sustrato. En comparacin con los bosques de las tierras bajas, las epfitas de los bosques montanos tienen una mayor densidad, su distribucin vertical de diversidad y abundancia fue mas pareja, y su dependencia en acumulaciones de humus fue menos pronunciada.
41759790|Distribution of the hemiepiphytic non-strangler tree Oreopanax capitatus was investigated in relation to forest edge in a lower montane forest of central Veracruz, Mexico. Seedlings of O. capitatus were present at both the edge and the interior of the forest; saplings and adults were found exclusively at the edge. Mean height above ground at which O. capitatus individuals were established on their host was 7.6 m. O. capitatus was present only on trees 30 cm dbh. The most common host species was Liquidambar macrophylla, although individuals were also observed on Quercus germana, Clethra mexicana, Trema micrantha, and Meliosma alba. Host preferences could not be determined from available data. The occurrence of saplings and adults of O. capitatus at the forest edge, along rivers and roads, and on abandoned buildings, indicates that O. capitatus requires more exposed sites to become a reproductive individual. Forest fragmentation and increasing edge extent may affect O. capitatus population structure and size-class distribution. La distribucin de Oreopanax capitatus, un rbol hemiepfito no-estrangulador, se investig en el borde y el interior de un bosque de neblina en el centro de Veracruz, Mxico. Los resultados indicaron que las plntulas de O. capitatus estn presentes en el borde y el interior del bosque pero que los juveniles y adultos se encuentran exclusivamente en el borde del bosque. La altura media sobre el suelo a la cual O. capitatus se establece sobre sus hospederos es 7.6 m. Oreopanax capitatus se encontr slo sobre rboles > 30 cm dap. Liquidambar macrophylla es el rbol hospedero ms comn, aunque tambin se observaron individuos establecidos sobre Quercus germana, Clethra mexicana, Trema micrantha, y Meliosma alba. Sin embargo, a partir de los datos disponibles no se pudieron determinar preferencias hacia hospederos. La presencia de juveniles y adultos de O. capitatus en el borde del bosque, a lo largo de ros y caminos y sobre ruinas indica que requiere de sitios expuestos para alcanzar una etapa de madurez. La fragmentacin del bosque y el incremento en la extensin de bordes podra afectar la estructura de la poblacin de O. capitatus y la distribucin de los tamaos de clase.
41759791|Responses of five species of subcanopy bromeliads (Tillandsia balbisiana, T. fasciculata, T. setacea, T. utriculata, and T. valenzuelana) to large-scale disruption by naturally-occurring, low-intensity fire were inferred from comparisons of populations in burned and unburned subtropical hardwood hammocks one year after fire on Long Pine Key in Everglades National Park, Florida. In burned hammocks, the soil humus was consumed. Many trees were defoliated and/or killed, which opened the canopy. Comparisons of epiphyte populations in burned and unburned hammocks, which were very similar in pre-fire characteristics, indicate that fire had few direct effects on these species. Nonetheless, by altering the environment, fire changed the basic demography (increased mortality, growth, and flowering) of bromeliad populations. Field study of epiphyte seeds on different species of host trees also indicated that short-term adherence on trunks differed between two species (T fasciculata and T. utriculata), and between burned and unburned hammocks. These results indicate that large-scale disturbances of the overstory can result in rapid changes in population dynamics of epiphytes. Such changes can potentially influence long-term composition and dynamics of populations of subcanopy epiphytes. Las respuestas de cinco especies de bromelias (Tillandsia balbisiana, T. fasciculata, T. setacea, T. utriculata, y T. venezuelana) de la canopia inferior del bosque subtropical de madera dura ("hammock") a las perturbaciones de gran escala debidas a incendios de baja intensidad, fueron inferidas a partir de comparaciones entre las poblaciones existentes en reas quemadas y no quemadas, observadas un ao despus de un incendio, en Long Pine Key en el Parque Nacional Everglades, Florida. En las reas quemadas se consumi el humus del suelo. Muchos rboles fueron desfoliados y/o murieron, lo que determin la apertura de la canopia. Las comparaciones entre las poblaciones de epfitas de reas de "hammock" quemadas y no quemadas, muy similares antes del incendio, indican que el fuego tuvo poco efecto directo sobre las especies estudiadas. Sin embargo, a travs del cambio del ambiente, el incendio determin modificaciones en la demografa (increment la mortalidad, crecimiento y floracin) de las poblaciones de bromelias. El estudio de campo de la adherencia de semillas de epfitas sobre los troncos de rboles husped de diferentes especies indic que, en el corto plazo, la adherencia difiere entre dos especies (T. fasciculata y T. utriculata) y entre bosques quemados y no quemados. Estos resultados indican que los disturbios de gran escala en la canopia pueden resultar en cambios rpidos en la dinmica poblacional de las epfitas. Tales cambios pueden influir, potencialmente, en la composicin y en las dinmica de largo plazo de las poblaciones de epfitas de la canopia inferior.
41759792|A population of Encyclia tampensis was studied in a hammock near Fort Pierce, Florida, U.S.A. between November 1985 and January 1990. Nearly 100 orchids were recorded from a single live oak (Quercus virginiana) limb 2 m in length. Orchids ranged in size from 1 mm diameter protocorms to flowering plants with up to 30 pseudobulbs (3-20 mm in diameter). Recruitment occurred in three of the four years, resulting in a total of 36 protocorms. Most protocorms were short-lived (4.4  0.8 months); however, four lived more than one year and the oldest lived for 17 months. "Protocorms" first appeared in early summer and died in fall and winter, apparently from desiccation. Older "prebulb" seedlings (2-5 years old) were the most numerous growth stage and lived longer than protocorms, with the majority surviving > 2 years (mean observed longevity = 21.5  2.2 months). The longest-lived prebulb plant lived > 48 months. Mortality was lowest for plants with pseudobulbs ( > 5 years); however, a few of these died. First flowering probably occurred at 15 years of age. In December 1989, a severe cold front passed through Florida; temperatures reached5C, killing all the orchids. At other central Florida sites, mortality of E. tampensis was high (> 80%). Tillandsia spp., bromeliads (e. g., T. bartrami, T. fasciculata, T. flexuosa, and T. setacea) suffered variable mortality. Tillandsia recrvala showed some mortality at exposed sites, but T. usneoides was unaffected. These observations suggest that meteorological factors (e. g., rainfall and low temperatures) can significantly affect epiphytes in Florida and must be considered in the context of conservation. Encyclia tampensis fue estudiada en bosque costero "hammock" cerca de Fort Pierce, Florida, por mas de un perodo de cuatro aos (Nov. 1985 a Dec. 1989). Ms de 80 orqudeas fueron localizas en los cedros "live oak" (Quercus virginiana) en ramas de 2 m de largo. Las orqudeas variaban de tamao, desde protocormos de 1 mm de dimetro, hasta plantas en floracin con 30 pseudobulbos (3-20 mm en dimetro). La coleccin de se hizo slo en tres de los cuatro aos del estudio, recolectdose 32 protocormos., La mayora de stos sobrevivieron slo cuatro meses (Je = 4.2, SE  1.0 meses); sin embargo, cuatro protocormos vivieron mas de un ao, el de mayor duracin vivi 17 meses. La mayora de protocormos aparecieron en el verano pero moran en el otoo o el invierno, aparentemente por desecacin. Por otra parte las formas mas maduras de ' prebulbos' (= 2-5 aos de edad) fueron mas numerosos y vivieron ms, llegando unos hasta sobrevivi 2 aos (X = 22.5, SE  2.0 meses). El prebulbo que mas sobrevivi alcanz 46+ meses. La mortalidad fue baja en las plantas con bulbos (=> 5 aos), aunque algunas plantas pequeas murieron. La primera floracin probablemente ocurri entre los 10-15 aos. En Diciembre de 1989, un viento severo fro pas por Florida; las temperaturas alcanzadas fueron de5C, aniquilando todas las orqudeas. En otros sitios de la parte central de la Florida, Epidendrum conopeum y Harrisella filiformis, aparentemente no fueron afectadas; bromelias como Tillandsia spp. (T. fasciculata, T. flexuosa, y T. setacea) mostraron una mortalidad variable.
41759793|We studied the association between root gall-forming insects and the epiphytic bromeliad Tillandsia ionantha Planchn in the lowland tropical dry forest of the coast of the state of Veracruz, Mexico. Galls are formed by the fly Neolasioptera sp. (Dptera: Cecydomyiidae). The fly has a parasitoid, Aprostocetus sp. (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae). Gall formation takes place during the rainy season, which is the period of root growth in T. ionantha. We collected 4,031 plant individuals in six 5 m  5 m study plots. Average plant diameter was 4.88  2.8 cm. Average number of galls per plant was 1.03  2.1 (N = 4,160). Plants from diameter classes 4.5 to 9.5 cm had the greatest number of galls. There was a positive significant correlation between bromeliad size and number of galls per plant. Gall diameter was 0.48  0.1 cm (N = 582). Number of adult insect emergence holes per gall was 5.95  3.4. Most holes were found in gall diameter classes 0.3 to 0.7 cm. There was a positive significant correlation between gall size and number of emergence holes. Our results suggest that parasitism by gall-forming flies is low; nevertheless, galls can be present at any stage in the life of the bromeliad. The presence of galls in the roots of T. ionantha does not prevent roots from accomplishing their role in plant attachment to substrate; plant individuals were always well-secured to the support tree. Nonetheless, the activity of the parasite, which diverts plant nutritive substances with the use of chemical stimuli, undoubtedly causes deficiencies during development that may decrease plant reproductive fitness. Estudiamos la asociacin entre insectos formadores de agallas y la bromelia epfita Tillandsia ionantha Planchn en un bosque tropical seco de la costa del estado de Veracruz, Mxico. Las agallas son formadas por la mosca Neolasioptera sp. (Dptera: Cecydomyiidae). La mosca tiene un parasitoide, Aprostocetus sp. (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae). La formacin de las agallas se realiza durante la poca de lluvias, que es tambin el periodo de crecimiento radicular de T. ionantha. Colectamos 4,031 individuos de la planta en seis cuadros de muestreo de 5 m  5 m. El dimetro promedio de las plantas fue 4.88  2.8 cm. El nmero promedio de agallas por planta fue 1.03  2.1 (N = 4,160). Las plantas con dimetros entre 4.5 y 9.5 cm tuvieron ms agallas. Se encontr una correlacin positiva significativa entre el tamao de la bromelia y el nmero de agallas por planta. El dimetro de las agallas fue 0.48  0.1 cm(N = 582). El nmero de perforaciones para la salida de insectos adultos fue 5.95  3.4 por agalla. Se encontraron ms perforaciones en agallas con dimetros entre 0.3 y 0.7 cm. Se encontr una correlacin positiva significativa entre el tamao de la agalla y el nmero de perforaciones. Nuestros resultados sugieren que es bajo el parasitismo por insectos formadores de agallas; sin embargo, pueden existir agallas en cualquier etapa de la vida de la bromelia. La presencia de agallas en las raices de T. ionantha no impide que stas cumplan su papel de fijacin al sustrato; las plantas siempre estaban bien asegurados al rbol soporte. Sin embargo, la actividad del parsito, quien desva por medio de estmulos qumicos las sustancias nutritivas de las plantas, indudablemente causa deficiencias durante el desarrollo que pueden disminuir el xito reproductivo de la planta.
41759794|Many epiphytes in forest canopies are drought-adapted due to the limited water-holding capacity of the aboveground woody surfaces that support them. The objective of our study was to evaluate whether neighboring tropical rainforest canopy trees differentially intercept inclined rainfall, and discuss the possible effects on epiphyte distribution patterns. The study involved: (1) developing a computer model representing the 3-D geometry of a tropical rainforest canopy surface in northeast Queensland, Australia, using photogrammetric crown elevation data and a geographic information system; (2) generating a shaded canopy relief image to compute the effective rainfall-intercepting crown areas of 50 selected canopy trees during a single precipitation event; and (3) analyzing the relationships between the selected trees' effective crown areas and the net rainfall totals measured beneath their crowns. A significant correlation between the effective crown areas and net rainfall totals indicated that the inclined rainfall was differentially intercepted, with the more prominent canopy trees creating rainshadows on less prominent neighboring canopy trees. It has been generally assumed that the vertically projected crown areas of canopy trees intercept the same depth equivalent of precipitation. The results of our study suggest that rainforest canopy trees in the cyclone-prone tropics do not receive the same depth equivalents of mean annual rainfall. We conclude that the differential interception of rainfall may influence the spatial pattern of water availability and thus the distribution of epiphytes in a forest canopy. Muchas epfitas que crecen en las bvedas arbreas de los bosques tropicales hmedos estn adaptadas a la sequa debido a que las cortezas que las sostienen por encima del suelo ofrecen muy baja capacidad de retencin de agua. La meta de nuestro estudio consisti en analizar si en estos bosques, las bvedas de los rboles vecinos interceptaban en forma diferencial el agua de lluvia que cae en ngulo para, enseguida, evaluar los efectos que esto pudiese tener en las pautas de distribucin de las epfitas. En el estudio se incluy lo siguiente: (1) el desarrollo de un modelo informtico en el que figura la representacin tridimensional de la superficie de una bveda arbrea en un bosque tropical hmedo del noreste de Queensland, Australia. Esto se hizo en base a datos sobre la elevacin de la corona arbrea obtenidos mediante fotogrametra, junto con un sistema de informacin geogrfica; (2) se gener la imagen del relieve de una bveda ensombrecida a fin de calcular las reas efectivas de intercepcin de precipitacin pluvial de las coronas de 50 rboles seleccionados en un evento de precipitacin; y (3) se llev a cabo el anlisis de las relaciones existentes entre las superficies efectivas de las coronas de los rboles seleccionados y los totales netos de precipitacin pluvial medidos bajo dichas coronas. Al establecerse la correlacin entre las superficies efectivas de las coronas y los totales netos de precipitacin pluvial se observ que la lluvia que caa en forma oblicua era interceptada en forma diferencial, dndose el caso que los rboles de bvedas ms prominentes obraban como cortinas, impidiendo as que la lluvia cayese sobre las cpulas de rboles vecinos menos prominentes. Por cuanto hace a las bvedas arbreas, en general, se supone que las superficies de las coronas que se proyectan verticalmente, interceptan la misma profundidad de precipitacin equivalente. Los resultados de nuestro estudio sugieren que las bvedas arbreas de los bosques tropicales hmedos expuestos a huracanes no reciben en promedio anual el mismo equivalente de profundidad de lluvia. Por lo tanto, llegamos a la conclusin de que la intercepcin diferencial de precipitacin pluvial puede influenciar las pautas espaciales del agua disponible y, con ello, la distribucin de las epfitas en la bveda del bosque.
41759795|Integrated information and systemic accounts of epiphytes in regions of the world have recently been compiled. The purpose of this paper is to assemble an account of the vascular epiphytes that occur in Mexico as a starting point for other studies. Information has been gathered from the literature, specimens of seven Mexican herbaria (MEXU, CHAPA, AMO, IZTA, ENCB, XAL, UAMI), recent field collections, cultivated material, and personal communication with specialists. At present, this assembly comprises 37 families, 174 genera, and 1,207 species. There are 12 important families. Of the 42 seed plant families documented in the literature as occurring in the neotropics, 28 are found in Mexico. The total number of species is estimated at 10% of the vascular plant species of Mexico, which is consistent with the estimated proportion of vascular epiphyte plant species worldwide. In spite of important efforts devoted to the study of some of the families, e. g., Orchidaceae, this assembly of species with high biological and potential economic values, requires more extensive study. These plants are poorly represented in herbaria and live collections. Se ha reunido informacin y registros sistemticos cuantitativos de las epfitas de diferentes regiones del mundo. El propsito de esta investigacin es la de integrar un anlisis cuantitativo de las epfitas vasculares presentes en Mxico como un punto de partida para otros estudios. La informacin ha sido reunida partiendo de fuentes bibliogrficas, de datos contenidos en especmenes de siete herbarios mexicanos (MEXU, CHAPA, AMO, IZTA, ENCB, XAL, UAMI), de recientes colectas de campo, de material cultivado, y de comunicaciones personales con especialistas. Hasta este momento, el acervo comprende 37 familias, 174 gneros, y 1,207 especies. Existen 12 familias importantes. De las 42 familias de plantas con semillas reportadas en la literatura para el neotrpico, 28 se encuentran en Mxico. El nmero total de especies podra estimarse en alrededor del 10% de las especies de plantas vasculares mexicanas, lo que est de acuerdo con la proporcin estimada de epfitas vasculares de la flora mundial. A pesar de los esfuerzos dedicados al estudio de algunas de las familias, v. g., Orchidaceae, este conjunto de especies con un alto valor biolgico, incluyendo un valor econmico potencial, requiere un estudio ms extenso. Estas plantas estn pobremente representadas en colecciones herborizadas y vivas.
41759796|Peperomia is a large pantropical genus of more than 600 species, many of which are epiphytes. A survey indicates that 50% or more of the species have Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) or CAMcycling. Our assessment of 93 taxa is based on the enzymic activities of P-enolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPc) and pyrophosphate: fructose 6-phosphate phosphotransferase (PFP), diurnal organic acid fluctuation, and nocturnal gas exchange and stomatal opening. During development, the leaves of the CAM Peperomia spp. shift from C -photosynthesis to CAM as evidenced by the appearance of PEPc, the commencement of diurnal organic acid fluctuation, and by a shift from daytime gas exchange to nocturnal gas exchange. There is some evidence that water-stress will accelerate the induction of CAM during development. CAM activity may be seasonal in some species, with more activity during the spring and summer than in the winter when growing in glasshouses. Since the photosynthetic mode of Peperomia may change in response to environmental perturbations such as water-stress, changing photoperiods, seasonally, and during development, the assignment of a particular mode to a species may be equivocal. Thus, it is possible that all species have some CAM capacity. The presence of CAM metabolism in this epiphytic genus suggests adaptation to drought and water-stress conditions. Peperomia es un gnero pantropical que incluye mas de 600 especies, muchas de las cuales son epfitas. Un estudio indica que el 50% o ms de estas especies llevan a cabo metabolismo del cido crasulceo (CAM) o CAM-cclico. Nuestro anlisis de 93 grupos taxonmicos est basado en las actividades enzimticas de P-enolpiruvato carboxilasa (PEPc) y pirofosfato: fructosa 6-fosfato fosfotransferasa (PFP), la fluctuacin diurna de cido orgnico, y la nocturnidad del intercambio de gases y la apertura de los estomas. Durante su desarrollo, las hojas de especies de Peperomia de tipo CAM pasan de fotosntesis C a CAM, de lo cual es evidencia la aparicin de PEPc, el comienzo de la fluctuacin diurna de cido orgnico, y el paso del intercambio de gases de diurno a nocturno. Alguna evidencia existe que el stress de agua acelera la induccin de CAM durante el desarrollo. Cuando crecen en invernaderos, la actividad CAM puede ser estacional en algunas especies que son ms activas en la primavera y el verano que en el invierno. Debido a que el modo de fotosntesis de Peperomia puede cambiar en respuesta a perturbaciones ambientales como stress de agua y cambios en el fotoperodo, y con respecto a las estacin del ano y la etapa de desarrollo, la asignacin de un modo particular a una especie puede ser equvoco. Como cosequencia, es posible que todas las especies tengan cierta capacidad de CAM. La presencia de metabolismo CAM en este gnero epfito es sugestiva de una adaptacin a la sequa y condiciones de stress de agua.
41759797|All currently known taxa of Tillandsia subgenus Diaphoranthema have been studied and treated in a taxonomic revision and other papers. Six groups of species ("aggregates"), distinguished by floral morphology and certain vegetative features, are recognized. These groups contain a series of taxa that display morphological reduction accompanied by shortening of life cycles (neoteny). Polyploidy is frequent within Diaphoranthema. Compared with subgenus Phytarrhiza, the closest related subunit of the genus Tillandsia, neotenic species of Diaphoranthema have migrated into more isolated and climatically extreme areas than have any other Tillandsia species. Abbreviated life cycles and strong tendencies of autogamy and cleistogamy, in connection with increasing polyploidy, are proposed to be responsible for the high stress tolerance and dispersibility of the species of Diaphoranthema. Todos los taxa que actualmente son conocidos fueron estudiados y fueron tratados en una revisin taxonmica y otras publicaciones. Seis grupos de especies ("aggregates"), que demuestran neotenia progresiva son acceptados segn sus morfologas florales y vegetativas. Poliploida existe con frecuencia en el subgnero Diaphoranthema. Comparado con el subgnero Phytarrhiza, que es el pariente prximo, las especies neotenas de Diaphoranthema se han propagado hacia reas mas aisladas y hacia zonas climticas mas extremas que otras especies del genero Tillandsia. Ciclos biolgicos abreviados y tendencias pronunciadas de autogamia y de cleistogamia son propuestos como responsables de la tolerancia pronunciada contra "stress" y de la propagacin de las especies de Diaphoranthema.
41759798|Epiphytes can be grown on various substrates. Water availability is a crucial factor, though many epiphytes can survive under less than optimal treatments. Accurate environmental habitat simulations can be valuable tools for both research and education. There is some difficulty in developing simulations due to a general lack of adequate information on environmental conditions of natural habitats. Misinterpretation of "adaptive" features is also a problem. Substrate mixes, careful placement within growing area, and nutrient needs for simulating environmental situations are significant factors for horticultural success. Working with epiphytes on trees is optimal, as demonstrated by several examples. Epfitas pueden ser cultivadas en varios materiales. La cantidad de agua disponible es crtica, aunque epfitas pueden sobrevivir si su ambiente no es el ptimo. La simulacin exacta de ambiente puede ser valiosa en investigaciones y en la educacin. Hay algunas dificultades en el desarroyo de simulaciones por la falta de informaciones sobre las condiciones ambientales de los habitats naturales. La mala interpretacin de caractersticas adaptivas es otro problema. La adicin de materiales a la tierra, la cuidadosa colocacin en el area de cultivacin, y nutricin adequada para simular el ambiente son requisitos para el xito en la horticultura. El uso de rboles es ptimo para cultivar epfitas, demostrado aqu varios ejemplos.
41759799|Among the 670 documented plant species used by the Shuar of Amazonian Ecuador are 97 non-cultivated, mechanically-dependent taxa: vines, epiphytes, hemi-epiphytes, and parasites. The most common uses of these plants are for medicine, animal forage, and food. Twenty-five percent or more of craft, fiber, personal, and poison plants are mechanically-dependent species. The Shuar use six or more species of Araceae, Bignoniaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Ericaceae and Orchidaceae. The 17 useful species of Araceae ar the most provided by any family. Despite their abundance, Bromeliaceae and Orchidaceae are of limited importance, providing mostly ornamentals and minor medicines. Mechanically-dependent species constitute 15% of the plant species used by the Shuar. Analysis of data from other studies of native Amazonian people in Ecuador show that epiphytes and lianas comprise 10-22% of the species used. Twentyone epiphyte and liana species are reported in two or more studies from this region. Three lianas are among the most important non-food plants for the Shuar and other native people of northwest Amazonia. Lon chocarpus nicou provides a fish poison, Strychnos tomentosa an arrow poison, and Banisteriopsis caapi the principal hallucinogen of northwest Amazonia. Entre las 670 especies registradas de plantas usadas por los Shuar del Ecuador Amaznico, 97 son taxa no cultivadas y mecnicamente dependientes: trepadoras, epfitas, semi-epfitas, y parsitas. Los usos mas comunes de estas plantas son de orden medicinal, forrajero, y alimenticio. Un 25%  mas de las plantas de uso artesanal, textil, personal,  txico, son tambin especies mecnicamente dependientes. Los Shuar usan seis  mas especies de Araceae, Bignoniaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Ericaceae, y Orchidaceae. Las Araceae son las mas representivas con 17 especies. Las especies mecnicamente dependientes constituyen 15% de las plantas usadas por los Shuar. Anlisis de datos en otros estudios de poblaciones de nativos del Amazonia indican que las epfitas y las lianas representan entre el 10-22% de las especies usadas por los nativos. Veintin especies de epfitas y lianas son reportadas en dos  mas estudios de esta regin. Tres lianas estn entre las plantas no comestibles ms importantes para los Shuar y otros nativos de la Amazonia nor-occidental. Lonchocarpus nicou sirve como veneno para los peces, Strychnos tomentosa como veneno para las flechas, y Banisteriopsis caapi es el principal halucingeno de la Amazonia nor-occidental.
41759800|It is possible to produce a model that predicts both the total loss of species as well as the current rates of species extinction based on the distribution of narrow endemic species and estimated rates of deforestation. Twenty-one taxa covering 17 orchid genera were selected and their distributions in terms of recorded localities were determined. These taxa covered 1,421 species of which 539 (37.9%) were narrow endemics found in only one restricted locality. An additional 268 (18.8%) and 163 (11.5%) species were reported from only two and three localities, respectively. Values for species occurring at more than three localities were not considered. The estimated global forest conversion rate used was 0.7% per year, with 45% of tropical forested lands having been cleared at the present time. Using 25,000 as the total global number of orchid species one can estimate that 5,477 (21.9%) of the orchid species have been lost at the present time, and of the remaining species, approximately 55 will be lost each year if current forest conversion rates continue. Madagascar may be an ideal case to test this model. The island's orchid flora is relatively well known and thought to contain about 1,000 species. Analysis of eight taxa showed that 62% were reported from only one locality, 17% from two localities and 7% from three. Using the recent estimate of the 66% total loss (Green & Sussman, 1990) for eastern rainforests for the entire island, the model predicts that 503 species are already extinct. Using the more common estimate of 90% forest loss, nearly threequarters (747 species) of the island's orchid species should now be extinct. ES posible construir un modelo que predice tanto la prdida total de especies como las tazas de extincin actuales basado en la distribucin de especies endmicas y las tazas estimadas de deforestacin. Para ello, se utilizaron 21 taxas de orqudeas que abarcan 17 gneros para los cuales, se determinaron sus distribuciones en base a las localidades registradas. Estas taxas estn compuestas de 1.421 especies de las cuales 539 (37.9%), fueron endmicas siendo restringidas a una sola localidad. Otras 268 (18%) y 163 (11.5%) everon ubicadas en dos o tres localidades respectivamente. Las especies encontradas en ms de tres localidades no fueron consideradas. La taza estimada de conversin forestal global utilizada fue 0.7% por ao, reflejando el 45% de los bosques tropicales deforestados en la actualidad. Usando 25,000 como el nmero total de especies de orqudeas, uno puede estimar que 5,777 (22.9%) de las especies de orqudeas se han perdido hasta el presente, y de las especies restantes, aproximadamente 55 se perdern cada ao, si la actual taza de conversin de bosque continua. Madagascar, puede ser un caso ideal para probar este modelo. La flora de orqudeas de las isla es relativamente bien conocida y se considera que est compuesta por unas 1,000 especies. El anlisis de 8 taxa demostr que 62% tenan registros para una sola localidad, el 17% para dos y 8% para tres. Usando la ms reciente estimacin para la perdida total para los bosques tropicales de oriente, 66%, el modelo predice que unas 503 especies y estn extintas en la isla. Usando un estimado mas utilizado seala un 90% de prdida del bosque, y porello casi tres cuartas partes del total de especies de orqudeas (747) de la isla deben estar ya extintas.
41759801|The purpose of this paper is to call attention to the importance of epiphytes in understanding how global atmospheric changes impact tropical forests. The Luquillo Experimental Forest (LEF), like other peaks in the Caribbean, intercepts at least five major global weather systems: (1) trade winds originating in the Azores; (2) tropical depressions and hurricanes originating in western Africa; (3) northern cold fronts originating in the polar regions of North America; and systems originating (4) in the Pacific and (5) the Amazon basin. Each of these "global airsheds" has a particular return frequency, associated temperature and climatic conditions, and different chemical conditions in rain and cloud water. Epiphytes are the organisms with the closest interactions with these systems because they absorb water and nutrients directly from the atmosphere and their metabolism responds to prevailing conditions associated with each airshed. In order to detect effects of global change on epiphyte communities, it will be necessary to build a longterm quantitative record of ecological information of these organisms. In this paper, we review the information available for the LEF and outline our proposed program to measure ecosystems effects of global change via epiphytic communities. Our focus will be on biomass accumulation, nutrient uptake, and hydrological fluxes. Este artculo tiene el propsito de llamar atencin a la importancia de las plantas epifticas para entender como los cambios atmosfricos globales impactan los bosques tropicales. El Bosque Experimental de Luquillo (BEL), al igual que otros picos del Caribe, intercepta por lo menos cinco sistemas atmosfricos principales: (1) los vientos alisios con origen en las Azores, (2) depresiones tropicales y huracanes con origen en la costa oeste de Africa, (3) frentes fros con origen en las regiones polares de Norte America, y otros sistemas con origen (4) en el Amazonas y (5) en el Pacfico. Cada uno de estos sistemas climticos tienen sus propias periodicidades, temperaturas, climas asociados, y diferentes condiciones qumicas en sus aguas de lluvia o en las nubes. Las epfitas son organismos que dependen de estros sistemas porque absorben el agua y los nutrientes directamente de las nubes o la lluvia y estn expuestas a las condiciones asociadas a cada sistema. Para detectar el efecto de cambios globales con el estudio de comunidades epifticas, es necesario desarrollar informacin cuantitativa a largo plazo sobre la ecologa de estos sistemas. Aqu revisamos la informacin disponible para el BEL y desarrollamos una propuesta para un programa de estudio sobre este tema. Nuestro foco es la produccin y acumulacin de biomasa, ciclaje de nutrientes y flujos hidrolgicos.
41759802|Population genetic analyses of four species of epiphytic ferns endemic to Hawaii were conducted to assess the levels and patterns of genetic variability within and among populations. The study included both conspecific populations from single islands as well as those from different islands in the Hawaiian Archipelago. Overall levels of genetic variability varied among species but were generally high relative to other plants. Additionally, all populations of taxa appeared to be highly outcrossed with fixation indices not significantly different from zero. Inspection of FST values and estimates of interisland gene flow (Nm) suggested that populations on different islands are generally not genetically distinct, possibly due to high levels of interisland gene flow. The abundance and distribution of island-unique aleles, however, revealed varying degrees of localized genetic endemism within each species. These data suggest that conspecific populations on different islands are in the early stages of genetic divergence, possibly representing incipient speciation. The recognition of island-specific genetic endemism within species may be critical for safeguarding the long-term survival and continued evolutionary change of these and other endemic species of Hawaiian organisms. Un anlisis poblacional gentico de cuatro especies de helchos epfitos endmicos a Hawaii fue conducido para explorar los niveles y los patrones de variacin gentica en y entre poblaciones. El estudio incluy tanto poblaciones conspecificas de islas nicas como esas de islas a travs del archipilago de Hawaii. Los niveles de variabilidad gentica generalmente variaron dentro de una especie, pero eran grandes en comparacin a los de otras plantas. Adicionalmente, en todas las poblaciones de todas estas especies, el exocruzamiento parece ser alto ya que los ndices de fijacin no diferan significativamente de cero. Inspeccin de los valores de FST y estimaciones del flujo de genes entre islas (Nm) sugieren que poblaciones de islas diferentes no eran distintas genticamente, posiblemente debido a los altos niveles del flujo de gentico entre islas. La abundancia y la distribucin de los alelos encontrados nicamente en islas, sin embargo, revelaron varios grados de endemismo gentico localista para cada especies. Estos datos sugieren que poblaciones conspecificas en islas diferentes estn en etapas avanzadas de divergencia gentica, posiblemente representando especificacin incipiente. El reconocimiento de endemismo gentico dentro de una especie en islas nicas puede ser crtico para salvaguardar la supervivencia a largo plazo y evolucin continuada de estas y otras especies endmicas a Hawaii.
41759803|In the last 10 years, the gray, so-called atmospheric tillandsias have become favored house plants. They are offered for sale from specialized nurseries as "carnations of air" which need little care, no substrate, and minimal water. The demand for these tillandsias has become enormous, and nurseries in Guatemala and Honduras cannot supply the current market. The propagation by seeds to get marketable plants takes about 3-5 years; it is easier to collect the plants from the wild. Therefore, many tillandsia plant communities have already been destroyed and some species should be considered as endangered, extirpated in nature in the near future. Therefore, certain species of the small tillandsias should be placed on Appendix 1 of the Washington Convention and all tillandsia nurseries should be encouraged to propagate these plants by seed and to control their international traffic. En los ltimos diez aos, las grisceas epfitas Tillandsia especies han logrado un favoritismo como plantas decorativas en muchos hogares, particularmente en Alemania. Muchas de estas plantas, conocidas como "claveles de aire," son vendidas en muchos viveros especializados promocionndoseles como plantas que requieren poco mantenimiento, ningn substrato y un mnimo de agua. La demandas de estas plantas ha llegado a ser enorme, y viveros, especialmente en Guatemala y Honduras, no pueden abastecer la alta demanda. Propagarlas por semillas y disponer plantas aptas para el mercado, dura aproximadamente 3-5 aos, asi que es mas fcil colectarlas en su medio natural. Es por ello que muchas comunidades de Tillandsia ya han sido destruidas, y algunas especies debern referirse como amenazadas, y prontamente las mismas tendern a desaparecer en el futuro. Por lo enunciado, sugiero que la mayora de las Tillandsia especies pequeasla lista que se presenta en ste artculosea colocada en el Apndice I de la Convencin de Washington para obligar que todos los viveros de Tillandsia propaguen estas plantas por sus semillas, y se controle entonces su importacin.
41759804|A one-day round-table discussion using the small-group nominal process was held in conjunction with the Symposium on the Biology and Conservation of Epiphytes in May 1991 at The Marie Selby Botanical Gardens. Botanists, horticulturists, and conservationists participated in the effort to formulate concrete and creative suggestions to answer the question: how can epiphytes and their habitats be conserved in the future? Small groups "brain-stormed" and then prioritized their suggestions into viable solutions to six aspects of this question, and then presented them for discussion to the entire group. Four major trends were noted in the proposed solutions: 1) directly and indirectly involve institutions, scientists, and lay people in tropical countries; 2) develop active communication between researchers and lay people; 3) increase participation and commitment from the governments of countries where epiphytes occur and where research and education is being carried out, especially in regard to regulations for collecting and transporting plants across international borders, and 4) increase funding from private and government sources for research, education, and direct protection of epiphytic plants and their habitats. It was concluded that the growing body of botanical, ecological, and horticultural knowledge about these plants will aid in their conservation.
41760415|A mature Weinmannia mariquitae tree that constituted part of the upper canopy layer and its epiphytic load were examined to determine the composition and importance of these two compartments in the forest ecosystem. Extrapolation from this specimen and two other trees representing the relatively epiphyte-free middle and lower stories indicated that 44 tons ha of epiphytic biomass and suspended soil, a quantity that exceeds by at least three fold that reported from other sites, occurs in the studied Colombian rain forest. Epiphytic materials equivalent to 12% of the biomass of the W. mariquitae specimen, a higher proportion than any previously recorded, was present on this single phorophyte. Additionally, green biomass produced by epiphytes (ca. 20 kg dry wt) exceeded that of their support by one third. This tree and its associated epiphytic load contained 2,360 g N, 215 g P, 1,350 g K and 99 g Ca of which 51, 58, 80 and 72%, respectively, were present in the phorophyte. Water extractable P was concentrated in higher levels in the suspended than in the terrestrial soil. Unprecedented accumulations of dead vegetation and living bryophytes present in the canopy of this forest are promoted by low temperatures, continuous high humidity, low air turbulence, and certain aspects of forest structure. Low concentrations of certain nutrients in living foliage at the site appear to reflect the generally oligotrophic conditions that in part are imposed by slow mineralization of organic matter. However, the amounts of nutrient capital and green tissue present in suspended biomass and its location in the canopy insures a substantial role in the overall nutrient economy and productivity of the inclusive forest ecosystem.
41760416|A total of 25 species of epiphyte was recorded from trunks of the arborescent fern, Blechnum palmiforme, on Gough Island; many of these also occurred on other hosts and/or on the ground. Number of species of epiphytes was positively correlated with trunk height, whereas their total percentage cover showed no such relation. There were no significant vertical or radial differences in size of patch for any of the species abundant enough to be tested. Ferns were the dominant group; bryophytes and lichens also were important, but angiosperms were of minor significance. Frequencies of trunks occupied differed with trunk height for many species, but did not differ radially. Microdistributional patterns included (a) species characteristic of the bottom of the trunk, (b) those found primarily near the top, and (c) those more uniformly distributed; some species favored certain sides of the trunk over others. Patterns of individual species variously canceled or enhanced each other and collective total cover of some larger taxa maintained significant vertical (bryophytes) or radial (ferns) differences; lichens as a group tended to be sparsely but uniformly distributed.
41760417|The life history of Ficus crassiuscula, a strangling fig of the subgenus Pharmacosycea, differs markedly from that of the better known strangling figs of the subgenus Urostigma. Seedlings of F. crassiuscula develop into viny saplings, capable of spreading over several m. This growth pattern allows final trunk development to take place at a site other than that of germination. The vininess of very young F. crassiuscula also suggests heterochronic pathways for the evolution of the vine growth habit among figs.
41760418|Four species of the neotropical genus Lophostachys are recognized in Mexico and Central America: L. chiapensis, L. guatemalensis, L. uxpanapensis, and L. soconuscana. The latter species is newly described from southeastern Chiapas in southern Mexico. An introduction to Lophostachys and its subfamilial affinities is followed by a description of the genus and a key to the four middle American species. Notes on distributions, habitats, phenologies, and distinguishing morphological characters are provided for each species.
41760420|A new technique for sampling in tree canopies is described. "Sled sweeping" provides replicated estimates of relative insect, foliage or flower abundance in tree canopies in a homogeneous fashion, and can be replicated over many trees in rapid succession. We illustrate its use for estimates of diversity and the relative distribution of insects in tropical forests, as well as a measure of variability of insect abundance among tree canopies. We also discuss applications of the sled for floristic, pollination and taxonomic studies of epiphytes and other canopy phenomena.
41760421|Vriesea geniculata produces two distinct morphological forms during its life cycle. Juveniles exhibit non-impounding rosettes composed of succulent narrow leaves bearing numerous elaborated trichomes. Adults possess an impounding rosette featuring flat broad leaves with nearly glabrous blades. Trichomes with a 4+8+16+32 64 shield cell pattern cover 80% of juvenile foliage. Trichomes with a reduced shield cell arrangement (4+8+32) cover less than 14% of leaf base in the adult form. Stomatal density increases distally while trichome density increases towards the leaf base in both life forms. There are no adaxial stomata. Both atmospheric and tank forms show C photosynthesis.
41760422|For the limited number of species studied, the storage characteristics of orchid seeds are classified as 'orthodox' in the sense that seed longevity is enhanced by reducing moisture contents (from around 20%, wet basis, to 5%) and decreasing storage temperatures (from 62C to 0C). When stored dry at 5-8C, the time taken for viability to fall to 50% can be 8-14 years, (assuming high initial seed quality). However, seeds of Cattleya aurantiaca exhibit reduced longevity at 5C when stored at equilibrium moisture contents both above and below 5%, indicating that the optimal water status for these seeds during storage is approximately 30% r.h. (or a water potential of ca.150 MPa). C. aurantiaca seeds at 2.2 to 5.6% moisture content (up to 31% r.h.) generally exhibit reduced longevity at  18C compared to 5C, and this sensitivity to sub-zero storage has been shown by differential scanning calorimetry to coincide with the presence of the seed lipids in a transitional conformation state. Similar results in the literature for 'dry' seeds of other tropical orchids stored at  10C suggest that the long-term conservation of such species under conventional seed bank conditions (i.e., about20C and 5% moisture content) is problematical. In contrast, dry seeds of two temperate species Dactylorhiza fuschii and Orchis mono germinated after 7 yr storage of sub-zero temperatures. The results are discussed in relation to seed longevity in species from other plant families.
41759855|This paper contains taxonomic and publication information for Bromeliaceae that was not included in, or which appeared after, the publication of L.B. Smith and R.J. Downs' Flora Neotropica Monograph 14, Part 1 (1974); Part 2 (1977); Part 3 (1979). Additionally, it contains, for new taxa, names and authors, publication sources and dates, country of origin, and locations of type specimens. Also included is miscellaneous supplemental information where useful and appropriate. Este trabajo contiene informacin taxonmica sobre Bromeliaceae la cual no fue incluida o que apareci despus de la publicacin de L.B. Smith y R.J. Downs' en Flora Neotrpica Monografa 14, Parte 1 (1974); Parte 2 (1977); Parte 3 (1979). Para las nuevas taxas se incluyen los nombres y los autores, las fuentes y las fechas de las pblicaciones, el pas de origen y la localizacin de los especmenes tipo. Tambin, se incluye informacin complementaria donde se considera til y apropiada.
41759856|The fate of the herbarium of the Museum of Natural History in Vienna, Austria, during World War II is briefly reported. A complete and annotated account of the type specimens of Bromeliaceae still kept there is presented including type photographs from other herbaria. The following basionyms have been lectotypified in this paper: Aechmea organensis, Aechmea petropolitana, Tillandsia globosa, Tillandsia ventricosa, Vriesea carinata, Vriesea carinata var. inflata, and Vriesea paraibica.
41759857|As of 11 June 1992, international trade in seven species of Tillandsia (Bromeliaceae) is regulated under Appendix II of CITES. To facilitate identification, Tillandsia harrisii, T. kammii, T. kautskyi, T. mauryana, T. sprengeliana, T. sucrei, T. xerographica are described and illustrated.
41759858|A checklist of the 24 genera and 364 native species of Bromeliaceae known from Venezuela is presented, including their occurrence by state and indications of which are endemic to the country. A comparison of the number of genera and species known from Mesoamerica (southern Mexico to Panama), Colombia, Venezuela, the Guianas (Guyana, Suriname, French Guiana), Ecuador, and Peru is presented, as well as a summary of the number of species and endemic species in each Venezuelan state. Se presenta un listado de los 24 generos y 364 especies nativas de Bromeliaceae que se conocen de Venezuela, junto con sus distribuciones por estado y una indicacin cuales son endmicas a Venezuela. Se presenta tambin una comparacin del nmero de los gneros y especies de Mesoamerica (sur de Mexico a Panama), Colombia, Venezuela, las Guayanas (Guyana, Suriname, Guyana Francesa), Ecuador, y Per, y un resumen del nmero de especies y nmero de especies endmicas de cada estado de Venezuela.
41759862|Local patterns of leaf damage for ten tree species of different plant families and of different successional status were examined at Wau, Papua New Guinea. Damage to mature leaves was expressed as apparent percentage area lost in leaf samples (ALD, apparent leaf damage, visual estimations), area removed per leaf (ARL) and biomass removed per leaf (BRL). Leaf damage varied greatly among species, from 3.8 to 19.7% for ALD, from 5.7 to 28.9 cm for ARL, and from 0.05 to 0.50 g dry weight of BRL. However, leaf damage was difficult to predict from either insect-related variables (species richness, abundance, biomass and specialization of associated herbivores; enemy-free space) or host-related variables (taxonomie relatedness, tree architecture, water and nitrogen content of leaves, etc.). In particular, trees with species-rich herbivore faunas or with high herbivore densities were not always likely to experience high damage. Contrary to expectations, leaf palatability, successional status or leaf production patterns did not clearly influence leaf damage. The skewness of damage distribution appeared to be weakly correlated with leaf size. This observation was tentatively interpreted as the result of a particular adaptive foraging and feeding behaviour of insect herbivores on large-leaved trees in order to escape avian predators. We conclude that leaf damage is likely to depend on the feeding behavior of a few dominant leaf-chewing insect species and this may complicate the interpretation of results obtained in studies of herbivory seeking community-level patterns. These results point out that the biological interpretation of measurements of apparent leaf damage may not be straightforward.
41759863|A method to measure the amount of twig, branch, and trunk surface in forest canopies rapidly is described. The method uses variable-plot sampling with a forester's cruising prism to estimate the relative amount of surface at different canopy heights. These surface estimates can be subdivided into descriptive categories, allowing a quantitative description of surface distribution.
41759864|The "bird's nest" epiphyte Anthurium hookeri, endemic in the montane rain forest of Guadeloupe, French West Indies, maintains a mean of 149 g dry weight of epiphyte soil (detritus) derived from fine litterfall-leaves, twigs and flower parts. Detritus composition averaged 86.9% OM, 2.54% total nitrogen and 0.125% dry weight phosphorus. The mean N contribution from biological nitrogen fixation was 136 mg N kg whole-plant dry weight yr. The N and P concentrations determined for A. hookeri detritus exceeded concentrations determined for other species of montane rain and cloud forest epiphytes. The sum of the morphological adaptations of A. hookeri resulted in the accumulation of sufficient N, P and other minerals to sustain this epiphyte and provide for reproduction in an oligotrophic epiphytic biotope.
41759865|Arborist methods and equipment are described for climbing trees. Equipment lists and sources are provided and techniques illustrated. Many arborist methods of non-injurious access, ascent, within-crown movement, and descent are applicable to certain tropical forest situations. Arborist methods of access are most appropriate for trees with lowest limbs below 25 m above ground level; however, methods of ascent and movement within crowns are useful for any trees, including those with lowest limbs above 25 m, that can support a climber's weight. Problems presented by limbs with heavy epiphyte loads are addressed. The advantages of arborist techniques include low cost of equipment specifically designed for climbing trees; increased safety using ropes manufactured for tree climbing; greater mobility and availability of ropes for re-use within the crown; and minimum exertion for ascent and descent using the limb as pulley.
41759866|Forest canopy communities are important in maintaining the diversity, resiliency, and functioning of the ecosystems they inhabit. With the increasing interest in and amounts of data on forest canopies that are resulting from new access techniques, ecologists require tools to deal with: 1) new types of data, 2) a great deal more data, and 3) the necessity of sharing data among researchers who have separate research questions. With the support of the National Science Foundation, we established the Canopy Research Network (CRN) to bring together forest canopy researchers, quantitative scientists, and computer scientists to develop methods to collect, analyze, and interpret three-dimensional spatial data relating to tree crowns and forest canopies. By means of a survey to canopy scientists, we compiled an array of research questions and a set of potentially applicable information models and software tools that are in use in allied fields. We found the young field of canopy science to be somewhat fragmented, with a tremendous range of questions spanning wide spatial scales and approaches. Canopy scientists have a wide range of tools available for access and data analysis, but few avenues for formal communication and synthesis among disciplines. There appears to be little overlap in use of software programs; respondents cited the use of 29 different software programs, 31 statistics packages, 31 statistics packages, 13 GIS programs, and 23 other software programs. Information on canopies is published in 72 journals, communicated at 17 different meetings, and informally exchanged via 13 electronic mail bulletin boards. To more easily overcome perceived obstacles, canopy scientists must find methods to more efficiently exchange ideas and information.
41759868|Calathea amazonica, from Department Amazonas, Peru, is described as new. It belongs to Calathea section Comosae Petersen. The distinctive foliage is strongly plicate with sharply ascending lateral veins and is usually patterned above with a light green band along the midrib. It is most closely related to Calathea ursina Standley from Department Loreto, Peru.
41759869|A key, descriptions and illustrations of six species of Pitcairnia which occur in the Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil are presented: P. albiflos Herbert, P. cannata Mez, P. encholirioides L. B. Smith, P. flammea Lindley, P. glaziovii Baker and P. staminea Loddiges are presented. Five taxa are considered new synonyms of P. flammea: P. suaveolens Lindley, P. beycalema Beer, P. lancifolia Mez, P. lancifolia var. minor L. B. Smith and P. pumila Weber.
41759870|Taxonomie studies of the genus Billbergia in Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil, showed that three synonymies may be proposed: Billbergia var. amoena (syn.: Billbergia amoena var. rubra); Billbergia tweedieana (syn.: Billbergia tweedieana var. minr); Billbergiapyramidalis var. pyramidalis (syn.: pyramidalis var. vernicosa). After field surveys and studies of voucher specimens from other states, it is recommended that a taxonomie revision be initiated, given the variation occuring in the specimens.
41759871|Petal appendages are for the first time reported for Neoregelia subgenus Hylaeaicum L. B. Smith. A brief discussion about the potential significance of this finding is presented. A list of species where petal appendages were found as well as illustrations are included.
41759872|Four species of Bromeliaceae are reported here for the first time for the Venezuelan Flora. These are: Aechmea contrada (Mart. & Schult, f.) Baker, of the Bromelioideae; Tillandsia brachycaulos Schltdl., T. rhomboidea Andr, and Vriesea sanguinolenta Cogn. & Marchai, of the Tillandsioideae. Cuatro especies de Bromeliaceae se registran para Venezuela por primera vez. Estas son: Aechmea contracta (Mart. & Schult, f.) Baker, de las Bromelioideae; Tillandsia brachycaulos Schltdl., T. rhomboidea Andr y Vriesea sanguinolenta Cogn. & Marchai de las Tillandsioideae.
41759873|Seven Trichocentrum species are recognized for Costa Rica, including five of the eight previously reported taxa. Two new species, T. costaricense and T. dianthum, are described. Taxonomical, ecological and phenological notes are given for each species.
41759874|Epiphyte species were examined in Golfito, a high-rainfall region of southwestern Costa Rica. Six out of the 15 species examined exhibited significant diurnal increases in tissue acidity. This study constitutes the first report of Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) in the orchid genus Caularthron and in the species Oncidium ascendens, Epidendrum isomerum, and Epidendrum nocturnum. The finding of CAM in the epiphyte Vinaria lineata constitutes the first report of a CAM fern outside the family Polypodiaceae. The ecological significance of CAM in a region of high-rainfall is discussed in light of drought tolerance and the availability of CO.
41759880|We examined the fauna inhabiting the leaves and small stems that compose the outermost canopy of Australian rainforests, and found them inhabited by an abundant and diverse fauna of mites (Acari), including scavenging-fungivores (especially oribatid mites), predators, and plant-parasites. Foliar mite species diversity and abundance was highest on structurally complex leaves, especially those with leaf domatia or erect tomenta. Tropical rainforest trees with hairs on their leaves averaged nearly three times as many species and five times as many individuals as those with smooth leaves. Some mite species were restricted to each leaf type. Subtropical rainforest trees and lianas with leaf domatia had twice as many species and three times as many mites as those on which domatia were blocked with bitumen paint. Patterns of mite abundance and diversity persisted through time with both foliar and stem-inhabiting mites increasing in abundance from the summer-rainy season through the autumn and winter dry periods. Oribatid mites also dominated the stem fauna, but the species composition on stems differed from that on leaves. Species turnover was high between samples within a tree, between tree species, and among sites for both leaf and stem mites, suggesting that the overall contribution of mites to canopy biodiversity is high.
41759881|Canopy walkways are wooden platforms and connecting bridges that provide access to the upper canopy of mature trees. Canopy walkways were constructed at the Coweeta Hydrologie Laboratory in the Southern Appalachian mountains to study canopy arthropods and leaf area removed in deciduous forest stands. A pole pruner/plastic bag method was used to sample branches bearing leaves and their attendant arthropods. The arthropods were picked from the samples and the leaves were photocopied. Photocopies were measured for percentage of leaf area removed. An advantage of the canopy walkway method is that foliage and leaf-dwelling arthropods from the upper canopy can be sampled simultaneously, thus providing information on arthropod density per weight of leaves. Vertical stratification of arthropods can be studied by sampling from smaller platforms built higher in the crowns and by using pole pruners to sample the lower canopy.
41759882|We constructed a canopy observation system, comprised of two tree towers at heights 50 m above the ground and 9 spans of aerial walkway with the total length of 300 m, in a lowland mixed dipterocarp forest in Lambir Hills National Park, Sarawak, Malaysia in 1992-1993. This paper illustrates the construction procedures and discusses methodology for studies of the rainforest canopy.
41759883|The fate of some orchid species, and the importance of the landscape elements in the conservation of regional biodiversity were determined in cloud forest remnants in central Veracruz, Mexico. Remnant sites included forest fragments, isolated trees in pastures, and forest remnants used as shade for coffee plantations. A total of 61 orchid species were found in the landscape elements. Nine orchid species were recorded on isolated trees in pastures that were not found in any of the forest fragments studied. The terrestrial orchids were observed only in the forest fragments. Special note was made of the presence of orchid species that were collected for the first time in the region as these should be indicative of the status of the epiphytic flora in a fragmented landscape. These orchid species were: Acineta barkeri, Campylocen trum schiedet, Leochilus carinatus, Lepanthes avis, Lepanthes schiedei and Pleurothallis tubata; all species were observed in forest fragments, except Lepanthes avis. Only A. barkeri was found on isolated trees in the pasture. Lepanthes avis, schiedei, Leochilus carinatus, and P. tubata were observed on shade trees of the coffee plantations. Results indicate that every remnant of forest, including remnant trees, may contribute to preserve the biological diversity of a region. Para determinar el destino de algunas especies de orqudeas y la importancia de los elementos del paisaje en la conservacin de la biodiversidad regional se estudiaron remanentes de bosque de neblina en Veracruz, Mxico. Los sitios remanentes incluyeron fragmentos de bosque, rboles aislados en potreros y bosque usado como sombra para cafetales. Un total de 61 especies de orqudeas se encontraron en los elementos del paisaje considerados. Nueve especies que se registraron en rboles aislados no se encontraron en los fragmentos de bosque. Las orqudeas terrestres se observaron slo en los fragmentos de bosque. Se observ, especialmente, la presencia de orqudeas que fueron colectadas por primera vez en la regin ya que pueden indicar el estado de la flora epfita en el paisaje fragmentado actual. Estas especies son: Acineta barkeri, Campylocentrum schiedei, Leochilus carinatus, Lepanthes avis, Lepanthes schiedei y Pleurothallis tubata. Todas se observaron en los fragmentos de bosque, excepto Lepanthes avis. En rboles aislados se observ slo a A. barkeri. En rboles de cafetal se observaron a Lepanthes avis, C. schiedei, Leochilus carinatus y P. tubata. Los resultados indican que los remanentes de bosque, an los rboles aislados, pueden contribuir a conservar la diversidad biolgica de una regin.
41759884|Arboreal invertebrates represent a diverse and functionally important component of forest ecosystems. Many invertebrates respond rapidly and dramatically to changes in environmental conditions, making these organisms potentially useful indicators of forest condition. Canopy arthropods also significantly affect canopy structure and ecosystem processes such as primary productivity, nutrient cycling and hydrology. Few canopy studies have been designed to address environmental issues such as how changes in land use affect biodiversity or how changes in canopy biodiversity affect functional integration of forest ecosystems. Assessment of canopy invertebrate responses to environmental change and their consequences for ecosystem processes requires manipulative experimental approaches with random replication of independent treatment plots to meet requirements of statistical analyses. This paper describes experimental approaches for evaluating effects of environmental change on canopy arthropod diversity and species abundances and effects of herbivores on ecosystem processes. These studies have indicated similar functional interactions in taxonomically distinct temperate and tropical forest canopies.
41759885|At La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, we carried out a survey of the microfungi (Ascomycotina and Fungi Imperfecti (Hyphomycetes and Coelomycetes)) associated with the roots of epiphytic orchids and with selected epiphytes from the Araceae, Bromeliaceae, Piperaceae and Polypodiaceae. Numerous isolations were recovered from surface sterilized roots. The Xylariaceae and Nectriaceae were the major groups of ascomycetes isolated. A large number of Fungi Imperfecti including in the Hyphomycetes, the Ingoldian aquatic Tetracladium, and an unidentified species of Acrogenospora, were recovered. Numerous isolates of Pestalotiopsis and Colletotrichum species comprised the majority of the Coelomycetes identified. Enumerating and analysing the components of the mycobiota in this habitat presents a major challenge as the taxa are mostly microscopic and require painstaking isolation procedures that introduce serious sampling bias to results. Our isolates represent a small part of the spectrum of the mycorrhizal, saprophytic and parasitic fungi that play important roles in sequestering, transforming and translocating nutrients among the primary producers in the epiphytic habitat.
41759886|Plant diseases are diverse and common in the canopy of tropical rain forests. Many diseases in the canopy are shared by juveniles in the understory, but their relative abundance in the different strata may vary. Ecological effects of the disease may be greater among juveniles than adults. Adult trees may serve as disease incubators, increasing both the amount of pathogen inoculum available and, potentially, the virulence of pathogens.
41759887|The epiphytic flora of Brazilian tropical rainforest is poorly known. The aims of this study are to list the bromeliad genera that occur in high altitude rainforest in the Maca de Cima region and to study their distribution on phorophytes. The frequency of bromeliads on phorophytes within 20 sample plots was determined using the observation from distance method recording: 1) clumps, 2) height above ground, and 3) location. Bromeliad genera height, percent of epiphytism/diameter at breast height (DBH), size, class and percent of epiphytism of all individuals were determined. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to determine significance, correlations and epiphytic-vegetational gradient on host trees. A total of 122 phorophytes representing 20 families and 46 species supported epiphytes. Five genera of Bromeliaceae were found: Vriesea, Nidularium, Billbergia, Tillandsia and Quesnelia. Concerning vertical distribution, two levels were found. The establishment of bromeliads apparently depended on phorophyte species. DBH was not correlated with bromeliad frequency, and multivariate analysis showed three-way attachment of bromeliads on the phorophytes. The genera could be classified as selective, preferential, indifferent and accidental.
41759888|Climbing trees with the aid of French spikes has been highly effective for gathering the specimens needed to document the plant diversity of a lowland forest in French Guiana. Botanical exploration would have been incomplete without exploring the canopy because 64% of the vascular plant species are efficiently collected only from above the ground. More complicated canopy access methods (e.g., ropes, balloons, cranes, walkways, miniature helicopters, etc.) are either too expensive or not mobile enough to allow for complete botanical inventory. Although the use of spikes to enter the canopy damages some trees, mortality is probably low. The damage caused by occasional climbs probably adds little to the already high turnover time of lowland tropical forests and consequently is expected to have little negative impact on plant and animal diversity. The use of spikes to climb tropical trees, however, is not recommended for long term ecological studies or for studies in which the trees have to be climbed repeatedly.
41759889|Fort DeSoto Park, administered by the Pinellas County Parks Department, consists of five islands or sand keys at the mouth of Tampa Bay and the south end of Boca Ciega Bay. The islands total about 900 acres with more than seven miles of waterfront, including three miles of sandy swimming beaches. Also, many camping sites in a subtropical hammock on two of the keys and additional picnic areas make the park a popular recreational site. This local botanical paradise is vegetated by subtropical hammocks, mixed slash-pine-Florida-rosemary scrub, sandy beaches, dunes, sand-shell plateaus, mangrove thickets, tidal salinas, fringing salt marshes, and submarine sea-grass meadows in the shallow bay waters. The annotated checklist of vascular plants, prepared originally for the use of park personnel and visitors, is based upon nearly 500 collections made by the author on nine or ten trips and other collections made by Olga Lakela and her associates at the University of South Florida, Tampa. Listed are 290 species (33 of them apparently introduced) belonging to 88 families (4 introduced) and 225 genera (26 introduced). Also listed in APPENDIX 1 are 45 additional species, 9 of them introduced, collected on adjacent keys and shores of Boca Ciega Bay and which might be expected also in the Park.
41759890|Ten new species of Brazilian Bromeliaceae are described: Encholirium longiflorum, Pepinia cristalinensis, Vriesea amadoi, Aechmea ramusculosa, Cryptanthus delicatus, Neoregelia sangunea, Nidularium fradensis, Nidularium kautskyanum, Orthophytum hatschbachii, and Wittrockia echinata.
41759895|The effects of canopy gaps on forest understory communities are well documented. However, there has been almost no documentation of the effects of gaps on the canopies themselves. Recent research has shown that portions of crowns adjacent to gaps undergo rapid growth, implying an increase in available carbohydrate (due to increased sunlight). It is reasonable to hypothesize that this would also lead to increases in flowering, fruiting, and epiphytic growth in these same crown portions. Limited data from a temperate forest presented here suggest that this is true. If so, gap-edge tree crowns could be hot spots of resource availability for folivores, floral visitors, frugivores, epiphytes, and associates of these species. As yet we have no documentation of these hot spots or how deeply their effects penetrate into the adjacent parts of the canopy. Because of limited access, canopy biology has concentrated on the vertical dimension, but studies in the horizontal dimension are equally important. Using examples from 'gaps' (glades) in an acacia bushland in East Africa and terrestrial temperate forest edges, I show how similar landscape mosaics have highly variable effects on the community, depending on the traits considered. I then consider parallels with forest canopy gaps, and possibilities for future research.
41759896|Studies on epiphytic vegetation are scarce. Most have been made on a regional scale or by comparing different host trees or locations within a tree. We present an analysis on a very small scale, which may be a powerful tool for describing and understanding community structure and organization. One hundred and eight photographs of oak branch or stem sections, some 50 to 100 cm long, were analyzed, and the nearest neighbors of the 1,843 specimens of vascular epiphytes, belonging to 39 species, were recorded. The non-randomness of species associations was calculated as X values of 2  2 contingency tables. Not surprisingly, many species were their own nearest neighbors. The significance of having a neighbor of the same species, i.e., the degree of clustering, however, differed between groups and may be interpreted in terms of mobility of diaspores and specificity of substrate requirements. Generally, clustering decreased in the following order: orchids, Peperomia spp., most bromeliads, and non-creeping ferns. Three orchid species showed an extremely high incidence of interspecific association, which we suppose to be the result of sharing the same mycorrhizal partner. Weaker associations of different species may be explained by their preferring similar zones in the trees or, possibly, by some species serving as seed traps or nurse plants.
41759898|A useful method is reported for deploying mist nets horizontally from canopy platforms. In a preliminary study of migrant birds in a central Massachusetts forest, more individual birds were netted in the canopy than in the understory during the autumn migration, and the species captured also differed by height. In a previous study without nets, some winter residents also showed height preferences for high vs. low bird feeders. The mist netting technique allows direct comparison of bird abundance in vertical strata with minimal disturbance to vegetation.
41759899|Seeds were used for establishment of a sterile culture of Vriesea fosteriana and Vriesea hieroglyphica, two endangered ornamental Brazilian bromeliads. Large number of plantlets could be obtained from embryos of Vriesea hieroglyphica when cultivated in Knudson basal medium. In contrast, Vriesea fosteriana the addition of hormones was required to produce protuberances from which buds were formed. In this process, new leafy shoots can be formed continuously, providing expiants to continue the multiplication. Entire leaves removed from aseptically-grown seedlings of Vriesea fosteriana were also used as a source of expiants. After twenty days of culture, protuberances were formed at the basal part of them and shoot-buds appeared after one month of culture. For rooting, two different auxins were necessary depending on the species. The rooted shoots were planted in pots and grown in the greenhouse. All plants survived and looked phenotypically normal. This methodology provided a large number of plants, preserving the genetic diversity of the species. This feature is essential for any replacement program that makes use of micropropagated plants.
41759900|Vegetative growth in the orchid Dimerandra emarginata was assessed in more than 300 individual plants growing on the host tree Annona glabra. For each growing season D. emarginata develops one vertical shoot which persists over several years. Past growth was quantified by comparing stem lengths of subsequent years. Average yearly stem height increments were estimated for different plant sizes and used to model long-term growth, which proved to be very slow. The implications of slow growth for age estimates, survival, and community processes are discussed.
41759901|We determined the breeding systems, in this case the physiological acceptance or rejection of self-produced pollen, of epiphytic species in a tropical montane wet forest in Monteverde, Costa Rica. Controlled pollinations were performed in the field and self-compatibility was determined on the basis of fruit set. All fifteen species, distributed among five families, were found to be self-compatible. This represents the highest incidence of self-compatibility among any life form at any tropical site. It is suggested that aspects of epiphytic existence may favor self-compatibility. Thus, some inbreeding may occur in the epiphytic community, despite the prevalence of highly specialized pollination systems which promote outcrossing.
41759903|Assimilation capacity and leaf longevity were documented for a stand of trees in a neotropical dry forest near Panama City, Panama. A construction crane was used to select leaves from exposed locations of the upper canopy of the seven most abundant species in this stand. A general negative relationship exists between mean Amax and mean leaf longevity among the seven species, but this is statistically significant only for leaves produced in the late dry season.
41759905|A modular construction system of bridges and platforms has been designed to facilitate access into forest canopies. This technique creates permanent sites at moderate cost for long term observations and data collection, and allows collaborative research by a group of researchers within one region. Walkways have been constructed in both temperate and tropical forest ecosystems. The approximate costs, safety concerns, and construction specifications are described for two sites: one in subtropical rain forests of Belize, Central America, and one in a temperate deciduous forest at Millbrook, New York.
41759906|The presence and abundance of species in communities at a given moment may be looked at in two ways: (1) emphasizing the quality or quantity of the preceding propagule supply or (2) within community interactions, such as competition. Several studies have attributed great importance to the former in the organization of epiphyte communities based on observed distribution patterns of epiphytes and the high variability between epiphyte communities at apparently identical habitats. On the other hand, the great cover and biomass of bryophytic epiphyte vegetation in the tropical montane rain forest suggests that competitive interactions may also be of importance. In this study, the structural development of epiphyte communities (assumed to be positively correlated with branch diameter) in the canopy of a Colombian Upper Montane Rain Forest is analyzed. Sampling of the epiphyte vegetation included recording the presence and relative abundance of species and the total biomass of the community. Access to the canopy was obtained using rope-climbing techniques. Epiphyte sampling of 21 high standing trees revealed that canopy communities are rich in non-vascular epiphytes comprising 120 taxa of bryophytes and 61 taxa of macro lichens. Four community types are recognized that correspond to a certain position from outer towards inner canopy. The types share many species and therefore form an organizational unit. Species richness of each of these four abstract types is similar at about 100 taxa. However, concrete stands of epiphyte vegetation on the thick inner canopy branches (diam. 21-80 cm) comprised significantly less taxa (p< 0.001) per unit surface area than those on the thinner middle canopy branches (5 diam. 20 cm), carrying on average 1.72 and 3.24 taxa/dm 2, respectively. Richness was significantly higher again in the outer canopy (diam. < 5 cm) with 7.81 taxa/dm. The opposite pattern would be expected when the time available for the immigration of species determines community richness. The decrease in variety with age is paralleled with an increase in biomass and a decrease in evenness. Thick branches and trunks typically carry large patches of individual plants of bryophytes, suggesting competitive replacement of species through 'horizontal' growth.
41759907|A technique adapted from the aid-climbing methods practiced by rock climbers is described for climbing tall trees. Equipment lists are provided and the technique is illustrated. The technique provides an alternative to climbing with spikes or shooting or throwing a line from the ground over a limb high above. It is simple and easy to learn and, once practiced, can serve as an efficient and safe method to access the canopy of a large tree. The technique is applicable to trunks up to ~ 1.5 m diameter, or to heavy lianas growing on even larger trunks. This method can be used not only to gain access to nearly any large tree, but also provides one with the ability to move about in that tree with relative ease and safety. With practice, a climber using this method can ascend from ground level to 30 to 40 m up in the forest canopy in one hr or less. The advantages over other tree-climbing methods are discussed.
41759908|We describe a study involving simultaneous measurements of sap flow rate and sap nutrient content in three canopy and four sub-canopy trees of Dryobalanops aromatica Gaertn. f. (Dipterocarpaceae). Sap flow rate was measured using a heat pulse technique. Sap nutrient content was determined for potassium, calcium, total Kjeldahl nitrogen and phosphorus from samples collected diurnally in the tree crowns. Sap concentration for all nutrients at each 2-h sampling period was unrelated to tree size, except for during the 1600-1800 h period. Relative concentrations of the four nutrients followed the general pattern of N > K > Ca > P; greatest rates of delivery (mmol h) to tree crowns tended to occur at mid-day for each of the four nutrients. Distinct diurnal patterns of sap flow and nutrient content were apparent in most trees. Sap nutrient concentration was often positively correlated with the rate of sap flow. We discuss possible explanations for this unexpected correlation in terms of within-tree nutrient cycling, and also the postulated osmotic role of xylem sap solutes. We conclude that combining measurements of sap flow and sap nutrient content, a technique apparently not previously used in a tropical rain forest study, has considerable potential in ecophysiology.
41759909|Tropical forests are rapidly vanishing throughout Southeast Asia as a consequence of conversion to agricultural use and commercial timber harvesting. In Kerinci-Seblat National Park (KSNP) in Sumatra, Indonesia, a lack of access to irrigated ricefields, insufficient yields from degraded hillside farms, and limited wage labor opportunities leave many households with few livelihood sources other than to collect rattan or convert forests to farms within the park. In this paper, we focus on the management potential of one species of rattan, Calamus exilis, a small-diameter, coppicing cane used in local handicrafts and basketry centered in the village of Sungai Tutung, and collected illegally in KSNP. Our studies suggest that C. exilis may be suited to sustained-yield harvesting at four year intervals, and to management of rattan harvesting in designated extractive zones in KSNP. While managed harvesting of exilis will not solve the problem of forest conversion in KSNP, it represents one potential component within an integrated approach to forest conservation that builds upon the specific mix and interdependence of livelihood activities within one community. However, sustained-yield harvesting of C. exilis will require significant modifications in government policies, property rights and local management institutions.
41759910|Hemiepiphytic or "strangler" fig seeds are dispersed by vertebrates to establishment sites on potential host trees. Despite the importance of figs in rain forests and considerable interest in their ecology, little has been known about their early life history because it occurs in the canopy. In this paper I review work related to fig seed germination and seedling establishment and summarize my recent field experiments in the Bornean rain forest canopy to provide a synopsis of current information on fig seedling ecology. The emerging picture suggests that fig seeds germinate readily anywhere if they get enough moisture. For subsequent survival and growth, water, nutrients, and light are required, but the most limiting factor in the canopy is water stress, even in perhumid rain forests. Given a good establishment site such as a large knothole or other place on a host tree where water is trapped and nutrients accumulate, fig seedlings can take advantage of high light levels and grow rapidly. However, such sites are rare and figs also face insect seed prdation and herbivory as important mortality factors in the canopy.
41759911|17 genera, 192 species and 3 subspecific taxa of Bromeliaceae are recorded from Costa Rica.
41759912|Three new species of Bromeliaceae are described: Guzmania pseudospectabilis from Ecuador; Puya robin-fosteri from Peru; and Puya butcheriana without provenance. Miscellaneous New Taxa of Bromeliaceae IX appeared in Phytologia 74: 449-458 (1993).
41759913|A new species of Stellilabium, S. barbozae J.T. Atwood & R.L. Dressler, is described from a cloud forest in Monte verde bringing a total of five recently described congenerics from this area. Although these minute orchids may have been overlooked by collectors elsewhere, the narrow range known for these species suggests that rapid speciation has occurred among these orchids in the Monteverde area, a phenomenon suggested for other areas of the tropics.
41759914|Two new species of Maxillaria from Costa Rica are described to validate names for use in each of several regional floras. The first species treated, M. chionantha (also widespread in Panama), is related to M. pachyacron Schltr. but the leaves are broader, the flowers are somewhat smaller and entirely white. The second species, M. haberi, is best compared to M. planicola C. Schweinf., but the pseudobulbs are subtended by at least one foliaceous bract, and the lip has a 3-cannate callus unlike the ligulate callus with furcate trichomes of the latter species.
41759917|The conservation potential of sustainable management of tropical forests has been insufficiently studied. The potential synergies of conservation and forestry are not only enormous, but absolutely necessary to the survival of unprotected tropical forests. Political, economic, industrial, social and ecological criteria must be integrated into sustainable tropical forestry. Some examples of tropical forest management are highlighted. Tropical forests outside of protected areas are doomed if we do not find sustainable uses for these globally important natural resources.
41759918|Remote sensing provides information about forest canopies through a sensor signal resulting from the interaction of electromagnetic energy with canopy components. The information gained about the canopy structure is highly dependent on the frequency received by, as well as the spatial resolution of, the sensor. Currently, there are numerous types of remote sensing devices that utilize various regions of the electromagnetic spectrum and cover a range of spatiotemporal scales. This paper is designed as an introductory overview of how remote sensing can be used to assess canopy characteristics at the crown, stand and landscape levels. Examples from passive (e.g., optical multispectral imagers) and active (e.g., synthetic aperture radar and lidar) systems are presented.
41759919|Small mammal research in forests is typically conducted with traps placed on the ground or affixed to trees at heights up to only 2 meters. In a study conducted in northwestern Massachusetts, USA, we compared these conventional methods with an innovative new technique of trapping high in the forest canopy. Using an adaptation of Malcolm's (1991, 1995) pulley method and a canopy walkway, we compared canopy-trapping to ground-trapping. Total captures per station and total number of individuals captured per station differed between canopy and ground for both dominant small mammal genera: flying squirrels (Glaucomys volans) and mice (Peromyscus spp.). Ground traps were biased toward Peromyscus spp., underestimated the abundance of G. volans, and misrepresented the species composition of the small mammal community at the site. We also compared canopy-trapping with understory-trapping and found that total captures per station and total number of individuals captured per station differed between understory and canopy locations. Peromyscus was more abundant in the understory. The small mammal community was represented quite differently according to trap location, and vertical stratification of this temperate forest community was evident. We discuss implications of these results for other species (e.g. gypsy moth).
41759920|In British Columbia, we have constructed three old-growth forest research sites, each with a canopy access system. Another is in the planning stages. Each site is located in a different forest biotope. The first is in old-growth Sitka spruce/western hemlock in the Upper Carmanah Valley. The second is in old-growth dry, coastal Douglas-fir on the southern tip of Vancouver Island. Less than 1% of this unique habitat remains intact. The third is at Bamfield Marine Station in an old-growth western red-cedar forest, and the fourth is planned for wet, coastal Douglas-fir in the Megin River watershed, an area that is part of the Long Beach Model Forest in Clayoquot Sound. This unique transect of canopy access systems within four distinct forest community types offers important opportunities for national and international collaborative projects on temperate rainforest canopy research.
41759921|We constructed a mammal trapping grid in the subcanopy and canopy levels of the Allee Creek watershed on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. We report here the results from a continuous six-month trapping study (July-December 1994) using large (81  32  26 cm) traps baited with whole bananas. Species diversity of trapped animals was extremely low, with 847 of 862 captures being coatis (Nasua narica). Most of these captures were multiple captures of a few adult females. Morning and afternoon capture frequencies were not significantly different. The number of captures was highest during a period of fruit abundance, contrary to expected findings. The spatial pattern of captures indicates that, although females may forage together in bands, their sites of capture do not cluster together. The provision of large single food items widely spaced (bananas in traps) is unlike the normal spacing of food items and seems to alter band dynamics temporarily. The characteristics of the trees with the most coati captures strongly suggests that the presence of lianas stretching between the ground and the tree crown provides access to the canopy.
41759922|As part of long-term research on the canopy of subtropical rain forest in southeast Queensland, we have compared three common techniques of insect collectingsweeping, beating and insecticidal spraying. Segments of understory vegetation were sampled using either sweepnets or beating trays in a standard fashion and then, the same sites were misted using pyrethrum. Samples based on sweep netting collected only 10% of the numbers collected by misting, and beating approximately 25%. The proportions of insect orders collected by each method also different significantly, illustrative of the fact that these methods are effective only for certain groups of insects. Misting and beating generated similar proportions of the major taxa whereas sweeping underestimated Collembola and overestimated Diptera. For non-insect arthropods, both beating and sweeping overestimated the proportions of Araneida and substantially underestimated the Amphipoda. The use of sweeping and beating, therefore, provided very substantial underestimates of the fauna.
41759923|Canopy arthropod communities of four coniferous tree species, found in UK plantations, were examined using pyrethrum knockdown. The species selected were Scots pine (Pinus sylvestris), Corsican pine (Pinus nigra var. maritima), Sitka spruce (Picea sitchensis) and Norway spruce (Picea abies). Arthropods were often found in high densities, with figures up to 11,000 m. These are higher densities than those previously recorded from other trees in temperate or tropical regions. Communities were dominated by Collembola and Acarina except where there were outbreaks of the Green spruce aphid (Elatobium abietinum). The dominance of epiphyte feeders and mites concurs with data from studies on conifers in Japan. Species richness of herbivorous orders was found to be lower than that for broadleafed trees, but the richness of other groups was generally comparable. Community variations between tree genera were greater than those between related species. This study suggests that the structure of canopy arthropod communities on coniferous trees differs from that on broadleafs. The differences may be attributable to the density and longevity of the foliage on the evergreen conifers.
41759924|Arthropod biodiversity is being investigated in the Carmanah Valley on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. We explore features related to the Centinelan extinction concept and ask whether or not this is applicable to northern temperate old-growth forest arthropods. Habitat loss in these forest systems is well documented and at present, of 89 old-growth forest watersheds over 5000 ha in size, only 6 remain intact. Examination of identified species (1,311 to date) from the intact old-growth forest of the Carmanah Valley indicates that this structurally complex habitat acts as a reservoir for biological diversity. Thirty species of oribatid mites and 8 species of staphylinid beetles are new to science and all of these species show habitat specificity to micro-habitats found within this old-growth forest. Nowhere is this more apparent than in the moss-mats of the high-canopy, where the oribatid mite fauna is composed of 56 species, of which 15 undescribed species are canopy specific. This mite assemblage forms a major component of a discrete arboreal community. Comparisons between the high-canopy and ground sites indicate that an additional 15 undescribed oribatid species are confined to the forest interior. No new species of oribatid mites or staphylinid beetles have been recorded in the forest edge or clear-cut sites. Evidence suggests microhabitats present in these old-growth forests contain an undescribed resident arthropod fauna. Without proper documentation, this faunal component is a candidate for the Centinelan extinction conceptextinction of species unknown before their demise and hence unrecorded.
41759925|Approximately 100 species of epiphytes of the Orchidaceae, Bromeliaceae, Cactaceae, Araceae, Piperaceae and Polypodiaceae occupy the canopy and tree trunks of the various tropical forests of the Yucatn Peninsula. We established the geographic distributions of most of these epiphytes, and at the same time assigned them to different habitats: tall and medium-statured semi-evergreen and subdeciduous forest, and low-statured deciduous and seasonally inundated forests, as well as mangroves. The number of epiphyte species vary between forests. The low-statured inundated forests, unique to the Peninsula and the least disturbed, are home to about 56% of the epiphyte species, while the tall semi-evergreen forest hosts approximately 78%. Perturbations of the tropical forests are widespread but patchy. For example, in southern Quintana Roo between 1975 and 1990, the increase (hectares) in agriculture and cattle ranching was 80% whereas in secondary vegetation it was 48%. With > 50 % of the original forest gone, the Peninsula's eleven protected natural areas occupying 10% of the surface area, will give some protection to the epiphytes.
41759926|The larger hemiepiphytes, and particularly the stranglers, may impose significant burdens upon their hosts, and compete with them for light and soil resources. Hemiepiphytes are thus by their mechanical parasitism likely to adversely affect host survival and reproduction, and set the stage for host-hemiepiphyte coevolution. Epidemiological analysis of host-hemiepiphyte interaction should be able to reveal patterns of host preference, and indicate factors affecting the likelihood of hemiepiphyte establishment.
41759928|Epiphyte diversity and abundance were surveyed in trees that were felled by a logging operation in the Cameroonian semi-deciduous rain forest to determine the importance of pteridophytes. Six host tree species were surveyed, including 150 individual phorophytes. Triplochiton scleroxylon hosted the greatest number of pteridophytes while Canarium schweinfurthii and Terminalia superba hosted the fewest. Of the 78 epiphytic species recorded, the largest groups were the monocotyledons (51 species) and the pteridophytes (20 species), while the dicotyledons (7 species) were the smallest. Regardless of the host, pteridophytes represented over 25% of the epiphytic flora. More than 5 pteridophytes were always hosted by each of the individual host trees. Within the pteridophytes, Polypodiaceae (8 species) was the most diversified family, followed by Davalliaceae (5 species) and Aspleniaceae (4 species). Factor analysis showed no strict specificity between tree species and pteridophytes.
41759929|During herbarium research on the tribe Triphoreae (Orchidaceae) for the Flora de Mexico, Flora Mesoamericana, Flora of the Greater Antilles, and Flora of the Guianas, several new distributional records for species of Triphora were found. The new records for these poorly known species are presented.
41759930|Neotropical montane forests are characterized partially by their great abundance and high diversity of epiphytes. We vouchered a species list of vascular epiphytes from a four-hectare lower montane site in Monteverde, Costa Rica, and compared the floristic composition of epiphytes to other epiphyterich communities. We collected at four different seasons using singletechniques to access the forest canopy. Collections included 56 pteridophyte species from 10 families, and 200 angiosperms from 27 families. Orchidaceae were approximately four times more speciose (92 species) than Bromeliaceae (22 species), the next most species-rich angiosperm family. Together, Orchidaceae, Pteridophyta, Bromeliaceae, Araceae, Ericaceae, Piperaceae, and Gesneriaceae accounted for 84% of the vascular epiphyte flora. The number of angiosperm families represented by epiphytes in the lower montane study site equals those present in all of Mexico, and exceeds the number for lowland sites in Costa Rica (La Selva) and Ecuador (Centinela and Ro Palenque), and a montane site in Ecuador (Cajanuma).
41759937|Two new Costa Rican species of Macroclinium, M. doderoi and M. robustum, are described and illustrated.
41759938|Guizhou is situated in south central China, lying between 10343' and 10930'E longitude and 2450' and 2910'N latitude. The province covers an area of approximately 174,000 square kilometers and has a complex topography and varied climate. The diversity of habitats and the equable climate in Guizhou has resulted in a flora comparable in richness and diversity to Yunnan, Sichuan and Guangxi. In the Flora of Guizhou, the Orchidaceae form one of the largest groups of plants, as the family does in the flora of China. The orchids of Guizhou, however, are poorly known and no comprehensive assessment of their diversity has been compiled. This paper was prepared using collections in the Arnold Arboretum Herbarium (A), Oakes Ames Orchid Herbarium (AMES), the Gray Herbarium (GH), and the herbaria of the Institute of Botany in Beijing (PE), the Institute of Biology of Guizhou (HGAS), the Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Guizhou (GZTM), the New York Botanical Garden (NY) and the U.S.A. National Herbarium (US). The checklist is also based on field work in Guizhou and reports in literature housed in the libraries of the above institutions. This paper is an account of all known species of Orchidaceae in Guizhou Province, China based on the material found both in herbaria and literature. Guizhou contains 194 species and 2 varieties of orchids belonging to 69 genera distributed among 25 subtribes and two subfamilies. Of them 63 species are new records for Guizhou indicated in the text by an asterisk (*); three previously accepted species are reduced to synonyms. The checklist will serve as a basis for further exploration in the province and will also be useful in preparing the treatments for the Orchidaceae for the forthcoming Flora of Guizhou and Flora Republicae Popularis Sinicae.
41759939|Maxillaria cedralensis J. T. Atwood & D. E. Mora is described from the mid to upper elevations of Costa Rica. This is the third species of the M. cucullata Lindl. complex known in Costa Rica. A key to species is provided.
41759940|Calathea hammelii and C. gloriana are described as new. They are known only from the La Selva Biological Station, Heredia Province, in the Atlantic lowlands of Costa Rica. Both species belong to Calathea section Breviscapus Benth. Calathea hammelii is most similar in flower color and morphology to C. nitidifolia from the Pacific lowlands of Costa Rica and to C. cuneata from Costa Rica and Panam. Two morphs of C. hammelii are recognizable, differing in the sheen of the upper leaf surface. Calathea gloriana is most closely related to C. elegans from Panam and Colombia.
41759941|Canopy gaps in tropical forests are important for regeneration of many species. Rates of gap formation are well studied, but data on rates of canopy gap closure are scarce. In this study I investigate how development of vegetation in recently created canopy gaps in a pristine tropical rain forest varies between three small and three large gaps. The percentage of space occupied by vegetation ("vegetation occupation") was determined at one meter intervals through the expanded gap area (divided in a central and peripheral gap zone), and the first meters of the closed forest adjacent to gaps. Vegetation occupation above each inventory point was determined in three height ranges in different intervals: 0->30 m (5 m intervals); 0-10 m (1 m intervals), and 0-2 m (0.25 m intervals). Inventories were done in October 1991 and November 1993. In the central zone of small gaps, the net change in vegetation occupation was strongest in the 0->30 m range, whereas in the central zone of large gaps, vegetation occupation increased mainly in the lower height ranges (0-2 and 0-10 m). Small gaps seem to fill mainly by means of lateral ingrowth of surrounding trees, and large gaps fill mainly through growth of gap floor regeneration (both advanced regeneration and new recruitment). I estimate that on average, small gaps "disappear" within 5 to 6 years after formation. In large gaps, it may take between 5 to 10 years before a canopy layer has been established which is at least 10 m high.
41759942|We observed pollination process of three hemiparasites, Loranthaceae, Amylotheca duthieana (King) Danser, Trithecanthera sparsa Barlow and T. xiphostachys Tiegh. Flowers of these three species were cylindrical with different corolla lengths. Flowers of A. duthieana, T. sparsa and T. xiphostachys were reddish orange, yellow, and pink in color, respectively. Flowers lacked odor, nectar guides, and landing places for visitors. Long-billed spider hunters (Arachnothera robusta) were main visitors to flowers of all three species, although little spider hunters (Arachnothera longirostra) foraged on A. duthieana and T. sparsa in much less frequency. Aggressive behavior of the long-billed spider hunter might have modified the other nectarivorous birds' foraging pattern. Long-billed spider hunters visited A. duthieana flowers only in the early morning, but visited T. sparsa flowers rather constantly from the morning to noon. Flowers of T. xiphostachys were visited by them at most only two times a day. Diurnal patterns of nectar production and nectar level in the corolla fit well to the above visit patterns to these three species. The utilization of pollinators by three species of mistletoes may be partitioned along a diurnal dimension.
41759943|Research interest in canopy processes, particularly in tropical rain forests, has increased substantially in recent years both as a consequence and cause of a wide range of canopy access techniques. Recent developments in low-tech canopy access methods are described which increase versatility of access and extend sampling capability. There follows a discussion of sampling issues in canopy research, including demonic intrusion, systematic error, pseudoreplication, non-random sampling, and the problem of working in three-dimensions. In conclusion, possible improvements in canopy sampling capability are suggested, particularly with respect to further increases in access flexibility, development of better sampling strategies, and increased communication of protocols by canopy researchers.
41759944|Obtaining specimens from the forest canopy is a perennial problem for tropical biologists. A safe and easy method that does not require the use of a vertical rope is described suitable for ascending straight young branchless tree boles of 10-35 cm in diameter or large lianas. It uses rope loops attached to foot and waist assemblies, which pass twice about the tree trunk and are cinched off with small ascenders. The climber can ascend to heights of 15-25 m and reach botanical specimens with a saw attached to a long pole, or detach from the loops and move about the canopy using other climbing gear. While on the loops, the climber is firmly attached to the trunk and has both hands free to work.
41759945|In order to correlate epiphyte position and phenology with microclimate, a sensor setup was designed to measure the spatial and temporal pattern of air temperature and relative humidity. The sensor setup featured an automatic measuring device which was installed in a Ficus jimenezii tree in the Reserva Biolgica Alberto Brenes, Alajuela, Costa Rica. An entire annual data set with a spatial resolution of fourteen locations and a temporal resolution of 20 sec intervals, and a recording time of five minutes, was obtained. The sensor positions were chosen to analyze the gradient between the ground and the canopy roof and the gradient between the center of the crown and its periphery. A superimposed third gradient occurred between the surface of large branches and the free space between the branches. Generally, temperature and humidity curves were contrary. The gradients' steepness was mainly influenced by humus accumulation on the branches around the sensor position. High accumulations of humus mitigated the gradients considerably. As a consequence, climatic environments close to the branches were similar to those near the ground. Extreme climatic events, such as low relative humidity and high temperature, were defined. They occurred during less than 1% of total measuring period. The extent and duration of extreme events increased significantly with distance from the ground, from the tree center to the periphery and with distance from large branches. A parallel study showed that these events affect the morphology of different Columnea (Gesneriaceae) species and play an important role for epiphyte establishment and fruiting success in this tropical rain forest.
41759946|Chromosome numbers are reported for 44 taxa from Bromeliaceae, including first reports for three genera (Hohenbergia, Lymania, Quesnelia), and first reports for 27 additional species. The reported numbers are all diploid (2n = 50), except for Ananas ananassoides (2n = 75), a triploid, Tillandsia butzii (2n = 100), a tetraploid, and Fosterella villosula (2n = 150), a hexaploid. These chromosome numbers support the proposed base chromosome number of x = 25 for extant Bromeliaceae. Hypotheses concerning the evolution of chromosome base number in the Bromeliaceae are evaluated in light of recent molecular evidence suggesting that the Rapateaceae and Bromeliaceae may be sister taxa.
41759947|Seedlings of three bromeliad species, Pitcairnia flammea, Vriesea philippo-coburgii and Tillandsia pohliana, with different growth habits were in vitro cultured for 6 months in a modified knudson medium containing 8mM nitrogen, such as $N{O_3}^ - $, $N{H_4}^ + $, NHNO, glutamine or urea. Growth analysis showed that all species presented a very efficient uptake and utilization of glutamine and NHNO. The presence of $N{O_3}^ - $ substantially stimulated root development. To examine some possible effects of different nitrogen sources on nitrogen assimilation, protein was extracted from leaf shoots of three species and glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) and aspartate aminotransferase (AAT) activities were determined by gel electrophoresis. Effects of nitrogen source were shown most clearly by the different mobility of GDH observed in samples which had been supplied with Ca(NO) compared to those found in samples supplied with (NH) SO. Urea as a nitrogen source depressed AAT activity in the terrestrial species Pitcairnia flammea but enhanced it in the epiphyte Tillandsia pohliana. The latter species and the other epiphyte examined, Vriesea philippo-coburgii, were distinguishable from P. flammea through their AAT mobility, while the two epiphytes differed between themselves principally in the level of their AAT activity.
41759948|Five new species of Bromeliaceae are described: Orthophytum sucrei from Brazil, Guzmania bergii and Pitcairnia clarkii from Ecuador, Tillandsia occulta from Mexico, and Pitcairnia croatii from Panama. Miscellaneous New Taxa of Bromeliaceae (X) appeared in Selbyana 16(2) (1995).
41759949|This paper contains taxonomic and publication information for Bromeliaceae that was not included in, or which appeared after, the publication of L.B. Smith and R.J. Downs' Flora Neotropica Monograph 14, Part 1 (1974); Part 2 (1977); Part 3 (1979), and Luther & Sieff (1994). Please refer to the last-mentioned publication for additional information. Additionally, for new taxa, it contains scientific names and their authors, publication sources and dates, country of origin, and locations of type specimens. Miscellaneous supplemental information where considered useful is included. Este trabajo contiene informacin taxonmica sobre Bromeliaceae la cual no fue incluida o que apareci despus de la publicacin de L.B. Smith y R.J. Downs en Flora Neotropica Monografa 14, Parte 1 (1974); Parte 2 (1977); Parte 3 (1979) y en Luther & Sieff (1994). Refirese a la publicacin posterior para informacin adicional. Para los nuevos taxa se incluyen los nombres y los autores, las fuentes y las fechas de las publicaciones, el pas de origen y la localizacin de los especmenes tipo. Tambin, se incluye informacin complementaria donde se considera til.
41760428|Persistence of any population depends on the ability of its members to reproduce, asexually or sexually. When reproductive success and/or survivorship are low, this may lead to population decline or in extreme cases extinction. Estimating population growth rate by matrix analysis is effective in determining population stability, although rarely used in orchids. The newly described epiphytic orchid Lepanthes caritensis, is limited to the Charco Azul area in the Carite Forest Reserve, Puerto Rico and occurs only on one species of tree, Micropholis guyanensis (Sapotaceae). Reproductive success, growth and survivorship of individuals of L. caritensis were recorded monthly for two years and a matrix analysis was applied to estimate the asymptotic growth rate of two populations. Reproductive effort was infrequent, few pollinaria were removed and fruit set was nil in both populations. Recruitment and mortality during the sampled years was 8.2% and 22.0% respectively. Mortality was significantly higher in juveniles as compared to adults (28.9% and 10.6% respectively). Recruitment of seedlings must have resulted from the presence of a seed bank or long distance seed dispersal. Intrinsic population growth rate was estimated at 0.995 and 0.999 for population one and two, respectively. Elasticity analysis suggests that non-reproductive adult stage in both populations is the most sensitive to change and would have the largest effect on the population growth rate as compared to other stages and reproductive success. The estimated half-life of Lepanthes caritensis populations is approximately 9.5 and 47 years for population one and two, respectively. Population persistance will depend on the consistency of the mortality rate and stochastic reproductive success.
41760429|Education about the environment has been going on for as long as man has had a natural environment in which to live. This education has been called environmental education. Environmental education exists in all types of settings, informal and formal, for multi-age, multi-cultural populations. The goal of environmental education is to produce an environmentally literate citizen who can make informed decisions based on knowledge and values. Today, many children are removed from experiencing in a direct experiential manner, the natural world around them. The effectiveness and the quality of environmental education varies for many reasons. There is an environmental backlash which blames environmental education for advocacy education and for teaching emotional programs and misinformation. They claim a type of "greenwashing" of our children is happening. Environmental knowledge based on accurate science should be available to all of us to help us become environmentally literate citizens.
41760430|An efficient method of axenic seed propagation of large numbers of Cypripedium reginae Walt, was developed as a means of supplying seedlings for a restoration attempt in the northeastern United States. Seedlings were grown on  strength Murashige and Skoog basal salts supplemented with 100 ml/l coconut milk and solidified with 7g/l agar. The development of Cypripedium reginae was studied with both light and scanning electron microscopy. Dose response experiments of seed germination versus exposure time to sodium hypochlorite indicate germination and developmental progress was greatest at longer exposure times. Experiments on seed germination subsequent to exposure to increased concentrations of sodium hypochlorite (0%, 0.125%, 0.25%, and 0.5%) indicate germination and developmental progress was greatest at higher concentrations. Earliest germination was seen at 14 days after initial plating of seed. Stage 5 seedlings were present 27 days after initial plating and in greatest proportion in seeds exposed to longer times in sodium hypochlorite. Micropropagation experiments showed a success rate of 32% with an indication of difficulty in cutting the seedlings to allow for both shoot and root development. Approximately 10,000 seedlings have been successfully germinated and have developed both healthy roots and shoots.
41760431|Activities are explored for the lay individual to impact positively on conservation of plant species. The following nine recommendations are made: 1. Under some conditions, increase of genetic diversity through introduction of foreign clones is appropriate. 2. Introduction into the wild can be useful to conservation, even if survivorship of the introductions is low. 3. Communication between government officials with information on areas slated for development and conservationists willing to salvage plants should be improved. 4. Collection of superior clones for development of 'improved' line-bred species can reduce incentive for collection in the wild by flooding market demands with more attractive material. 5. CITES should encourage salvage efforts and promote flow of rescued material. 6. Conservation requires a multilateral approach and should include individuals and commercial growers as well as botanical institutions. The conventional wisdom that arboreta and botanical gardens have much more commitment to conserving species than individuals is too often shattered by personnel changes and budgetary constraints. 7. Individuals can better work to help preserve orchid populations on a local level, an activity not possible through membership in most conservation organizations. 8. Rare and desirable plants should be rescued from habitat destruction even if they enter commercial markets. 9. Commercial growers can aid conservation efforts by filling market demands and by serving as information sources for possible illegal activity.
41760432|Somatic chromosomes of Oncidium morenoi and O. pumilum were analyzed in detail. The chromosome number of O. morenoi and the karyotypes of the two species are presented for the first time. O. morenoi showed 2n=30 with a karyotypic formula of 14 m + 14 sm + 2 st. O. pumilum presented 2n=30 and a karyotype composed of 20 m + 10 sm.
41760433|Terrestrial orchids are generally regarded as one of the most vulnerable groups of higher plants, because they are difficult to grow from seed in the absence of mycorrhizal fungi. In vitro symbiotic seed germination often provides a reliable means to cultivate orchids from seed using naturally-occurring fungi, but its use in North America has been largely ignored. Mycorrhizal fungi should be included in propagation efforts to ensure that orchids persist in the natural setting. This paper summarizes the techniques associated with symbiotic seed germination (fungal isolation, identification and storage; seed collection and storage; seed pre-treatment, seed sowing and incubation; post-germinationin vitro to soil). It is anticipated that terrestrial orchid conservation will benefit from the techniques described herein.
41760434|A rapid assessment technique for examining epiphyte diversity at both forest and regional levels is described. The technique that allows for a consistent assessment of epiphyte diversity at any locality, is based on surveying the oldest trees in a forest and can be used for comparative purposes. It is cost effective and is particularly suited to studies in Australia where subtropical and tropical rainforests are small in area and widely scattered.
41760435|Flushing of leaves and macroarthropod abundances were monitored in the canopies of five species of Eucalyptus saplings under different conditions and seasons. Leaf-flushing took place year round but was most prevalent during periods of high rainfall. Flushing was not synchronous among saplings even within a species. Saplings in open field conditions retained the young quality of new leaves longer than those in shaded woodlands. Arthropod numbers differed significantly among individual saplings and species of sapling, and with time and exposure. There were significant interactive effects. There were more arthropods on saplings in the sun than on those under a tree canopy. Values ranged from zero to over 20,000 insects on individual saplings at particular sampling times. Peaks of abundance were of short duration and were attributable to different species of insects at different sampling periods. Coleptera, Hemiptera and Formicidae (ants) were the most common groups. Insect peaks were not consistently in concert with leaf flushes. Susceptibility to insect attack was influenced by whether or not a particular sapling flushed simultaneously with the occurrence of a peak of grazing insects. Canopies of saplings were more accessible to quantify temporal and spatial variation in insects than were mature trees.
41759968|Orchid conservation is currently limited by a century old paradigm, rooted in the herbarium centered inventories of imperial resources, the Europe of Great Powers and steamships, and orchids as playthings of a small upper class. Genetics, ecology, population biology were in the future, and horticultural techniques for growing and for large scale propagation were unsatisfactory. A major revolution in nearly every aspect of orchid science, growing, and relations to society, spread over the past 100 years but accelerating in the last 25 years, calls for new systems approaches to the urgent need for action on orchid conservation. Many present attempts are inappropriate, based upon outdated ideas. Others are so slow and cumbersome that little or no actual conservation can be carried out. These same policies inhibit many types of research on orchids. An improved system would save species from extinction and open possibilities for significant new insights in evolutionary biology. The first step is offered here: downlisting many orchids from CITES II.
41759969|Strategies for species conservation should be based on at least two perspectives. First, one should know the demographic health of component populations which includes their growth, decline and interdependence. The second perspective, which I address here, is the maintenance of evolutionary potential, i.e., the ability to respond to change. This potential depends not only on patterns of variation but also on how populations differentiate. One model of evolutionary potential and differentiation in orchids is based on small population dynamics and repeated founder events. Species that show high levels of genetic variation within populations but little among them represent the pool of possibilities for future founding events which generate small populations. When variation is highest among populations, the potential for speciation is very high because populations are already differentiated to some degree, gene flow is minimal, and episodes of genetic drift and natural selection may be common. Conservation strategies can be very different for the two extreme patterns. For high variation within populations and little among them, the focus should be on conserving many individuals and this could be accomplished at one or few populations without substantial loss of genetic resources. When variation is greatest among populations then one must conserve as many viable populations as possible. Patterns of genetic variation can be revealed by molecular methods as well as standard morphometric techniques. Thus, the tools for estimating genetic resources are available to all and interpretation of the results are possible within existing theoretical frameworks.
41759970|Knowledge of orchid diversity has greatly expanded in the last 30 years. Some 1,150 identified species are recognized in Mexico with an additional 100 species still unidentified. Some 250 localities have been surveyed with "hot spots" of orchid diversity identified. Cloud forests contain almost 60% of known species in only 2% of territory; this is the most endangered biome. A map of priority regions for conservation is available. A federal list of endangered or threatened species has been published. Official development policies have changed from massive clearing to biodiversity conservation. Demographic and genetic surveys have taken place in particularly threatened and economically important species like Laelia speciosa and Vanilla. Cases of conflicting interests in horticulture oppose orchid growers with in situ conservation. Ex situ conservation of Laelia anceps subsp. dawsonii, L. gouldiana, Paphiopedilum xerophyticum and P. exstaminodium results in commercial gain. A National Plan for Orchid Conservation focusing on immediate actions is underway. Various projects of in situ conservation are ongoing with legal support. A realistic assessment of commercial possibilities of local species is essential to avoid exaggerated expectations. Interaction of local groups, government and NGO's with local communities is essential to biodiversity conservation.
41759971|Education is one of the most effective approaches to promote conservation. Costa Rica has a rich orchid flora, but it also has one of the highest rates of deforestation in the world. Maintaining Costa Rica's high biodiversity, including 1,200 reported species of orchids, has been the mission of many local and international research and conservation organizations including Selby Gardens. As a pilot program, training activities for local elementary school teachers started at the Jardn Botnico Lankester in Costa Rica, in December 1993, and were implemented until September 1994. The program was an effective technique to promote and enhance teaching strategies for conservation education. Results from this pilot program supported the need for outreach in local school communities, involving students and faculty in the conservation role of botanical gardens.
41759972|A total of 81 species of vascular epiphytes was collected from 22 selected branches of the middle and upper canopies of 16 phorophyte species. These phorophytes were characteristic and predominant species for the study area, a montane forest of the western slopes of the Ecuadorian Andes, 30 km southwest of Quito. With precise data of surface area (40.44 m), length (761.27 m) and the various inclinations of all these branches, a typical structure of the tree crowns can be expounded. High inclinations are characteristic of small branches in the outer tree crown, small inclinations are predominant in large branches forming the inner parts of the crownindependent of the tree species. Phorophyte branch characteristics influence substrate thickness for epiphytes; substrate depends on branch inclination and branch diameter. With increasing branch diameter, average substrate thickness and average body size of epiphytes increase. The collection of 2,677 individuals of 81 epiphyte species and additionally 746 young and undeterminable individuals leads to a comprehension of the spatial distribution of epiphytic vegetation. Every branch can be divided into zones of different ages, these show different age levels of growing epiphytes. Younger twigs are colonized by a large number of juvenile individuals, older parts of branches are overgrown with fewer but generally more mature epiphytes. The number of species stays more or less constant with increasing branch age, but a turnover of certain species illustrates the succession of vascular epiphytes. Un total de 81 especies de epftas vasculares fueron colectados de 22 ramas seleccionadas en el docel medio y superior de foroftas de 16 especies diferentes. Estas foroftas representan especies caractersticas y dominantes del rea de estudio, un bosque montano de los Andes Ecuadorianos, 30 kilmetros al sudoeste de Quito. Datos exactos del area de superificie (40.44 m), longitud (761.27 m) y inclinaciones de todas las ramas, permiten la reconstruccin de la estructura tpica de las copas de los rboles. Inclinaciones altas caracterizan las ramas pequeas en las zonas exteriores de las copas, inclinaciones suaves predominan en grandes ramas formando la parte interior de las coronas. Esta estructura general aplica a todas las especies de forofitas. Las caractersticas de las ramas de las foroftas tienen una influencia determinada en el espesor del sustrato de las epfitas, la cual depende de la inclinacin de ramas y su dimetro. El aumento de dimetro resulta en un crecimiento de espesor de sustrato y el tamao medio de las epfitas. La documentacin de 2,677 individuos de 81 especies de epfitas (ms 746 plantas juveniles no determinables) permite un concepto de la distribucin espacial de la vegetacin epfitica. Cada rama est compuesta de diferentes zonas de edad, que muestran un patrn correspondiente de epfitas de edades diferentes. Ramas juveniles estn cubiertas por un gran nmero de individuos de epfitas juveniles, ramas de ms edad estn cubiertas de epfitas edultos. El nmero de especies queda constante en todas las zonas de las ramas, pero un cambio de especies indica un patrn de sucesin de epfitas vasculares.
41759973|It is generally thought that pastures are inhospitable habitats for rain forest organisms. This largely results from (i) using low resolution images when studying fragmented landscapes and (ii) ignoring the actual characteristics of pastures. In a highly fragmented landscape of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico, numerous remnants of the forest canopy are left when pastures are created. Most of these are undetected in deforestation studies and dismissed as irrelevant in fragmentation studies. Using aerial photographs and field verification, we analyzed the spatial distribution and physical and biotic characteristics of isolated trees in pastures, a common landscape element in this region. In 30 pastures there were 98 species of isolated trees, 76 of which were primary rain forest species. Isolated tree density averaged 3.3 tree/ha (range: 0.4-11.9) and decreased with slope. Variation in the species composition, density and canopy physiognomy of isolated trees greatly increases the biotic and physical heterogeneity of pastures. These remnant trees function as 'stepping stones' for native fauna and 'safe sites' for flora, favoring their maintenance in fragmented landscapes. We propose that, together with other forest remnants, isolated trees in pastures compose a physically discontinuous but functional canopy in the Los Tuxtlas landscape. Por lo general se considera a los potreros como habitats inhspitos para organismos de selva, lo cual se debe en gran parte al uso de imgenes con baja resolucin, as como al desconocimiento de las caractersticas de los potreros. En un paisaje muy fragmentado de la regin de Los Tuxtlas, Mxico, encontramos numerosos remanentes de selva al interior de los potreros. La mayora no son detectados en estudios de desforestacin y son ignorados en los de fragmentacin. Mediante fotografas areas y verificacin en terreno, se analizan las caractersticas fsicas y biticas de rboles aislados en potreros, mismos que constituyen un elemento del paisaje comn en sta regin. En 30 potreros fueron registradas 98 especies de rboles aislados, 76 de ellas de la selva madura. La densidad de rboles aislados promedi 3.3 rboles/ha (intervalo: 0.4-11.9), decreciendo con la pendiente del terreno. La variacin en densidad, fisonoma de copas y especies de rboles aislados aumenta considerablemente la heterogeneidad bitica y fsica de los potreros. Estos rboles operan como 'sitios de relevo' para la fauna y como 'sitios seguros' para la flora nativas. Proponemos que en conjunto con otros remanentes de selva, los rboles aislados en potreros componen un discontinuo pero funcional dosel en el paisaje de Los Tuxtlas.
41759974|La fenologa de la floracin y fructificacin de Tillandsia complanata Bentham y T. turneri Baker fue estudiada en un bosque montano alto de la Cordillera Oriental Colombiana. Se realizaron censos quincenales de 200 individuos (50 epfitos y 50 terrestres por especie) entre febrero de 1994 y enero de 1995. Se ubicaron pluvimetros al lado de 20 individuos epfitos de cada especie para medir la precipitacin que llegaba a cada roseta a diferentes alturas dentro del dosel. La poblacin de T. complanata floreci durante 9 meses y no hubo diferencias significativas entre la fenologa de plantas epfitas o terrestres. Por el contrario, la poblacin de T. turneri floreci durante dos periodos de 3 meses cada uno. El nmero de plantas epfitas que floreci durante el perodo de estudio (n = 19) fue significativamente mayor que el nmero de plantas terrestres (n = 8). Estos resultados sugieren que el hbito terrestre es desventajoso para la reproduccin de individuos de T. turneri terrestres, que usualmente son producto de la cada de individuos epfitos. Las dos especies de Bromeliaceae estudiadas abrieron sus cpsulas en el mes ms seco, facilitando la dispersin de las semillas. Los individuos de T. complanata ubicados a mayor altura dentro del dosel recibieron ms agua y fueron ms productivos que las bromelias ubicadas a menor altura. Las dos especies de bromelias presentan sndromes de ornitofilia y probablemente son polinizadas por Eriocnemis mosquera, la nica especie de colibr que se observ en el sitio de estudio. El hbito terrestre de T. turneri es desventajoso para la reproduccin de las rosetas que parecen ser el producto de la caida de individuos epfitos. The flowering and fruiting phenology of Tillandsia complanata Bentham and T turneri Baker was studied in a montane cloud forest in the Eastern Andes of Colombia. Censuses of 200 individuals (50 epiphytes and 50 terrestrials per species) were carried out every two weeks between February 1994 and January 1995. Homemade rain gauges were placed beside 20 epiphytic rosettes of each species to measure the rain water reaching rosettes at different heights in the canopy. The population of T. complanata flowered for 9 consecutive months and there were no significant differences between the phenology of epiphytic and terrestrial plants. In contrast, the population of  turneri flowered during two 3-month periods. The number of epiphytic plants of T. turneri that flowered during the study (n = 19) was significantly higher than the number of terrestrial plants (n = 8). These results suggest that the terrestrial habit, which usually is the result of fallen epiphytes, is detrimental to the reproduction in T. turneri. The two bromeliad species opened their capsules during the driest month, facilitating seed dispersal. The rosettes located higher in the canopy received more rain and were more productive than the rosettes at lower heights. The two bromeliad species present ornithophyllic syndromes and are probably pollinated by Eriocnemis mosquera, the only hummingbird species seen in the study site. The terrestrial habit of T. turneri is detrimental to reproduction, and these rosettes seem to be the result of the fall of epiphytic individuals.
41759975|Se presenta una lista anotada y se analiza la riqueza, las afinidades florsticas y la distribucin geogrfica y altitudinal de las especies de Bromeliaceae que crecen en los Andes del extremo sur de Colombia. Se encontraron 169 especies, 14 gneros, 15 especies con distribucin transandina, 8 primeros registros para Colombia y 7 probables especies nuevas. Los taxa con mas especies fueron la subfamilia Tillandsioideae y los gneros Guzmania, Pitcairnia y Tillandsia. La subfamilia Bromelioideae present ms especies en la Planicie Amaznica, la Pitcairnioideae en el Piedemonte Pacfico y la Tillandsioideae en todas las subregiones montaosas; en la Planicie Pacfica Guzmania fue el gnero mejor representado, en la Planicie Amaznica Aechmea, en las subregiones de piedemonte Guzmania y Pitcairnia y en el Altiplano Pasto-Sibundoy Tillandsia. Las especies son principalmente endmicas (33%), ampliamente distribuidas en los Andes (32%) o en el neotrpico (20%). El mayor nmero de especies se encontr entre 600 y 1,800 m de altitud, con un pico en 1,200-1,400 m. La subfamilia Bromelioideae fue mas diversa a altitudes bajas (0-600 m), mientras que Pitcairnioideae y Tillandsioideae a altitudes medias (600-2,000 m). The richness, floristic affinities, and geographical and altitudinal distribution of Bromeliaceae from the Andean slopes of southern Colombia were studied. A total of 14 genera and 169 species were founda checklist of these is presented. Fifteen of the species showed a transandean distribution, eight species are newly recorded here for Colombia, and seven are likely species new for science. The most speciose subfamily was the Tillandsioideae, and most speciose genera Guzmania, Pitcairnia, and Tillandsia. The subfamily Bromelioideae was found to be most diverse in the Amazon Plain, the Pitcairnioideae in the Pacific foothills, and Tillandsioideae in the montane regions. In the Pacific Plain, Guzmania was the most speciose genus, as was Aechmea in the Amazon Plain, Guzmania and Pitcairnia in the foothills, and Tillandsia in the Pasto-Sibundoy Plateau. Thirty-three percent of the species found were endemic, 32% were widely distributed in the Andes, and 20% widely distributed in the Neotropics. The majority of the species were found between 600 and 1,800 m elevation, with a peak at 1,200-1,400 m. Species of the subfamily Bromelioideae were found at low altitudes (0-600 m) and those of the other subfamilies at mid-elevations (600-2,000 m).
41759976|An annotated list and photographs of the type specimens of Bromeliaceae kept in the herbarium "Eizi Matuda" CODAGEM is presented.
41759977|Five new species of Bromeliaceae are described and illustrated: Greigia cochabambae, Greigia kessleri and Racinaea kessleri from Bolivia, Aechmea roeseliae from Ecuador, and Guztnania darienensis from Panama. Also included is a new combination: Guzmania marantoidea. Miscellaneous New Taxa of Bromeliaceae (XI) appeared in Selbyana 18(1) (1997).
41759978|An annotated catalogue of the generic names of the Bromeliaceae is presented. It accounts for 187 names in six lists: I. Generic names (133), II. Invalid names (7), III. A synonymized checklist of the genera of the Bromeliaceae (56 accepted genera, and 77 synonyms), IV. Nothogenera (bigeneric hybrids) (41), V. Invalid nothogenus (1), and VI. Putative fossil genera (5). Comments on nomenclature or taxonomy are given when necessary to explain problematic issues, and notes on important researchers of the family are intercalated throughout. The etymological derivation of each name is given, including if named after a person, a brief remark on their identity. Appended is a chronological list of monographs of the Bromeliaceae and other works significant to the taxonomy of the family.
41759979|The neotropical Gloxinieae are one of the largest tribes in the subfamily Gesnerioideae (Gesneriaceae). The tribe contains 19 genera and approximately 230 species. The tribe Gesnerieae contains approximately 100 species with two to four genera depending on the treatment. Recent cladistic analyses of the tribes in the Gesneriaceae have indicated that Sinningia, Paliavana, and Vanhouttea are best removed from the Gloxinieae and placed in a separate tribe, Sinningieae. This study investigates the relationships of all but two of the remaining genera of the Gloxinieae, all but one of the Gesnerieae, and the relationship of the two tribes to each other. The Gloxinieae are found to be paraphyletic exclusive of the Sinningieae and the epiphytic genus Capanea. Capanea is found to be placed best within the Episcieae, a tribe that contains the majority of the epiphytic species in the neotropical Gesnerioideae. The Gloxinieae include a polyphyletic Gesnerieae with Sanango embedded in a polytomy of Gloxinieae and the remainder of the tribe monophyletic. The close sister group relationship of several genera is revealed and support is provided for the combination of Parakohleria into Pearcea. The two genera Gesneria and Rytidophyllum are in separate clades indicating that their separate generic status may be warranted.
41759984|We tested for the effect of height on the number of flying insects at one site in a mixed hardwood temperate forest in Williamstown, Massachusetts, by trapping insects at two heights, 0 and 20 meters above the ground, using two types of traps, light traps and malaise traps, from May through September 1992. Overall, insects were approximately eight times more abundant in traps at ground level than in the canopy. Of 101 insect families collected, 86 families (85%) were more abundant in the ground level traps than in the canopy traps. For most groups, these abundance differences with height were consistent in both types of trap. Our results contrast with previous work, done in tropical forests, which has consistently shown more insects in the canopy than in the understory. Our results suggest that the canopy, which supports a major component of insect diversity in the tropics, might not directly support the bulk of insect diversity in temperate forests.
41759985|The canopy structure and spatial distribution of flying insects in a riverside forest canopy were studied. Based on insect composition, the canopy was divided into four areas: upper open space of a canopy gap, inside the canopy, forest floor, and river surface. Thysanoptera were abundant in the upper open space, while Coleoptera were abundant near the forest floor. Insect composition was intermediate inside the canopy. The horizontal canopy structure affected insect distribution as did the vertical structure. The community at the river surface was rich in aquatic insects. However, the distribution of aquatic insects was limited only to the river surface.
41759986|An improved method of canopy fogging was used to sample tree-specific arthropod communities of ten, five and four individuals of three understory tree species of a lowland rain forest in Kinabalu Park, Sabah, Malaysia. The authors evaluate the diversity of Formicidae and Coleoptera to identify indicators of the processes structuring the arthropod communities. In addition, ten of the trees were refogged after six months to analyze the reorganization of communities. The results showed that neither Formicidae nor Coleoptera communities showed predictable patterns in species composition or recolonization dynamics. Although the lack of predictable patterns would seem to be a consequence of a complex dynamic for Formicidae, the species pool for the Coleoptera is so large that thus far no tree-specific patterns have been identified. Communities of both taxa therefore are considered to represent non-equilibrium communities.
41759987|Folivory levels were measured for seedlings and canopy trees of seven rainforest tree species (five in subtropical rainforest and two in tropical rainforest) in Queensland, Australia. Leaf damage was found, on average, to be higher for the subtropical species than for their confamilial tropical counterparts. Higher levels of damage than those reported here occur in neotropical rainforests, which suggests that high productivity may not mask folivore pressures in those systems. The latitudinal pattern of folivory established in this study, may consequently be unique to Australia. Comparisons of damage levels between seedlings and canopy trees (of the same species) indicate that in most cases seedlings suffer higher levels of damage. This result is presumably due to the longer leaf lifetimes of seedlings and the accumulation of damage over long periods of time. For subtropical tree species, measurements of leaf damage levels were taken twice, once in spring (November 1995) and once in autumn (March 1996). Observational evidence indicates that changes in leaf damage levels were related to species-specific leaf phenological patterns. The production of new leaves generally led to a reduction in the recorded measurements of leaf area lost, because the samples consisted of greater numbers of young leaves that had little opportunity to accumulate damage.
41759988|Plant community structure, the related intra-gully climate, soil and fine litter nitrogen fixation, and nutrient dynamics were studied. Applewaite Gully, Barbados, supports a sunken forest with a temperature/precipitation ratio of 0.017 placing it on the moist end of the dry forest spectrum (25C/1475 mm annual rainfall). The abrupt topographic change characteristic of the gullies results in a reduced vapor pressure deficit which maintains adequate litter and soil moisture to support nitrogen fixation. Mean acetylene reduction activity (ARA) value for fine litter was 25.1 mM CHm year at 191% moisture content and the mean soil ARA value was 14.3 mM CHmyear at 59.5% moisture content. The potential nitrogen contribution by litter and surface soil nitrogen fixation ranged between 0.78 and 0.95 kgNha year. Fine litter and soil nitrogen fixation potentially amends the low nitrogen content of infertile gully soils. The N values for fine litter and soil were low and characteristic of infertile soils, whereas P values were high. ARA exhibited a strong negative correlation with both soil and litter %N. Soil ARA may have been reduced due to high soil clay content limiting the availability of organic material.
41759989|Five new species of Brazilian Bromeliaceae are described: Dyckia tenebrosa Leme and H. Luther, Aechmea canaliculata Leme and H. Luther, Aechmea incompta Leme and H. Luther, Aechmea lingulatoides Leme and H. Luther, and Orthophytum lucidum Leme and H. Luther. Miscellaneous New Species of Brazilian Bromeliaceae I appeared in Selbyana 16(1): 110-122. 1995.
41759990|The herbarium of the Institute of Systematic Botany of the University of Heidelberg (Germany) (HEID) contains a large collection of bromeliads. The scientific research of Prof. Werner Rauh in this plant family resulted in the description of many new species. Hence the type material in the herbarium has grown up to 228 taxa. This type material is described in this paper. Scientific names and their authors, protologue citations and collecting data are given. Supplemental information refers to taxonomic changes.
41759991|Seven new taxa of Bromeliaceae are described: Greigia atrocastanea and Werauhia boliviana from Bolivia; Guzmania breviscapa from Colombia; Aechmea manzanaresiana and Billbergia brachysiphon var. breviflora from Ecuador; Greigia raporum and Greigia vilcabambae from Peru. Also included is a new name and combination: Aechmea confusa. Miscellaneous New Taxa of Bromeliaceae (XII) appeared in Selbyana 19(1): 83-90. 1998.
41759992|From the first observations of the pineapple by European explorers to the classification into Pseudananas sagenarius and the seven Ananas species prevailing at present, the evolution of pineapple taxonomy has shown considerable variation. Most early botanists named or renamed species from previous dubious descriptions or from particular horticultural types. More recently, the genus Pseudananas was created, while horticultural types disappeared from the Ananas species. Subsequently, the total number of species increased again as botanical varieties and forms with minor variation were elevated to species rank. The resulting classification is questionable, as neither discontinuous morphological variation nor reproductive barriers exist in the genus Ananas.
41759993|Nidularium procerum and N. innocentii(Bromeliaceae) are facultative epiphytes which grow in a swamp forest, within the Brazilian Atlantic rain forest domain, both as terrestrials and as epiphytes. In order to test the hypothesis that habitat choice takes place for these species, we estimated the number of terrestrials versus epiphytic ramets in a 0.25 hectare plot and performed transplant experiments to assess the viability of epiphytic growth in terrestrial ramets. Space for fixation, rosette stability and lack of competitors seemed to account for both species preference for the flooded ground, which is possible through their shoot autonomy for feeding and, possibly, rhizome flood-tolerance. It remains to be seen what are the constraints to seed production, since seedlings are not found on either ground or tree trunks.
41759994|Shoot form varies among many bromeliads according to the light regimes. The authors tested the hypothesis that this type of variation in Neoregelia johannis occurs in response to mean amount of light reaching the plant microhabitat and is continuous. The 21 individuals marked in the field included individuals with the most extreme phenotypes available. Leaf length, leaf width, foliar surface, the number, length and width of spines on the leaf border, and the distance between successive spines were measured for each plant, as was the incident light (in lux) at the microhabitat of each plant at one-hour intervals of the day, during different months. Regression analysis was used to test the relationship between light intensity in the microhabitat and each bromeliad morphological variable. Leaf length decreased with the increase of sunlight in the microhabitat, whereas leaf width increased. As the amount of sunlight in the microhabitat increased, spine length and width increased, whereas their number along the border and the distance between adjacent spines diminished. The foliar surface decreased and the ratio leaf width/leaf length increased as exposure increased. The authors conclude that most of the variation in N. johannis shoot architecture can be explained by the variation in the light intensity under which each plant grows and that this variation is continuous depending on sunlight received during development.
41759995|Members of the Phragmipedium caudatum complex (Phragmipedium section Phragmipedium) are clarified. The name Cypripedium humboldtii Warsz. ex Rchb.f. is lectotypified based on a syntype from Chiriqu, Panama and formally combined as Phragmipedium humboldtii (Warsz. ex Rchb.f.) J.T. Atwood & Dressler. The combination Phragmipedium humboldtii subsp. exstaminodium (Castao, Hgsater & Aguirre) J.T. Atwood and Dressler is also made.
41759996|Seed propagation of the epiphytic orchid, Epidendrum conopseum, using a naturally occurring fungus is reported for the first time. The fungus was isolated from roots of a mature E. conopseum specimen, and was identified as an Epulorhiza sp.a genus rarely documented in epiphytic orchids. The symbiotic nature of the isolate was confirmed using the technique of symbiotic seed germination. Leaf-bearing seedlings of E. conopseum were obtained 71 days after seeds were inoculated with the fungus in vitro. Our study has practical applications for orchid conservation (i.e., restoration ecology) because we utilized the often ignored fungal component to propagate an orchid.
41760002|The genus Solenidiopsis Senghas is analyzed and revised, and its range in Peru is provided. Two species, S. peruviana (Schltr.) D.E. Bennett & Christenson and S. tigroides (C. Schweinf.) Senghas, are recognized and differentiated in a key. Synonymy is discussed. Evidence at this point indicates that Solenidiopsis should be subsumed into Cochlioda (Lindl.) Benth or possibly both into Odontoglossum Kunth.
41760003|Four new taxa of Bromeliaceae are described: Tillandsia kessleri from Bolivia; Guzmania betancurii and Tillandsia bakiorum from Colombia; and Tillandsia laxissima var. moorei from Peru. Also included are notes pertaining to the circumscription and distribution of Tillandsia engleriana. Miscellaneous new taxa of Bromeliaceae (XIII) appeared in Selbyana 19(2): 218-226. "1998." 1999.
41760004|Ten new Brazilian taxa of Begonia: B. cacauicola, B. euryphylla, B. matogrossensis, B. mattossilvae, B. pinheironis, B. pluvialis, B. polygonifolia A. DC. var. differens, B. russelliana, B. serranegrae, and B. windischii are described, illustrated, and compared to neighboring taxa from an unpublished key of Brazilian Begonia. Begonia oxyphylla A. DC. is made a variety of B. arborescens Raddi.
41760005|An updated checklist of Bromeliaceae in the Guianas includes plants of Guyana (GU), Surinam (SU), and French Guiana (FG). The checklist is based on collections from the herbaria at Utrecht University (U), the New York Botanical Garden (NY), and the Smithsonian Institution (US). Of the 13 new country records reported (GU-7, SU-1, FG-5), nine are new for the overall Guianas region. Notes on critical or poorly known species are presented, along with three new synonyms, two in Aechmea and one in Disteganthus.
41760006|All known bromeliad-eating weevils24 species in four genera (Cactophagus, Cholus, Diastethus, and Metamasius) are native to the tropics and subtropics of the Americas. Several attack more than one bromeliad genus. Six are known to attack Ananas comosus. Four (Metamasius dimidiatipennis, M. callizona, M. quadrilineatus, and M. sellatus) have traveled far from their native ranges by hitchhiking in exported/imported bromeliads. Metamasius mosieri (a small weevil) attacks bromeliads of small stature, whereas M. callizona (a larger weevil) attacks bromeliads of larger stature. Tillandsia utriculata populations in Florida (USA) have suffered devastating attack by the immigrant weevil M. callizona (from Mexico), perhaps because these plants have evolved in isolation and have no method of resistance. A biological control campaign against M. callizona is in progress. Todos los picudos comedores de bromelias conocidas, los cuales pertenecen a 24 especies en cuatro gneros (Metamasius, Cactophagus, Diastethus y Cholus), son nativos de los trpicos y subtrpicos de las Americas. Varios atacan ms de un gnero de bromelias. Seis atacan Ananas comosus. Cuatro (Metamasius dimidiatipennis, M. callizona, M. quadrilineatus y M. sellatus) han viajado lejos de sus ambientes nativos como "polizones" en bromelias exportadas e importadas. Metamasius mosieri (un picudo pequeo) ataca bromelias de tamao pequeo, mientras M. callizona (un picudo ms grande) ataca bromelias de mayor tamao. Poblaciones de Tillandsia utriculata en la Florida (Estados Unidos) han sufrido ataques devastadores por el picudo inmigrante de Mxico M. callizona quizas porque dichas poblaciones han evolucionado aisladamente y no tienen ningn mecanismo de resistencia. Una campaa de control biolgico en contra de M. callizona est en progreso.
41760007|The vascular epiphyte community in Clusia trees in the elfin forest of the Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve, Costa Rica, was monitored for one year to evaluate responses to branch-fall gap formation. Plots (10 X 30 cm) were established on inner crown branches of Clusia host trees, and artificial branch falls were created over a subset by removing branches 3-5 cm diam. The vascular epiphyte community changed little in response to gap formation, despite a high turnover of individual plants. Branch-fall gap formation did not affect epiphyte density, percent cover, species richness, the Shannon-Weiner diversity index, or Simpson's equitability index for the epiphyte community. Only weakly significant (P = 0.15) effects of branch-fall gap formation on the population dynamics of a few species were detected, with gap formation possibly favoring Blakea chlorantha and negatively affecting Burmeistera spp., Clusia sp., and Grammitis zurquina. The 12 most common species in the plots did not demonstrate other effects of branchfall gap formation. Although more extreme changes in exposure, such as those caused by loss of neighboring trees, may affect composition and dynamics of a vascular epiphyte community, we conclude that canopy gaps caused by loss of smaller branches in Clusia crowns have little impact.
41760009|The authors have made extensive investigations on vascular epiphytes in the last 20 years, particularly on epiphytic vegetation in four tropical montane forest sites. These are Sehuencas (Bolivia); Otonga and Rio Guajalito (Ecuador); and La Carbonera and the Amazonian lowland forest crane plot at Rio Surumoni (Venezuela). Based on these studies, they analyze the systematic compositions and vertical and horizontal distribution patterns of epiphytes at the sites. Orchids are the most species-rich of all local epiphyte vegetation. At lowland sites, Araceae are particularly diverse. Vertical zonation of epiphytes in the canopy is a result of different ecophysiological traits. Despite marked preference for certain strata in some taxa, overlap is considerable. The differences in epiphyte diversities of montane and lowland forests can be explained by different distribution patterns. For example, in montane forests with high alpha diversity of epiphytes, species turnover between sites separated by a small geographical distance is considerable. In contrast, alpha diversity of epiphytes in the Amazonian lowlands is low, but the number of epiphyte species increases gradually with area. Although lowland forests cover vast areas, the overall epiphyte species richness is no higher than that of the wet Andean montane forests, which occupy a far smaller land surface. A tentative explanation of these differences in distribution patterns assumes different evolutionary scenarios. In the Andes, where geographical separation frequently has isolated gene pools, ecologically similar species occupy different areas. In the Amazonian lowlands, where considerable gene flow results from the mixing of populations by dispersal of diaspores and effective pollinators, fewer species have evolved. Dispersal and pollination tend to be highly effective in epiphytes because of their adaptation to the epiphytic habitat. The striking differences in diversity patterns have resulted from their evolution, which may have followed a specific path compared to terrestrial plants.
41760010|Crown structure and vascular epiphytes were studied in eight large (82-97 m tall, 3.3-7.2 m dbh) redwood trees (Sequoia sempervirens) in old-growth temperate rain forests, using rope-based methods of access. The trees had complex individualized crowns consisting of multiple (12-62 per tree) reiterated trunks arising from other trunks and branches. Trunk-to-trunk and trunk-to-branch fusions were common, and the diameter of a trunk above a fusion was often greater than below the fusion. Thirteen species of vascular plants, including a spike-moss, three ferns, four shrubs, and five trees, grew as epiphytes. Many of the species were accidental epiphytes whose primary habitat was the forest floor. They grew in deep humus accumulations on large branches and in crotches formed by multiple trunks. Three species dominated epiphyte assemblages. The deciduous fern Polypodium glycyrrhiza was abundant on two of the trees, where it was always restricted to lower crowns. The evergreen fern Polypodium scouleri, the most abundant vascular epiphyte, occurred in the upper and lower crowns of all eight trees. The ericaceous shrub Vaccinium ovatum also occurred on all eight trees but was abundant on only four trees with large quantities of decaying wood in their crowns. Polypodium ferns were more frequent on living branches, while ericaceous shrubs were more frequent on trunks and dead branches. Complex crown structure clearly promoted humus accumulation and vascular epiphyte abundance, but much of the tree-to-tree variation in epiphyte distribution was attributed to differences in tree age, stand-level microclimate, tree health, and dispersal limitations.
41760011|An 8-year study of leaf dynamics was made in a tropical montane cloud forest (1250-1470 m a.s.1.) in central Veracruz, Mexico. The objective was to determine patterns for both deciduous and broadleaved-evergreen tree species respective to phenology (24 species), herbivory (3 species), and life span (9 species). Data were recorded from the forest floor with binoculars; ladders were used to reach middle canopy leaves and to observe the upper part of the canopy from high vantagepoints. Differences were found in foliar phenology, and leaf fall was correlated to minimum temperature only for deciduous species. Leaf flushing was correlated with maximum temperature for all deciduous and several evergreen trees. The herbivory rate was higher in the understory than in the canopy, and it was higher in young leaves than in mature leaves. Mean leaf longevity for deciduous species was 9.0 months; for evergreen trees, it was 17.6 months. Life span, however, was not related to leaf habit, since both the shortest (6.4 months) and longest (36.4 months) mean longevity was recorded in evergreens. Specific leaf area was highly correlated with life span and herbivory. Temperatures may act as proximate cues to leaf phenology, but ultimate causes have to be considered when discussing leaf dynamics. La dinmica foliar en un bosque de neblina (1250-1470 m) se estudi durante ocho aos en Veracruz, Mxico. El objectivo fue determinar patrones fenolgicos (24 especies), niveles de herbivora (3 especies), y longevidad foliar (9 especies) para especies arbreas caducifolias y perennifolias. Las observaciones se hicieron desde el piso del bosque con binoculares, con escaleras para alcanzar el dosel medio y en puntos altos para observar la parte superior del dosel. Se encontraron diferencias temporales en fenologa foliar, pero slo en especies caducifolias, la cada de hojas estuvo correlacionada con la temperatura mnima. La produccin de hojas en rboles caducifolios y perennifolios estuvo correlacionada con temperatura mxima. La tasa de herbivora fue mayor en el sotobosque que en el dosel y en hojas jvenes que en hojas maduras. La longevidad media para especies caducifolias fue de 9.0 meses y para rboles perennifolios fue de 17.6 meses. Sin embargo, el lapso de vida no se relacion con hbito ya que la longevidad media ms corta (6.4 meses) y la ms larga (36.4 meses) se registraron en perennifolios. El rea foliar especfica estuvo altamente correlacionada con lapso de vida y herbivoria. Las temperaturas podran actuar como claves prximas para disparar eventos fenolgicos pero las causas ltimas deben considerarse cuando se discute la dinmica foliar.
41760012|Abiotic conditions differ from canopy to understory in rain forests. Many taxa are more diverse or abundant in the canopy and/or have vertically stratified species distributions. Water-filled tree holes are common aquatic habitats in many neotropical forests, yet little is known of factors influencing their biodiversity. I compared community parameters (species richness, abundance, and composition) of tree hole macroorganisms at different heights (canopy, midstory, understory) in the forest of Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Data from multiple censuses of 40 artificial tree holes during three wet seasons (19951997) revealed a small but significant decrease in the average number of species present with increasing height above the ground. Species richness and abundance were greater in larger holes. Similar patterns were observed in 206 natural tree holes. Of seven top predator species, one was not found in holes > 7 m above the ground; four other species occurred only in understory holes (ca. 1 m above the ground). Chemical properties of tree hole water did not differ with height, but canopy tree holes dried out more frequently and were thermally less stable than midstory and understory holes. Harsh thermal conditions and higher disturbance frequency may be responsible for the decline in species richness with height.
41760013|This note presents the results of a preliminary study of epiphytic orchid distribution within lowland rain forest in Manusela National Park. Pomatocalpa spicata, the most common orchid in the study area, was recorded on 20/34 trees. Another 17 orchid species were recorded growing on one or two host trees. Pomatocalpa spicata was collected from seven host tree species, the most common being Myristica succadaena and Syzygium sp., with the Myristicaceae and Myrtaceae the most common families. Pomatocalpa spicata appeared to be primarily an epiphyte of host tree trunks and the lower third of the canopy. It was found most commonly growing on host tree bark as opposed to humus sites.
41760014|Although 10% of all vascular plant species are epiphytic, few studies of genetic diversity in epiphytes have been completed. We used random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers to investigate genetic diversity in temperate populations of the epiphytic orchid Epidendrum conopseum and in the epiphytic fern Pleopeltis polypodioides (resurrection fern). Three populations of each species were sampled in North Carolina and South Carolina, totaling 52 plants of E. conopseum and 20 specimens of P. polypodioides. Seven random primers produced 11 polymorphic RAPD markers in E. conopseum, while three primers yielded 14 variable markers in P. polypodioides. An analysis of molecular variation partitioned 85.1% of the variation within populations of E. conopseum and only 14.9% among populations. Pleopeltis polypodioides was found to maintain slightly greater population subdivision, with 76.4% of the total variation within populations and 23.6% among populations. The results suggest extensive gene flow among populations of both species, particularly in E. conopseum. The lack of population differentiation in these epiphytes may be associated with the effective wind dispersal of spores and seeds from the canopy habitat.
41760015|Studies of the spatial distribution, floristic composition, insect fauna, and internal characteristics of ant gardens (AGs) were conducted during several visits to the Surumoni research crane site in southern Venezuela in 1997 and 1998. AGs were more abundant in the sunniest sector of the study area. Four families of epiphytes were represented in the AGs, with Araceae being the dominant one. Frequent plant species were Anthurium gracile, A. trinerve, Codonanthe calcarata, Aechmea tillandsiodes, and Philodendron deflexum. Colonies of various ant species were found living in AGs, of which the most prominent were Cremato gaster cf. limata parabiotica, Camponotus femoratus, Anochetus emarginatus, Paratrechina sp., Gnamptogenys ? tortuolosa, ? Oligomyrmex sp., Wasmannia sp., Pheidole sp., and Solenopsis sp. Dramatic changes in climate brought about by El Nio affected the microclimate of AGs, altering their suitability as temporal nests for ants. The main components found in the interior of a typical AG are carton, fine roots associated with cyanobacteria, ant brood, workers and queen(s), and a soil-like deposit here termed "substrate." The major interactions in an AG may be as follows: ants bring allochthonous material (plant sap, insects, seeds) to the nest as food for their larvae, build nest carton, and disperse epiphyte seeds and cyanobacteria. Epiphytes grow more efficiently associated with ants. Their external roots lend structural support to the nest, and their fine roots obtain superior nutrients from their detritus and fixed nitrogen from their association with cyanobacteria. Cyanobacteria also may recycle carbon from root exudates and ant detritus.
41760016|Using the "canopy raft" and the "canopy sled," two techniques permitting direct observation and sampling, we studied the arboreal ant mosaic in two equatorial Atlantic forest canopies, one in Cameroon, the other in French Guiana. In both cases, 167 individual trees were sampled. The trees sampled in Cameroon (29 families; 63 species) were occupied by only three dominant ant species: Oecophylla longinoda and two Cremato gaster species, one of them occupying 88.6% of the trees. Camponotus brutus, a sub-dominant species, was recorded on three out of eight trees unoccupied by dominants. The trees sampled in French Guiana (35 families; 90 species) were occupied by 43 dominant and/or sub-dominant ant species, with five dominants noted more frequently than the others: Azteca instabilis (19.2% of the trees), Cephalotes atratus (10.8%), Cremato gaster limata parabiotica, . chartifex, and Dolichoderus quad ridentculatus (9.6% each). The most frequent subfamily of ants was the Myrmicinae in Cameroon (89.2%), and the Dolichoderinae in French Guiana (53%). In Cameroon, trees were noted to be occupied by two or three dominants (i.e., co-dominants), while this situation represented 29.4% of the Guianian trees.
41760017|More than 14,500 insect herbivores were collected in a rain forest in Guyana from 10,000 seedlings belonging to five plant species, their parent trees, and the forest understory. In October 1997, half (125) of the parent trees were felled to mimic selective logging. In this paper, we compare the insect fauna collected on the seedlings with that on the foliage of felled trees and discuss the findings with regard to the collections made in the understory. For a similarly sized sample, the foliage of felled trees yielded more than twice the number of insect species and 1.5 times as many individuals as did seedlings. More xylem-feeding Cicadellinae were collected from the seedlings, whereas more Acanaloniidae, Issidae, Flatidae, Tropiduchidae, and Lepidoptera were collected from the foliage of felled trees. Comparisons were complicated by the influx of understory species into the foliage of trees after felling. The dissimilarity of the data between seedlings and felled trees and the rather restricted occurrence of common insect species on the foliage of either seedlings or felled trees suggest, however, that few insect species forage both on seedlings and in the crowns of parent trees. Most species instead exploit the resources available either in the understory or in the canopy.
41760018|Herbivory rates were contrasted between Tabebuia aurea and T. ochracea in the cerrado, and on T. aurea in cerrado and the wetland Pantanal Matogrossense, where the species occurs in monodominant stands. Variability of leaf size and leaf specific area (LSA) are described. Herbivory rates are correlated with individual mean genetic distance within the population (based on an UPGMA analysis), from previous data, to test the hypothesis that resistance to herbivory increases with increasing differentiation between individuals. In the three populations, levels of herbivory are compared among branches within individuals, and individual trees within populations, and finally among populations. Tabebuia aurea in the cerrado showed the highest phenotypic variability of leaf area, and T. ochracea showed the highest variance in LSA. Insect chewing (caused by Chrysomelidae, Coleoptera and leaf-mining, Lepidoptera) was studied on two leaf cohorts in 1996. Herbivory rates varied significantly within trees in all populations, while patterns of herbivory among trees were also variable. For both leaf cohorts, herbivory was greater in the cerrado than in the Pantanal, and greater on T. aurea than on T. ochracea. Stem growth between the two leaf flushes was not affected by species, populations, or sites. It was negatively correlated, however, with individual leaf area lost (r = 0.15). In the cerrado, insect damage to leaves was negatively correlated with genetic distance, which means that individuals of T. ochracea, which had higher genetic variability in a population, were attacked less than individuals of T. aurea. Polymorphism protection and evolution of resistance are discussed, as well as the consistently low herbivory rates in the monodominant population of T. aurea.
41760019|To investigate the micro-arthropod species inhabiting the montane forest canopy from three elevational sites (800 m, 1000 m, 1200 m) at Mt. Cain on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada, we placed sterile litter bags filled with fir needles in the canopy and on the ground beside nine randomly chosen amabilis fir (Abies amabilis) trees. Our objectives were 1) to determine the faunal composition and diversity of micro-arthropods that colonize the needle litter microhabitat; 2) to determine the colonization rates of canopy micro-arthropod groups, specifically oribatid mites (Acari: Oribatida); and 3) to compare the rates of needle litter decomposition between the ground and canopy at different elevations, relating these results to patterns of micro-arthropod abundance. Arthropods were collected after three colonization periods (60, 120, 360 days), extracted from litter bags using a modified Lussenhop method, counted, and identified to order. Acari, Collembola, and Psocoptera were the dominant arthropods colonizing the needle litter. Two-way analysis of covariance showed ground and canopy colonization rates significantly different but with similar patterns of colonization occurring over time for all groups. Colonization rates were lower for most taxa at high elevations compared to low elevations, and most micro-arthropod taxa showed significantly different patterns of colonization across elevations. Colonization and decomposition rates were lower in the canopy than on the ground, and no differences in decomposition rates were found to occur across elevations. Our study of the colonization and decomposition of these experimental substrates will enable further assessment of the micro-arthropod diversity and decomposition processes in the montane forest. It also will contribute to our understanding of the biology of soil organisms inhabiting the lichenrich canopy of montane amabilis fir trees.
41760020|Since 1997, the authors have examined the main components of the water budget within a primary Amazonian rain forest in southern Venezuela at the Surumoni Crane Project site. Annual interception loss determined from the forest amounts to 17% of gross annual precipitation. Transpiration was measured for eight different tree species, using the constant-heating method. Monthly values of transpiration loss were remarkably lower compared to reports from other study sites in tropical South America. Although further analysis is needed to prove the reliability of the calculated total amounts, these data already provide valuable information about the physiological response of the trees to various environmental parameters.
41760021|Access to the canopy of tall tropical rain forests has been a challenge for scientists. Among the many methods used, the canopy walkway system has the advantage of being the least physically challenging, making the canopy accessible to people of all ages and of normal physical fitness. This system thus lends itself to research and nature tourism. The first canopy walkway for research was installed in Malaysia in 1968. Modified, lighter weight versions were developed by Andrew Mitchell in Zaire, Papua New Guinea, and Malaysia in the late 1970s. Beginning in 1988, canopy walkways were used by the author and his colleagues both for research and nature tourism in Malaysia, China, Peru, Ghana, Costa Rica, and Guyana.
41760022|Those developing new strategies for rain forest conservation through sustainable use ascribe a prominent role to forest biodiversity. Faced with the challenge of combining conservation with economic goals, they are aiming their efforts at the ecologically sound utilization of a variety of forest products, both wood and non-wood, thus creating an economic motivation for the total protection of rain forests. The use of select, small products, such as medicinal species and ornamental plants, can offer economic as well as ecological advantages. For example, the low biomass of such products can be paired to high added market value at the same time that their extraction from the forest is least disruptive. Based on the assumption that more valuable forest products likely occur in habitats with higher biodiversity, the innovative canopy farming concept could open up the rich canopy potential for ecologically sound utilization. In a Costa Rican forest, we conducted a feasibility study focusing on ornamental epiphytic orchids as exemplary canopy products. Exploration of in situ orchid production techniques and marketing opportunities suggests concrete possibilities for sustainable utilization of rain forest canopies.
41760025|A discussion of Bromeliaceae diversity in Bolivia, and a checklist of the 21 genera and 281 species occuring there is presented. Each species entry in the checklist includes accepted name, comprehensive synonymy for all species described based on Bolivian types, additional pertinent synonymy, elevation range above sea level, distribution by department, and an indication of which species are endemic to Bolivia. Aqui se describe la diversidad de la familia Bromeliaceae en Bolivia. Se incluye un listado de los 21 gneros y 281 especies que occurren ahi. Cada especie en el listado contiene informacin del nombre aceptado, sinonimia comprensiva para cada especie descrita en base a muestras Bolivianas, sinonimia pertinente adicional, rango de elevacin sobre el nivel del mar, distribucin por departamento, y se indica caules especies son endmicas a Bolivia.
41760026|From a database containing 1377 collections of Bolivian Araceae, representing more than 80% of all collections of the family gathered in the country, we compiled an updated list enumerating 23 native genera with 114 described species and nine infraspecific taxa, and three cultivated genera with one species each. We are aware of at least 60 additional distinct species to which we were unable to assign names, many of them probably representing undescribed taxa. We estimate that the total number of Araceae occurring in the country exceeds 300 species. The first Bolivian collections date from 1830, but 92% of all collections have been made since 1978. Only five of 112 collectors have obtained 58% of the Bolivian Araceae collections. Geographically, only a few easily accessible areas have been sampled intensively (but not at all completely), while most of the country, particularly the Amazonian portion and parts of the humid Andean slopes, remains very poorly known. Clearly, much work needs to be conducted on Bolivian Araceae, particularly involving intensive surveys of specific sites and the cultivation of little-known taxa. De una base de datos que contiene 1377 colecciones de Araceae bolivianas, representando ms de 80% de todas las colecciones de la familia hechas en el pas, compilamos una lista conteniendo 23 gneros nativos con 114 especies descritas y nueve taxones infraspecificos, as como tres gneros cultivados con una especie cada uno. Conocemos por lo menos 60 especies adicionales a las cules no pudimos asignar nombres, en muchos casos probablemente representando especies no descritas. Estimamos que el nmero total de Araceae en el pas excede 300 especies. Las primeras colecciones bolivianas datan de 1830, pero un 92% de todas las colectas han sido hechas a partir de 1978. Cinco de 112 colectores han obtenido 58% de las colectas bolivianas de Araceae. Geographicamente, solamente regiones fcilmente accesibles han sido colectadas intensivamente (pero an all no completamente), mientras que la mayor parte del pas, particularmente la Amazonia y partes de la vertiente andina hmeda, permanecen muy poco conocidas. Se necesita estudios adicionales de Araceae bolivianas, sobre todo inventarios intensivos de lugares especficos y el cultivo de especies poco conocidas.
41760027|Chromosome counts and some karyomorphological observations of 14 different orchid species of nine genera are reported. The results include first counts for Encyclia argentinensis (Speg.) Hoehne (2n = 38), Laelia lundii Rchb. f. & Warm. (2n = 40), Campylocentrum neglectum Cogn. (2n = 38), Huntleya meleagris Lindl. (2n = 46), Oeceoclades maculata (Lindl.) Lindl. (2n = 56), Oncidium longicornu Mutel (2n = 56), and O. bifolium Sims (2n = 108). The chromosome numbers of seven additional species is also confirmed: Eltropectris triloba (Lindl.) Pabst. (2n = 46), Pelexia bonariensis (Lindl.) Schltr. (2n = 46), Catasetum fimbriatum Rchb. f. (2n = 108), Oncidium jonesianum Rchb. f. (2n = 30), O. morenoi Dodson & Luer (2n = 30), O. pumilum Lindl. (2n = 30), and O. longipes Lindl. (2n = 56). The results are discussed in relation to previous chromosome studies for each taxon.
41760028|Nearly 80% of all epiphytic species belong to only four families: Bromeliaceae, Orchidaceae, Polypodiaceae, and Araceae. Adaptations to life in the canopy have been examined extensively for the first three families but not for Araceae. To contribute to the understanding of the vegetative basis for epiphytism in the Araceae, the author studied influences of leaf structure on leaf water relations. Four species representing a hypothetical transition from ground to canopy were selected for study: Rhodospatha oblongata (secondary hemiepiphyte), Anthurium longifolium (shade epiphyte), Philodendron alternans (primary hemiepiphyte), and Philodendron crassinervium (sun epiphyte). Investigations were performed at Reserva Botnica das Aguas Claras, Rio de Janeiro state, southeastern Brazil (2230'S; 4230'W). The abiotic conditions along a vertical profile inside the forest indicated increasing drought and exposure toward the canopy. Structural and physiological traits were analyzed of adult plants of all species occurring at different heights on trees. Additionally, young individuals were studied to detect adaptations to establishment in the epiphytic strata. The results showed that higher heights in the forest were conquered with the aid of anatomical and physiological mechanisms, such as increasing leaf succulence, sclerophylly, and epidermal resistance to water loss.
41760029|Population dynamics of the epiphytic bromeliad, Tillandsia brachycaulos, was followed for a year (October 1996 to October 1997) in a low-statured tropical deciduous forest in the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico. Nine hundred and twenty individuals of this species, located on nine trees of Gymnopodium floribundum (Polygonaceae), were tagged. The individuals were classified into two major groups according to their origin: seed or vegetative propagation. Each group was subdivided with regard to height. Bimonthly demography censuses were carried out, where growth, survival, and fecundity were reported for each individual. Results indicate that most of the individuals arise from vegetative propagation (66%), highest mortality value was found in the seedling stage (71%), highest fecundity in the adult 3 stage (2.05 seedlings/individual), whereas the highest production of offshoots is presented by the adult 3 offshoot stage (1.13 offshoots/individual). A Lefkovitch matrix model was used to estimate the population finite rate of growth (), that resulted in a value of 0.91.
41760030|It has long been noted that there is a pronounced increase in the abundance of non-vascular organisms, i.e., macrolichens, mosses, and liverworts with altitude in the tropics. In montane regions, these poikilohydric organisms may account for a considerable biomass in tree crowns, while being quite inconspicuous in the lowlands. Some 20 years ago, Richards suggested that the apparent unsuitability of lowland tropical forest for non-vascular organisms was due to a combination of continuous high temperature, high relative humidity, and low light intensities. Although we still do not have unequivocal evidence that this explanation is indeed true, the results of most studies make it a highly probable scenario. Here, results are presented from a number of field and laboratory studies with both bryophytes and lichens. These studies indicate, that on one hand these organisms are very likely to dry out during the day, which strongly reduces their carbon gain, and on the other hand are often hydrated at night, which at high temperatures leads to considerable respiratory losses. In combination, this results in frequent negative 24-h carbon balances in the lowlands, making growth and survival very difficult, if not impossible. Surprisingly, crustose lichens do not show the same altitudinal pattern, but to date no physiological data are available to address this puzzle.
41760031|We characterized the distribution patterns of arboreal lichens in a wet temperate spruce-fir (Picea engelmanniil Abies lasiocarpa) rain forest in east-central British Columbia. Using the single rope technique for canopy access, we employed the "clump method" to estimate the abundance of arboreal lichens in three functional groups: Alectoria, Bryoria, and folise lichens. Verification was achieved through a regression of those estimates with lichen biomass measured on a subset of branches. We used a probability proportional to prediction sampling scheme such that the probability that a branch would be selected for measurement was proportional to its estimated lichen abundance. Used in this way, the clump method is a reliable estimator of lichen abundance that can be used to accurately describe the distribution of lichen biomass in tree crowns. Hemos caracterizado la distribucin de muestras de liqenes arbreos en un abeto-pino (Picea engelmanniil Abies lasiocarpa), humedo, templado bosque al este de British Columbia central. Usando el mtodo "single rope," tcnica de cuerda simple, aplicamos el mtodo de grupo para estimar la abundancia de liqenes abreos en tres grupos funcionales; Alectoria, Bryoria y liqenes frondoso. La comprobacin fue realizada a travs de una regresin de estimaciones con liqenes mediante una prueba aparte (subsample) obtenido a travs de probabilidad proporcional a pruebas pronosticas. La evaluacin de la combinacin de esas tcnicas muestra que el mtodo grupo (clump method) es un estimador seguro de liqenes abundantes que se puede usar para producir un seleccin datos objectivo que describe con exactitud la distribucin de epfita liqenes de biomasa.
41760032|The biodiversity crisis in global forests continues to be accelerated by habitat loss and consequent extinctions of floral and faunal species assemblages that cannot adjust to rapid, and often large scale, habitat alterations. In an effort to record arthropod diversity in northern temperate rainforests we have studied canopy arthropods in a number of Vancouver Island rainforest types since 1992. Based on these findings we summarize results to answer the following questions: (1) Does guild proportionality vary among different, geographically separated ancient rainforests? (2) Does the numerical dominance of the predator guild by spiders change across these ancient rainforests? (3) Do these ancient rainforests act as repositories for arthropod biodiversity? Answers to these questions are needed to address the issues that surround the maintenance of biological diversity (form and function) in these ancient forests and, in a broader context, rainforests throughout the world.
41760033|The canopies of tropical forests harbor a large proportion of global biodiversity. The largest fraction of this diversity is comprised of arthropods. For establishment and maintenance of such faunal diversity, vascular epiphytes may play an important role by substantially increasing the structural heterogeneity of the canopy habitat, providing resources for herbivores, and mitigating microclimatic extremes. Until now, the degree of this possible influence has not been studied at the community level within entire tree crowns. Here, we present an approach to investigate the relationships between the epiphyte flora of selected Annona glabra trees and their respective arthropod fauna. Currently, we are conducting a one-year survey of arthropods inhabiting tree crowns bearing distinct epiphyte assemblages in a tropical moist forest in Panama. We are collecting animals using long-term trapping techniques to address seasonal fluctuations. Four different types of traps are described and discussed. Composite flight interception traps yielded most arthropods, but tended to underestimate certain taxa, e.g., ants and springtails. Those were more successfully captured in branch traps. Preliminary results on the composition of the arboreal arthropod fauna are presented.
41760034|Arboreal arthropod communities in four forests along an anthropogenic disturbance gradient in Malaysia were sampled by fogging and changes at the ordinal level were analyzed. At least ten individuals of a single tree species from each forest type were fogged. These were two species of Euphorbiaceae from the primary forest and from the most disturbed forest, and a species of Verbenaceae in the two other secondary forests. The high constancy and low variance of the relative proportions of taxa in the crown communities found in primary rain forests was lost in the disturbed forests. Anthropogenic disturbances (e.g., extended clearings) led to fluctuations in rank abundances of taxa. The Formicidae lost their dominant rank in the most disturbed forest while Lepidoptera larvae, which were always rare in the primary forests, reached high abundances. During forest succession, the composition of taxa in the communities converged to the conditions of the primary forests. Short term colonization processes, which were investigated in every type of forest by carrying out five daily consecutive foggings of an individual tree, always displayed great variability. Coleoptera and Diptera, in addition to non-formicid Hymenoptera in the five-year-old forest, were dominant. During all daily foggings it was unforeseeable which group would be present in high numbers. This leads us to suppose that particularly strong stochastic influences are in effect during short term colonization.
41760035|The canopy fauna of four coniferous tree species was compared with those of four deciduous broad-leaved species from the UK. Sampling was carried out using pyrethrin knockdown and density and species richness data were standardized to 1 m 2 ground area. Quantitative analyses confirm that the canopies of conifers and broad-leafs support defined but very different communities. For example, mean densities of arthropods were significantly higher for conifers (P < 0.001) and when individuals were allocated to feeding guilds, conifers supported proportionately more scavenger/epiphyte feeders whereas broad-leaved trees were dominated by phytophages. The implications of these findings for forest dynamics and herbivore loads are considered. Both groups of trees are dominated by organisms with small body sizes; suggested reasons for this include microclimate and food resources available in the canopy. The species richness of epiphyte feeders and predators was comparable for conifers and broad-leaved trees, however the richness of herbivores was greater on the latter. Woodland specialist species were found in the conifer communities with Pinus sylvestris (Scots pine) supporting a particularly rich and dense fauna. The proportion of canopy specialist species, particularly epiphyte feeders, would be expected to increase with maturity of the trees. Although the communities differed from broad-leaved trees it can be concluded that conifers make valuable habitats for arthropods when grown in plantation and can enhance diversity where natural forest is not available.
41760036|Discrete samples of leaves from 28 species of eucalypts were collected from various habitats in southeastern Australia for measurement of herbivory in terms of (1) percentage of leaves damaged by folivorous insects and (2) the proportion of total leaf area consumed. There was high variation among samples in percentage of leaves damaged (range 27100%). Proportion of leaf area consumed varied greatly from leaf to leaf and from sample to sample, even among closely located conspecifics. Mean values for different habitats, however, were remarkably similar, varying from 5.3% (urban cultivars) to 9.7% (roadsides) for a grand mean over all habitats of 7.6%. Distributions of values often were highly skewed and most median values were low. A review of the literature combined with the present data suggests that the baseline level of folivory by insects on healthy eucalypts is about 7.5%, with a secondary peak at about 15%. The latter is attributable, at least in part, to elevated folivory suffered by eucalypt seedlings, saplings and regrowth. The literature includes conclusions that chronic folivory of Australian trees is considerably higher than that on other continents. However, the values from Australian eucalypts overlap broadly with those elsewhere, and the differences, if real, are not so great as sometimes believed. An appeal is made for more process studies of the dynamics of folivory in which individual cohorts of leaves are followed separately and account taken of variation in leaf-longevity and the phenology of flushing.
41760037|Resident songbirds of temperate coniferous forests survive throughout the year even though the resources within the forest change with the seasons. One aspect of that survival may be a generalist strategy that avoids vertical stratification of the canopy. Five small diurnal songbirds, Red Crossbill (Loxia curvirostra), Winter Wren (Troglodytes troglodytes), Brown Creeper (Certhia americana), Golden-crowned Kinglet (Regulus strapa), and Chestnut-backed Chickadee (Poecile rufescens) were studied using the Wind River Canopy Crane from 21 March, 1996 to 20 March, 1998. Point counts were used to survey bird occurrence in low, mid-, and upper canopy positions. A three way Analysis of Deviance was used to test for significance of canopy level, season, and their interaction. All five species stratify the canopy, while all but the Winter Wren had population numbers shift with the season. Only the Chestnut-backed Chickadee and Red Crossbill had significant interaction terms, implying that they shift their abundance in canopy zones with the seasons. The Chestnut-backed Chickadee, Golden-crowned Kinglet, and Brown Creeper occurred in all zones of the canopy, even though they were most abundant in one particular zone during any given season, indicating a generalist ability.
41760038|Reproductive elements in adult woody plants originate from the vegetative shoot sections by different methods of segregation: (1) terminal flowering in competition with the vegetative apex, or (2) lateral inflorescence shoots occupying a vacant shoot section. Reproductive elements increasingly displace vegetative meristems during tree ageing. Several strategies have been invented to overcome this competition. The reference matrix for the restructured system due to reproduction is the unit of extension. Its program undergoes a regressive metamorphosis. As a consequence, the branching pattern changes. Research presented here is based upon the structural analysis and comparison of temperate deciduous species.
41760039|Some features of forest elements making up canopy gaps, and their effects on gap size, shape, and orientation are analyzed. These characteristics, relevant for gap light regime and for ecological processes in gaps, are studied both at the field level and with the aid of digital hemispherical pictures. We found that the length of the gap starter element plays a crucial role in determining gap size. Gap shape-compactness and orientation are rather random results in gap creation. We suggest that gap size will vary among forests at different states of maturity and/or with different canopy heights, which may lead to differences in gap species composition and structure, and so affect their regrowth patterns.
41760040|Over the past two decades there has been considerable interest in the role of tropical rainforest in local, regional and global atmospheric processes and climate change. Research has tended to focus on forest-atmosphere interactions within the equatorial tropics in regions, such as Amazonia, where seasonal variations in rainfall and temperature are generally small. The main aim of our research project is to quantify diurnal and seasonal energetics (energy balances) for a lowland rainforest canopy located in the seasonallywet tropics of northeastern Australia (ca. 16S). A research tower, serviced by a canopy crane, will allow for analysis of diurnal and seasonal variations in canopy energy balances above the forest and microclimate at six heights within the forest.
41760041|Patterns of light distribution, leaf area index (LAI), and canopy photosynthesis were studied in Metrosideros polymorpha forests at both ends of a nutrient and substrate age gradient in the Hawaiian Islands. The two sites differ in the age of the underlying volcanic substrate, and in being limited by nitrogen (N) in the young site (Thurston, Hawaii) and phosphorus (P) in the oldest site (Kokee, Kauai). Long-term fertilization with nitrogen (N), phosphorous (P) and N+P at both sites has resulted in leaf and canopy level changes. Light transmission through the canopy was lower in the N-addition plot than in the control plot. Increased LAI was observed at the N-amended plot, also suggesting greater light attenuation with increased  availability. While light intensity was not measured in the old site, LAI was much lower in the subcanopy and near ground levels than in the young site. Furthermore, the effects of nutrient amendments on LAI at the old site were not as large as those observed in the young site. Responses of net CO assimilation (A) to fertilization were different at the young, and old sites. Instantaneous values of  remained constant across all plots at the young site, but significantly increased with nutrient amendments at the old site. In contrast, calculated values of canopy carbon gain (annual carbon gain * LAI) at the young site more than doubled with fertilization. The increase in canopy carbon gain at the young site was the result of larger leaves rather than higher photosynthetic rates. Variation on leaf area index and in light distribution was correlated to physiological and morphological traits of M. polymorpha dominated rain forests.
41760042|A ground-based canopy model that estimates the volume of occupied space in forest canopies was tested using the Wind River Canopy Crane. A total of 126 trees in a 0.25 ha area were measured from the ground and directly from a gondola suspended from the crane. The trees were located in a low elevation, old-growth forest in the southern Washington Cascades. The ground-based model was based on six measurements and assumptions about the individual crown shape (e.g., conic, parabolic), the crane-based measurements required up to 377 measurements per tree. The two models were then compared, both by species and by crown position, to see where major discrepancies occurred. At the stand scale, ground-based and crane-based models of canopy structure were similar. At the scale of individual trees, however, groundbased estimates of crown volume differed significantly from the more detailed models of crown shape afforded by direct canopy access with the crane. Douglas-fir crowns were overestimated by 10.6%, Pacific yews were overestimated by 0.8% and western hemlocks were underestimated by 1.9%. While errors for yew and hemlock were smaller than for Douglas-fir, their standard deviations are much higher: 0.09 for Douglas-fir and 0.13 and 0.12 for Pacific yew and western hemlock, respectively. Most of the error resulted from model estimates of the lower crown, as epicormic branching and uneven shading caused highly irregular lower crowns in Douglas-fir. Over 85% of the differences between the two models among all the Douglas-fir trees were in the lower halves of the crowns. Similarly, 74% of the hemlock error and 58% of the Pacific yew error resulted from differences in their lower crowns. At the stand-level, the ground-based model of crown volume and the vertical distribution of foliage provided estimates consistent with more the detailed measurements made using the canopy crane.
41760047|The structure of the vascular epiphyte community in the overstory (20-28 m) of a riverine tropical rain forest was studied with the aid of a large tower crane between April and December of 1997. The forest is located near Cao Surumoni, a small tributary of the Orinoco River, in Amazonas State, Venezuela. The overstory or upper canopy in the study plot contained 147 trees, representing 16 families and approximately 22 species. Of these trees, 20% bore at least one epiphyte. In this stratum, 243 epiphytic individuals were found, representing seven families and 22 species. The family Orchidaceae presented the greatest number of species (11). Five species, Codonanthe crassifolia (Gesneriaceae), Micro gramma baldwinii (Polypodiaceae), Cattleya violacea (Orchidaceae), Anthurium gracile (Araceae), and Aechmea tillandsioides (Bromeliaceae), represented the highest number of individuals. No apparent relationship existed between any epiphyte in the study and the main architectural features of its phorophyte. A correlation was established, however, between epiphyte abundance and type of tree bark.
41760048|As part of Project Surumoni, an investigation was conducted in 1997-1998 on species diversity and vertical distribution of lichenized fungi within a tropical lowland rain forest in southern Venezuela. A tower crane at Surumoni, which gives easy access to all forest strata, facilitated the investigation. In the plot, nine trees were selected as phorophytes on which 250 species of lichenized fungi were observed. Study results showed crustose lichens as the dominant life form. Of these, Thelotremataceae, Graphidaceae, and Trypetheliaceae contributed to nearly three quarters of total species richness. The species spectrum showed a well-defined vertical stratification from forest floor to top of canopy. At ground level, shadetolerant species (chiefly Thelotremataceae) occurred. Moving upward, the proportion of Graphidaceae and Trypetheliaceae increased continuously, but Thelotremataceae appeared to remain constant up to the inner canopy. Higher yet, Thelotremataceae were less frequent, with Graphidaceae and Trypetheliaceae dominating. The degree of species turnover along the vertical gradient is shown in several diagrams for trees of stratum A and B separately. Species replacement is highest between height zones 1 and 2 for investigated trees of stratum A, but the more uniformly barked trees of stratum B do not show this marked difference. Calculation of additive beta turnover reveals, depending on substratum, three to nearly four complete species turnovers along the vertical gradient in the forest.
41760049|Data were collected on orchids growing on trees larger than 10 cm diameter at breast height (dbh) in a Nicaraguan tropical rain forest in 1996. The goal was to analyze orchid occurrence on trees and to explore tree genera preferences of orchid species. A total of 71 orchid species, including seven unknown species, and 47 tree genera were recorded in a 1.2 ha area. Percentage orchid frequency data revealed that Scaphyglottis behrii Helms., Maxillaria neglecta (Schltr.) L.O. Williams, Dichaea panamensis Lindl., and Sobralia fragrans Lindl. are the most abundant orchids in the forest. Principal component analysis showed Pentaclethra, Apeiba, Carapa, and Tetragastris to be the main genera of trees inhabited by orchids. Cluster analysis revealed that the abundance of three orchid species are determinant for segregate tree genera. Fueron colectados datos de orqudeas epfitas en arboles con DAP igual o mayor a 10 cm en un bosque hmedo tropical de Nicaragua, con el fin de analizar la presencia de orqudeas en arboles y explorar la preferencia entre las especies de orqudeas y algunos gneros de arboles. Setenta y una especies de orqudeas, incluyendo siete especies de orqudeas no identificadas, y 47 gneros de arboles fueron registradas en 1.2 ha. El porcentaje de frecuencia de orqudeas revela que Scaphyglottis behrii Helms., Maxillaria neglecta (Schltr.) L.O. Williams, Dichaea panamensis Lindl., y Sobralia fragrans Lindl. son las ms abundantes orqudeas en el bosque. Un anlisis de componentes principales revel que Pentaclethra, Apeiba, Carapa y Tetragastris son los principales gneros de rboles habitados por orqudeas. Por otra parte, un anlisis de agrupamiento revel que la abundancia de tres especies de orqudeas es determinante para separar los diferentes gneros de arboles.
41760050|Liana abundance was documented in three tropical forests of the Albertine Rift in western Uganda between 1997 and 1998. The lianas and their living hosts of diameter 1 cm were inventoried in 1-ha transects (20  500 m) in mature forest sites. The study recorded the following four major plant families with lianas (total species percentages in parentheses): Celastraceae (24%), Apocynaceae (10%), Rubiaceae (8%), and Icacinaceae (7%). Liana abundance was lower in climax Cynometra forest than in less mature mixed forest. The presence of six liana species in Bwindi Impenetrable National Park forest and not in the other two Ugandan forests studied suggests closer links between Bwindi and the Congo forests where these species also are known to occur.
41760051|Patterns of spatial variation, temporal change, and host-tree differences of beetle communities in crowns of representative tree species were examined in an old-growth temperate deciduous forest in Hueston Woods State Park, Preble County, southwestern Ohio in 1998. The three study plots were separated spatially. Each had two 1-ha subplots containing one individual of four tree species: American beech (Fagus grandifolia), sugar maple (Acer saccharum), red oak (Quercus rubra), and white oak (Quercus alba). We obtained samples of the insect communities from one subplot per day using insecticide fogging, for a total of six sampling days in early summer (18 June-6 July 1998) and late summer (21 August-5 September 1998). A total of 1459 beetles representing 272 morphospecies and > 40 families were captured. Two-way mixed ANOVA models identified significant interaction effects (plot  tree species) on mean beetle richness and abundance in the early summer, but only tree species effects were identified in late summer. Although spatial variation may be a key diversity determinant in the early season, attributes of tree species, such as constitutive defenses, may be more important in late summer. Species richness, which exhibited a marked decline from early summer (194 morphospecies) to late summer (119 morphospecies), was coupled with only a 10% similarity between beetle assemblages during these periods. Abundance and composition changes between samples suggest that species-specific patterns of emergence and voltinism may be instrumental in structuring arboreal beetle communities in temperate tree crowns. This study highlights the need for detailed studies on recolonization and spatial dependence of arboreal insect communities in temperate forest ecosystems.
41760052|The role of Bromeliaceae as a canopy microhabitat was investigated in the Yacumama Lodge Reserve in Peru in the summer of 1998. Many bromeliad species have leaves spirally arranged in the shape of a rosette, forming a phytotelma (tank) that holds water and detritus and creates a microhabitat for plants and animals. By using single-rope-technique, the author collected and examined canopy bromeliads, selecting a range of sizes and leaf numbers to sample leaf architectural variation. Results of the study showed a bromeliad community dominated by arthropods (primarily insects and arachnids) in various stages of development, although Gastropoda and Annelida were also present. Canopy bromeliads provide a microhabitat for larval forms of many animal species. The function of bromeliad tanks as a canopy microhabitat is indicated by the abundance and diversity of fauna found in phytotelmata.
41760053|Varied physiographic and climatic conditions in the Eastern Ghats region of India once supported biodiverse flora, fauna, and habitats. Apart from mangrove forests, the Eastern Ghats has largely deciduous forests, dry and moist, alternately occupying scrub jungles. Because of deforestation and the swidden or shifting cultivation practiced by tribal groups, dense forests are now limited to only a few pockets. As a result, wildlife species are affected by an increasing threat to their survival. For instance, the cheetah is now extinct in the region, and the tiger is being pushed to the edge. Diversity is drastically reduced among plants, animals, and habitats. The author reports on the current status of species richness among faunal groups in the region.
41760054|Cullenia exarillata (Bombacaceae), a common tree of south Western Ghats, flowers during times of fruit scarcity in the rain forest and thus attracts the entire diurnal and nocturnal frugivore community. In addition to bats, the frugivores include many non-volant mammals and birds. Little information exists on the pollination mechanism of C. exarillata or on the major pollinators among its visitors. All mammal visitors to the tree eat the flowers, and a study was conducted from 1996 to 1998 on the role of these mammalian vectors in pollination of C. exarillata at Kakachi, a rain forest site in the Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve of south India. Data suggest that C. exarillata may represent the first documented case of a predator-pollinator system for a mammal-pollinated tree species.
41760055|Eddy covariance measurements of CO, HO, and heat were conducted in tropical lowland wet orest at the La Selva Biological Station in Costa Rica. The system was based on a closed-path infrared gas analyzer with the sample inlets and sonic anemometer mounted on a 42-m tower. Prevailing winds were easterly from the Caribbean with little anthropogenic influence. The tower footprint was primary upland forest. Concurrent measurements included standard micrometeorological sensors for energy balance and six levels of continuous canopy profile sampling for CO, HO, and air temperatures. Canopy roughness at the site is very high and may contribute to mixing at low wind speeds. Data are presented for 39 days of daytime CO fluxes. Carbon dioxide fluxes at high irradiances ranged from 10 to 20 mol m s. The response of CO fluxes to solar radiation was curvilinear and did not saturate under ambient irradiance regimes. No effects of vapor pressure deficit on ecosystem carbon exchange were detected during the study period. Temperature, however, appeared to affect daytime carbon exchange slightly. The results suggest that solar radiation input is the primary limiting climatic factor for carbon uptake.
41760056|In May 1998 an outbreak of sawflies, Periclista sp. (Hymenoptera: Symphyta), occurred in a high-elevation hardwood forest in western North Carolina. Estimated defoliation of northern red oak (Quercus rubra) and white oak (Q. alba) removed 40% of leaf area. Weights of frass (insect feces) collected at the site were greater than at a nearby site of lower elevation that was not defoliated. Within a month of the outbreak, elevated levels of nitrate-nitrogen (NO-N) were measured in throughfall and resin bag samples from the site and in stream water draining the affected watershed. The lower elevation control watershed did not show increased levels of nitrate-nitrogen in throughfall, resin bags, or stream chemistry. This study demonstrates that insect defoliators can influence ecosystem-level processes such as nutrient cycling.
41760057|The surface topography of a forest canopy is complex. Like the Earth's surface, it has a morphology that consists of hills and valleys but punctuated by gaps. The study of the surface of the forest canopy has been limited, largely by access. Recent advances in remote sensing (i.e., scanning laser altimetry) are beginning to provide broader views of this key interface between the atmosphere and the terrestrial biosphere. Our analysis of canopy topography across a 1 km area of old-growth tropical rain forest in La Selva, Costa Ricaderived with laser altimetrydetails patterns based on measures of depth to canopy surface from a given elevation and height to canopy surface above the ground. Spatial autocorrelation patterns of canopy height, disregarding influences of ground topography, were isotropic and significantly positive at scales < 50 m. The fractal dimension of canopy heights across the landscape was 1.96, indicative of a nearly random distribution of peaks and troughs. In contrast, with the inclusion of ground elevation, canopy patterns exhibited anisotropy and had a fractal dimension of 1.78. At the sensor scale, the steepness of ground slopes was unrelated to canopy height measures.
41760058|The spatial patterns of canopy leaves of saplings of four woody species in a natural secondary forest of northeastern China were analyzed. Four saplings displayed leaf area in higher layers with larger positive inclination angles more than that of the other layers. However, this proportion declined gradually along with descending sapling height, and the leaf area with smaller inclination angles gradually increased. Along the gradient of azimuth angle, the frequency distribution patterns of the leaves of four saplings were irregular and stochastic to some extent. The leaf area density curves of two saplings were parabola-shaped along the gradient of sapling height, and in the middle layers the leaf area densities were higher than those of lower and top layers in sequence. Applying the formulae of Levins (1968) and Shannon and Weaver (1949), as well as the formulae of Schoener (1970) and Pianka (1974), the characteristics of leaf populations of four saplings distributed along the gradients of inclination and azimuth angles, were further analyzed. The significance of these adaptive characteristics in understanding the dynamic properties and regeneration process of the forest community are discussed.
41760059|A growth analysis was made of first-order lateral shoots in three canopy layers of an evergreen Himalayan oak species (Quercus leucotrichophora or banj oak), growing under three banj oak forest stands at altitudes of 1160-1800 m above sea level. Determinate patterns of shoot growth differed by 7-15 days between lower and higher altitudes. Different levels of statistical significance were obtained for shoot length, diameter, and leaf numbers in extension growth during the first and second year of the study. At canopy level, the size of second-year shoots exceeded that of first-year shoots. The lower canopy layer differed significantly in shoot length from those of upper and middle layers, reflecting differences in resource-capturing ability. Leaf number per shoot was significantly higher in high altitude mixed-species forest than in oak-dominated stands. The author suggests that tree growth studies such as this analysis are useful not only in understanding the ecology of the species but also in conservation management.
41760060|Mixed plantations with 19 native or naturalized tree species valued by local communities were established in 1991 in the central Himalaya on abandoned agricultural land and degraded forestland. Apart from use values, the species varied in ecological attributes, such as nitrogen-fixing capability, phenology, and leaf morphology and dynamics. Density of mixed plantations at the two study sites was 1110 trees/ha. In 1996, tree species selected for the study were classified in three groups based on vertical stratification of the canopy during the 5-year growth period. Fast-growing upper canopy species were Alnus nepalensis, Dalbergia sissoo, and Ficus glomerata; slow-growing lower canopy species were Pyrus pashia and Quercus glauca; and the third group contained the remaining 14 species. All species showed better growth at the abandoned agricultural land site, where agricultural crops were grown under irrigated conditions, than at the degraded forestland site, where no crops were grown and no planted trees were irrigated. Fast-growing tree species responded to site conditions at a greater rate than did slow-growing species. The authors recommend further research on mixed plantations coupled with policy support to promote mixed-tree plantations in the Himalaya.
41760061|This paper reviews problems and issues related to management options for the lowland (terai) forests of Nepal. Two types of sal forest (Shorea robusta) are found in the country: terai forests and hill forests. Sal is the dominant tree species of the terai forests, where it constitutes about 45% of total wood volume. In the hills, however, sal is only a minor species by volume. Significant loss of this species throughout southern Nepal is having a profound social and economic impact on the area. Natural regeneration of sal in Nepal has been observed but only under undisturbed conditions. Since local people are exploiting most sal forests, it is unlikely that the species will be able to withstand the current pressure being exerted by increasing populations. Consequently some means of production forest management needs to be employed. This paper discusses the current situation and offers suggestions for managing and conserving the terai forests.
41760062|The history of discovery of the single Bromeliaceae species outside the New World, Pitcairnia feliciana, is recounted by its first collector, Henri Jacques-Flix, for whom it was named. Notes on distribution and a description of the habitat where P. feliciana is found are included.
41760063|Six new taxa of Bromeliaceae are described: Pitcairnia kroemeri from Bolivia; Guzmania formosa and Guzmania laeta from Colombia; Guzmania manzanaresiorum from Ecuador; and Aechmea vasquezii and Pepinia minicorallina from Peru. Miscellaneous new taxa of Bromeliaceae (XIV) appeared in Selbyana 20(1): 10-15. 1999.
41760064|Interspecific hybridization between Pitcairnia albiflos and P. staminea (Bromeliaceae) was investigated using morphometric analysis. Nine morphological traits representing inflorescence size and flower shape were recorded for different plants in a mixed population at Po de Acar, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 1996. Examination of the morphometric variables using Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and Discriminant Function Analysis supported a hypothesis for the existence of naturally occurring hybrids that are intermediate and distinct from the parental species.
41760065|A study conducted in 1996 at Las Palmeras, Ecuador, surveyed bromeliad communities in a 10-year-old secondary forest, in a 30-year-old secondary forest, and in isolated trees in a tropical montane forest. A comparison was made with the bromeliad community in a nearby mature forest to assess the recovery of epiphyte communities following disturbance. Bromeliad abundance, species richness, and volume were greater in the mature forest compared to the two secondary ones. Differences in bromeliad species richness and abundance among and within forests were correlated with host tree diameter at breast height (dbh). Bromeliads on isolated forest trees were less diverse but more abundant than on mature forest trees. No relationship was found between the distance of isolated forest trees from adjacent forest and the abundance or species richness of bromeliads present in their crowns. Se compararon las comunidades de bromelias en un bosque secundario de diez aos, un bosque secundario de treinta aos, y rboles aislados con las comunidades de bromelias en un bosque maduro, para entender mejor la recuperacin de las comunidades del dosel despus de la perturbacin. Se hizo este estudio en un bosque de niebla localizado en Las Palmeras, Ecuador. La abundancia, diversidad, y volumen de las bromelias fue mayor en el bosque primario que en los dos bosques secundarios. Las diferencias en abundancia y diversidad de bromelias entre bosques fueron corelacionado con el Dimetro a la Altura del Pecho de los rboles anfitriones. La diversidad de bromelias en rboles aislados fue menor y la abundancia mayor que en los rboles del bosque primario. No hubo relacin entre la distancia de rboles aislados del bosque y la abundancia o diversidad de bromelias.
41760066|An overview of the Maxillaria porrecta Lindley complex is presented for the Venezuelan Guayana, the Guianas, and northeastern Amazonas. Maxillaria colemanii Carnevali & W. Fritz is proposed, described, and illustrated as a new taxon in the complex. Within the complex, the new species is easily distinguished by the presence of leaf blades on the 1-2 innermost sheaths enveloping the pseudobulbs, proportionally narrower perianth segments, an almost unlobed labellum, and the lack of wax on the underside of the leaves. A key to the species of the M. porrecta complex for Venezuelan Guayana, the Guianas, and northeastern Amazonas is proposed and comments and distributional notes on the members of the complex are provided. Maxillaria amazonica Schltr., M. taracuana Schltr., and M. lactiflora Pabst are all included in the synonymy of M. kegelii Rchb. f. Maxillaria brunnea Linden & Rchb. f. is included in the synonymy of M. porrecta Lindl.
41760067|A canopy walkway was built at a remote cloud forest site using lightweight polyester webbing. Selecting easy-to-work-with materials, a small construction team designed and fabricated the walkway on location in 1996. Standard bridge design equations were used in the field to adapt the basic construction plan to the site. This field approach is well suited to a small team working in a remote area with a limited budget. Walkway design, materials, and construction methods are described.
41760068|Dicotyledonous woody climbers (2.5 cm diameter at breast height) of the Monteverde Cloud Forest Reserve in Costa Rica were sampled to study their floristics and ecology. Four 0.1 ha sample areas were used to analyze taxonomic composition, species richness, density, dominance, and family importance values. The Monteverde data then were compared to data on woody climbers in four other Mesoamerican montane forests. The Asteraceae are the most species rich family at Monteverde, followed by Sapindaceae and Vitaceae. In sample areas with no records of Fabaceae, either Hydrangeaceae or Piperaceae are always the dominant family in terms of basal area. The dicotyledonous woody climber families with the highest average number of species per sample area among the eight Mesoamerican 0.1 ha sample areas are, in decreasing order, Asteraceae, Sapindaceae, Vitaceae, Asclepiadaceae, and Celastraceae. Families with the highest combined family importance values, however, are in decreasing order: Vitaceae, Celastraceae, Hydrangeaceae, Piperaceae, and Asteraceae. The overall importance of Vitaceae and Celastraceae (shown by their respective combined family importance values) is attributed to the proportionately larger stem and wood production of Mexican representatives of these families. Se muestrearon y se analizaron (para composicin taxonmica, riqueza de especies, densidad, dominancia y valores de importancia a nivel familia), las trepadoras leosas dicotiledoneas 2.5 cm en dimetro a altura del pecho del Bosque Nuboso de Monteverde, Costa Rica usando cuatro reas de muestra de 0.1 ha. Luego, los datos de Monteverde se compararon a cuatro otros bosques montaosos mesoamericanos. Los resultados muestran que la familia Asteraceae es, en riqueza de especies, la mas importante en Monteverde. En reas de muestra sin Fabaceae, ya sea Hydrangeaceae o Piperaceae son las familias dominantes cuando se considera rea basl. Las familias dicotiledoneas con lo mayor numero de especies por rea de muestra en las ocho reas de muestras de 0.1 ha mesoamericanas son, de mayor a menor numero de especies, Asteraceae, Sapindaceae, Vitaceae, Asclepiadaceae y Celastraceae. Sin embargo, las familias mas importantes segn valores combinados de importancia a nivel familia son, de mayor a menor importancia, Vitaceae, Celastraceae, Hydrangeaceae, Piperaceae y Asteraceae. La importancia de Vitaceae y Celastraceae resulta de la gran produccin de tallos y madera en estas familias en las comunidades mexicanas.
41760069|The micrometeorological profile of a primary rain forest in northeastern Peru was monitored during 1995-1998. Specifically, the study was conducted to obtain high-resolution meteorological data to establish the cyclical relationships that exist within the forest on a daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly basis. Temperature and relative humidity were measured throughout a canopy walkway system at the Amazon Center for Environmental Education and Research (ACEER), Iquitos, Peru. Programmable data loggers were strategically employed along the walkway at 4, 18, 24, and 32 m above the forest floor. Rainfall was measured daily for four years (January 1, 1995, to December 31, 1998). Distinct seasonal variation in rainfall was encountered. Most rainfall occurred April-June, with the least occurring July-September. Typically, temperature was stratified vertically in the forest with higher readings recorded within the upper reaches of the canopy. On predictable occasions, stratification was lost for extended periods because of frontal systems that moved through the forest. Humidity profiles were cyclic with lower reaches of the forest at nearly 100% relative humidity much of the year. A greater degree of daily/weekly variation in humidity was noted throughout the upper canopy.
41760070|Forest canopy research is one of the more recent frontiers of scientific research. Many methods have been devised to obtain data from the treetops, including the use of canopy cranes. Access to regions beneath the canopy surface of dense forests, however, is restricted to canopy gaps large enough for passage of the crane gondola. Often the result is a reduced selection of sample sites and hence reduced randomization. The data collection module (DCM) described in this technical note provides a solution to eliminate most problems facing other means of canopy access, such as poles, for microclimate measurements. Examples of canopy photosynthetically active radiation gradients measured in a lowland tropical rain forest in northeastern Australia in 1999 illustrate the use of the data collection module under field conditions.
41760075|Encyclia section Leptophyllum Dressier & Pollard is a monophyletic group that must be raised to generic status to keep sister clades equally ranked. The generic name Oestlundia is proposed for this clade in honor of Karl Erik Magnus stlund. New combinations are made for Oestlundia cyanocolumna, O. distantiflora, O. luteorosea, and O. tenuissima.
41760076|A new species from Peru, Odontoglossum platynaris (Orchidaceae: Oncidiinae), is described, illustrated, and contrasted with related species. The morphology of O. platynaris connects species of the subgenus Lindleyana Bockem. with species of the subgenus Erectolobata Bockem., indicating that the separation into subgenera is unjustified. Species in this group are listed, some with modified synonymy.
41760077|The following new species have appeared during the preparation of the Flora Mesoamericana and are described and illustrated here: Cischweinfia nana, a very small-flowered species with rhombic lip; Oncidium allenii is closely allied to O. klotzschianum Rchb. f., but has the base of the lip orbicular, rather than broadly triangular; Oncidium punctulatum is distinguished by the finely spotted sepals and petals and the relatively small inflorescence; Trichopilia olmosii has very wide leaves, several-flowered inflorescences and a short, wide lip, with the basal half of the column adnate to the lip; while Trichopilia similis has several-flowered inflorescences and a rhombic lip with 2 branched keels and 2 shallow pits on the lip.
41760078|Four new orchid species are described and illustrated: Macroclinium exiguum Pupulin, Ma croclinium montis-narae Pupulin, Prosthechea joaquingarciana Pupulin, and Prosthechea neglecta Pupulin. Trichocentrum pfavii subsp. dotae Pupulin also is described and illustrated. Macroclinium sections Aduncae Pupulin and Hirtzae Dodson & Pupulin, and Macroclinium sect. Macroclinium subsections Dalessandrae Dodson & Pupulin and Bicolores Dodson & Pupulin are described. Trichocentrum sect. Lobulatae Pupulin is proposed to include Mesoamerican taxa with erect lobes at the base of the lip.
41760079|The population structure of three epiphytic orchids (Lycaste aromatica, Jacquiniella teretifolia, and J. leucomelana) was studied in a Mexican humid montane forest. We measured all individuals on several trees and related plant size, number, and fertility to branch height and diameter. While Lycaste preferred thick branches, which are usually more shaded and stable, Jacquiniella spp. grew on thinner and more exposed branches with a higher rate of branchfall. The size-class distribution of Lycaste was relatively homogeneous, pointing to low recruitment and high survival. Jacquiniella leucomelana had a much higher proportion of juveniles, suggesting high recruitment and low survival. In J. teretifolia, recruitment appears irregular. The observed size classes and fertility rates are interpreted to reflect strategies of species adapted to different branches and, in part, as effects of individuals growing on branches of different sizes and stabilities. Using the regular production of pseudobulbs in Lycaste, we estimated the age when the first plants become fertile (10 years) and the time to reach full size (ca. 20 years).
41760080|This paper contains taxonomic and publication information for Bromeliaceae that was not included in, or which appeared after, the publication of L. B. Smith and R. J. Downs' Flora Neotropica Monograph 14, Part 1 (1974); Part 2 (1977); Part 3 (1979), and Luther and Sieff (1994, 1997). Refer to Luther and Sieff for additional information. For new taxa, the current article contains scientific names and their authors, publication sources and dates, country and province of origin, and locations of type specimens. Miscellaneous supplemental information is included where considered useful. Este trabajo contiene informacin taxonmica sobre Bromeliaceae la cual no fue incluida o que apareci despus de la publicacin de L. B. Smith y R. J. Downs en Flora Neotropica Monografa 14, Parte 1 (1974); Parte 2 (1977); Parte 3 (1979) y en Luther y Sieff (1994, 1997). Refirese a Luther y Sieff para informacin adicional. Para los nuevos taxa se incluyen los nombres y los autores, las fuentes y las fechas de las publicaciones, el pas y provincia de origen y la localizacin de los especmenes tipo. Tambin, se incluye informacin complementaria donde se considera til.
41760081|The State Park of Vila Velha is located 80 Km from west Curitiba in the Planalto Paranaense, a region know as Campos Grais. The park, a conservation area for native vegetation, shelters many rare or endemic species. We studied the Bromeliaceae family to gather information on the phenology, growth habits, and ecological adaptations of species found at the Vila Velha State Park. Our study revealed 16 bromeliad species. These included nine Tillandsia species: T. gardneri Lindley, T. geminiflora Brong, T. stricta Solander, T. tenuifolia L. var. tenuifolia, T. tenuifolia var. surinamensis (Mez) L.B. Sm., T. lorentziana Grisebach, T. crocata (E. Morren) Baker, T. streptocarpa Baker, T. recurvata (L.) L., and T. usneoides (L.) L. We found three Aechmea species: A. recurvata (Klotzsch) L.B. Sm., A. bromeliifolia (Rudge) Baker, and A. distichantha Lern. Other species were Dyckia tuberosa (Veil.) Baker, Vriesea friburgensis Mez, Billbergia nutans H. Wendland ex Regel, and Wittrockia cyathiforme (Veil.) Lerne.
41760082|A nomen novum for Navia diffusa was selected in 1997, but is superfluous due to the availability of the synonym Navia plowmanii L.B. Sm., Steyerm. & H. Rob. The correct new combination is Steyerbromelia plowmanii (L.B. Sm., Steyerm. & H. Rob.) B. Holst.
41760083|Fitzroya cupressoides, or alerce, a massive conifer that occurs in southern Chile and southwestern Argentina, is known for exceptional longevitya 3622-year crossdated chronology established the alerce as the second longest-living tree after California's Pinus longaeva. Despite the critical ecological significance and endangered status of the alerce, remarkably little is known about the crown habitat in these trees, including their plant and insect communities. In a preliminary assessment of alerce crown structure and plant and arthropod diversity, seven alerce individuals were climbed and surveyed in January 1998. The trunk and crown structure of each tree were measured and lianas, epiphytes, and arthropods were sampled in a series of height-stratified plots. Filmy ferns were the dominant vascular epiphytes while bryophytes, lichens, and three species of lianas were also abundant in well-developed communities. Several trees and shrubs were also discovered growing epiphytically in the alerce crowns. Arthropod diversity and abundance were very low, even compared with conifers from climatically similar habitats in the United States Pacific Northwest. Herbivory was negligibleless than 1% in all foliage samples.
41760084|Birds are part of a three-dimensional matrix of interactions within the forest and often act as biological indicators of ecological stress. Because of the heights of temperate trees and the vertical complexities of forest ecosystems, however, our knowledge of bird ecology has been largely ground-based. Mist-netting provides useful data for forest conservation, but this census tool historically has ignored the use by migratory songbirds of woodland resources more than 3 meters above ground (the height of a typical mist-net). To examine stratification of neotropical migrants, this study uses a forest canopy walkway and aerial mist-nets (with ground replicates and other nets placed in nearby habitats) in New York State's Mid-Hudson Valley. The analysis is then related to forest conservation issues. Preliminary work shows stratification among some songbirds, especially when compared to a previous canopy mist-netting study in Massachusetts. Results suggest that these migrants play a valuable role in the biointegrity of temperate forest ecosystems.
41760085|Line insertion is an essential prerequisite for most canopy studies. The height of the lowest branch often precludes the insertion of lines manually; in such cases, the lines must be fired into the canopy. We define the problems associated with this procedure and explain in detail a method for line insertion that we have developed during work on epiphytes growing on the world's tallest rain forest trees (in Sabah, Malaysia). A crossbow proved to be the most effective device for projecting a missile into the high canopy. Branch heights can be measured quickly and precisely using a laser range finder. Significant arrow modifications, including brass tips and a new line attachment system, greatly improved flight performance and accuracy. A high velocity casting reel prevents the line from snapping as it is fired. Low memory line resists the formation of knots and tangles. We conclude with a detailed explanation of a technique for repositioning the line from the ground.
41760088|New species in the following Pleurothallidinae genera or infrageneric taxa (not yet treated in Icones Pleurothallidinae) are described and illustrated: Dryadella, non-Ecuadorian Lepanthes, Masdevallia subgen. Meleagris, Masdevallia subsect. Caudatae, Masdevallia subsect. Oscillantes, Octomeria, Pleurothallis subgen. Acianthera, and Stelis. The 19 taxa are Dryadella werneri (Ecuador), Lepanthes cyrillicola (Cuba), L. decoris (Cuba), L. echinata (Peru), L. jesupii (Jamaica), L. martae (Cuba), L. revoluta (Peru), L. terborchii (Peru), Masdevallia castor, (Peru), M. pantomima (Ecuador), M. zamorensis (Ecuador), Octomeria dalstroemii (Ecuador), O. rotundata (Ecuador), Pleurothallis cremasta (Ecuador), Stelis chasei (Costa Rica), S. hammellii (Costa Rica), S. meganthera (Panama), S. megapetala (Panama), and S. veraguasensis (Panama).
41760089|A new name, Prosthechea pulchra, is proposed for the Ecuadorian species Encyclia pulcherrima and two previous nomenclatural errors are discussed.
41760090|In preparation of the treatment of Maxillaria for Flora Mesoamericana, two new species, here named Maxillaria fragrans and Maxillaria longicolumna, have become apparent. Maxillaria fragrans is closely related to M. allenii L.O. Williams but has a lip with enlarged lateral lobes. Maxillaria longicolumna is closely related to M. bracteata (Schltr.) Ames & Correll and M. gomeziana J.T. Atwood but has an elongate column.
41760091|Two new orchid species in the Oncidiinae, Cochlioda mixtura from Bolivia and Odontoglossum ariasii from Peru, are described and illustrated. Both species belong to what is here referred to as the Cochlioda clade, which includes species of the Odontoglosswn astranthum Linden & Rchb. f. complex and of genera Cochlioda Lindl. and Solenidiopsis Senghas. A synopsis of the clade with an illustrated key to the species is provided. Oncidium aurarium Rchb. f. (syn.: Odontoglossum trilobum Schltr.) belongs to the same clade as Odontoglossum ariasii, and a nomenclatural change is made. Symphyglossum sanguineum (Rchb. f.) Schltr. is transferred to the genus Odontoglossum Kunth, based on morphological features supported by DNA sequence analysis.
41760092|Five new species of Bromeliaceae from northeastern Brazil are described and illustrated: Aechmea frassyi Lerne & J.A. Siqueira, A. gustavoi J.A. Siqueira & Lerne, A. marginalis Lerne & J.A. Siqueira, Cryptanthus alagoanus Lerne & J.A. Siqueira, and Vriesea linharesiae Lerne & J.A. Siqueira.
41760093|The way ecologists studying forests choose to define canopy biology could lead them to overlook other communities of spatially fixed organisms that may have properties usefully compared to or contrasted with forest canopies. This paper represents a series of reviews on the possible nature and limits of canopy biology and introduces the prospect for a general comparative science of biological canopies.  Five rationales for the common practice of limiting discussions of canopy biology to terrestrial forests are considered: if people have unique interactions with or concerns about forest canopies; if a substantive basis exists for treating trees as a distinct category of plants; if a substantive basis exists for treating trees as a distinct category within forests; if a substantive basis exists for treating forests as a distinct category of terrestrial community; or if attributes of tree crown residents or groundrooted plants in a forest prove distinct. In no case is there unequivocal evidence for the usefulness of separating the study of forest canopies from the study of the aerial parts of other terrestrial plant communities.  Instead of restricting the sphere of canopy biology to plants in terrestrial systems, "canopy" can be defined in terms of any sessile organisms and the structural products derived from them. This opens the field to a range of communities that could share many properties with forest (or plant) canopies. A brief review is made of the canopy literature on kelp forests, algal turfs, periphyton, biofilms, and coral reefs. The word "canopy" has already been applied to each of these ecosystems, and biofilms in particular have great potential as model systems for studying assembly rules for canopy physical structure.  In mainstream ecology the organisms of a community are typically studied in two dimensions, or as points on the earth. Canopy biology can in large part be distinguished as the science of treating plants (or other sessile hosts) as three dimensional, although the discipline encompasses all aspects of scientific study of the portion of a community that project into a medium.  In many studies involving canopy species, the organisms' relationship to the canopy is treated as incidental. "Putting the canopy into canopy biology," that is, contributing fundamentally to canopy biology as an independent discipline, requires that aspects of biology specific to the canopy form an integral part of the research. Six approaches are proposed for putting the canopy into canopy biology: issues of community ecospace; properties emerging from a community in aggregate, such as stratification of microclimate; host distributions; host architectures; properties of a canopy's structural elements; and characteristics of the open spaces within a community.  Much of the language and thinking of terrestrial canopy biology has been predicated on notions of plants as supports for other organisms. Structural support between individuals occurs as well in the rhizosphere, reminding us that distinctions between aboveground and belowground plant parts can be arbitrary. For example, in many ways it would be logical to define words such as "epiphyte" so that they apply to a plant in its entirety. For many research concerns, this idea suggests the validity of transcending canopy biology to fashion a more comprehensive science of plant associates, referred to here as "structural ecology," congruent with the approach used in animal parasitology or marine epibiosis.
41760095|Vascular epiphytes are an important component of tropical biodiversity; however, because of problems associated with accessing them, it is hard to obtain a complete species inventory. It is faster and safer to make ground-based observations of epiphytes than it is to collect data using climbing techniques, but the quality of the observations may be suspect. To compare ground-based observations and observations based on climbing, we recorded epiphytic species present in three types of vegetation: remnant trees in pasture, a forest corridor along a brook, and a closed forest. Using species accumulation functions, we predicted total species richness and the sampling effort to determine it. Ground-based observations underestimated epiphytic species richness, but this underestimation was independent of vegetation structure and tree size. The number of epiphytic species recorded with climbing-based observations increased by 16.3- 23.3% over the number recorded with ground-based observations. Such observations underestimated species frequency and could indicate that a species is rare when it is not. Species accumulation models fitted to ground-based data failed to predict species richness correctly. If fitted to climbing-based observations, however, they could predict the richness and sampling effort for a complete species inventory. Our study demonstrated the limitations and problems of ground-based epiphyte observations for species inventories.
41760096|Orchid and bromeliad species richness and cover were examined in 14 plots at 100-m intervals at 200-1500 m elevation along a 1957 flow of aa lava (blocky lava with a high silica content) on Concepcin volcano in Nicaragua. Seventeen orchid species and four bromeliad species were recorded, using a point intercept method. Orchid and bromeliad species richness peaked between 600 and 1000 m and accounted for 50% or more of the species encountered. Orchid and bromeliad cover were greatest at 600-800 m and accounted for more than 50% of the vegetation cover. In particular, Sobralia spp. and Vriesea pedicellata accounted for the majority of vegetation cover at 700 and 800 m. Orchid and bromeliad species richness and cover were positively correlated with percent lichen cover and negatively correlated with herbaceous plant height. High temperature and low precipitation regimes apparently limit orchid and bromeliad distributions at low elevations, and competition with taller plants may limit their distribution at high elevations. Canopy orchids and bromeliads may play a key role in primary succession on active volcanoes in the tropics.
41760097|Although poorly known and often neglected life forms, lianas and hemiepiphytes are frequently found in tropical canopies. Lianas (such as rattans) and hemiepiphytes (such as Ficus) are specialized life forms of the canopy that share a number of similarities, including spatial conditions and the requirement of a host plant. To better understand the biology of lianas and hemiepiphytes, the authors, during a 15-year period (1985-2000), collected data to compare several aspects of these two groups: geographic and taxonomic repartition, seedling and establishment phases, architectural development, and vegetative propagation. Considering the prevalence of lianas and hemiepiphytes in tropical canopies, the authors discuss the response of these plants to environmental conditions and speculate on their role in forest dynamics.
41760098|Hypotheses about differences in herbivory between species, young and mature leaves, and understory and canopy leaves were tested in 1994 and 1995. The authors measured herbivory in the following three tree species representing different phytogeographical affinities in a tropical montane cloud forest in Mexico: Carpinus caroliniana (temperate deciduous), Oreopanax xalapensis (neotropical broadleaved-evergreen) and Turpinia insignis (American-Asiatic broadleaved-evergreen). Foliar buds were tagged in 20 trees per species, and randomly selected leaves were collected when young (1-2 months) or mature (6-8 months), in both the understory and canopy. A total of 5804 leaves were measured for leaf area losses (% holes plus damaged areas). Total herbivory was expressed as % area loss in mature leaves, while herbivory rate was expressed as % area loss/month. Specific leaf area and toughness were determined in subsamples. Differences in total herbivory and herbivory rates were observed among species. Total herbivore damage in mature leaves was as follows: Carpinus 2.7%  0.2, Oreopanax 9.7%  4.3, and Turpinia 8.0%  0.6. Overall, herbivory rates were higher in young (3.6  0.5 %/month) than in mature leaves (1.9  0.3 %/month), and herbivory rates were higher in understory (3.3  0.5 %/month) than in canopy leaves (2.2  0.3 %/month). Within a species, however, only Oreopanax showed higher rates as significant trends. Herbivore damage apparently was not related to specific leaf area and toughness; however, it may be related to foliar phenological characteristics. En un bosque de neblina en Veracruz, Mxico, se probaron hiptesis sobre herbivora diferencial entre especies, hojas jvenes y maduras, y hojas del sotobosque y del dosel. En 1994 y 1995, las especies estudiadas fueron Carpinus caroliniana (templada caducifolia), Oreopanax xalapensis (neotropical perennifolia) y Turpinia insignis (Americana-Asitica perennifolia). Se marcaron yemas foliares en 20 rboles por especie; se colectaron al azar hojas jvenes (1-2 meses) o maduras (6-8 meses) en el sotobosque y en el dosel. En 5804 hojas se midi el porcentaje de rea foliar perdida (% hoyos y rea daada). La herbivora total se expres como % de rea perdida en hojas maduras, y la tasa de herbivora se expres como % rea perdida/mes. El area foliar especfica y la dureza se determinaron en submuestras. El porcentaje de herbivora total en hojas maduras fue: Carpinus 2.7%  0.2, Oreopanax 9.7%  4.3, y Turpinia 8.0%  0.6. En general, la tasa de herbivora fue mayor en hojas jvenes (3.6  0.5 %/mes) que en hojas maduras (1.9  0.3 %/mes), y tambin fue mayor en el sotobosque (3.3  0.5 %/mes) que en el dosel (2.2  0.3 %/mes). Pero al considerar especies, solo Oreopanax mostr estas tendencias significativamente. Los niveles de herbivora, aparentemente no estuvieron relacionados con rea foliar especfica o dureza, pero parecen estar relacionados con caractersticas fenolgicas foliares.
41760099|The aquatic communities occurring in terrestrial tank bromeliads under conditions of sun and shade were analyzed in relation to their richness and faunal composition. Three species of bromeliads were studied: Aechmea bromeliifolia, A. nudicaulis, and Neoregelia cruenta. The study area consisted of two sand dune formations ("restinga") on the southeast Brazil seashore. Ostracods (Elpidium) were the most common organisms. The species richness of shaded tanks was significantly higher than that of sun-exposed tanks. Community composition was more often similar between bromeliads growing under the same conditions of exposure than between bromeliads of the same species. Larvae of Dasyhelea ceratopogonids were associated with higher water temperature tanks, while Microculex culicids and copepods were more frequent at lower temperatures. These results suggest that invertebrate aquatic organisms do not display strong host specificity in choosing bromeliad tanks, but rather that microhabitat conditions are more important. Exposure to sun played a key role in determining richness and composition, probably by affecting water temperatures and by increasing the probability of desiccation.
41760100|Insects that feed on the foliage of trees can influence the quality of forest soils by dropping frass (feces) and leaf fragments to the floor. They can also modify the chemistry of rainwater that passes through the forest canopy. The effects of herbivore activity on forest soil processes are poorly understood. Potentially, insects may change soil fertility and the rates of decomposition of leaves that have fallen to the ground. This literature review examines our present understanding of these top-down impacts of forest canopy herbivory on soil processes.
41760104|New species in the following genera and infrageneric taxa of Pleurothallidinae (not yet treated in Icones Pleurothallidinarum) are described and illustrated: non-Ecuadorian Lepanthes, Octomeria, and Pleurothallis. The 30 species and one subspecies are Lepanthes adrianae (Peru), L. applanata (Peru), L. arbaceae (Peru), L. aubryi (Cuba), L. bivalvis (Peru), L. capistrata (Peru), L. erucifera (Peru), L. hollymountensis (Jamaica), L. martineae (Peru), L. migueliana (Guatemala), L. minyglossa (Panama), L. mollis (Panama), L. nana (Cuba), L. pedunculata (Peru), L. selenitepala subsp. ackermanii (Puerto Rico), L. sijmii (Peru), L. stimsonii (Puerto Rico), L. tricuspidata (Peru), L. vulpina (Peru), Octomeria auriculata (Ecuador), O. bomboizae (Ecuador), O. hirtzii (Ecuador), O. lamellaris (Venezuela), O. medinae (Ecuador), O. ximenae (Ecuador), Pleurothallis discalis (Ecuador), P. haberi (Costa Rica), P. sanchezii (Ecuador), P. schudelii (Ecuador), P. villosilabia (Ecuador), and Zootrophion williamsii (Panama). A new combination is made in Stelis (S. declivis; basionym Pleurothallis declivis).
41760105|Seven new taxa of Bromeliaceae are described: Pepinia neeana from Brazil, Puya joergensenii from Ecuador, Greigia leymebambana, Pepinia peruana, Pitcairnia arenaria, Pitcairnia camposii, and Puya pseudoeryngioides from Peru. Miscellaneous new taxa of Bromeliaceae (XVI) appeared in Brittonia 54(4), 2002.
41760106|A strictly phylogenetic method for classification of a part of the Pleurothallidinae, as proposed by A. M. Pridgeon and M. W. Chase, and the systematic approach to the classification of the Pleurothallidinae in use by Luer are discussed. Taxa treated by Pridgeon and Chase are discussed in the order in which they were published.
41760107|Above the Arctic Circle, monitoring of a population of Cypripedium calceolus was conducted in 1992-1998, and 7-year population dynamics were analyzed. In 1998, experimental work on artificial pollination was carried out. The absence of typical insects for pollination and the short growing period with low temperatures were main constraints to the distribution of this orchid in the northernmost regions.
41760108|In this study our objectives were to compare the diversity of epiphytes in undisturbed and fragmented forests, to identify the most abundant host tree species, and to collect specimens for the University of Yaounde. To protect epiphytes in villages where these plants are often perceived as parasites (especially of fruit trees), the senior author organized conservation classes for local villagers who participated in data collection at each site. Preliminary results showed that epiphytic flora was rich in disturbed forests of Cameroon and that preservation of forest fragments may benefit epiphyte conservation. The most abundant host tree species differ in both intact and disturbed habitats at each site. Human disturbance, despite reducing epiphyte population sizes, serves as a catalyst for promoting change (and perhaps a shortterm increase) in diversity by increasing habitat diversity.
41760109|Canopy access systems that include cable-supported walkway bridges are being built around the world to study forest canopy ecosystems. The "canopy walkways" considered here require less physical effort on the part of researchers than do rope climbing techniques. Such systems also facilitate collaboration between several researchers moving laterally through the canopy. The physics of building hanging structures, such as canopy bridges, needs to be understood and utilized to design a safe, long-lasting structure. An interactive computer program was developed that employs catenary curve equations and nested root extraction algorithms to calculate construction parameters. The use of this program has accelerated the design of several structures built in the canopy of both temperate and tropical forests.
41760115|In preparation for the treatment of Myrtaceae for the Flora of the Venezuelan Guayana, two new combinations {Eugenia yatuae, Myrcia intonsa) and 12 new species are presented {Calyptranthes conduplicata, Calyptranthes nigrescens, Eugenia conduplicata, Eugenia magna, Marlierea convexivenia, Marlierea foveolata, Marlierea mcvaughii, Marlierea subcordata, Marlierea ventuarensis, Myrcia kylistophylla, Myrcia liesneri, Myrciaria puberulenta), as well as notes on species distribution and circumscription.
41760116|One species of Dryadella and nine species of Pleurothallis from Brazil are described and illustrated.
41760117|A new combination is proposed for a variant within Paphiopedilum Pfitzer, Section Cochlopetalum Hallier f. ex Pfitzer, found in Sumatra. It is Paphiopedilum victoria-regina (Sander) M.W. Wood var. latifolium (Schltr.) J. Beckner.
41760118|A third species of the little known Andean orchid genus Solenidiopsis is described and illustrated. A key to the species is provided.
41760119|A revision of Encholirium has revealed two new species from rock outcrops in Brazil's cerrado vegetation and in the transition from cerrado to caatinga vegetation. Encholirium eddie-estevesii has flowers with short pedicels, slightly asymmetrical sepals, and petals that are spotted purplish-wine and have inconspicuously crenulate margins. Encholirium maximum is very distinctive because of its large inflorescence, subsessile flowers, slightly asymmetrical and obovate sepals, and yellow petals.
41760120|Four new Fosterella species from Bolivia are described and illustrated: F. fuentesii, F. nowickii, F. rexiae (Andes), and F. yuvinkae (eastern lowlands, Chiquitano mountains). Fosterella petiolata, F. weberbaueri (re-established), and F. windischii are recorded as new species for Bolivia. Fosterella graminea and F. heterophylla are recorded for the first time since the type collection. Additional information on morphological variation and distribution of other species is provided. The number of described Bolivian Fosterella species rises to 27. Thus, Fosterella now ranks third in Bolivia (after Tillandsia and Puya) in total number of species and percentage of endemic species of Bromeliaceae within Bolivia.
41760121|Metamasius callizona (Chevrolat) (Coleoptera: Dryophthoridae) female weevils, when challenged with 21 Tillandsia utriculata L. plants (Bromeliaceae) of size 11.9  0.3 cm diameter (longest leaf 9.8  0.5 cm) in the laboratory, did not produce offspring, whereas they did so on 21 plants of 16.2  0.3 cm diameter (longest leaf 17.1  0.6 cm) and larger. The minimal s3ize of T. utriculata plants needed to sustain a reproducing population of M. callizona is thus defined. It is not clear from experimental evidence that T. utriculata plants of size 21.4  0.3 cm diameter (longest leaf 29.7  1.5 cm) were better hosts for developing M. callizona weevils than were plants of size 16.2  0.3 (longest leaf 17.1  0.6 cm). Se utilizaron hembras de Metamasius callizona (Chevrolat) (Coleoptera: Dryophthoridae) para analizar el potencial de oviposicin y desarrollo de larvas en tres tamaos de bromeliceas. Se utilizaron 21 plantas de Tillandsia utriculata L. (Bromeliaceae) de 11.9  0.3 cm de dimetro (hoja de mayor longitud 9.8  0.5 cm) y bajo condiciones de laboratorio. Metamasius callizona no produjo ninguna cra en estas plantas. Sn embargo en 21 plantas de la misma especie de 16.2  0.3 cm de dametro (hoja de mayor tamao 17.1  0.6 cm) las hembras ovipositaron y las larvas emergieron de los huevos. De esta forma se define el tamao mnimo que necesitan estas plantas para sostener una poblacin del picudo M. callizona. Los datos colectados no muestran una evidencia clara de que plantas de mayor tamao 21.4  0.3 cm de dimetro (hoja de mayor tamao 29.7  1.5 cm) son mejores hospederos que las plantas con 16.2  0.3 cm de dametro (hoja de mayor tamao 17.1  0.6 cm) para M. callizona.
41760122|A survey of epiphytic angiosperms in Cuba provides an overview of the composition and distribution of these plants based on literature, herbarium specimens, field observations, and personal communication with specialists. Information gathered included endemism, geographic distribution in Cuba, distribution in major vegetation types, and types of epiphyte growth habits. A total of 319 species of epiphytic angiosperms were recorded, representing 14 families. The Orchidaceae was the most species-rich epiphyte family, with 214 species, followed by Bromeliaceae and Piperaceae. Orchidaceae also had the highest percentage of epiphytic species, followed by Piperaceae. All of the major epiphyte growth habits are found among the Cuban epiphytes.
41760123|Primary seed dispersal at the canopy level was recorded by the authors in 1996 in five tree species of a terra firme forest along the Caquet River in the Colombian Amazon. The trees were Trattinnickia sp. (Burseraceae), Hebepetalum humiriifolium and Roucheria columbiana (Linaceae), Ocotea sp. (Lauraceae), and Micropholis venulosa (Sapotaceae). With these single-seeded species, we tested the hypothesis that the larger the fruit size, the lower the amount of seeds dispersed. We also evaluated the effect of fruit size and other fruit characteristics such as seed size, fruit mass, and percentage of pulp on the feeding behavior of diurnal frugivores (such as feeding rates, fruit removal, fruit damage). Primary seed dispersal was calculated as the difference between the number of fruits taken by birds or mammals minus seeds dropped, regurgitated, defecated, and damaged at the tree after removal. Seed dispersal also was estimated by counting the number and frequency of frugivore species at the tree and the percentage of fruits taken by animals relative to the fruit crop size. Results showed that primary seed dispersal was lower for larger fruits only when calculated as the seeds carried away from the tree crown by frugivores. This relationship did not hold when primary seed dispersal was estimated by counting the number and frequency of visitors (species) and the percentage of fruits taken. Fruit size affected seed dispersal more than did seed size, fruit mass, or pulp content. In addition, larger fruit size was negatively correlated with the number of visits and positively correlated with fruit-handling times. Among the 33 bird species observed during the study, only Trogon melanurus, T. violaceus, Ramphastos tucanus, and Querula purpurata can be considered major seed dispersers for the five tree species. The primates, (Saguinus fuscicollis, Callicebus torquatus) were not major seed dispersers for the five tree species studied. Se registr la dispersin primaria de semillas en cinco especies de rboles del dosel de un bosque de Tierra Firme del Ro Caquet, Amazona colombiana en 1996. Los rboles estudiados fueron Trattinnickia sp. (Burseraceae), Hebepetalum humiriifolium y Roucheria columbiana (Linaceae), Ocotea sp. (Lauraceae), y Micropholis venulosa (Sapotaceae). Con estas especies, de frutos de una sola semilla, se prob la hiptesis que a mayor tamao del fruto menor dispersin de semillas. Tambin se evalu el efecto del tamao del fruto y otras caractersticas del fruto como el tamao de la semilla, el peso del fruto y el porcentaje de pulpa, en los comportamientos alimenticios de los frugvoros (como tasas de alimentacin, dao y tiempo de manipulacin de los frutos). La dispersin primaria de semillas se calcul al descontar de los frutos tomados por aves o mamferos las semillas botadas, regurgitadas, defecadas, y daadas en el rbol despus de haber sido removidas. La dispersin de semillas tambin se estim por medio del nmero y la frecuencia de frugvoros en el rbol y por el porcentaje de frutos removidos por animales respecto al tamao de la cosecha. Los resultados mostraron que la dispersin primaria de semillas calculada como las semillas alejadas de la copa del parental por frugvoros, fue menor para los frutos de mayor tamao. No se present esta relacin cuando la dispersin primaria se estim como el nmero, la frecuencia de visitantes (especies) o como el porcentaje de frutos removidos. La relacin entre el tamao del fruto y la dispersin de semillas fue significativamente positiva, a diferencia de las correlaciones de la dispersin con el tamao de la semilla, el peso del fruto y la cantidad de pulpa. Se encontr que a mayor tamao del fruto menor numero de visitas y mayor tiempo de manipulacin del fruto. De las 33 especies de aves observadas durante este estudio Trogon melanurus, T. violaceus, Ramphastos tucanus, y Querula purpurata pueden considerarse grandes dispersores de semillas de estas cinco especies de rboles. Los primates (Saguinus fuscicollis, Callicebus torquatus) no fueron importantes dispersores de dichas especies.
41760124|The pollination strategies of Anthurium (Araceae) were investigated in the field in Ecuador. Three different pollinator types (viz., Cecidomyiidae, Drosophilidae and Euglossini) were observed in wild plants in habitat. Floral fragrances of 10 Anthurium species grown in a greenhouse were sampled and analyzed. Species visited by Cecidomyiidae in the field are scentless to the human nose and to our technical equipment. Those visited by Drosophilidae emit substances perceived by humans as smelling of alcohol or rotten fruit. The remaining species emitted strong, most agreeable perfumes in the morning hours and fit well into the euglossine syndrome better known in some groups of neotropical orchids. Scent composition of these species is discussed in some detail. One of the perfumed species was observed to be euglossinepollinated in the field. The probable genetic isolation of species by means of scent-directed allocation of pollinators is discussed.
41760112|A new species from Peru, Phragmipedium kovachii in section Micropetalum, is described and illustrated.
41750952|A new species of Maxillaria Ruiz & Pavon (Orchidaceae) from Colombia is described and illustrated. It is here hypothesized to belong to the Ornithidium clade (including segregate genus, Neourbania Alliance) of Maxillaria, probably related to M. histrionica (Rchb.f.) L.O. Williams. Only a single specimen has been located.
41750953|Seventeen new species of Lepanthes from the Dominican Republic and Haiti are described from collections by Donald D. Dod. Lepanthes Sw. is the largest in numbers of species of all genera of orchids known from the island of Hispaniola. The 17 collections by Dod, published in preparation for the Flora of the Greater Antilles, are Lepanthes anisoloba, L. apiculata, L. austinae, L. boomerang, L. braccata, L. decussata, L. dondodii, L. excavata, L. incurva, L. longiloba, L. magnipetala, L. microdonta, L. miniflora, L. politilabia, L. pteroglossa, L. semperflorens, and L. truncatipetala.
41750954|Ten new species of Maxillaria are described, nine from Andean South America and one from Mexico. Floral details are based on camera lucida drawings of flowers rehydrated with ammonia. Each description contains comparison notes with hypothesized closely related species.
41750955|Brassia gireoudiana Rchb.f. is treated as a subspecies of B. verrucosa Lindl. because of apparent hybridization in Costa Rica. Trichocentrum stipitatwn (Lindl.) Chase & N.H. Williams is treated as a subspecies of T. nudum (Batem. ex Lindl.) Chase & N.H. Williams because of an area of intergradations in the Perlas Archipelago and Panam province. Reflecting recent work in DNA analysis, new combinations are published in Cuitlauzina for four species previously treated as Osmoglossum or Palumbina. Odontoglossum leucomelas Rchb.f., a close ally of Oncidium stenoglossum, is transferred to Oncidium.
41750956|Living, dried, or liquid-preserved material from seven Amazonian and Andean species of Aechmea subgen. Chevaliera were studied along with type specimens. Illustrations, redescriptions, and identification keys are provided for the studied species, and collection sites for the specimens are plotted on a map.
41750957|Once distributed along the Coastal Plain from South Carolina to Texas, the short-lipped ladies'-tresses, Spiranthes brevilabris Lindley (Orchidaceae), appeared in 1999 to be restricted to a single population in Levy County, Florida. That population consisted of 152 plants. Ongoing efforts to locate additional populations of this terrestrial orchid have been unsuccessful. We provide 1) a technique to germinate seeds of this orchid in vitro using mycorrhizal fungi (symbiotic seed germination); 2) a technique to establish seedlings onto soil ex vitro; and 3) a description of the mycorrhizal fungi that prompted germination and establishment. Two fungal endophytes, both Epulorhiza spp. recovered from the roots of the epiphytic orchid Epidendrum magnoliae Muhl. (syn. E. conopseum) and S. brevilabris, were utilized in the inoculation of seed. Germination was rapid (< 10 days), and a higher percentage of seedlings developed leaves in vitro when inoculated with the S. brevilabris-derived fungus as opposed to the E. magnoliae-derived fungus (25% versus 20%). Of 165+ laboratory-grown seedlings transplanted onto soil at six sites in Florida, 100% survived > 1 month, and 17 initiated anthesis > 6 months. Hace algn tiempo se encontraba el short-lipped ladies'-tresses, Spiranthes brevilabris Lindley (Orchidaceae) a lo largo de la costa literal desde la Carolina del Sur a Texas, pero ahora parece que est restringido a una poblacin que consista en 152 plantas en 1999 en el condado de Levy en la Florida. Los esfuerzos continuos de localizar poblaciones adicionales de esta orqudea terrestre no han tenido xito. Proveemos lo siguiente: 1) una tcnica para germinar las semillas de esta orqudea in vitro, usando los hongos micorrizales (germinacin simbitica de semillas); 2) una tcnica para establecer las plantas de semillero en el suelo ex vitro; y 3) una descripcin de los hongos micorrizales que inducen la germinacin y el establecimiento de las planta de semillero. Para inocular las semillas se utilizaron dos endfitas hongosos (Epulorhiza spp.) que se haban recuperado de los rganos raizosos del Epidendrum magnoliae Muhl. (syn. E. conopseum)una orqudea epifticay el S. brevilabris. La germinacin fue rpida (menos de 10 das), y un porcentaje ms alto de plantas de semillero desarrollaron hojas in vitro cuando fueron inoculadas con los hongos derivados del S. brevilabris (25% versus 20%). De las 165 plantas de semillero cultivadas en laboratorio y trasplantadas en el suelo de seis localidades en la Florida, 100% sobrevivieron ms de un mes, 17 iniciaron antesis despues de 6 meses.
41750958|The spatial distribution pattern of Tillandsia violacea Baker was studied along an altitudinal gradient in a temperate forest in "El Chico" National Park, Hidalgo, Mexico, with emphasis on the host tree species. Results clearly showed a clumped spatial distribution pattern in the four habitat types of host trees. We found a positive effect of altitude in the T. violacea abundance, a preference for Abies religiosa as host tree, and a relation between height of host trees and abundance of T. violacea. Se estudi el patrn de distribucin espacial de Tillandsia violacea Baker en un gradiente altitudinal en un bosque templado en el Parque Nacional "El Chico," Hidalgo, Mxico, con nfasis en la especie de rbol soporte. Nuestros resultados mostraron un patrn de distribucin claramente agregado en los cuatro tipos de hbitat en el rbol soporte. Se encontr un efecto positivo de la altitud sobre la abundancia de T. violacea, y una tendencia de estas plantas a usar preferentemente Abies religiosa como rbol soporte. Tambin se encontr una relacin significativa entre la altura del rbol soporte y la abundancia de epfitas.
41750959|The authors determined morphometric data of different floral features and in vitro pollen germination of six cultivars representing four genera and two subfamilies of Bromeliaceae. Important floral characteristics for plant breeding are pollen germination and style length. Pollen viability was for all cultivars more than 40% and high enough for successful pollination. Stylar length varied much for the different cultivars. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to examine important flower characteristics. The pollen of Aechmea fasciata were biporate, and those of Tillandsia cyanea, Vriesea  vimimalisrex  carinata and V. splendens were monosulcate. Pollen grains of A. chantinii and Guzmania lingulata were inaperturate. The exine layers of all taxa were reticulate in structure with the exception of A. chantinii, which was smooth. Four stigma types were detected: convolute-blade, conduplicate-spiral, simple-erect, and coralliform. Petal appendages of Vriesea were tongue-like and absent in G. lingulata and T. cyanea. Aechmea fasciata and A. chantinii had complex petal appendages. Ovules of all cultivars possessed characteristic chalazal appendages.
41750960|In describing the pathway followed by the pollen tube after compatible pollination, the authors found that pollen grains germinated on the papillate stigma and grew down in the style across stylar canal cells. They observed in the style of Vriesea splendens, a conversion from a hollow to a solid area at the lower end of the style. The pollen tube pathway of V.  vimimalis-rex  carinata and V. splendens differed from the universal pathway via the placenta described in literature and found by the authors for Aechmea fasciata and Guzmania lingulata. Fertilization occurred porogamously in all studied species. Pollen tubes of A. fasciata grew at 2 mm/hour, with those of the other cultivars at 1.1 mm/hour. The time between pollination and start of pollen tube growth was 56 hours for Vriesea. Aechmea fasciata was inter-compatible and, in part, self-compatible. The self-incompatibility index of A. fasciata decreased from 28% to 4% toward the end of the flowering period. Homomorphic gametophytic self-incompatibility is proposed for A. chantinii and for Tillandsia cyanea.
41750961|Tropical montane cloud forests are experiencing climatic change that may alter their sensitive biota and ecosystem processes. We studied the relationship between several environmental factors and the flowering phenology of Werauhia sintenisii, an epiphytic bromeliad from the dwarf montane cloud forest in Puerto Rico, to infer responsiveness of this species to climate and to suggest how useful its phenology may be in monitoring climatic change. We applied a cross-correlation analysis to the number of open flowers per month to eight different environmental variables for 1999-2000. After determining the lag-time at which the environmental factor was best correlated with the number of open flowers, we performed a stepwise regression with the environmental factor shifted by the number of months indicated by the cross-correlation analysis and the number of open flowers per month. Differences were observed between years in the timing of flowering, which began one month earlier in 2000 than in 1999. The production of flowers was related to the monthly mean minimum temperature three months previous and to the monthly mean daily irradiance two months earlier. Together both variables explained 66% of the variation. The flowering of W. sintenisii, which appears to be susceptible to nocturnal temperatures and solar irradiance, may be useful as a biotic indicator of climate change in cloud forests.
41750962|A protocol for rapid and representative sampling of vascular and non-vascular epiphytes (excluding epiphylls) is presented for one hectare of tropical rain forest, including montane forest. We estimate that the inventory and morphospecies recognition (excluding species identification) can be carried out in approximately 2 weeks by a team of six persons, three specialists (one each for vascular plants, bryophytes, and lichens) and three field assistants.
41760127|An annotated list of the type specimens of Gesneriaceae in the Marie Selby Botanical Gardens Herbarium (SEL), including the former holdings of the Gesneriad Research Foundation Herbarium (GES), is presented. The annotated list includes information on locations of the duplicates of the type specimens in other herbaria. We here publish two new combinations, Columnea robusta (Wiehler) L.E. Skog and C. tutunendana (Wiehler) L.E. Skog; two new names, Columnea citriflora L.E. Skog and Columnea filamentosa L.E. Skog; seven newly designated neotypes; eight newly designated lectotypes; two lectotype corrections; and one name correction.
41760128|Four new species of Malaxis have appeared during preparation of the Flora Mesoamericana and are described and illustrated. Malaxis brevis is a small-flowered species collected several times in western Panama. It resembles M. hastilabia, but the much smaller flowers have a very short lip with short cavities. Malaxis insperata, from Nicaragua, superficially resembles M. brachyrrhynchos, with an entire, obtuse lip, but has conic-ovoid pseudobulbs, rather than globose subterranean corms. Malaxis rostratula is quite small-flowered, and known only from Cerro Colorado, in Panama. Its diminutive lip has a very short, 3-lobed beak. Malaxis triangularis ranges from Mexico to El Salvador and has been misidentified as M. corymbosa (S. Wats.) Kuntze, a northern species with wider, deeply concave lips.
41760129|Specimens from the Maxillaria graminifolia suballiance (here redefined) were examined with 50 flowers analyzed from SEL, AMES, and MO. From 26 published names including 14 basionyms, six species from the Maxillaria graminifolia complex are recognized. Three basionyms of R. Schlechter, of which no types have been located, are tentatively placed among the accepted species. The earliest name in the group, Isochilus graminifolium Kunth, has been misapplied. A specimen intermediate between specimens of two other accepted species is interpreted as a natural hybrid. From this study some unique vegetative characters are identified for convenient field identification in addition to unique distribution ranges (i. e., Central America vs. South America). Range maps and complete exsiccati are cited. A key to accepted species is provided.
41760130|Nuclear (nrITS) and plastid (matK and trnL-F) DNA sequence data were used to estimate the phylogeny of Laeliinae and Encyclia sensu lato. The combined molecular plus indel matrix was analyzed with a successively weighted parsimony analysis. Bootstrap percentages were used to estimate support in the tree topology. The following relationships have strong bootstrap support: Meiracylliinae is shown to be embedded in Laeliinae; Ponerinae is supported as monophyletic; Neocogniauxia is sister to the Ponerinae plus Laeliinae clade; and Encyclia sensu stricto, Euchile, and Dinema are supported as monophyletic clades. The Prosthechea clade has strong bootstrap support. Encyclia sensu lato is not monophyletic. The taxonomic histories of Anacheilium, Dinema, Encyclia, Epithecia, Euchile, Hormidium, Oestlundia, Osmophytum, Artorima, Hagsatera, Psychilis, and Prosthechea are elucidated.
41760131|The present work aims to extend the knowledge of the genus Vriesea Lindley, contributing data on the foliar anatomy of five species: Vriesea bituminosa Wawra, V. longiscapa Ule, V. triligulata Mez, V. gigantea Gaudich., and V. fosteriana L. B. Sm. Transverse and longitudinal cuts were made manually in fully expanded leaves. The usual histochemical tests were performed. Features typical to the Bromeliaceae were peltate trichomes, single layered epidermis, stomata located only on the abaxial surface of the leaves, a hypodermis with mechanical and water-storing functions, and collateral vascular bundles. Observed differences among the species were number of trichomes in both lamina and sheath, number of cells on the trichome shield, and number of layers of the aquiferous hypodermis. Many of the observed characteristics confirm the xerophytic nature of the leaves. The anatomical organization of the leaves in the studied Bromeliaceae could be related both to environmental pressures as well as to phylogenetic relationships. O presente trabalho tem como objetivo ampliar o conhecimento acerca do gnero Vriesea Lindley fornecendo dados sobre a anatomia foliar de cinco espcies: Vriesea bituminosa Wawra, V. longiscapa Ule, V. triligulata Mez, V. gigantea Gaudich. e V. fosteriana L. B. Sm. O material botnico foi cortado a mo livre. Testes histoqumicos usuais foram realizados. Os resultados mostraram que as espcies exibem as caractersticas tpicas da famlia: folhas hipoestomticas, epiderme simples dotada de tricomas peltados multicelulares, hipoderme com funes mecnica e de reserva de gua, tecido clorofiliano diferenciado em palidico e esponjoso do tipo braciforme e feixes vasculares colaterais. Foram notadas diferenas entre as especies com relao  quantidade de tricomas ao longo da folha; nmero de clulas que compem o escudo dos tricomas e nmero de carnadas da hipoderme aqufera. As caractersticas observadas confirmam a natureza xeroftica das folhas. A organizaao anatmica das folhas das Bromeliaceae estudadas pode ser urna resposta a presses ambientais assim como refletir relaes filogenticas.
41760132|To study the impact of deforestation on vascular epiphyte diversity, we compared species richness in plots in primary forest and adjacent 15-year-old fallows in two different sites in the Yungas of Bolivia, including submontane forest near Sapecho (500-1200 m) and montane forest in the Parque Nacional Cotapata (1500 2500 m). Nearly 500 species of epiphytes (25 families, 110 genera) were recorded, and a 1.0 ha plot composed of eight subplots with a total surface of 0.32 ha of montane forest had up to 175 species. These forests rank among the richest worldwide in terms of epiphyte diversity. Fallows had 60-70% fewer species than neighboring natural forest. Numbers of species of orchids, bromeliads, Hymenophyllaceae, and Grammitidaceae were much lower in fallows than in primary forest, but hemiepiphytic aroids, Polypodiaceae and Aspleniaceae, were similar. Reduction of epiphytic species diversity in fallows can be explained by structural characteristics of the fallow trees, the lack of a dense moss cover, and the drier microclimate in the fallows.
41760133|In a subtropical montane cloud forest of northwest Argentina (22S, 1800 m elevation), vascular epiphyte and climber communities were described in 1 hectare to assess relationships between the epiphytes and climbers and their host tree species. In addition, inferences were made regarding associations between epiphytes and climbers and tree morphological-functional groups. A total of 23 epiphytes and climbers were registered on 171 trees. Tree species differed in their epiphyte and climber composition and coverage of a non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination. Tree species were differentiated by foliar phenology and bole heights. These factors likely create a range of microenvironments within the canopy from humid and dark to dry and well lit. The most abundant climber (Macfadyena unguis-cati) was associated with trees having drier and brighter microenvironments (particularly Juglans australis), and at least eight epiphyte species were associated with trees with moister and darker microenvironments. Tree species also differed according to tree and crown diameter, total tree and bole height, and bark type. Taller tree species with rough bark, larger diameters and crown dimensions were associated with at least eleven epiphyte and climber species. Overall, epiphyte and climber community composition differed among host tree species and may be explained in part by measurable host tree characteristics.
41760134|Vascular epiphytes typically are associated with tropical rain forests, whereas their occurrence in temperate forests is little appreciated. This bibliography lists nearly 200 citations dealing with the biology of this group at latitudes beyond the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn. Papers on ecology, physiology, anatomy, morphology, and natural history are included, while purely taxonomic accounts are excluded. The bibliography also is available electronically (request to be sent to the author). Epfitas vasculares son tpicamente asociados con los tropicos, menos apreciado es su presencia en los bosques templados. Esa bibliografa presenta casi 200 citas relacionadas con la biologa de este grupo. Se incluye artculos sobre ecologa, fisiologa, anatoma, morfologa y historia natural, pero en general se excluy publicaciones puramente taxonmicas o florsticas. Esta bibliografa es disponible en forma electrnica (pedidos al autor).
41760142|Problems in the identification of Cischweinfia species are discussed, and three recently described species are reduced to synonymy. One new species from Costa Rica, allied to C. pusilla and thrice illustrated but rarely collected, is described as C. donrafae Dressler & Dalstrm, and a distinctive population from Veraguas Province in Panama is described as C. pusilla subspecies furcata Dressler & Dalstrm. A revised key to the genus is offered.
41760143|Recent expeditions to the Cordillera del Condor in southeastern Ecuador have uncovered three new species of Orchidaceae, subtribe Pleurothallidinae. Brachionidium condorense L.J. Jost, B. deflexum L.J. Jost, and Lepanthes neillii L.J. Jost are described. The overall species composition of the primarily epiphytic genus Lepanthes in the Cordillera del Condor is similar to that of other front-line foothill ranges in the eastern Andes of Ecuador. The species composition of primarily terrestrial Brachionidium, on the other hand, appears to be unusual and distinctive.
41760144|Current views about the phylogeny of Laeliinae (Orchidaceae) and the systematic position of Prosthechea and related genera are discussed. Morphologic characters used to circumscribe genera in the Prosthechea clade are reviewed. A new species from Costa Rica, P. barbozaei, is described and illustrated. Prosthechea barbozaei is closely related to P. glauca and P. ortizii, from which it may be distinguished by the ligulate sepals and oblong petals, the elliptic-oblong lateral lobes and the suborbicular, retuse midlobe of the lip, the shape of the callus and the androclinium, and the vegetative habit, with suborbicular, strongly ancipituous pseudobulbs, respectively.
41760145|The westward range extension of the orchid Eulophia flava (Lindl.) J.D. Hook, in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh is described as an addition to the flora of Bori and Pachmarhi Wildlife Sanctuaries.
41760146|Two new white-flowered species of Pitcairnia (Bromeliaceae) from coastal Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil, are described. Duas novas espcies de Pitcairnia (Bromeliaceae) com flores brancas, da costa do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, so descritas.
41760147|A summary of Mexican Bromeliaceae diversity and distribution is presented along with a checklist of species. The checklist includes information on type specimens, synonymy, distribution by state and municipality, and notes on endemism. Two new combination/status changes are made in Tillandsia (T. arroyoensis, T. glabrior). Se presenta una sinopsis de la diversidad y distribucin de las Bromeliaceae Mexicanas, junto con un listado de referencia que incluye informacin sobre especmenes tipo, sinonimia, distribucin por estado y municipio, asi como datos sobre endemismo. Se hacen dos nuevas combinaciones/cambios de status en Tillandsia (T. arroyoensis, T. glabrior).
41760148|In preparation for the treatment of Calyptranthes and Myrcia (Myrtaceae) for the Flora Mesoamericana, nine new species have been recognized and are here described and illustrated: Calyptranthes elliptica, C. jefensis, C. longicalyptrata, C. macrocarpa, C. microphylla, Myrcia concinna, M. fusca, M. lapidulosa, and M. panamensis.
41760149|In Central Guatemala, emergent trees and trees with high epiphytic loads (temperate subtropical forest, cloud forest, and evergreen tropical forest) were examined to determine if tree height or emergent status determined high species diversity. Height did not correlate with epiphyte diversity, nor did any of the other examined parameters. Isolated trees, however, in contrast to those in forests supported fewer epiphyte species, although numbers of plants were greater. The emergent trees hosted the most epiphytic life forms, 35% of all rare epiphytic species, and the highest proportion of non-vascular epiphytes. Of the rare epiphytes, 71% were non-vascular species. Emergent trees, therefore, may host the most rare species and the highest life-form diversity. Non-vascular diversity increased as did humidity or dryness. Lichen species diversity apparently depended on specific phorophyte species, on branch strata, and on the emergent status of the host tree. Rare species were correlated with non-vascular species. Microclimate, especially humidity, appeared to be the major determinant of epiphyte diversity in Central Guatemala. En Guatemala rboles sobresalientes y rboles con gran carga de epfitas se examinaron (bosque templado subtropical, bosque nuboso subtropical y bosque tropical siempre verde) para averiguar si es la altura o el hecho de sobresalir el dosel lo que determina alta diversidad. Ni altura fue correlacionado con alta diversidad de epfitas ni ningn otro determinante examinado. Pero los rboles aislados llevaban una diversidad de epfitas ms baja en comparacin con rboles dentro del bosque, no obstante la cantidad de plantas fue ms alta. Los rboles sobresalientes alojan la variedad ms alta de formas de vida de epfitas, un 35% de especies raras y el ms alto porcentaje de epfitas no vasculares. Un setenta y un porciento de las especies raras son no vasculares. Por esto los rboles sobresalientes representan el potencial ms alto de epfitas raras y una alta diversidad de formas de vida de epfitas. La diversidad de briofitas aumenta con un incremento de humedad y de sequa. La diversidad de especies de liqenes parece depender ms de la especie del forofito y de la cantidad de pisos de ramas y el facto de sobresalir el docel del forofito. Especies raras fueron correlacionadas con especies no vasculares. Concluyendo se puede decir que el factor microclimtico, especialmente la humedad es el parmetro ms importante para determinar la diversidad de epfitas.
41760150|To determine if different habitat preferences and habitat segregations exist among epiphytic and hemiepiphytic Araceae, we recorded the heights above the ground among adult Araceae at Cabo Corrientes, Colombia. A differential vertical distribution was found among the aroid genera, the subgenera of Anthurium and Philodendron, and the species when analyzed independently. Distribution along the vertical gradient appears to be related to growth forms and morpho-physiological adaptations to the canopy environment, such as litter-trap growth, thick cuticles, and ramification type. Our results indicate that despite the importance that stochastic processes could have in maintaining species-rich assemblages in tropical forest, habitat differentiation also is detectable and appears to be playing a role in determining the high species richness of Araceae in the forest of the Pacific coast of Colombia.
41760151|During a study of the vertical distribution of bromeliads and their biomass in a montane forest near Bogot, Colombia, the authors found, at a 0.1 ha site, 4395 bromeliads with a biomass of 0.9 tons. Species making up the community were Guzmania gloriosa, Racinaea tetrantha, Tillandsia biflora, T. complanata, T. fendleri, and T. turnen. Differences in the morphometric variables used to determine age classes (i.e., dry weight, coverage, height, leaf length, and tank basal perimeter) were significant in all species except for number of leaves. Of the total, 62.3% of the bromeliad individuals belonged to immature age class 1, followed by adults (classes 3 and 4) with 24.3%. Adult biomass accounted for 74.6% of the total. The bromeliad community, populations, and age classes had an aggregated vertical distribution pattern in terms of biomass and number of individuals, mainly in the middle and high strata of the forest. Tillandsia turnen had the highest accumulated biomass (47%) and was the most abundant species (62.3%). Mean biomass per individual was highest in T. fendleri (87.4 g). Bromeliad individuals show a tendency to be near the main phorophyte axis. A strong correlation was found between abundance and biomass of bromeliads and the phorophyte height, crown coverage, and circumference breast height. Estudiamos el patrn de distribucin vertical de los individuos y de la biomasa de la comunidad de bromelias en un bosque alto andino de la Sabana de Bogot, Colombia. En 0.1 ha muestreada se encontraron 4395 individuos de bromelias, con una biomasa de ca. 0.9 toneladas, pertenecientes a los gneros Guzmania (G. gloriosa), Racinaea (R. tetrantha) y Tillandsia (T. biflora, T. complanata, T. fendleri y T. turne ri). Las diferencias en las variables morfomtricas evaluadas (peso seco, cobertura, altura, largo de la lmina y permetro de la base) para determinar las clases de edad fueron significativas en todas las especies, excepto el nmero de hojas. El 62.3 % de los individuos de la comunidad pertenecen a la clase de edad 1, seguidos por los adultos (clases 3 y 4) con el 24.3 %. El 74.6 % de la biomasa de la comunidad la acumularon los individuos adultos. La comunidad, las poblaciones y las clases de edad estimadas presentaron un patrn de distribucin vertical agregado, tanto para la biomasa como para la abundancia, y con preferencia por las partes medias a altas del bosque. Tillandsia turneri fue la especie ms abundante (con el 62.3 % de los individuos totales) y con mayor biomasa acumulada (47 % del total). El mayor promedio de biomasa por individuo lo present T. fendleri con 87.4 g. Los individuos tendieron a ubicarse cerca al eje principal del forofito y, adems, se encontr una fuerte correlacin entre la abundancia y la biomasa de las bromelias con la altura, la cobertura y la circunferencia a la altura del pecho de los forofitos.
41760152|Members of Catopsis were examined for taxonomically useful morphological and anatomical characteristics related to leaves. External features included rosette shape, leaf size and shape, presence of epicuticular wax, abundance and character of trichomes, and ratio of trichomes to stomata. Leaf anatomical characters included arrangement of stomatal-complex cells, thickness of water storage tissue, and features of the vascular bundle sheath. In general, leaf morphology and anatomy were found to be similar across all species of Catopsis. A number of the characters are associated with habitat preference and thus presumed to be of ecological and ecophysiological significance, but of little taxonomic value.
41760153|Canopy access includes primarily vertical techniques for reaching the canopy from the ground, and canopy movement includes primarily horizontal techniques for moving through the canopy. Both directions of motion are necessary to fully explore and sample the forest canopy. Walkways, cranes, and rafts offer extensive canopy movement but involve substantial material, labor, forest impact, and freedom-toresearch costs. In reviewing rope-based methods for canopy movement within forest canopies, the authors conclude that the advantages are (1) substantially lower costs, (2) lighter weight, (3) freedom for individual research teams to carry out replicated manipulative studies, and (4) greater availability of sample sites. Techniques developed by arborists provide within-crown movement, enabling transfers between trees less than 7 m apart. Special tools, such as the "mini-grapnel," extend traverse distances to 13 m. The authors describe a new technique based on a retrieval bolt (crossbow arrow) that allows crossing of gaps up to 40 m between trees without descending to the ground. They illustrate the application of these rope techniques in canopy research with a 200-m traverse through a 75-m-tall lowland rain forest, in which they establish a rope-based system to sample forest structure, microclimate, and arthropod distribution and abundance.
41760463|Alloplectus (Gesneriaceae-Episcieae), whose range extends from Costa Rica to the Andes of Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru, comprises five species. The plants are obligate epiphytes with tubular nonresupinate flowers. The generic circumscription of Alloplectus is based on phylogenetic analyses of morphological and molecular data from the ribosomal (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) and the intergenic (trnH-psbA) chloroplast spacer region (details of the analyses are published separately). Alloplectus has a confusing taxonomic history with more than 150 names attributed to this poorly defined group that until recently had not been phylogenetically evaluated with material representing the generic type species, Alloplectus hispidus (Kunth) Mart. Many of the species traditionally recognized as Alloplectus are here transferred to Columnea, Nematanthus, Drymonia, Glossoloma, and Crantzia, of which the latter two are resurrected generic names to accommodate well-supported clades. Replacing the traditional polyphyletic concept of Alloplectus with a monophyletic Alloplectus presented here requires 29 new combinations, two lectotypifications, and six neotypifications. A nomenclator of all excluded or uncertain species names attributed to Alloplectus is included with currently accepted names.
41760464|Five new Nematanthus species are described, mapped, and illustrated: N. albus Chautems; N. kautskyi Chautems & J.Rossini; N. punctatus Chautems; N. pycnophyllus Chautems, T.Lopes & M.Peixoto; and N. wiehleri Chautems & M.Peixoto. Their conservation status following IUCN criteria is given. Three species are melittophilous, adding a new pollination syndrome to the genus. The circumscription of Nematanthus therefore is redefined and includes 31 species. A revised key to the whole genus is provided. Cinco novas espcies de Nematanthus so descritas, mapeadas, e ilustradas: N. albus Chautems; N. kautskyi Chautems & J.Rossini; N. punctatus Chautems; N. pycnophyllus Chautems, T.Lopes & M.Peixoto; e N. wiehleri Chautems & M.Peixoto. O estatuto de conservaao  estabelecido seguindo os critrios da UICN. Tres espcies so melitfilas, adicionando uma nova sndrome de polinizao ao gnero. Nematanthus  assim redefinido e inclui 31 espcies. Uma chave de identificao revisada para todas as espcies do gnero  apresentada.
41760465|Morphological and molecular studies in tribe Gloxinieae have led to the need to describe four new genera and one new tribe, with two historically recognized genera resurrected and three currently recognized genera submerged into other generic concepts. The new genera Gloxinella, Gloxiniopsis, Nomopyle, and Sphaerorrhiza include species previously treated in Gloxinia. The genus Sphaerorrhiza also is treated as a new tribe because of its distant phylogenetic relationship to the Gloxinieae. Mandirola and Seemannia have been resurrected to define monophyletic groups of species previously treated in Gloxinia. The genera Anodiscus and Koellikeria have been submerged into the new circumscription of Gloxinia to reflect phylogenetic relationships and morphological similarities among the species of these genera. The circumscription of Kohleria is here broadened to include Capanea. In all, seven generic transfers of already available names are made as well as 11 new combinations: Gloxinella lindeniana, Gloxinia erinoides, G. xanthophylla, Gloxiniopsis racemosa, Kohleria affinis, K. tigridia, Mandirola rupestris, Nomopyle dodsonii, N. peruviana, Sphaerorrhiza sarmentiana, and S. burchellii.
41760167|Do you know where your orchids are? "Growing well in homes and botanical gardens" is not a sufficient answer, for surely we care about the ecosystems that areand too often weretheir homes. The news is not good: roughly half of all known plant species live in areas that, combined, cover only an eighth of Earth's ice-free land surface, ca. 17 million km. These areas, "hotspots," as Norman Myers has called them, are mostly tropical moist forests and include such places as Madagascar, Central America, and the Philippines. Of their original area, less than 10% remains. An additional 10 million km of presently less threatened moist forests in the Amazon, Congo, and New Guinea house another quarter of Earth's plant species. About half of these forests remain, but they also are shrinking rapidly. So what can be done? Protecting the remaining large tracts of tropical forests is not a financially impossible task. Buying out logging leases is cheap, though protecting one's investment is altogether more difficult. Protecting the hotspots is even more difficultthey are more damaged, because more people live within them. Taking one of the richest hotspots, the Atlantic coast forest of Brazil, the presenter examined how to set practical priorities for conservation and the importance of taxonomic, biogeographic, and ecological knowledge in that process. What we do not know, he concludes, can most certainly hinder conservation efforts.
41760168|The Orchidaceae on the island of Saba, Netherlands Antilles, have only briefly been studied and described. In January 2003, in cooperation with the Saba Conservation Foundation, a 3-year orchid population study of the island was established and is expected to continue as an on-going project. Unique in its geology, as well as its lack of serious tourism impact, the island of Saba provides a distinct research environment for Caribbean Island orchid habitation and ecology data. To date, the study has identified 13 species in eight genera of Caribbean orchids that may be considered naturalized. A unique copper form of Epidendrum ciliare has been located, which presents possible indications of variation from the usual E. ciliare Caribbean types. Orchid populations have been identified and GPS-located for use in future studies. Populations of significant size have been map-plotted for use by the Saba Conservation Foundation in its land-based environmental management programs. This paper addresses species recordings of the Saba Orchidaceae, with previous historical citations, to date of publication.
41760169|A phylogeny of Phalaenopsis was reconstructed using three chloroplast markers, matK, atpH-atpF, and trnO-trnE, totaling 2177 base pairs. Results of Bayesian and Maximum Parsimony analyses support the placement of the species of Doritis and Kingidium into a more broadly defined Phalaenopsis, as proposed in a revision of the genus by Christenson. While some of Christenson's subgeneric groups appear to be monophyletic, several species may need to be reclassified, if a natural classification is desired. Taxon sampling, however, must be completed, and the identities of several plants confirmed, before definitive conclusions can be made. Another marker of approximately 1300 base pairs will be added to the analysis. It is expected to provide more support and to improve the resolution of the tree, especially at the basal nodes and in the subgenus Polychilos.
41760170|There is a difference between the "how-to" and the "why" of conservation. Through training, we teach or learn how to apply conservation techniques. Why a certain approach or methodology should be employed to achieve conservation objectives is something that must continually be re-assessed. A case study is used to demonstrate the importance of the "why" in conservation initiatives.
41760171|The conservation of native orchids in Colombia represents a major challenge because of the high diversity of species, the peculiarities of their distributions, and the threats they face. Three elements of an integrated strategy for the conservation of orchids need to be addressed: (1) generation and socialization of significant knowledge through research and education; (2) support for habitat protection and management; and (3) promotion of sustainable uses of orchids both inside protected areas and outside of them. Such a strategy must answer three fundamental questions: Where should efforts be concentrated both for conservation of species as well as habitats? What actions should be taken to promote their conservation? And who should advance these conservation actions? The presentation reported on environmental education, research programs, and efforts to strengthen local institutional capacity as needed tools in promoting orchid conservation.
41760172|The area surrounding the Great Lakes is a haven for temperate terrestrial orchids. Among the distinct geological features is the Ridges Sanctuary at Bailey's Harbor, Door County, Wisconsin. A survey of the Ridges shows that it is home to 28 species of North American native terrestrial orchids. A combination of objective fieldwork and demographic research is used to create an orchid habitat management plan. An educational component for the project is included to discourage wild collection of native orchids by visitors to the Ridges Sanctuary.
41760173|Orchids represent ca. 10% of the world's flowering plant species, and their diversity and endemism reach their maximum in the montane forests of the Andes. In Ecuador, nearly 80% of the 700 orchid species endemic to the country are found at 3003000 m elevation. Microclimatic specialization and geographic isolation of elevational bands in montane regions have favored orchid speciation and the evolution of restricted-range species. With 75% of montane forests destroyed, and only 15% of species protected within existing reserves, fully a third of Ecuador's endemic orchid species are at risk of extinction. Private reserves in the Andes can play a major role in the conservation of orchids. After outlining existing legal mechanisms for conservation of habitat on private lands, we present a case study of the application of a conservation easement to the protection of the El Pahuma Orchid Reserve in the Ecuadorian Andes. Las orqudeas representan aproximadamente 10% de la flora mundial y su diversidad y endemismo mximo es en los bosques montanos de los Andes. En el Ecuador, casi 80% de las 700 especies endmicas al pas se encuentran entre 300 y 3000 m. Especializacin microclimtica y aislamiento geogrfica de los niveles de altura han favorecido la especiacin y la evolucin de especies de rangos restringidos. Con la destruccin de 75% de los bosques montanos y solo 15% de las especies protegidas en las reservas existentes, la tercera parte de las orqudeas endmicas del Ecuador estn en peligro de extincin. Las reservas privadas en los Andes pueden tomar un rol importante para la conservacin de orqudeas. En el presente, ofrecimos un perfil de los mecanismos legales existentes para conservar hbitats en tierras privadas y presentamos un estudio del caso de la aplicacin de una servidumbre ecolgica para la proteccin de la Reserva Orquideolgica El Pahuma en los Andes del Ecuador.
41760174|The conservation status of the 372 taxa of orchids native to the Australian State of Victoria was assessed using the IUCN 2001 Red List categories and criteria. The assessment resulted in the following findings: Extinct, 11 taxa (10 global, 1 regional); Critically Endangered, 79 taxa (70 global, 9 regional); Endangered, 26 taxa (12 global, 14 regional); Vulnerable, 92 taxa (38 global, 54 regional); Near Threatened, 8 taxa (1 global, 7 regional); Data Deficient, 24 taxa (15 global, 9 regional); and Least Concern, 132 taxa. These findings indicate that a high proportion (65%) of Victoria's native orchids are rated as being of Conservation Concern, which reflects the substantial land-use changes, subsequent habitat degradation, and operation of threatening processes occurring across much of the state. Although the assessment was undertaken at a regional scale, the relatively high degree (40%) of endemicity/near endemicity of Victoria's native orchids makes the findings relevant at the global scale. Undertaking such a comprehensive assessment was a major exercise that entailed many challenges, such as varying interpretation and application of the IUCN Red List system, collation of information from disparate sources, and uncertain and changing taxonomyall of which affected the assessment. The experience gained and lessons learned from the conservation assessment are described.
41760175|Some 221 species of native orchids have been recorded in Singapore. Of these, however, ca. 170 orchid species are considered to be extinct, and only four are viewed as common. The orchid conservation program at the Singapore Botanic Gardens aims to monitor these species, to explore ways to conserve their germplasm, and to increase their number for subsequent reintroduction into appropriate habitats, including managed parks and roadsides. Thus far, we have successfully reintroduced Grammatophyllum speciosum, Bulbophyllum vaginatum, and Bulbophyllum membranaceum. Recently, we initiated the Orchid Cryo-Seed Bank Project, and have managed to successfully store seeds of four native species. They are Dendrobium crumenatum, Spathoglottis plicata, Bulbophyllum vaginatum, and Dendrobium anosmun.
41760176|Thus far, the ex-situ cultivation of most South African terrestrial orchids has been largely unsuccessful. This is mainly the result of the close relationships between these orchids and mycorrhizal fungus and their highly specialized habitats. The main aim of conservation in South Africa is to protect and manage centers of high biodiversity. Many rare and endangered species grow in these centers, and it is of utmost importance to manage terrestrial orchid habitats to ensure the survival of important ecosystems and, in particular, the orchids that grow in them. The presentation conveyed an overview of the past, present, and future of conservation efforts in South Africa, with special emphasis given to afforestation (such as converting grasslands to pine plantations) and the muthi (traditional African medicine) trade.
41760177|Laelia lobata (Lindl.) H.J. Veitch is among the 24 endangered orchid species of Rio de Janeiro city. This species, endemic to Rio de Janeiro state mountains, was known to occur only at the top of the most-visited mountains in town, on Po de Aucar rock and Pedra da Gvea rock. Today the Po de Aucar rock population may well be extinct because of over-collecting practices, but some plants can still be found at Pedra da Gvea rock, in spite of past over-collecting at the site. Currently the CORES (Coastal Orchid Restoration) Project has adopted a conservation strategy that covers both ex-situ and in-situ conservation of the species. Following the action plan for conservation, developed by the IUCN Orchid Specialist Group, the project has three objectives: (1) Determine the conservation status of Laelia lobata, analyzing population demography, floral biology, and population genetics of three samples (Po de Aucar rock, Pedra da Gvea rock, and ex-situ propagates); (2) Micro-propagate this species using symbiotic and asymbiotic germination of seeds; and (3) Educate climbers on the need to preserve the orchid's native habitat on the two hills. Reintroduction will be attempted only if necessary. By pursuing these objectives, we attempt to achieve the main purpose of the project, which is to remove Laelia lobata from the Red List of endangered orchids.
41760178|Having witnessed more than 90% destruction of its forests in just the past few decades, Madagascar is one of the most endangered centers of biodiversity in the world. Widespread destruction by fires clears the land for crop production and results in forest fragmentation. In Madagascar, more than 1000 indigenous orchid species survive as remnant populations in parks, reserves, or private collections. Ranomafana National Park shelters many of the orchid species native to the eastern rain forest region. A project addressing orchid conservation was undertaken through a cooperative agreement among Association Nationale Pour La Gestion Des Aires Protegees (ANGAP), the Madagascar Institute Pour La Conservation Des Environments Tropicaux (MICET), and Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo. The initial purpose was to provide training in biotechnology for students from the University of Antananarivo, who would use that training to aid orchid conservation in Madagascar. Orchid propagation and acclimatization training was provided at the zoo in 2000 and 2003. A second part of the project was to conduct an orchid survey in Ranomafana National Park, which was undertaken in 2000. The project's overall purpose was to involve Malagasy residents in the field survey and technology transfers, which subsequently led to involvement by park guides and regional forestry personnel at Ranomafana.
41760179|The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) has been described as the best-recognized international treaty on endangered species and, at the same time, as the least understood. This paradox may result from CITES being structured, implemented, and enforced as a trade treaty, rather than as a conservation measure. The title of the treaty fails to mention conservation and makes no such promises, even though endangered species may rely on wise-use conservation for their survival. By specifying endangered wild species, the title contributes to the paradox, because nations party to the treaty not only address endangered species but also threatened species and, adopting the precautionary principle, species that might become threatened because of trade. To accommodate port-of-entry inspectors untrained in taxa identification, whole families, such as the Orchidaceae, are listed on CITES appendixes, including species that are neither endangered nor wild. A timeline of significant events in the establishment of international flora and fauna treaties, beginning with a 1900 London Convention to conserve wild animals of Africa and moving forward to CITES and beyond, is presented to increase the general understanding of how CITES came to be, how it applies to plants, and especially how it applies to orchid conservation.
41760180|We investigated the pollination biology of a rare endemic lady's slipper orchid, Cypripedium fasciculatum, in southwestern Oregon from 1998 to 2001. In 1999, a parasitic wasp (Order Hymenoptera, Family Diapriidae, Cinetus sp.) was identified as the pollinator. Understanding the relationship between pollinator activity and floral development is imperative to successfully protect rare plants. We report here on our efforts to characterize the floral phenology of C. fasciculatum and to determine the relationship between pollinator activity and C. fasciculatum anthesis and fruit set. During the 19982001 period, we monitored 916 C. fasciculatum flowers in three sites for selected floral events from emergence to fruit set and monitored pollinator activity in the vicinity of the orchid sites using sticky traps. Pollinator activity and fungus gnat (sciarids and mycetophilids) activity, the host insect of the pollinator, was calculated by determining the number caught per trap per day across field sites and years. Our research characterized the floral phenology of C. fasciculatum to six distinct stages, with anthesis occurring in stage 2 and 3. Anthesis in C. fasciculatum was synchronized with peak diapriid activity as well as peak fungus gnat activity. When diapriid activity was low, then fruit set was low, although the correlation was not significant. A marginal negative correlation was found between diapriid activity and the duration of anthesis. Fungus gnats, particularly sciarids, were the major component of the insect fauna in the sites. Female diapriids were the only insects found vectoring the pollinia of C. fasciculatum. We believe the non-rewarding C. fasciculatum flowers emit odors that mimic the odor of fungus gnats luring female diapriids to enter a flower in search of a host to parasitize. Trapped diapriids encounter the stigma of C. fasciculatum en route to the small posterior opening in the labellum where the pollinia is deposited as the diapriid exits.
41760181|A greater understanding of the orchid-mycorrhizal relationship will assist in the development of improved ex-situ propagation and cultivation methods and appropriate in-situ management techniques for the many threatened Australian terrestrial orchids. The development of mycorrhizal infection in the Australian terrestrial orchid, Caladenia tentaculata, was studied by comparing the in-vitro colonization of embryos infected by one of two fungal isolates prepared from collars of the same orchid growing in-situ. One fungal isolate stimulated germination of the orchid seed and supported subsequent growth (the compatible isolate), but the other did not (the incompatible isolate). Inoculated and un-inoculated orchid embryos and protocorms were sampled frequently after propagation, fresh mounted and visualized with ultraviolet (UV) light, fixed and either cleared or resin-embedded for light microscopy and hand sectioned for scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The compatible isolate characteristically infected the seed through the suspensor cells resulting in healthy seedlings (protocorms). This infection was restricted to the basal cells. The meristematic, starch storage and vascular tissues remained uninfected. Two layers of cells containing morphologically distinct fungal coils (pelotons) formed under the epidermal cells during compatible colonization. The pelotons within the inner-most layer were digested and the cells harboring these pelotons were re-infected with new hyphae. Multicellular rhizoids developed from the basal epidermal cells. The incompatible isolate either failed to infect the seed or penetrated the epidermal cells or developing rhizoids. Chance suspensor infection stimulated distorted protocorm growth, although infection was not restricted to basal cells, and the starch storage and meristematic tissues also were colonized. The distribution of the developing rhizoids was irregular unlike that during compatible infection.
41760182|Madagascar has a rich orchid flora, approaching 1000 species, of which almost 90% are considered to be endemic. Published information on the orchids includes only generalized information on distribution and ecology and nothing on their conservation status in the wild or threat of extinction. Nevertheless, it is widely considered that many Madagascan orchids are threatened, particularly by habitat destruction that has been widely reported. Little factual data, however, has been published on these aspects of Madagascan orchids. Using herbarium data, we have entered the known historical distribution of species from different habitats in Madagascar onto base maps that include details of geology, elevation, aspect, and vegetation type. These maps can be used to indicate where species occurred historically and whether the vegetation they once occupied still persists. They also can be used to indicate where a species might be found in surviving stands of natural vegetation. Herbarium records based on algorithms developed to predict possible extinction events can be used to prioritize the rare taxa most under threat. These predictive algorithms have been applied to a selection of Madagascan species that are considered to be threatened by extinction.
41760183|Eco-tourism in Peru provides the opportunity for orchid conservation by such means as an orchid garden established at a private hotel in 1988 within the Historic Sanctuary of Macchu Picchu, Peru.
41760184|Almost a third of all species in the family Orchidaceae offer no reward to insect pollinators. In the absence of a reward, the number of flowers may be the most important component of insect attraction; however, the importance of the number of flowers in the inflorescence for fruit production has not yet been satisfactorily explored. We have examined reproductive success in the European orchid species Orchis morio in different years and at various locations. We have tested the following hypotheses: (i) For a species under given conditions, there exists an optimal number of flowers in the inflorescence, and plants with this optimal number of flowers are the most common ones in the population; (ii) Increase of the number of pollinators results in an increase in fruit set of the orchid. Neither of the hypotheses was supported by our data; however, our data suggest that fruit set may be positively correlated with the amount of rewarding co-flowering plants. Based on these findings, we propose that promotion of rewarding co-flowering plants, rather than augmentation of the presence of pollinators, seems to be a promising conservation strategy for nectarless orchid species.
41760185|The genus Spiranthes (subfamily Orchidoideae, tribe Cranichideae) has long been taxonomically problematic, and the compilospecies S. cernua especially is perplexing because of hybridization and polymorphism. Several populations of fall-blooming Spiranthes located in upstate South Carolina differ from S. cernua in some morphological features, but the ranges of other candidates in the species complex are more distant (S. ochroleucaNortheast, S. odorataSoutheast coastal plain). Samples for genetic analysis therefore were collected from these populations and outgroup species to compare with standards of several Spiranthes species. Segments of DNA from the three plant genomesnuclear, mitochondrial, and chloroplastwere amplified by PCR, sequenced, and then used for phylogenetic reconstruction. Results from the organelle genomes suggest that one of the two suspected S. cernua deviants has more affinity with S. ochroleuca and differs from the other populations, which grouped mainly with S. cernua standards. The conservative nuclear segment shows few intra-generic differences. This pilot survey verifies the southern range extent of some genes of a Spiranthes species. The survey also provides tools for a broader study of the molecular phylogeny of this genus in North America, which will be needed to delimit populations and habitats for future conservation efforts.
41760186|In the 1980s, careful estimates of the size of the Orchidaceae clustered around 19,000. A new provisional checklist suggests 24,500 species of orchids, approaching the "improbable maximum of 25,000," as seen by John Atwood. Recent lists from Mesoamerica agree closely with the 20% increase indicated by the provisional list. Will the next two decades bring in another 5000 new orchid species? The answer is unknown, but there are clearly many new species to be found in tropical America. Showy, new, large-flowered species are relatively few, rather the vast majority of species are small-flowered, if not microscopic. Ephemeral flowers, such as Sobralia, Palmorchis, and the Triphoreae, have special problems associated with their identification, for which most field-collected herbarium specimens are nearly useless. In practice, most large-flowered orchids are poorly represented by herbarium specimens, and even many small-flowered species are scarce in the herbaria. Only abundant and widespread species, such as Epidendrum radicans or Habenaria monorrhiza, are really well represented in the herbaria. In Central America, it is interesting to compare Costa Rica, with its tradition of resident naturalists, with Panama, where resident naturalists have been very few. Now the Panamanian orchid flora is rapidly catching up with Costa Rica, but both countries have significant areas that are poorly sampled. Much work remains to be completed, but when someone looks for them, many more new species will appear.
41760187|The genus Caladenia (spider orchids) is one of the most diverse in southwest Western Australia, and Caladenia species have among the most specific mycorrhizal relationships known in the orchid family. Caladenia species, however, also hybridize frequently and prolifically in nature. This study considered five natural hybrids within Caladenia and its closest relatives to elucidate the issue of mycorrhizal specificity in the hybrids and their parental species. Symbiotic cross-germination studies of parental and hybrid seed on fungi from the species and the naturally occurring hybrids were compared with data from genetic fingerprinting (amplified fragment length polymorphism, AFLP) studies of the fungi. The germination study found that, while hybrid seeds can utilize the fungi from either parental species under laboratory conditions, it is likely that the natural hybrids in-situ share the fungus of one parent only. In contrast, the genetic analysis indicated that while the parental species always possessed genetically distinct fungal strains, the hybrids may share the mycorrhizal fungus of one parental species or possess a genetically distinct fungal strain, which is more closely related to the fungus of one parental species than the other. These findings confirm the specificity of mycorrhizal relationships in Caladenia and suggest the potential of hybridization and the utilization of novel fungi as a possible pathway to speciation.
41760188|To create a lifelong concern for conservation in Arizona's citizens of tomorrow, the Orchid Society of Arizona decided, 9 years ago, to concentrate on introducing first to eighth grade students to orchids. A hands-on approach was selected as the best way to introduce children to conservation. Each student receives a Phalaenopsis seedling to repot along with all the necessary potting supplies. Teachers ask each student to bring one clean, plastic, gallon milk jug to the program, during which, each milk jug is fashioned into a mini-greenhouse for the newly repotted seedling. The goal is to provide each student with an adult mentor to help with the repotting. Each program begins with a brief description of the blooming orchid plants on display. Most students have heard about rain forests, but generally they do not associate the plants on display with either the rain forest or conservation. Students are encouraged to ask questions and inspect the display plants. Most children are excited to repot their seedlings, and often their enthusiasm is difficult to restrain. To stress the importance of biodiversity, program team members mention recent discoveries made in rain forests, such as new chemicals and new cures for diseases. Without conservation, the world will have no rain forests, which means no new chemicals or medicines derived from rain forest plants. The presenter used volunteers from among the IOCCII registrants and a keen sense of humor to demonstrate how the orchid workshop is conducted with school children.
41760189|Our understanding of orchid population behavior can be critical to the selection of appropriate conservation measures, yet less than 50% of North American and 5% of world orchid species respectively are currently subject to long-term study. Such studies often must be accomplished with limited resources. Whatever the situation, however, the selected approach should be both comprehensive and well thought out, if there is to be a conservation pay-off.
41760190|Endangered terrestrial orchids in the public network of parks and reserves, on private land, along roadsides, and in small vegetation remnants in Victoria, Australia, face a range of threats. These include weed invasion, grazing by invertebrates and native and introduced herbivores, road maintenance, and small population size resulting from habitat fragmentation. In addition, these areas have been affected often and adversely by altered fire regimes or hydrology, introduced pathogens, mining and forestry activities, recreational activities, and site disturbance. Many species are under threat of illicit collection, and many suffer from inadequate public understanding of basic orchid biology, of conditions required for seedling recruitment, and of the need to maintain specific pollinators and mycorrhizal fungi.
41760191|TWO cypripedioid orchid genera, Paphiopedilum and Phragmipedium, are listed in Appendix I of CITES and are restricted from international trade. Because of their morphological similarity to other genera, however, they may be disguised as belonging to one of the other cypripedioids listed along with other orchids in Appendix II of CITES. Sequence analysis was performed on the internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) of ribosomal DNA of cypripedioid orchids to develop a molecular marker system capable of discriminating among rare species in trade. Molecular analyses concentrated on rare cypripedioid orchids from the genera Paphiopedilum and Phragmipedium, which are known to be poached from the wild and smuggled across international borders disguised as common species. A total of 48 taxa representing two genera (Paphiopedilum, N = 43; Phragmipedium, N = 5) have been sequenced and compared for distinctiveness. Phylogenetic analyses clearly distinguish between these two genera and among other cypripedioid genera, with 5-10 fixed nucleotide differences reported between genera. Within a genus, sections of closely related taxa are recoverable in phylogenetic analyses, in most cases, with low sequence divergence within sections. ITS sequences available in GenBank have been aligned with data generated for this project, resulting in a comprehensive sequence library of 151 sequences representing all genera of cypripedioid orchids: 70 Paphiopedilum taxa, 16 Phragmipedium taxa, and 14 Cypripedium taxa, as well as representatives from Selenipedium and the monotypic genus Mexipedium (Phragmipedium) xerophyticum. Additionally, several organelle intron regions have been screened for variation among genera and species. Both the chloroplast trnS-M and the mitochondrial NAD1 intron regions, which varied between genera in nucleotide substitutions and indels, hold promise for increasing ability to distinguish between these orchids. The set of DNA markers examined for this project are diagnostic of these genera, appear to be robust, and are suitable for rapid assay to avoid unnecessary complication in the legitimate trade of orchids listed in CITES Appendix II.
41760192|Diuris species exhibit a large amount of morphological variation, resulting in a lack of unique characters and hence difficulties in assessing phylogenetic relationships. This study used direct sequencing of the nuclear ITS and plastid trnT-F regions for assessment of the phylogenetic relationships among some closely related Diuris species from the state of Victoria, Australia. Yellow-and purple-flowered Diuris species formed well-supported monophyletic sister clades. Relationships within the purple-flowered clade, including Diuris fragrantissima, were unresolved and purple-flowered species in the "punctata" group sampled for this study are genetically very closely related. This study will have implications for the conservation of Diuris fragrantissima and the location of a suitable mycorrhizal symbiont for reintroduction of this critically endangered species.
41760193|Some conservation strategies set aside large areas for nature reserves. Native plants, including orchids, are collected from these reserves for scientific study by public and private foundations, and seeds are collected and stored. This last strategy, seed banking, appears to be the simplest to execute and the most economical. Problems arise, however, regarding the most efficient methods for storing orchid seed. Such problems involve temperature, seed moisture, and seed survivability in each type of storage. One advantage is that several pods of half sibling plants may be stored and variability preserved in a very small package. On the other hand, orchid seeds, especially seeds of tropical orchids, appear to have short-lived seeds and thus do not survive to long-term storage.
41760194|Raja Rani occupies a small area in eastern Nepal. The area is a wetland, surrounded by sal (Shorea robusta) forest, situated in Bogatini Village of Letang VDC, Morang District of Koshi Zone. Of the three ponds, Raja Pokhari, Rani Pokhari, and Rajkumari Pokhari, Rani Pokhari has 1 mi of dense forest growing up from the water, and its orchid-rich habitat is a center of attraction. The presenters recorded 45 species of orchids in what appears to be a natural orchid sanctuary, with most of the species in good numbers. The study is an effort to contribute to habitat conservation. During a field trip, local people were enlisted to help conserve this orchid-rich habitat, and as a result, they are now conscious of the need to conserve this habitat, which can be considered the first orchid sanctuary of Nepal.
41760195|Perlis, the smallest and northernmost state in Peninsular Malaysia, has 15% of the total land area but only 0.2% of the forested land. Perlis State Park, a protected biodiversity conservation area established in 1996, consists of Mata Ayer Forest Reserve and Wang Mu Forest Reserve, which cover more than 5000 ha (13.6% of the total land area in Perlis). Most of Perlis consists of limestone hills that harbor many endemic and rare species of flora. Since 1999, two botanical expeditions and many collection trips have been made to explore and document the flora, especially Orchidaceae, on these hills. As a result, 102 species of orchids have been recorded. On Bukit Pelarit, a mere 432-m-tall limestone hill, 41 species were recorded, a clear indication of high species diversity. From these expeditions, four new species have been recorded for Malaysia and 41 as new records for Perlis.
41760196|An interim report is presented on the population dynamics of Dichromanthus michuacanus and Hexalectris revoluta in southeastern Arizona. Several colonies of each species have been monitored annually to evaluate total number of plants appearing and blooming patterns. The objective of the study is to determine if plants appear every year; if plants bloom on successive years; length of time between blooming events for a given plant; and long-term population dynamics. As of 2003, the study has been ongoing for 9 years. Interim results indicate that plants from both species are unreliable bloomers in successive years. Blooming can stunt succeeding growth on D. michuacanus, and plants of H. revoluta do not even appear above ground for several years after blooming.
41760197|The authors have collected data on remaining orchid populations from both scarp (steep slopes facing the sea) and anticline (landward side) regions of the Organ Mountain Range in Rio de Janeiro State in Brazil. The locations and habitats have been recorded, and the numbers of species, their altitude, flowering times, and frequency have been documented. The loss of species from the decimated anticline also has been estimated. A pilot, model scheme is proposed for forest regeneration and the study of orchid recolonization, which would involve educational programs with local schools.
41760198|Currently, Alcoa World Alumina Australia mines and rehabilitates ca. 550 ha of jarran forest each year at two open-cut bauxite mines in Western Australia. The aim of Alcoa's rehabilitation program is to re-establish a functional and self-sustaining jarran forest ecosystem in these mined areas. Many indigenous geophytic plant species, however, fail to re-establish or do so very slowly. Indigenous terrestrial orchids form a significant proportion of the species difficult to re-establish. The dominant source of orchid propagules within the rehabilitation areas is wind-dispersed seed. Recruitment of new plants is dependent on availability of both viable seed and appropriate mycorrhizal fungi in the soil of suitable microhabitats at the beginning of the wet season. Flora surveys were undertaken to determine orchid species and their density in a temporal sequence of rehabilitation areas, so as to establish the sequence of species recovery. Total orchid population and clonal orchids were found to have returned to rehabilitation areas within 5 years at densities not significantly different from those of adjacent unmined forest. Numbers of total species and clonal species also were found to have returned to rehabilitation areas within 5 years at densities not significantly different from those of adjacent unmined forest. Orchid species identified as disturbance opportunists returned to rehabilitation areas within 5 years with densities increasing during the following 10 years but dropping to numbers not significantly different from those of adjacent unmined forest after 25 years. No disturbance opportunists were found in any unmined forest. Future studies will investigate the recovery of selected individual species in rehabilitation areas, vegetation associations of these species in both unmined forest and rehabilitation areas, and the diversity of their mycorrhizal fungi.
41760199|When considering orchid conservation, we often think of faraway tropical places, but native plants are being driven to extinction right in our own backyards. The author outlines a program to organize local groups to survey and protect native orchids. The Partners for Colorado Native Plants (PCNP) is working with the Denver Botanic Gardens to recruit and train teams of volunteers to help census and monitor wild orchid populations. Together they are gathering the data needed to have appropriate species designated as threatened, as well as developing site management plans to protect these vanishing treasures. PCNP, which is modeled after the Plants of Concern program run by the Chicago Botanic Garden and Chicago Wilderness, is uniting orchid hobbyists, gardeners, students, retirees, and plant lovers to take on scientific fieldwork usually conducted by professional botanists. After completing the free training, volunteers are deployed by many state and federal agencies to staff programs otherwise stymied by a lack of funding. PCNP is building a grassroots organization to extend the reach of existing botanical institutions to achieve shared conservation goals.
41760200|Platanthera holochila (Hbd.) Krzl. (Orchidaceae), one of three orchid species endemic to Hawaii, is among the rarest orchids in the world (U.S. federal endangered species, C1; global rank, G1) with ca. 18 surviving individuals. We provide a protocol for cultivating P. holochila to the leaf-bearing stage in-vitro, using a mycorrhizal fungus originally isolated from Florida (Epulorhiza repens, UAMH 9824). This study describes two separate experiments aimed at inducing leaf formation: (1) a low agar pH, and (2) an agar medium containing nutrients (e.g., MgSO7HO). Seeds sown on acidified (pH 4.3) modified oats medium (MOM), containing nutrients, resulted in the highest percent germination recorded for the study (16.8%), and leaf formation (Stage 4) in up to 2.3% of the viable seed total. Also the ethics of releasing P. holochila seedlings harboring the Florida fungus into Hawaii is discussed. We advocate that such seedlings not be introduced into natural habitats in Hawaii, given the state's high number of vulnerable taxa and the potential for the fungus to further upset the ecological balance there. Platanthera holochila (Hbd.) Krzl. (Orchidaceae), es una de las tres especies de orqudeas endmicas de Hawaii y una de las orqudeas ms escasa en el mundo (rango Cl de las especies federales en peligro de extinccin E.E.U.U., y G1 rango global) con aproximados 18 sobrevivientes. En este artculo, proveemos un mtodo para cultivar P. holochila hasta la etapa de producin de hojas in-vitro utilizando un micobionte aislado originalmente desde Florida (Epulorhiza repens, UAMH 9824). Este proyecto describe dos experimentos distintos, ambos enfocados en inducir formacin de hojas: 1) agar de pH baja, y 2) un medio de agar nutritivo (e.g., MgSO7HO). Las semillas sembradas en un medio modificado de avena (MOM) cido (pH 4.3) y nutritivo result en el porcentaje de germinacin ms alto del proyecto (16.8%), y para la formacin de hojas (Stage 4) en hasta 2.3% del total viable de semillas. Nosotros abogamos para que las plantas que contienen el micobionte de Florida (UAMH 9824) no sean introducidas en reas naturales en Hawaii, dado el nmero alto de taxa vulnerable en el estado, y el potencial que existe para que el hongo interfiera con el balance ecolgico local.
41760201|New evidence provided by paleobotanists and geologists, who study the Holocene Epoch in the neotropics of South America, illustrates how recently and how rapidly certain orchid genera must have mutated into many new species during the past few centuries. Among other factors, slash-and-burn agriculture (swidden cultivation) kept dense primary forests from developing in the Holocene, until illnesses introduced by European explorers drastically disseminated the native human population. This allowed primary forests to cover extensive territories and thus explains the fairly recent explosion in orchid evolution in the area.
41760202|The Rio de Janeiro Botanic Garden, founded by Dom Joo VI in 1808 as an Acclimation Garden for exotic plants, was transformed over nearly two centuries into the Research Institute of the Botanic Garden of Rio de Janeiro (JBRJ). During the administration of the naturalist Joo Barbosa Rodrigues, which began in 1890, the first JBRJ greenhouse was built to shelter all sorts of "indoor" plants. Later it concentrated on the Orchidaceae collection. In 1996, the glasshouse and the area surrounding it were renovated, and since then, the orchid collection has been recovered and restructured with the support of a sponsor. Presently all collection data are filed using the BG-Recorder Computer Program, with a total of 3652 accessions and 4177 registered plants. Although the collection is composed mainly of Brazilian species, with ca. 358 species identified, there are also exotic plants and hybrids. New specimens and species are incorporated in the collection through several floristic surveys. Most of the surveys being developed in the JBRJ are conducted in Conservation Units of Rio de Janeiro State. It is important to note that welldocumented institutional collections are essential for effective conservation measures and help taxonomic studies. O Jardim Botnico do Rio de Janeiro foi fundado por Dom Joo VI em 1808 como um Jardim de Aclimaco de plantas exticas, transformou-se, ao longo de quase dois sculos de existencia, em Real Horto, Real Jardim Botnico, Jardim Botnico do Rio de Janeiro e, mais recentemente, Instituto de Pesquisas Jardim Botnicodo Rio de Janeiro (JBRJ). Durante a administrao do naturalista Joo Barbosa Rodrigues, que teve incio em 1890, foi construda a primeira estufa do JBRJ que mais tarde passou a abrigar todo o acervo referente  famlia Orchidaceae. A partir de 1996 a coleo vem sendo recuperada e reestruturada com o apoio de um patrocinador. Atualmente, o acervo est informatizado e conta com 3652 acessos e 4177 plantas registradas. A coleo  composta principalmente de especies brasileiras, cerca de 358 especies identificadas. Entretanto, h tambm plantas exticas e hbridas. Novos espcimes e espcies so incorporados  coleo atravs dos diversos levantamentos florsticos que so desenvolvidos pela instituiao, principalmente em Unidades de Conservao do Estado do Rio de Janeiro. Vale ressaltar, que colees institucionais bem documentadas so fundamentais para medidas conservacionistas eficazes e auxiliam estudos taxonmicos.
41760203|In Victoria, 59 nationally threatened orchid species have draft or completed recovery plans. The Victorian Department of Sustainability and Environment (DSE) has the primary responsibility of implementing these recovery plans. DSE has a limited capacity to complete all identified actions and objectives of the recovery plans. A large resource of non-government personnel, made up of Australian Native Orchid Society members, field naturalists, and the general community, is available to assist with a range of conservation actions. Members of these groups possess a range of skills and experience, share a passion for orchid conservation, and provide continuity of involvement. To encourage the formation of partnerships, DSE has established the "Botanic Guardians" scheme, which funds community groups that undertake small projects to help conserve threatened native plants, including orchids in Victoria. This paper highlights numerous successful actions undertaken by government and community groups in partnership. These include broad-scale surveying and annual counts of larger populations; site management such as caging plants, hand pollination, in-situ management and seed collection/dispersal; group searches of potential habitat to discover new populations; and ex-situ cultivation.
41760204|The world is entering a time of immense environmental upheaval, where experts increasingly are required to provide conservation assessments. A quantitative assessment of trends in range and abundance of flora is costly, requiring extensive field studies over a long period of time. Unfortunately, many plant species are known only from a few chance sightings or a handful of specimens. Specimen-based records provide information on the distribution of taxa through time and space, and a wealth of this knowledge can be found in the taxonomic collections and libraries of herbaria and museums. Conservation assessments are increasingly important, as lists of threatened species often form the primary source of information in the allocation of limited resources for conservation. One of the strengths of using herbarium data is that the results are built on current taxonomic expertise. Such data are derived directly from individual, verifiable records, which represent primary observations. Here we describe a number of techniques that are available for conservation assessments, including Red Listing of species.
41760220|Conservation of orchid seed presents at times difficult problems. Because not all orchid seed can be stored, non-commercial sowing in home gardens is a technique that orchid conservation groups might encourage. The media for sowing the seeds normally consists of a gelling agent, minerals, sugar, and organic compounds. The gelling agent can be agar or alginic acid, which may be expensive, especially if the ingredients are pure. The aim of this work was to test different starch sources as gelling agents. For home sowing of orchid seed, a media using maize starch as the gelling agent can be prepared, and pH can be adjusted. This sowing method has potential for individuals interested in raising their own orchids.
41760221|This work consists of surveying the ftoristics and conserving the Orchidaceae of the Rio das Pedras Reserve in the Mangaratiba municipal district of Rio de Janeiro. This area, located between the coordinates 2259'S and 4405'W, represents a valuable remnant of the Atlantic Pluvial Forest. Two subfamilies, 43 genera, and 88 species of orchids have been identified in the Reserve. The orchid family is the most representative one among the monocotyledons, representing 48% of the total species in this group. The most representative genera are Pleurothallis (13 spp.) and Epidendrum (9 spp.). A live collection of species from the Reserve, maintained by the Research Institute of the Botanical Garden of Rio De Janeiro, duplicates the taxa needed for listing species in the area. To date, 24 orchid species have been analyzed regarding their conservation status and placed in the following categories: Endangered (EN), Vulnerable (VU), Low Risk (LR), Rare (RARE), and Data Deficient (DD). In contrast to other surveys of the orchid family in the State of Rio De Janeiro, the Reserve is the smallest area but the richest in orchid species and thus an important forest remainder in the State.
41760222|The Native Orchid Restoration Project (NORP) includes a southwestern Florida branch, a new southeastern Florida branch, and the Central Florida branch featured in this poster presentation. NORP members are working together to further research on the natural propagation of native orchids and to share three problemsfinancing, facilities (laboratory and greenhouse areas), and an adequate number of volunteers to accomplish tasks in a timely manner.
41760223|Three populations of Cypripedium fasciculatum, the clustered lady's slipper orchid, and its associated mycorrhizal fungi were the subject of our study in southern Oregon. These orchids maintain a mycorrhizal relationship into maturity. Although most fungi-forming orchid mycorrhizas are saprophytes or necrotrophic parasites, some non-photosynthetic, achlorophyllous orchids are mycoheterotrophs. These orchids derive all their carbon through association with fungi that obtain carbon via ectomycorrhizal relationships with trees. By analysis of fungal DNA with PCR-RFLP and DNA sequencing, we found that C. fasciculatum associates with several fungal species, at least one of which belongs to the family Russulaceae, including common ectomycorrhizal fungi in coniferous forests. The same fungi also were found in rhizomes of the non-photosynthetic orchid Corallorhiza. Stable isotope analysis of orchid and non-orchid tissues indicates that digestion of fungal biomass in root cells supplies C. fasciculatum with substantial proportions of both carbon and nitrogen. Although C. fasciculatum is green and presumably photosynthetic under favorable conditions, our results indicate that the species also has the ability to parasitize fungi as an intermediate between the trophic patterns of non-photosynthetic, mycoheterotrophic orchids and photosynthetic non-orchids. These results, which elucidate the ecological connections of C. fasciculatum, have implications for managing and conserving the species and its accompanying fungi.
41760224|Peru has ca. 2500 species of orchids and a deforestation rate of 300,000 ha per year. Local authorities need help from taxonomists in recognizing and identifying orchids and other plant species if they are to control over-collecting in the wild and plant smuggling, both illegal in Peru. Illegal orchid greenhouses register with the government and operate as if legitimate. More accredited laboratories are needed to propagate native orchids by in-vitro culture. Many of Peru's orchid species are new to science, and if conservation is not practiced, many will only be known by their herbarium specimens.
41760225|The Eastern Ghats run parallel to the East coast of Andhra Pradesh, India, and support a biodiverse flora, including orchids. India has 1400 orchid species in 184 genera. The high rainfall areas of the North Eastern states of India are rich in orchids. At present 128 species in 43 genera are recorded in Eastern Ghats of Andhra Pradesh. The five endemic orchid species in Eastern Ghats are Bulbophyllum panigrahianum, Eria meghasaniensis, Habinaria panigrahiana, H. panigrahiana var. parviloba, and Liparis vestita subsp. seidenfadensis. Rare orchids in Eastern Ghats are Bulbophyllum macraei, Diplopora championi, and Goodyera fumata. A major problem facing orchids today is over-exploitation of wild species for medicinal, ornamental, and scientific purposes. Habitat destruction, macroclimatic changes, and shifting or swidden cultivation deplete orchid populations. Solutions include afforestation, joint forest management, tissue culture techniques for propagation, and habitat protection. Development of orchid societies in each state of India is recommended, as is designation of orchid habitat in Eastern Ghats as sanctuaries or national parks to conserve orchids systematically.
41760226|Platanthera praeclara is a threatened orchid native to the central region of North America. The orchid faces multiple threats in the western-most reaches of its native habitat. Federal and state permits allowed research on the ex-situ micropropagation of this species, which is difficult to propagate. The study resulted in lab-produced plants that were used for testing population augmentation. Cell biology and seedling development were documented by scanning electron microscopy to detect any nutrient reserves within the microscopic seeds and to illustrate tissue structure. Field trials were preliminary tests only, to be used as a basis for intervention in the event that the species should face immediate threat of extinction in Nebraska. Experimental field trials were conducted on the Valentine National Wildlife Refuge in the sandhills of Nebraska. Seedling survival was low for in-vitro produced plants, with mortality particularly heavy in years characterized by drought.
41760227|Species are arguably artificial units used for a variety of purposes, including classification, identification, and conservation, and authors have used different criteria for delimiting new species. With more than 25,000 species already named and described in the Orchidaceae (often based on single or very few characters) and limited time and funding for conservation, priorities must be set to target resources. Ideally, observable morphological differences should distinguish genetically meaningful species. A morphometric study of five species in Vanda section Cristatae (syn. Trudelia Garay) suggests three morphometrically distinct species groups.
41760241|The Orchid Specialist Group (OSG) of the Species Survival Commission (SSC) of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN also known as World Conservation Union) is an international network of professional and non-professional volunteers committed to the conservation and sustainable utilization of orchid species and their habitats. The OSG, established in 1984, now has more than 200 members from more than 50 countries. Members include leading orchid specialists, each with expertise in various disciplines vital in implementing effective orchid conservation strategies. They include orchid taxonomists, ecologists, population biologists, data managers, commercial and amateur growers, in-vitro propagation experts, seed bank managers, reintroduction and restoration specialists, nature reserve managers, specialists in conservation education and training, and international wildlife legislation experts. More than 150 organizations and societies with conservation interests are represented, including botanic gardens, herbaria, universities, nurseries, government departments, and orchid societies.
41760242|The North American Regional Orchid Specialist Group (NAROSG) was established in 1999 by the IUCN/Species Survival Commission/Orchid Specialist Group to serve an action-planning function toward the conservation of native orchids in the continental USA and Canada. After several years of email communication, the inaugural meeting of NAROSG was held in conjunction with the Second International Orchid Conservation Congress at Selby Gardens in May 2004. Six action items were selected, ranging from website additions and flagship orchid species to Red-listing and building a knowledge database.
41760244|A CITES Forum was held in conjunction with the Second International Orchid Conservation Congress, May 18, 2004, at the Marie Selby Botanical Gardens in Sarasota, Florida. Three speakers opened the forum, with background papers on the history of CITES, problems with CITES, and CITES and science. A Panel Discussion of CITES and orchids, including questions and comments from the audience, followed. Forum participants approved two proposals on amending CITES to be presented to the IUCN Orchid Specialist Group, which advises on U.N. treaties such as CITES.
41760251|A large-flowered and spectacular, previously known Cyrtochilum (Orchidaceae; Oncidiinae) from Bolivia is described, illustrated, and compared with similar species.
41760252|A new species of Encyclia (Orchidaceae) from Costa Rica is described and illustrated. Among Mesoamerican species of Encyclia, E. ossenbachiana may be distinguished by its strongly reflexed sepals and petals, linear-oblong, narrow lateral lobes of the lip, subquadrate-truncate midlobe, callus presenting two retrorse, rounded keels that join at the rear apex to form a narrow cuniculus, and the exauriculate column.
41760253|A new species, Ligeophila longibracteata, from Ecuador is described and illustrated. It represents the twelfth known species of the neotropical genus Ligeophila, first described by Garay in 1977. An updated overview of the genus precedes the species description.
41760254|In the world of plants, people record many histories and myths about the power or the behavior of some plants or about how plants can make extraordinary things happen. An example is the existence of the black or at least blue orchid. In September 2000, the author and his colleagues found an orchid of a very rare color, dark purple that looked almost black and reason enough, near to the myth, to call this new species, "the black orchid."
41760255|Six Masdevallia (Pleurothallidinae) species from Peru are described, illustrated, and compared briefly with similar species.
41760256|The Trichomanes crinitwn complex in the neotropics is analyzed, and T. trichopodium is described as a new species. It differs from T. crinitum by a winged petiole in mature plants, less divided pinna, and involucre lips that are narrower and glabrous. El complejo Trichomanes crinitum en el neotropico es analizado, y Trichomanes trichopodium es descrito. La especie nueva difiere de T. crinitum por tener pecolo alado en las plantas maduras, lmina menos dividida y margen del involucro ms angosto y glabro.
41760257|The generic synonyms Helcia, Leucohyle, and Pilumna are formally given sectional status within Trichopilia. The features of these sections and two subgroups of Section Trichopilia are discussed.
41760258|Continuing our revision of the genus Baptistonia, we consider in this article the taxa belonging to the "Baptistonia brieniana" complex. The validity of the various published concepts is critically reviewed. The valid species are described and a key for the identification of the taxa belonging to this group is proposed. Poursuivant la rvision du genre Baptistonia, nous tudions dans cet article les taxons appartenant au complexe "Baptistonia brieniana": discussion des divers concepts publis dans ce groupe, description des espces retenues, cl d'identification.
41760259|Orchid fruits have been largely neglected in orchid research. More variable than generally imagined, orchid fruits have a basic structure that remains inadequately described and understood. Yet structure and function of orchid fruits are important for many aspects of orchid conservation and may contribute significantly to the understanding of orchid phylogeny. Carpological studies of orchids are part of the ongoing research of the monocot phylogeny research group at the University of Copenhagen. A model of the orchidaceous ovary explaining the pattern of six valves is presented here, and the "subplacental cushions" in the ovary are shown to be cords of pollen tubes.
41760260|Tillandsia califanii is an endemic epiphytic bromeliad from the Tehuacn-Zapotitln-Cuicatln region, Puebla, Mxico. Its basic reproductive patterns and distribution are poorly documented. The authors studied its distribution in two natural populations in the Zapotitln Valley and performed a series of laboratory experiments to determine the basic culture conditions to determine a propagation strategy. In nature, T. califanii commonly propagates asexually producing up to four plantlets per mother plant. Most T. califanii individuals (90%) use Beaucarnea gracilis as phorophyte, and only 2% live on the columnar cacti Cephalocereus columna-trajani. Almost 50% of the T. califanii populations include individuals measuring 20-40 cm in height, considered as adult individuals in reproductive stage. Flowering occurs August-October. Inflorescence, formed by a spike, reaches 60 cm in height and produces an average of 20 capsules and up to 2000 seeds per spike. Seeds disperse late February-May. Viability tests show that most seeds contained a highly damaged embryo, which contributed to low survival. The low germination and survival observed in the field may be associated to the endemism of T. califanii, thus resulting in a genetically vulnerable species.
41760261|Epiphytes comprise ca. 10% of all vascular plant species and therefore contribute substantially to plant diversity, particularly in tropical and subtropical regions. Little is known, however, about the specificity of the relationship between epiphytes and their phorophytes. Phorophyte specificity is assessed for the neotropical epiphytic orchid, Laelia rubescens Lindley, in the tropical dry forest of Costa Rica. A rating system was used to account for local abundance of tree species supporting L. rubescens as well as for the geographic distribution of the orchid-phorophyte association. A nonspecific relationship was observed with L. rubescens growing on 33 tree species and, at one site, limestone rock. In every case where the orchid was locally abundant on a phorophyte, the association also was geographically widespread; however, 70% of the orchid-phorophyte associations were locally sparse. Of these, 35% were widespread, and 65% were restricted.
41760262|An exhaustive survey of vascular epiphytes on a single mature canopy tree in a Costa Rican tropical premontane wet forest revealed an extraordinary level of epiphyte diversity. A total of 126 morphospecies representing at least 52 genera and 21 plant families were found growing epiphytically on the phorophyte (host tree), accounting for more than 1% of the entire vascular flora of Costa Rica. This is considerably higher than most other epiphyte surveys of single trees. Angiosperms accounted for 64% of the species while leptosporangiate ferns accounted for 36%. Consistent with earlier studies, orchids contributed less than would be expected from their global representation, while ferns contributed more significantly to species diversity. Fewer species were found on the tree trunk (58 species) than in the crown (85 species), and little species overlap occurred between these two regions (17 species), suggestive of niche partitioning. Three species and 11 individuals per m 2 were recorded on the trunk of the phorophyte. Our results underscore the important contributions of epiphytes to overall biodiversity, and highlight the necessity of including epiphytes in future biodiversity assessments.
41760263|This study evaluates the density and distribution of parasitic plants and vascular epiphytes of the shea-butter tree (Vitellaria paradoxd) in the Ngaoundere savannas. The study was conducted in three savanna habitats: forest canopy (gallery or riverine), hill savanna, and plains savanna (open or plateau). For each tree, three strata were considered: basal trunk, middle section, and treetop. The design of the experiment consisted of a split-plot with six replicates. Habitats received the main treatment, with species and strata corresponding to sub-treatments. The localities were the replicates. Data collected on the density of epiphytes and parasites of the shea-butter tree showed common flora consisting of six holo-epiphytic orchids (Calyptrochilum christyanum, Graphorkis lurida, Polystachya odorata, Rangaeris rhipsalisocia, Angraecum angustum, and Tridactyle tridactylites), one hemi-epiphytic fig (Ficus thonningii), and one mistletoe (Tapinanthus globiferus ssp. apodanthus). Ecological requirements were found to differ for the epiphytes and the parasitic plant. Epiphytes preferred humid habitats, mainly the forest canopy and middle section of the trees; whereas infestation points of Tapinanthus globiferus were located mostly on the canopy fringes. Afin d'valuer la flore parasite et piphytique du karit (Vitellaria paradoxa) dans les savanes de Ngaoundr, une tude a t mene dans trois (3) milieux: galerie forestire, savane planitire et colline. Trois strates taient retenues par arbre: base, milieu et cime de l'arbre. Le dispositif exprimentale tait un split-plot  6 rptitions. Les milieux ou habitats reprsentent le traitement principal alors que les espces (epiphytes et parasites) et les strates constituent le sous traitement. Les localits taient les rptitions. Les donnes collectes portaient sur la densit des epiphytes et des parasites du karit. Les rsultats montrent que la flore est compose de six holo-piphytes (Calyptrochilum christyanum, Graphorkis lurida, Polystachya odorata, Rangaeris rhipsalisocia, Angraecum angustum et Tridactyle tridactylites), d'une hemipiphyte (Ficus thonningii) et d'un parasite (Tapinanthus globiferus ssp. apodianthus). Les epiphytes adoptent en gnral un comportement msophile: la galerie forestire et le milieu d'arbres constituent leurs milieux de prdilection, alors que le parasite prfre le cime des arbres (xrophile).
41760264|An ecological study in southern Cameroon explored the relationships between arthropods and the trash-basket epiphytic fern, Platycerium stemaria (P. Beauv.) Desv. (Polypodiaceae). Arthropods shelter in cavities situated among the tangled roots of the fern or between them and the bark of the host trees, or they develop in the compost and hanging soil that form from vegetal debris trapped by the barren fronds. This fauna provides the fern with nutrients. Large numbers of detritivorous arthropods accelerate the remineralization of the vegetal debris trapped by the fronds, improving the quality of the compost that feeds the epiphyte. Ant fauna is relatively diverse because of the presence of opportunistic species; particularly predators specialized in the capture of arthropod taxa that feed on the debris trapped by P. stemaria. On the other hand, P. stemaria mostly shelters three ant species in cavities limited to the tangle roots and so can be considered a myrmecophytic epiphyte. The nitrogen-rich wastes of ant colonies likely improve the quality of the compost that feeds the fern. Platycerium stemaria presents therefore similarities with certain neotropical bromeliads.
41760265|We describe the use of forced-air space heaters for drying herbarium specimens with a setup that is simpler, lighter, safer, and more economical than most previously described portable dryers. We have tested this method during collecting trips in the tropics with excellent results. Access to electricity and a rain-protected site are the only requirements. Temperatures inside the press reach ca. 63 and 106C with the space heater model we use (Lakewood  707) under low (750 W) and high (1500 W) wattage modes, respectively. At the low and high wattage modes, herbaceous samples can be dried in 5-6 or 2-3 hours, woody samples in 9-12 or 5-7 hours, and succulent material in 18-24 or 8-12 hours of continuous operation. The quality of the specimens produced with this method is very high; even when dried with the high wattage mode, they do not show signs of burning, and most specimens dried with the low wattage mode retain their natural colors and are often suitable for later extraction of DNA. Describimos el secado de muestras de plantas para herbario mediante el uso de calentadores elctricos de aire forzado, con un equipo ms sencillo, liviano, seguro y econmico que el de otras secadoras porttiles descritas hasta el momento. Hemos usado ste mtodo durante viajes de recolecta en el trpico con excelentes resultados. Los nicos requisitos son el acceso a electricidad y un sitio protegido de la lluvia. Con el modelo de calentador que utilizamos (Lakewood  707), la temperatura dentro de la prensa alcanza 62 y 106C en las modalidades de 750 y 1500 vatios, respectivamente. Con las modalidades baja y alta, respectivamente, muestras herbceas pueden secarse en 5-6 o 2-3 horas, muestras leosas en 9-12 o 5-7 horas, y muestras suculentas en 18-24 o 8-12 horas de operacin continua. Los especmenes producidos con ste mtodo son de muy buena calidad; no hay signos de quemadura ni siquiera con el secado en modalidad alta, y muchos especmenes secados con la modalidad baja retienen sus colores naturales y pueden usarse para la posterior extraccin de ADN.
41760275|Bromeliaceae diversity in Minas Gerais state, Brazil, is discussed, and a checklist is provided of the 27 genera, 265 species, and 18 infraspecific taxa found there. The total number of bromeliad genera in Minas Gerais exceeds that of all other Brazilian states and even of all other South American countries. A total of 98 species (37%) are endemic to the state. The exceptional floristic richness observed is attributed to the environmental conditions found solely in Minas Gerais that allow the evolution of different genera and species. The checklist is based on herbarium specimens, the botanical literature, and field observations. Data are presented for type specimens, habitat, elevation range, habit, geographical distribution throughout Brazil and Minas Gerais, phenology, and synonymy and taxonomic commentaries when pertinent.
41760276|Guatemala is a country rich in biodiversity. A good example of this is the genus Coryanthes Hook. In the 1950s, two species of Coryanthes had been documented for Guatemala. After two decades of research, the author presents seven new Coryanthes species. A study of this group of plants demonstrates the complexity of the geographical distribution of the genus.
41760277|Pseudencyclia is a hodgepodge of diverse species artificially separated from their closest relatives, and thus quite polyphyletic.
41760278|Epiphyte pollination is constrained by a stressful habitat that limits the amount of resources to be invested in pollinator attraction. Other constraints are the difficulty of locating conspecific individuals in sometimes highly dispersed populations within the canopy and the ephemeral substrate where branch failure may cut short the time available for successful reproduction. The authors conducted pollination experiments on the relationships of breeding systems, pollination success, flowering phenology, and microhabitat preference in epiphytic orchids and bromeliads in a Mexican humid montane forest. Phenology and fruit set also were observed. The breeding systems ranged from dioecious (Catopsis sessiliflora) to largely or entirely self-incompatible and outcrossing (Tillandsia multicaulis, T. punctulata, and Lycaste aromatica) to partly or mainly self-pollinating (T. juncea, Jacquiniella teretifolia, and probably J. leucomelana). Fruit set in the field was highest in the orchid Jacquiniella teretifolia (7688%) and in the bromeliad Catopsis sessiliflora (71%), both of which grow preferentially on more exposed branches. Ranked next were monocarpic Tillandsia deppeana (60%) and xeric T. juncea (60%). Fruit set was lower in J. leucomelana (29-40%), T. multicaulis (41%), and T. punctulata (25%) and lowest in long-lived L. aromatica (811%), plants of which grow mostly on stable branches. The trend for selfing and/or higher fruits sets found in species growing on more ephemeral branches or adapted to more resource-poor conditions suggests that epiphyte pollination reflects adaptations to the diversity of canopy microsites.
41760279|The epiphytic orchid Pomatocalpa spicatum was studied with regard to substrate diversity, demography, and fruit set in two floristically and structurally different areas of lower tropical rain forest in southeastern Thailand. At both sites, the orchid was found to grow directly on the bark of the phorophytes, from near ground level to 2 to 3 m in height. The relative frequencies of P. spicatum on the four types of substrate (viz. tree trunk, branch, twig, and climber) differed markedly, however, between the two populations. We conclude that an apparently specific substrate requirement of this species at any one locality may reflect local forest structure rather than specific requirements on behalf of the orchid. Despite the large structural and floristic differences between the study sites, both the demographic patterns and the patterns of flowering and fruit set were remarkably similar. In comparison to published observations of other epiphytic orchids, including P. naevatum, small/young individuals were under-represented in both populationspossibly an effect of recent climatic fluctuations on a regional scale. The low relative fruit set in the populations (5.2% and 7.5%, respectively) suggests an allogamous breeding system. The Lorenz curves prepared for the two populations are very similar and document a disproportionately high female genetic contribution by relatively few individuals.
41760280|The spatial distribution of vascular epiphytes was studied in four forest types in the southeast region of the Chiribiquete National Park, Colombian Guayana. The authors identified the forest types as seasonally flooded forest or vrzea (SF), nonflooded forest or tierra firme (TF), varillar forest (V), and transition forest (T). In each forest type, 500 m were sampled, including all vascular epiphytes on phorophytes with dbh (diameter at breast height)  2.5 cm. A total of 2016 epiphytes were recorded, corresponding to 182 species, 71 genera, and 27 families. The results show that the spatial distribution of epiphytes was different in each forest type, mainly as the result of structural differences among the phorophytes, but humidity and light conditions also were factors. In all four forests, a positive correlation was found between the number of epiphytes hosted by the phorophytes and their dbh. Also a positive correlation existed between the number of epiphytes and the total height of the phorophytes in SF, TF, and T. Most of the phorophytes had few epiphytes; only in SF did 20% of phorophytes host more than ten epiphytes. The higher humidity of SF, caused by its proximity to the river and periodical flooding, may explain the abundance and complexity of the epiphyte community. In all forest types, the vertical distribution of epiphytes was clumped for the community in general, as well as for most families and species. Epiphyte type, either autotroph (holoepiphytes and hemiepiphytes) or heterotroph (hemiparasites), appeared to be a determining factor in the spatial location of the species and in the stratification that some families showed. Se estudio la distribucin espacial de las epfitas vasculares en cuatro tipos de bosques del sureste de la Serrana de Chiribiquete, Guayana colombiana. Los bosques estudiados se denominaron como: bosque inundable de rebalse (SF), bosque de tierra firme (TF), bosque de varillar (V), y bosque de transicin (T). En cada tipo de bosque se muestre 500 m, en los cuales se censaron todas las epfitas vasculares presentes en forofitos con DAP  2.5 cm. Se encontraron 2016 individuos epfitos en total, correspondientes a 182 especies, 71 gneros, y 27 familias. La distribucin espacial de las epfitas fue diferente en cada bosque, debido principalmente a las diferencias estructurales de los forofitos y a la humedad e intensidad lumnica que se presenta en cada bosque. En todos los bosques se presentaron correlaciones positivas entre el nmero de epfitas hospedadas y el DAP de los forofitos, as como con la altura total de los forofitos en SF, TF, y T. La mayora de los forofitos presentaron muy pocas epifitas y solamente en SF el 20% de los forofitos present ms de diez epfitas. La alta humedad en SF, dada por la proximidad al ro y las inundaciones peridicas a las que est sometido el bosque, parecen explicar la mayor abundancia y complejidad de la comunidad de epfitas. En todos los tipos de bosques se encontr una distribucin vertical agregada de las epfitas para la comunidad en general y para la mayor parte de las familias y especies. El tipo de epifita, auttrofas (holoepfitas y hemiepfitas) o hetertrofas (hemiparsitas), fue determinante en la ubicacin espacial de las especies y en la estratificacin mostrada por algunas familias.
41760281|Flowers of Oncidium sphacelatum and Trichocentrum oerstedii were observed during several days at two sites in the Soconusco region of Chiapas, Mexico, to obtain details of seed set and insect visitation and to capture and identify potential pollinators. Fragrance samples from flowers of both orchids were taken for chemical analysis. No insect activity was observed for T. oerstedii, and no seed capsules had been produced. The bee, Centris (Hemisiella) trigonoides, although the most consistent visitor to the flowers of O. sphacelatum, did not participate in pollination. Single Centris (Paracentris) mexicana bees visited a few flowers once a day, and the authors trapped one bee with an O. sphacelatum pollinia present on the dorsal surface of the thorax. This orchid species presented a single seed capsule at the end of the flowering period. Different pollination strategies proposed for the two genera in Oncidiinae are discussed. Analysis of hexane extracts of flowers revealed that the dominant component of both species was a mixture of unsaturated and saturated hydrocarbons (C25-C31) as wax constituents. Although the fragrance of O. sphacelatum was characterized by zingerone, and the distinguishing component of the fragrance of T. oerstedii was syringaldehyde, both species produced relatively little scent. The timing of peak scent production was variable and did not necessarily coincide with insect visitation, suggesting that fragrance is not an important factor in the process of pollination.
41760282|Epiphytes can influence their local microclimate by altering the evaporative water loss and temperature around them and therefore may affect the distribution and species composition of micro-fauna associated with them. In this study, the authors investigate for the first time the influence of epiphytes on microclimate across a range of habitat disturbances. Temperature and relative humidity were recorded during a 24-hour period at locations in the immediate vicinity of the epiphytic bird's nest fern (Asplenium spp.) and at control locations (with no ferns present) in areas of primary forest, logged forest, and oil palm plantation in Sabah, Malaysia. Bird's nest ferns reduced the temperature variation during a 24-hour period compared to control locations in all three habitats and also reduced the mean temperature in oil palm plantations. Control locations in oil palm plantations had a higher temperature variation during a 24-hour period compared to control locations in the primary and logged forests. This, however, was not the case at fern locations, where temperature variation was not significantly different in the three habitats. The role of bird's nest ferns in moderating the microclimate in their local area is discussed with reference to possible effects on the micro-fauna, the influence of accelerating habitat conversion, and predicted climate change in Southeast Asia.
41760283|Epidendrum magnoliae is a widespread epiphytic orchid that occurs in Mexico and the United States. We investigated patterns of genetic divergence among populations of E. magnoliae distributed from North Carolina to south-central Florida. We found that populations of E. magnoliae maintain a high level of genetic diversity, 89.5% of the total variation within the species, while genetic diversity among populations was only 10.5%. Extensive gene flow has occurred within and among the northern and southern sampled regions of E. magnoliae. However there was also a significant relationship between genetic and physical distance, indicating that gene flow is reduced between more distantly spaced populations. The three populations sampled at the extreme ends of the species distribution in the United States were less diverse than more centrally located populations, suggesting a reduced rate of immigration and an increase in genetic drift. It has recently been proposed that speciation in orchids is likely due to the rapid and combined effects of genetic drift and sporadic selection. Such a scenario is more likely to occur in peripheral populations like those of E. magnoliae.
41760289|The generic limits of Alatiglossum Baptista are redefined and one new combination, Alatiglossum herzogii, is proposed.
41760290|Five new taxa of Bromeliaceae are described: Guzmania gracilis, Pepinia werffii, Pitcairnia oxapampae, Pitcairnia rojasii, and Racinaea macrantha from Peru. Miscellaneous new taxa of Bromeliaceae (XVII) appeared in Selbyana 23(1): 46-56. 2002.
41760291|A checklist of the Pleurothallidinae species recorded for Colombia is presented. The list includes 1112 confirmed species of Pleurothallidinae recorded for Colombia. In cases when it was not possible to obtain information of valid vouchers, the species were treated as reported; these species are compiled in an additional list. Information such as basionym, synonyms, original collection (type), specimen vouchers and/or literature citations, distribution by department and notes recording sources of illustrations are included. Due to the unstable taxonomic situation of the subtribe, the most recent generic changes proposed (Luer 2005) were included next to the current genus to give an idea of the possible new name. It was found that Lepanthes, Pleurothallis, Masdevallia, Dracula and Stelis exhibit the highest richness of species; the data were also compared with those recorded for Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia. Se presenta una lista de las especies de Pleurothallidinae registradas para Colombia. El listado incluye 1112 especies confirmadas; en aquellos casos donde no fue posible obtener informacin sobre especimenes, las especies se trataron en un listado adicional como reportadas. Se incluye informacin sobre el basnimo, los sinnimos, el ejemplar tipo, los ejemplares de referencia, referencias bibliogrficas, distribucin por departamento y notas registrando fuentes de ilustracin. Debido a la situacin taxonmica inestable de la subtribu, se presentan los nombres genricos alternativos propuestos (Luer 2005) a continuacin del actual gnero, con el fin de dar una idea del posible cambio en el nombre de la especie. Se encontr que los gneros Lepanthes, Pleurothallis, Masdevallia, Dracula et Stelis exhiben la mayor riqueza de especies. Tambin se hicieron comparaciones con los datos conocidos para Ecuador, Per y Bolivia.
41760297|This article is a clarification of the misapplied use of the name Gongora quinquenervis Ruiz & Pav. for a horticulturally known but scientifically undescribed Gongora (Orchidaceae; Stanhopeinae) from Costa Rica, which is here described and illustrated.
41760298|A large-flowered and spectacular, horticulturally known but scientifically undescribed Catasetum (Orchidaceae: Catasetinae) from Peru is described, illustrated, and compared with similar species.
41760299|A distinctive small-flowered Cyrtochilum (Orchidaceae; Oncidiinae) from Peru is described, illustrated, and compared with similar species.
41760300|A new species of Zygostates Lindl. from Bolivia is described and illustrated, and a new combination in Ornithocephalus Hook is proposed.
41760301|A new nothospecies in the subtribe Zygopetalinae (Orchidaceae),  Bensteinia ramonensis, is described and illustrated from Costa Rica, and its relationships are discussed. A summary of natural and artificial hybridization in the subtribe is offered.
41760302|Dendrobium Sw. Section Herbcea Kraenzl. is revived for two Asian species, Dendrobium herbaceum Lindl. and D. parcum Rchb.f. Definitive characters are branching, deciduous habit; short, fewflowered racemes arising from the branches, often apparently terminal; and small simple flowers with decurved saccate mentum. The type species is D. herbaceum. There appears to be a third, unidentified, species.
41760303|For the first time, the orchid flora of Benishangul-Gumuz (western Ethiopia, Wellega and Gojam floristic regions) has been studied over a continuous period of more than two years. A total of 63 species has been recorded, of which twelve were new to Ethiopia, including one species new to science (Disa facula P.J.Cribb, C.Herrm. & Sebsebe). This article presents the information on orchids gathered during the study. It includes information on habitats, altitude ranges and flowering time, abundance and distribution. Characteristics of the orchid diversity of the region and threats due to land use changes are also described.
41760304|Little is known about the life history of twig epiphytes or about the demographical responses they have developed in order to survive in such an oligotrophic and often disturbed environment. In order to develop a model to further the understanding of the demographical adaptations of this type of plant, we present demographic data of Erycina crista-galli, and compare it with other epiphytes. In July 2004 two populations were selected: Unin Roja (UR) and Santo Domingo (SD). 563 individuals were marked in SD and 592 in UR. The survival rates were: 0.439 seedlings, 0.22 juvenile, 0.49 reproductive and 0.49 reproductive for SD and 0.25 seedling, 0.41 juvenile, 0.32 reproductive, and 0.45 reproductive for UR. The highest pseudobulb production rates were presented by reproductive in SD (1.47  1.04), and by reproductive in UR (0.94  1.10), while the seedling (0.37  0.26 cm/year SD) was the life stage that showed the highest increase. The fecundities were of 1.00  0.00, and 2.00  0.00 capsules/individual in reproductive, and of 2.00  1.73, and 2.00  2.00 capsules/individual in reproductive. Both populations were decreasing ( = 0.5 SD and  = 0.398 UR). The highest elasticity values were for r (0.702 SD and 0.324 UR). There was no consistent difference in the elasticity values of fecundity, growth and stasis between E. crista-galli and the other species. The only demographic feature that appears to distinguish twig epiphytic orchids from other epiphytic orchids is the age of sexual maturity.
41760305|This work consists of a floristic assessment of the family Bromeliaceae in Serra das Aranhas, Minas Grais, Brazil. Three subfamilies, 11 genera and 22 species were identified. The occurrence of Nidularium longiflorum was recorded for the first time in the state of Minas Grais. Most of the 22 species are epiphytes. Two of the species, Quesnelia augusto-coburgii Wawra and Billbergia vittata Brong., are included in the list of endangered species of Minas Grais. An analytical key is also presented for the identification of the species occurring in Serra das Aranhas. This work provides data to expand the knowledge on Bromeliaceae in the areas of the Atlantic Rainforest domain in Minas Grais. O presente trabalho consiste num levantamento florstico da Familia Bromeliaceae na Serra das Aranhas, Minas Gerais. Foram identificadas trs subfamilias, 11 gneros e 22 especies. A ocorrncia do taxon Nidularium longiflorum foi registrado pela primeira vez para o estado de Minas Grais. A maioria das 22 especies apresenta hbito epfito. Duas especies encontradas, Quesnelia augusto-coburgii Wawra e Billbergia vittata Brong., constam na lista de especies ameaadas da flora de Minas Grais. Tambm  apresentada urna chave analtica para a identificaco das especies ocorrentes na Serra das Aranhas. As informaes deste trabalho fornecem dados para a ampliao do conhecimento das Bromeliaceae nas reas de dominio de Mata Atlntica de Minas Grais.
41760306|Reported here is the naturalization of a Mesoamerican bromeliad, Tillandsia ionantha, in Broward County, southeast Florida. This species is a popular ornamental bromeliad. A total of 63 clusters of plants were found on 31 Australian pine trees adjacent to a mangrove forest at Anne Koeb Nature Center in Dania Beach, Florida. The presence of flowers and germinating seeds indicate that the population is reproducing sexually. No pollination agent(s) is known for this pollinator-dependent species at this location. This is only the second reported case of naturalization of Tillandsia world-wide.
41760307|A survey of epiphytic ferns was carried out in logged and unlogged forests of Kibale National Park. The hundred major host trees were studied by a Single Rope Technique. A total of 5 families, 13 genera, and 24 species were found. Aspleniaceae and Polypodiaceae were the most species-rich families at the study sites. The total number of species did not differ significantly between logged and unlogged forests. There was a weak correlation between the basal area of the host and the number of ferns present. Most species were found growing in light humus as compared to bark and heavy humus as substrates. Most species occurred on the base and mid branch zones of their hosts although there was a wide range of vertical distribution in the logged and unlogged forest. The most similar vertical zones relative to species of ferns present were the base and mid branch regions with Jaccard's indices of 0.673 and 0.781 for the unlogged and logged forests respectively. Selective logging appears not to have led to the decline in the species richness and change in the composition of the epiphytic ferns 28 years following that event.
41760308|This article describes the necessary logistics and comments on the scientific-educational aspects to run the field course "research in canopy" first carried out at the Reserva Particular do Patrimonio Natural da Serra do Teimoso (state of Bahia) in northeastern Brazil. The field course is divided into three weeks: one devoted to climbing techniques; the second to developing "short" projects in the canopy; and the third to formulating hypotheses and developing "long" projects in the canopy. Different field course versions indicate that twelve "short" projects are developed during the second week of canopy investigation and about six "long" projects during the third week. During the course we involved postgraduate students in the learning process of undergraduate students. In order to conciliate safety protocols and data collection in the tree crowns, strict safety protocols had to be followed. Groups could not exceed 3-4 students. For the first time, Brazilian students were faced with canopy research, data analysis, and testing hypotheses. Their activities also furnished valuable information about canopy organisms to the field station owner, who develops environmental education on his property. Our experience indicates that canopy ecology can be a sub-discipline within ecology in regular post-graduate courses, in order to foster research projects and ecological questions.
41760310|To celebrate the 100th birthday of the famous orchidologist Jany Renz and the seven years of activity of the Swiss Orchid Foundation at the Herbarium Jany Renz, we are pleased to inform the public about the state of affairs at the Foundation.
41760314|Pollinium characters have been among the most important in orchid classification since the first systems were proposed at the beginning of the nineteenth century. The first features to be used were texture, composition, and shape. Accessory structures such as stalks were also noted very early. As more orchid species were described in the early nineteenth century, additional variation was recognized and soon pollinium number and arrangement were used as taxonomic characters. Although established early on, most of these characters have been refined since, such that more character states are now known and there is a better basis for decisions on homology. Improved microscopical techniques facilitated the development of additional pollinium characters such as pollen surface structure and number of apertures. Along with the discovery and use of this variation in orchid classifications, a realization of its relevance to the life history of orchids has also grown.
41760315|The structural variation of pollinia and pollinaria in Orchidaceae is discussed. Pollinia and pollinaria are restricted to two (of the five) orchid subfamilies: Orchidoideae and Epidendroideae. The attributes of pollinia and pollinaria of these subfamilies are commented on and discussed. Pollinia and pollinaria also occur in the plant family Apocynaceae, in the subfamilies Asclepiadoideae and Periplocoideae, but these are structurally different from those found in the family Orchidaceae. A number of morphological features of orchid pollinaria are informative taxonomically and ecologically. These features are briefly discussed and examples are given. The recent description of the first unequivocal fossil orchid (Meliorchis caribea; Orchidoideae: Goodyerinae) from a pollinarium attached to an insect pollinator is briefly discussed. This example is used to illustrate the use of informative morphological and palynological characters. A fascinating new perspective, the possibility of species identification using DNA sequencing from pollinia or pollinaria attached to pollinators, is also discussed. Suggestions and future avenues of research focusing on orchid pollination are given.
41760316|This is a report of a morphological study of the pollinaria and pollinia of 91 species of orchids native to the region of Soconusco in southeast Mexico. A Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) was used to obtain details of forms and patterns. The 91 species are divided according to taxonomic groups into 4 sections for ease of management. The flowering dates for each species are presented, and the pollinaria and pollinia are characterized and compared using the following parameters: number of pollinia per pollinarium; size and shape of the individual pollinia; details of the caudicles (if present); size of stipe (if present); internal texture of the pollinia; size and form of the tetrads; and finally, the form, superficial exine layer and internal exine layer, of the surface tetrads. The data and images will be useful for taxonomic studies, for the identification of pollinaria carried by pollinating insects and birds, and for continuing research into the mechanisms of orchid pollination.
41760317|The relevance of pollinaria study in orchid systematics and reproductive biology is summarized. The Orchid Pollinaria Collection and the associate database of Lankester Botanical Garden, University of Costa Rica, are presented. The collection includes 496 pollinaria, belonging to 312 species in 94 genera, with particular emphasis on Neotropical taxa of the tribe Cymbidieae (Epidendroideae). The associated database includes digital images of the pollinaria and is progressively made available to the general public through EPIDENDRA, the online taxonomic and nomenclatural database of Lankester Botanical Garden. Examples are given of the use of the pollinaria collection by researchers of the Center in a broad range of systematic applications.
41760318|The recently naturalized oil-collecting bee Centris ntida pollinates the cultivated Oncidium sphacelatum in southern Florida. Female C. nitida bees seeking food are the pollinators of this food deceit orchid, which appears to mimic species of Malpighiaceae, which have oil rewards collected by the bee. The fruit set rate ranged from 0.54% to 3.0% and averaged 1.49%, which is many times higher than the 0.0% and 0.25% reported for this orchid in its native Mexico. The many capsules produced (66 fruits in the three large exposed plants in this study) contain many millions of seed. The large number of seeds produced could promote the naturalization of O. sphacelatum in Florida if suitable mycorrhizae are present. Centris ntida and O. sphacelatum are broadly sympatric in tropical America and may interact in their native area. Centris ntida and Euglossa viridissima (an orchid bee which has also recently naturalized in southern Florida) are participants in pollination webs involving many plants including native, ornamental, naturalized, and invasive plants.
41760319|Corytoplectus Oerst. (Gesneriaceae: Gesnerioideae, tribe Episcieae) from northwestern South America is revised to comprise 11 species, including 2 new species: C. longipedunculatus from eastern Colombia and western Venezuela and C. purpuratus from eastern Colombia; 3 new combinations, C. grandifolius from Bolivia and Peru, C. schlimii from Colombia and Venezuela, and C. zamorensis from Colombia; and the most common species, C. speciosus is divided into varieties, var. orbicularis and var. speciosus. One species of Corytoplectus is transferred to Drymonia as D. latifolia.
41760320|A new species of Zygostates Lindl. from Paraba, northeast Brazil, is described and illustrated.
41760321|This work consists of an assessment of the family Bromeliaceae of the Itajuru Municipal Park in MuriaMG. A total of 27 species, 12 genera and three subfamilies were identified. Billbergia vittata Brong. is included in the Red List of Endangered Flora Species of Minas Grais. The information contained in this work aims to expand the knowledge on Bromeliaceae in the areas of Atlantic Rainforest in Minas Gerais, Brazil. O presente trabalho consiste no Levantamento Florstico das Bromeliaceae do Parque Municipal do Itajuru, MuriaMG. Foram identificadas 27 especies, 12 gneros e trs subfamilias. Billbergia vittata Brong. encontra-se na Lista Vermelha das Espcies Ameaadas de Extino da Flora de Minas Gerais. As informaes contidas neste trabalho visam a ampliar o conhecimento das Bromeliaceae nas reas de Mata Atlntica em Minas Grais, Brasil.
41760322|Listing of orchid genera lectotypes citing place of publication and author.
41760328|Floristic inventory of the privately owned preserve, Refugio de Vida Silvestre Boracayn, along the border between San Jos and Puntarenas provinces, Costa Rica, resulted in the discovery of a new species, Drymonia decora (Gesneriaceae). This species can be differentiated from other similar species in its distinctive pendulous habit and glandularly-pubescent calyx. It is known only from the type locality, warranting further investigation of this poorly botanized region of the Fila Costea. Un inventario florstico de la reserva privada Refugio de Vida Silvestre Boracayn, entre las provincias de San Jos y Puntarenas, Costa Rica, result en el descubrimiento de una especie nueva para la ciencia, Drymonia decora (Gesneriaceae). Esta especie puede diferenciarse de otras similares por su distintivo hbito pndulo y el cliz glandular-pubescente. Se conoce solamente de la localidad tpica, lo que seala la necesidad de mas investigacin en esta regin de la Fila Costea pobremente conocida botnicamente.
41760329|Recent field expeditions and preliminary work on revising Drymonia and closely related genera have resulted in the discovery of a new plant species from Ecuador. The new species, Drymonia collegarum (Gesneriaceae), is an epiphyte that is often confused with other Drymonia and Alloplectus species. This species is differentiated by clustered fascicles of axillary flowers, hypocyrtoid corollas, fleshy capsules with tardily dehiscent endocarps, and a robust erect epiphytic habit. It is common along the western Andean slopes of Ecuador from Azuay to Esmeraldas. This and closely related species are characterized by nonporicidal anthers and hypocyrtoid corollas, characters that are atypical for the genus Drymonia. El trabajo de campo reciente y la revisin preliminar de Drymonia y los gneros cercanamente relacionados, han llevado al descubrimiento de una especie nueva en Ecuador. La especie nueva, Drymonia collegarum (Gesneriaceae), es una epfita frecuentemente confundida con otras especies de Drymonia y Alloplectus. Esta especie se caracteriza por presentar fascculos de flores axilares, corolas hypocyrtoides, cpsulas carnosas con endocarpo dehiscente tardamente, y por ser una epfita erecta y robusta. Esta especie es frecuente a lo largo de la vertiente occidental de los Andes ecuatorianos, desde Azuay hasta Esmeraldas. Esta y las especies estrechamente relacionadas se caracterizan por poseer anteras no poricidas y corolas hypocirtoides, caractersticas atpicas en el gnero Drymonia.
41760330|Previous molecular and morphological studies have revealed that the genus Phinaea (Gesneriaceae-Gloxinieae) as circumscribed until now is polyphyletic. On the basis of these studies Phinaea s.s. is restricted to three species. Amalophyllon, originally described in Scrophulariaceae, is here recognized as a member of Gesneriaceae and as the first available generic name for the majority of the species previously included in Phinaea. An emended description of Amalophyllon is provided and the frequently confused genera Amalophyllon, Phinaea, and Niphaea are contrasted and the differences between them clarified. Eight species are transferred to Amalophyllon: A. albiflorum, A. caripense, A. divaricatum, A. laceratum, A. macrophyllum, A. repens, A. roezlii, and A. rubidum. Lectotypes are designated for two names, Niphaea parviflora and Napeanthus repens. Three new species, Amalophyllon clarkii, A. macrophylloides, and Niphaea pumila, are described. A key to the genera and species and lists of the currently known taxa for all three genera are provided.
41760331|An annotated account of the type specimens of Bromeliaceae at the Herbario de la Academia de Ciencias de Cuba "Onaney Muiz" (HAC) is presented including the description of a new species: Tillandsia rangelensis L.Hechavarria. The erroneous citation of type locality and date for T. capitata Griseb. is corrected. Lectotypification, current nomenclature and the exact locality for the type specimen of T. fasciculata van uncispica Mez is given.
41760332|Five new Fosterella species are described: F. batistana, F. christophii, F. elviragrossiae, F. kroemeri, and F. robertreadii. Five taxa are reduced to synonyms: F. chiquitana and F. latifolia to synonymy of F. penduliflora, F. fuentesii to synonymy of F. albicans, F. elata to synonymy of F. rusbyi, and F. nowickii to synonymy of F. weddelliana. Further information on morphological variation and geographical distribution of F. gracilis, F. pearcei and F. rojasii is presented. Considering these results the total number of described Fosterella species amounts to 30.
41760333|An updated key to the species of the genus Fosterella (Bromeliaceae) is presented. It comprises all of the 30 currently accepted species from Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru.
41760334|A new species of Bulbophyllum in section Lepidorhiza from Indonesia is described based on a specimen sent to the Orchid Identification Center (OIC) for identification. The species has an unpublished name that is in horticultural use and is here validly published.
41760335|In a 2005 publication, Lepanthes subg. Brachycladium Luer was elevated to generic level as Brachycladium Luer. Unfortunately, this name is already occupied at the generic level by a fungus, Brachycladium Corda. We create a new generic name Oreophilus W.E.Higgins & Archila for this group of former Lepanthes, and we make necessary nomenclatural combinations.
41760336|A new species of the genus Ada from southeastern Ecuador is described and illustrated. Ada pygmaea apparently has no close relatives within the genus, and both its plant architecture and floral morphology are somewhat anomalous within Ada. The new taxon is compared with A. brachypus, which it resembles in the small size of the plant and the flowers, the brown tepals and the white, almost immaculate lip. Ada pygmaea can be easily distinguished from A. brachypus, however, by its rhizomatose, repentascending habit, the absence of pseudobulbs, the coriaceous leaves, the 1-to 2-flowered inflorescences, the distinctly smaller flowers, the ovate, truncate, ecallose lip, and the column inflated-convex at the base and provided with a well-developed, petaloid, erose-lacerate clinandrium. Se describe y se ilustra una nueva especie del gnero Ada del sureste del Ecuador. Aparentemente, dentro del gnero no se conocen parientes cercanos de Ada pygmaea, y tanto la arquitectura vegetativa as como la morfologa floral son anmalas en Ada. El nuevo taxon se compara con A. brachypus, a la cual asemeja por el tamao reducido de la planta y las flores, los tpalos caf y el labelo blanco casi inmaculado. Sin embargo, A. pygmaea se distingue fcilmente de A. brachypus por su hbito rizomatoso, repente-erecto, la carencia de pseudobulbos, las hojas coriceas, las inflorescencias de 1 o 2 flores, las flores distinctamente ms pequeas, el labelo ovado, truncado y sin callos, y la columna hinchado-convexa en la base y provista de un clinandrio petaloide bien desarrollado, con mrgenes eroso-lacerados.
41760337|Eight species have recently been described in Anacheilium which should be placed in Prosthechea based on column structure and the current circumscription of the genus. The World Checklist of Monocotyledons lists Anacheilium, Epicladium, Enchile, Hormidium, Panarica, Pollardia, and Pseudencyclia as synonyms of Prosthechea.
41760338|The family Bromeliaceae contains 1692 epiphytic species out of a total of 3047 species; 55.5% of the species are epiphytes based on figures compiled in 2003.
41760339|The diversity and the distribution of epiphytic orchids in Kibale National Park were investigated. Sampling was by the canopy-based methods that included the Single Rope Technique and a local climber. There were 57 species dominated by genera Polystachya, Bulbophyllum, Tridactyle, Angraecum, and Diaphananthe. There was a weak positive correlation between the orchid's species and basal area of the host trees, but no significant difference in the number of orchid's species between the logged and unlogged forests. Bark inhabitant orchids were characterized by succulence as one of the structural adaptations for water conservation against drought. Most species occurred in the light humus substrate that consisted mainly of bryophyte mats with adequate water retention capacity. Epiphytic orchids were characterized by host preference and not specificity. The most favored phorophytes in un-logged and logged forests were Parinari excelsa, Strombosia scheffleri, Symphonia globulifera, Mitragyna rubrostipulata and Pseudospondias microscarpa. The general pattern of the vertical distribution of epiphytes was that of an increase from the tree base to branch zones and thereafter a decline to the top branch zone. The canopy zones had similar epiphyte communities that were different from that of the host trunk zone.
41760340|Cryptanthus Otto & A. Dietrich, one of the most distinctive genera in the Bromeliaceae, is endemic to Brazil. The flowering phenology and floral biology of Cryptanthus dianae Lerne were studied in natural sites in Tapacur Ecological Station and Natural heritage private reserve (RPPN) Frei Caneca, both located in Pernambuco. Cryptanthus dianae flowers once a year, with one to four flowers opening per day. The species is andromonoecious with a predominance of male flowers during the beginning of the blooming period. Flowers emerge in the central apical area of the inflorescence and more rarely in the peripheral basal area of the rosette where the hermaphrodite flowers open. Visits by hummingbirds (Phae thornis ruber), flies, diurnal moths (Saliana sp.), and bees (Euglossa cordata, Eulaema nigrita, Trigona sp.) were observed. According to the behavior and frequency of visits, the Euglossini males appear to be the main pollinators. During floral visits, Euglossa cordata and Eulaema nigrita scrape the petals, filaments and style with their forelegs, thus suggesting that odor is an additional floral resource in addition to the pollen and nectar. This is the first report of the presence of floral odor in Bromeliaceae as the primary attractive.
41760342|A listing of orchid genera lectotypes citing place of publication and author.
41760347|Forty-seven miscellaneous species in twelve pleurothallid genera are illustrated and described as new.
41760348|Seegeriella crothersii, a new species from Ecuador, is described and illustrated. The new species is compared with S. pinifolia, from which it mainly differs by the laterally flattened leaves, the paniculate inflorescence with short, 2-flowered secondary branches, the much smaller lip, provided with shorter lateral lobes, and the greenish yellow sepals and petals. A key to the species of Seegeriella is provided.
41760349|Three new Encyclia (Orchidaceae) species from Guatemala are described and Encyclla species reported for Guatemala are listed.
41760350|Two species of Pitcairnia occurring in the Guianas are proposed to become synonyms (Pitcairnia leprieurii Baker = Pitcairnia rubiginosa Baker and Pitcairnia incarnata Baker = Pitcairnia caricifolia Mart, ex Schult. & Schult. f.). Pitcairnia semijuncta Baker is resurrected as a recognized species and two inselberg species are proposed as new. Descriptions and drawings of the newly described species are provided, as well as an identification key to the 15 Pitcairnia species that occur in or are expected to occur in the Guianas.
41760351|Pepinia martinellii from Par State is described. It is compared and contrasted with P. limae (L.B.Sm.) Varad. & Gilmartin from Cear State.
41760352|We describe three new endemic species of Greigia Regel (Bromeliaceae) from Bolivia: Greigia acebeyi B. Will, T. Krmer, M. Kessler, D. Karger and H. Luther, Greigia marioae B. Will, T. Krmer, M. Kessler, D. Karger and H. Luther, Greigia membrancea B. Will, T. Krmer, M. Kessler, D. Karger and H. Luther. Greigia danielii L. B. Smith and G. stenolepis L. B. Smith vel aff. are reported for the first time for Bolivia. A key to the eight Bolivian species of Greigia is provided.
41760353|Three new species of Eugenia (Myrtaceae) from Ecuador are described and illustrated: Eugenia ampia, E. prolongata, and E. sericifolia.
41760354|This work presents a floristic survey of Bromeliaceae of Serra Bico de Pedra and Serra de Itatiaia in the district of Ouro Preto, Minas Gerais. The studied area is located in the south of the Espinhao Range. It presents a typical physiognomy of grasslands on rocky soils, quartzitic rocky outcrops, gallery forest, grasslands, swamplands, and grasslands of Velloziaceae. In the studied area, there are 12 species of Bromeliaceae distributed in six genera and three subfamilies: Tillandsioideae: Vriesea minarum L.B.Sm., V. friburgensis van tucumanensis (Mez) L.B.Sm., V. atropurpurea Silveira, V. oligantha (Baker) Mez, Tillandsia stricta Sol. ex Sims van stricta, T. gardneri Lindl. T. geminiflora Brongn. var. geminiflora; Bromelioideae: Cryptanthus lavrasensis Lerne, Aechmea nudicaulis var. aureorosea (Antoine) L.B.Sm., A. bromeliifolia (Rudge) Baker var. bromeliifolia, Billbergia vittata Brongn. ex Morel, and Pitcairnioideae: Dyckia bracteata (Wittm.) Mez. Presented here in this work are an artificial key, descriptions, illustrations, and ecological comments.
41760355|Tillandsia multicaulis is an epiphytic bromeliad found in montane forests from Panama to Mexico. In Veracruz, Mexico, T. multicaulis is self-incompatible. However, in Monteverde, Costa Rica, large amounts of self-pollen are transferred autonomously to the stigma before and during floral opening. I hypothesized that T. multicaulis is self-compatible and capable of autonomous self-pollination in Costa Rica, and I examined the breeding system of one population in Monteverde. Fruit and seed set were high in open-, self-, and cross-pollinated treatments, and in caged, unmanipulated flowers. Flowers emasculated two days before opening did not set fruit. Therefore, T. multicaulis is self-compatible and autogamous, but not agamospermous in Monteverde. Prior selfing occurs during the day before anthesis. Fruit set ranged from 22-32% in emasculation treatments performed the day before anthesis to 78% among flowers emasculated within one hour after floral opening. Although plants in Monteverde offer pollen and nectar rewards and are visited by pollen-collecting bees and hummingbirds, past pollen limitation has likely driven the evolution of self-compatibility. The current potential for fruit set via autonomous self-pollination is high, thus populations may be predominantly inbred. However, mixed mating could be maintained if outcrossed pollen is prepotent or if post-fertilization mortality is higher among inbred offspring.
41760360|Ten new species of Brazilian Bromeliaceae are described and illustrated: Encholirium ascendens Leme, Dyckia lunaris Lerne, Aechmea heterosepala Leme, Hohenbergia magnispina Leme, H. igatuensis Leme, Neoregelia ilhana Leme, N. paratiensis Leme, N. viridolineata Leme, Orthophytum elegans Leme, and O. jacaraciense Leme. So descritas e ilustradas 10 espcies novas de Bromeliaceae ocorrentes no Brasil, a saber: Encholirium ascendens Leme, Dyckia lunaris Leme, Aechmea heterosepala Leme, Hohenbergia magnispina Leme, H. igatuensis Leme, Neoregelia ilhana Leme, N. paratiensis Leme, N. viridolineata Leme, Orthophytum elegans Leme, and O. jacaraciense Leme.
41760361|This paper contains taxonomic and publication information for Bromeliaceae that was not included in, or which appeared after, the publication of L. B. Smith and R. J. Downs' Flora Neotropica Monograph 14, Part 1 (1974), Part 2 (1977), and Part 3 (1979); Luther and Sieff (1994, 1997); and Luther (2001b). For new taxa, the current article contains scientific names and their authors, publication sources and dates, country and province of origin, and locations of type specimens. Miscellaneous supplemental information is included where considered useful. Este trabajo contiene informacin taxonmica sobre Bromeliaceae la cual no fue incluida o que apareci despus de la publicacin de L. B. Smith y R. J. Downs en Flora Neotropica Monografa 14, Parte 1 (1974), Parte 2 (1977), Parte 3 (1979); en Luther y Sieff (1994, 1997); y en Luther (2001b). Para los nuevos taxa se incluyen los nombres y los autores, las fuentes y las fechas de las publicaciones, el pas y provincia de origen y la localizacin de los especmenes tipo. Tambin, se incluye informacin complementaria donde se considera til.
41760362|Recent field expeditions and preliminary work on revising Drymonia and closely related genera have resulted in the discovery of a new plant species from Colombia. The new species, Drymonia droseroides (Gesneriaceae), is an unbranched terrestrial herb with reflexed spatulate calyx lobes that are covered with glandtipped trichomes. It is only known from the type locality in the Cerro El Ingls Nature Reserve in the Serrana de los Paraguas, a mountain range on the border of the departments of Choc and Valle del Cauca. La revisin preliminar de Drymonia y de sus gneros ms relacionados, y el reciente trabajo de campo han llevado al descubrimiento de una especie nueva para la flora de Colombia. Esta especie nueva, Drymonia droseroides (Gesneriaceae), es una hierba terrestre, no ramificada, con los lbulos del cliz espatulados y cubiertos por tricomas glandulares. Es conocida nicamente de la localidad tipo en la Reserva Natural Cerro El Ingls, Serrana de los Paraguas, en el lmite entre los departamentos de Choc y Valle del Cauca.
41760363|Two new species of Epidendrum are described and illustrated from Costa Rica. Epidendrum fulfordianum is compared with E. chlorocorymbos, from which it can be distinguished by the much larger flowers, the wider petals and entire, subrectangular, retuse-mucronate midlobe of the lip. Similar to E. barbeyanum, the smaller E. pseudobarbeyanum can be easily distinguished by the short and straight, few-leaved stems, the few-flowered inflorescence, and the distinctly smaller flowers. A third species, Epidendrum villotae, is recorded and illustrated on the basis of a Costa Rican specimen.
41760364|Tribe Vanilleae (Orchidaceae: Vanilloideae) consists of 10 genera including the monotypic Dictyophyllaria, which is endemic to Brazil. Dictyophyllaria dietschiana (Edwall) Garay has been segregated from Vanilla on the basis of its sympodial, non-climbing habit and reduced, reticulate-veined leaves. According to a recent phylogenetic analysis of Vanilleae based on two chloroplast regions (rbcL and psaB) and parsimony, Dictyophyllaria dietschiana is nested within Vanilla and closely related to V. edwallii Hoehne and V. parvifolia Barb. Rodr., two Brazilian species with membranaceous and reticulate-veined leaves. Based on such evidence, D. dietschiana is reinstated into Vanilla. A detailed morphological description of this endangered species, which has recently been considered possibly extinct, is also presented. A tribo Vanilleae (Orchidaceae: Vanilloideae) compreende 10 gneros e inclui Dictyophyllaria, urn gnero endmico do Brasil. Esse gnero  monotpico, com D. dietschiana (Edwall) Garay sendo segregado de Vanilla com base em caracteres como hbito simpodial e folhas reduzidas com nervuras reticuladas. De acord com urna hiptese filogentica realizada com gneros atualmente incluidos em Vanilleae, usando regies de cloroplasto (rbcL e psaB) e parsimonia, Dictyophyllaria dietschiana  inserida dentro de Vanilla e prximamente relacionada com V. edwallii Hoehne and V. parvifolia Barb. Rodr., ambas espcies endmicas do Brasil que apresentam folhas membranceas e com reticuladas. Baseado nessas evidencias D. dietschiana  re-introduzida em Vanilla. Uma detalhada descrio morfolgica dessa especie ameaada de extino, que tem sido considerada como posivelmente extinta,  apresentada.
41760365|We studied the effects of different disturbance regimes on abundance and within-tree distribution of dry-forest epiphytes at the Bosque Protector Jerusaln in northern Ecuador. Epiphytes on 100 trees of Acacia macracantha were sampled in closed mixed and pure acacia forest stands, forest edge, semi-closed secondary woodland, and isolated trees in pastures. Vascular epiphytes were sampled for entire host trees and macrolichens and bryophytes for inner tree crowns. The number of vascular epiphyte species did not differ significantly between crown zones but their cover decreased significantly from middle to inner and outer crown. Vascular epiphytes attained greatest and bryophytes lowest cover values on isolated trees. Covers of bryophytes and vascular plants were correlated with canopy integrity, suggesting that microclimate was a strong predictor of epiphyte abundance. The high abundance of atmospheric bromeliads in the studied disturbed, perarid habitats is suggestive of their effective adaptation to the use of dew.
41760366|The floral biology and visitors of Nematanthus brasiliensis were studied in a submontane rainforest in Mangaratiba, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This species presents a flowering peak between October and February. Its flowers usually last eight days and show marked protandry. The floral features of N. brasiliensis suggest an ornithophilous pollination syndrome: tubular shape, pendent position, brightly colored, absence of perceptible odors. Nectar volume (21.3 l) and sugar concentration (31.8%) are also indicative of bird pollination. Field observations have verified this hypothesis: the flowers of N. brasiliensis are visited by two hummingbird species, Ramphodon naevius and Phaetornis ruber. Our data show that P. naevius is the main pollinator of N. brasiliensis and that it promotes cross-pollination. In addition, configuration of the reproductive structure in N. brasiliensis may avoid inter-specific pollen competition in style.
