10.2307/2418834|Three populations of red oaks (Quercus subgenus Erythrobalanus) with narrow geographic distributions and low taxonomic diversity were studied by cluster analysis and principal component analysis. They were selected because each includes apparent hybrids. Cluster analyses were prepared based on 63 characters. The similarity matrix for each population was subjected to a principal component analysis, and the first three extracted factors were plotted against each other. The results, compared to those of other studies involving hybrids, support the hypothesis that hybridization is occurring within these populations as indicated by the intermediate characteristics of the putative hybrids.
10.2307/2418835|Two populations of Quercus subgenus Erythrobalanus, one from Tennessee and the other from Ohio, were analyzed by cluster analysis and principal component analysis. Each contained one or more putative hybrids and exhibited high diversity in the number of included taxa and in the areal distribution of the included individuals. The results indicate that in such populations the numerical methods employed may not provide accurate estimates of the origin of putative hybrids.
10.2307/2418836|Chromosome counts from 102 populations of Claytonia perfoliata (= Montia perfoliata (Donn) T. Howell) from the Pacific states and British Columbia reveal a euploid series from diploid to decaploid on a base of x = 6. Reproduction is by facultative or obligate autogamy. Greenhouse-grown progeny from collected seeds are highly uniform and similar to the seed parent. Corolla size differs among populations, and field observations of large-flowered races indicate some cross-pollination by insects. Floral characteristics are relatively little modified by environment, whereas leaf shape depends on the interaction of a genetically determined developmental sequence with environmental factors, the latter strongly affecting plant size and duration of the vegetative period between seed germination and flowering. Variation in this species is compartmentalized into a number of recognizable "entities," defined by correlation of chromosome number, characteristic habitat, and morphology. The diagnostic morphological traits include foliage color, corolla size and color, calyx size and color, and the developmental sequence of basal leaf shapes. Several of the entities are distinctive and wide-ranging, but the information now available is insufficent to construct a taxonomy for C. perfoliata sensu lato.
10.2307/2418837|The usefulness of some existing numerical phenetic techniques to taxonomists and the feasibility of incorporating several different techniques into routine investigations of groups of organisms were investigated. Data from a selection of species were subjected to a series of numerical phenetic treatments with and without equal weighting of key characters, and the outputs were compared to the existing taxonomy. Available computer programs were applied to data for 56 North American species of Viola that had previously been studied by classical means. The numerical phenetic analyses, using equally weighted data on the one hand and selectively weighted data on the other, gave very similar classifications. The within-group variation found for yellow violets is double that for the stemless blue violets and the pansies. The data were also used for generating keys by computer programs. The results indicate that monographers have probably used key characters to the exclusion of other characters much less than the descriptions in monographs might suggest.
10.2307/2418838|Chromosome numbers are presented for the first time for 24 species and four varieties of the 42 taxa of Hedeoma. Chromosome numbers are 2n = 36 or based on x = 18 for most seections and 2n = 44 for section Alpine. Aneuploidy (2n = 34) is prominent in the subgenus Saturejoides and the possible role of aneuploidy in speciation is discussed. Polyploidy (2n = 72, 144) occurs in two species. New counts are also presented for allied genera: Hesperozygis (2n = 44), Poliomintha (2n = 36), Rhododon (2n = 26), and Stachydeoma (2n = 18). In consideration of the dominant chromosome pattern in Hedeoma and the chromosome numbers of closely allied genera, Hedeoma is considered dibasic (x = 9, 11).
10.2307/2418839|The flowers of Amsinckia grandiflora are distylous and the pollen is dimorphic in size. The single known population of this annual species contained a 1 : 1 representation of the two morphs during two seasons, but a 2 : 1 pin : thrum ratio in a third season. The chief insect visitor to the flowers is Anthophora edwardsii, a bee that preferentially removes thrum pollen. Pin stigmas receive more pollen grains than thrum stigmas and also a greater proportion of illegitimate pollen than thrums. Seasonal fluctuations in the representation of the two morphs have no striking influence on pollen-flow patterns. Two sympatric, aggressive homostylous weeds of the same genus produce more seeds per flower than does A. grandiflora. It is possible that the greater reproductive success of these weedy species has allowed them to displace A. grandiflora over much of the latter's former range.
10.2307/2418840|Two thousand five hundred plants, representing 232 diverse populations of Cannabis, were grown under standard conditions in a garden, scored for 47 attributes, and the data used in a numerical taxonomic study of variation. Groups of interest included "nonintoxicant" and "semi-intoxicant" populations (collectively referable to C. sativa), "intoxicant" populations (sometimes called C. indica), fiber and oil cultivars (referable to C. sativa), "wild" populations (sometimes called C. ruderalis), and plants either containing or not containing cannabigerol monomethyl ether. Clustering methodology revealed only a limited tendency for the populations to separate into the above groupings. However, canonical analysis (equally weighted multiple discriminant analysis) of morphological characteristics only proved highly successful in delineating the groups. The analysis resulting from the comparison of wild and cultivated populations when applied to a large sample of populations failed to suggest two discrete groupings, and it is consequently concluded that wild and cultivated populations intergrade so greatly as to preclude recognition of wild plants as a separate species (the so-called C. ruderalis). Those morphological characteristics that successfully distinguish intoxicant populations from other populations in material raised under standardized garden conditions were sufficiently variable to suggest that the intoxicant potential of plants collected in nature cannot be reliably distinguished by morphology; consequently it is judged that there are no grounds for distinguishing intoxicant plants (the so-called C. indica) as a separate species. It is concluded that all plants of Cannabis are assignable to one species, C. sativa.
10.2307/2418841|Insect-mediated self-pollination evolved from outcrossing in two species of Calyptridium. Plants of C. umbellatum are self-pollinated by insects. Most populations of C. monospermum are outcrossing, but those sympatric with C. umbellatum have a complex of floral adaptations that encourage insect-mediated self-pollination very similar to that of C. umbellatum. Allopatric populations of C. umbellatum and C. monospermum have consistent and distinctive chromatographic patterns, but sympatric populations may have varied combinations of the chromatographic patterns of both species. These two species are separated by strong incompatibility barriers, but these barriers are weaker or even rarely nonexistent in some sympatric populations. Data from 35 populations suggest that, although C. umbellatum and C. monospermum are mostly reproductively isolated from one another, introgression played an important role in the evolution of the many floral modifications involved in a change to insect-mediated self-pollination in C. monospermum.
10.2307/2418842|Lasthenia, a genus of 15 species primarily confined to the part of western North America with a Mediterranean climate, shows a high level of morphological, cytological, ecological, and biochemical diversity. Interspecific hybridizations generally fail or produce sterile offspring, thus estimating interspecific genetic divergence by cytogenetic and morphological study of hybrid progenies is mostly impossible. However, L. conjugens, L. fremontii, and L. burkei, all n = 6, are freely crossable. Studies of F<sub>1</sub> and F<sub>2</sub> progenies suggest that where interspecific hybrid sterility exists in these three species it is due mostly to chromosomal rearrangements and that genie differences are perhaps few. Certain individuals in F<sub>2</sub> progenies between L. fremontii and L. conjugens are morphologically identical to L. burkei, further supporting the idea that few genie differences separate these species and suggesting that the phenotype of L. burkei results from a recombination of genes present in its two close (perhaps ancestral) relatives. Because the differences separating these three species are similar in nature to those separting others in the genus, the overall diversity in Lasthenia may be associated with relatively few genie differences and may be the result of catastrophic selection.
10.2307/2418763|The affinity relationships of 43 biotypes of cultivated Citrus-close relatives, interspecific and intergeneric hybrids, and clones of unknown origin-were studied to develop information for use in citrus breeding experiments. Intraspecific affinity was very high (87 to 98) in four of six cultivated Citrus species (C. aurantium, C. grandis, C. limon, and C. paradisi) but lower in C. reticulata (45 to 58) and in C. sinensis (37). Among Citrus species and relatives, the affinity pattern showed two main groups in Citrus and a third group consisting of Eremocitrus glauca and Microcitrus species. The larger Citrus group included five species (C. aurantium, C. grandis, C. paradisi, C. reticulata, and C. sinensis) and a smaller group of three (C. aurantifolia, C. limon, and C. medica). The charcteristics of C. grandis were dominant in interspecific hybrids. In hybrids of cultivated Citrus species and wild relatives, the characteristics of the latter were strongly dominant with one exception. The affinities of clones of unknown origin indicated probable hybrid origins of diverse genetic backgrounds. Comparisons of the data on the study clones were made with the major authoritative speculations on their derivations. Citrus grandis, C. medica, and C. reticulata are proposed as true biological species. Citrus aurantifolia, C. aurantium, C. limon, C. paradisi, and C. sinensis are proposed as unique, apomictically perpetuated biotypes of probable hybrid origin. A nonmetric multidimensional scaling solution is presented to support, in part, the proposed systematic relationships. Inadequate sampling of the variation present in populations and a lack of appreciation of the effects of facultative apomixis on population samples and its relationship to genetic heterozygosity in Citrus have been the major obstacles in past efforts to produce an objective Citrus taxonomy.
10.2307/2418765|Paper- and gas-chromatographic analyses for seed glucosinolates are reported for 20 natural and two botanical garden samples of Cakile, thus completing coverage of all 14 taxa in the genus throughout its native and naturalized range. Sixteen glucosinolates, deriving from three major biosynthetic pathways, were identified. Plants with distinctive and characteristic arrays of seed glucosinolates (chemical races) generally correspond to morphologically recognizable species or subspecies. Chemical differentiation in the genus involved diversification in Mediterranean strand populations, followed by simplification in glucosinolate composition coincident with further evolutionary migration in the Old World and to the New World.
10.2307/2418766|The phylogenetic affinities of the Julianiaceae were studied by a survey of the leaf and heartwood flavonoids of Amphipterygium adstrigens as compared to those of 40 representative species from 29 genera and ten families, particularly the Anacardiaceae, considered to be closely related to the Julianiaceae. Sixteen flavonoids, including seven 5-deoxyflavonoids, were detected in A. adstrigens. All the 5-deoxyflavonoids were also present in all anacardiaceous species surveyed, and some of the compounds (e.g., sulphuretin, fisetin, and fustin) have been considered characteristic of the Anacardiaceae as a whole. Rengasin and a suphuretin glucoside (aurones) and a butein glucoside (chalcone) are known only from A. adstrigens and from the Anacardiaceae. These unusual 5-deoxyflavonoids were not detected in any of the other families surveyed. The flavonoid constituents of A. adstrigens are most similar to those of anacardiaceous tribe Rhoeae. Evidence from the wood anatomy-anomalous reticulate perforation plates found only in the julianiaceous genera Amphipterygium and Orthopterygium and in the Rhoeae-also shows the similarity of these groups. It is proposed that the Julianiaceae be treated as a subtribe (Julianiinae) of the Rhoeae.
10.2307/2418768|A genetically substructured population of the perennial, outbreeding herb, Liatris cylindracea was marked off into a grid with quadrat size that approximates the neighborhood size of Liatris. The plants were genotyped at 27 allozyme loci, 15 of which were polymorphic. The apportionment of genetic diversity within the population was determined by the Shannon information measure. Ninety-three percent of the total diversity is represented within each neighborhood. Five percent of the diversity is due to between neighborhoods, and about 2% is due to differences between sample rows and columns. It is concluded that the subdivision of a population does not result in a loss of genetic diversity within neighborhoods.
10.2307/2418769|The new genus and species Marshalljohnstonia gypsophila (Asteraceae, Lactuceae, Stephanomeriinae), from western Coahuila, Mexico, is a drought-deciduous gypsophile with isolateral erect leaves, thick coarse periderm, and xylem that combines traits considered characteristic of both xeromorphic and rosette-shrub habitats. From gross morphology it would appear to be related to Pinaropappus, but in cytological and palynological features it is similar to Lygodesmia and Stephanomeria. Its rosette-shrub growth form is interpreted as a derived feature similar to derivation of secondary woodiness in maritime habitats but in this instance in a xeric environment.
10.2307/2418772|Analysis of electrophoretic variation in ten enzyme systems showed that the diploid annual plant Gaura demareei is highly similar to its progenitor G. longiflora. In both species, 12 genes were identically monomorphic and six polymorphic genes contained similar complements of alleles having similar frequencies. Since these species are self-incompatible, the study demonstrated that speciation in annual plants that are obligately outcrossing can occur with minimal genetic differentiation and accords with previous results for self-pollinating species.
10.2307/2418774|The common Groundcherry of the sandhills of the Great Plains, formerly considered conspecific with Physalis lanceolata and more recently a variety of P. virginiana or P. longifolia, is shown by morphological and hybridization studies to be conspecific with P. pumila. Because of morphological, ecological, and geographic distinctions, it is treated here as P. pumila ssp. hispida. Chromosome numbers of n = 12 are reported for P. pumila ssp. hispida, P. pumila ssp. pumila, and P. longifolia var. longifolia for the first time.
10.2307/2418714|Population biology is a synthetic discipline that makes predictions regarding the adaptive behavior of plants through the formulation of models or hypotheses. Four main kinds of models in population biology are recognized: functional models, optimality models, growth models, and compartment models. Profitable areas for future research are indicated.
10.2307/2418716|Despite the recent flowering of mathematical theory in animal ecology, comparable developments in plant population biology are few. Most theory in animal ecology presumes uniform mixing of individuals and, consequently, spatially homogeneous populations. This assumption, which some animal ecologists can scarcely tolerate, is wholly inappropriate for plants. The simplest relaxations of the assumption of uniform mixing lead either to ad hoc theories that are not easily generalized or to second-order partial differential equations that are susceptible neither to mathematical analysis nor to computer simulation. It is suggested that developing methods to deal with spatial heterogeneity, which is the inevitable consequence of imperfect mixing, is crucial to the useful application of mathematics to plant ecology.
10.2307/2418718|Recently there has been a growing interaction of genetical and ecological approaches to theoretical and natural populations. The relative ease with which plant populations can be studied demographically and experimentally suggests that plants will play a major role in developing this interaction. Already such studies have lead to a "new ecological genetics" that goes beyond earlier conceptualization of genetic differences among populations in the framework of experimental taxonomy. This new ecological genetics has developed a series of tenets that emphasize the importance of considering genetic and ecological factors in concert: 1) Explaining the abundance and distribution of organisms is basically the genetic problem of explaining limits to natural selection. 2) An understanding of community structure will come from consideration of how forces maintaining species diversity and genetic diversity interact. 3) Adaptation is operationally definable in terms of mortality and fecundity of individuals in populations. 4) Adaptation to new environments results in different genotypes with different life histories. 5) The distinction between "ecological time" and "evolutionary time" is artificial and misleading.
10.2307/2418719|An integrative approach to the study of secondary succession involves considerations of plant life-history characteristics, species coexistence, and species replacements. Competition is of primary concern as an ecological factor influencing proximal changes in species composition and as an evolutionary factor in the selection of life-history characteristics. A brief review of the problem of survival in successional environments and the results of two field studies, one on Teasel (Dipsacus sylvestris) and the other on goldenrods (Solidago ssp.) are given. Current competition theory applies to plants in two instances: where resources are mobile or where individuals are densely or ubiquitously distributed at either end of a secondary successional gradient. To make predictive statements of species coexistence or replacement, one must know the relative competitive abilities of constituent plant populations and the frequency distribution of resources in the environment.
10.2307/2418720|Information on the physiological responses of plants, particularly photosynthetic capacity, can be utilized in an integrative manner to predict potential success in habitats where resources are closely defined. This approach has been utilized primarily for interspecific and interpopulation comparisons. Similar studies of within-population physiological variability, which will be demanding, are needed to link the approaches of physiological ecology more closely with those of evolutionary population biology.
10.2307/2418721|A review of the current status of plant systematics at the population level indicates that confusion between the construction of a general-purpose classification and the observation of particular genetic, evolutionary or ecological features about plant populations has been severe and has tended to retard progress in these fields. The role of hybridization as an important feature of the adaptive system in what seems likely to be a majority of all plant genera has been underestimated seriously, partly because of the emphasis on the construction of a classification system with neatly delineated pigeonholes within which all populations can be accommodated. Saltational speciation, with its emphasis on the differentiation of marginal populations, appears to be an important process in the evolution of many plant and animal groups. Gene flow in all plant groups that have been investigated is extremely local, and effective population size is therefore small to very small; thus, gene flow could not keep together populations of plants as the kinds of units recognized as species in the face of selection, and alternative explanations for the existence of the kinds of units recognized as species in nature must be formulated. The nature of species is so variable that their use in various kinds of models in population biology may not always be justified. The infusion of ecological insights into plant systematics, primarily a phenomenon of the last half of our century, is providing not only a rationale for many poorly understood character complexes in plants but also a cornerstone for the growing integrated field of plant population biology. Finally, the rapid destruction of the tropical forests, which will be essentially complete within 40 years, makes the formulation of the right sorts of nontaxonomic questions to ask in the tropics and the provision of sufficient funds to allow them to be asked a matter of extreme urgency.
10.2307/2418700|Analysis of the chemistry of Cetrelia (Parmeliaceae) by new techniques reveals a type of variation that does not match the model of classical chemical variation in the lichen-forming fungi. Instead of accumulating only one or two medullary constituents as previously believed, the 15 species of Cetrelia synthesize natural products in characteristic biogenetically meaningful sets (here called chemosyndromes). In each chemosyndrome one or two compounds are regularly the major components, and the minor constituents of one chemosyndrome may become the major constituents of others. The chemosyndromes in Cetrelia could result from enzymes with partial substrate specificity. That chemosyndromes can be ordinated by side-chain length of the constituent compounds is consistent with a theory of progressive chemical evolution towards shorter side chains. Comparison of the chemosyndromes of members of morphologically similar species groups gives evidence that the differentiation in Cetrelia occurred through a combination of parallel morphological and parallel chemical evolution.
10.2307/2418701|A disturbed lowland population of Claytonia virginica has diploid, triploid, and tetraploid races as well as numerous aneuploids, particularly at the tetraploid level. Most tetraploids were represented by a stabilized dysploid race. Coexistent adaptation has been possible at least in part because temporal niches vary between the dominant polyploid races, and perhaps between them and the diploid, in an environment well removed from the original boreal habitat.
10.2307/2418703|Hyalotricha anetioides, the sole member of its genus, is rare and poorly known. Its taxonomic affinities have been considered as aspidioid, vittarioid, grammitid, and polypodioid. Comparisons of 30 characters of the sporophytes and gametophytes indicate relationships to the Polypodioideae. Features especially critical to this interpretation are the creeping, dictyostelic rhizome, clathrate rhizome scales, reticulate veins with included veinlets in the areoles, absence of epidermal idioblasts, lack of indusium, two-rowed sporangial stalk, bilateral nonperisporial spores without chlorophyll, chromosome number of n = 74, and numerous details of gametophyte morphology.
10.2307/2418704|Morphological, chemical, and chromosomal analyses of the variable Ambrosia cumanensis complex in Mexico indicate that A. psilostachya is conspecific with A. cumanensis. The complex produces sesquiterpene lactones of the pseudoguaianolide group. Populations at lower elevations tend to produce compounds with lactone-ring junctions at position 6 and those at higher elevations tend to produce compounds with lactone-ring junctions at position 8. Some individuals grown from seed in a greenhouse differed chemically from the wild populations from which they came. Chromosomal mosaicism was also observed in meristematic cells of members of this complex.
10.2307/2418705|An information theoretic optimality criterion measuring how well any classification preserves the information in a set of characters is applied to 12 classifications of the Ranunculus hispidus complex. Eleven of these classifications are derived from a new taxonomic study of this complex and one is taken from the most recent previous studies by Benson and by Lourteig. By this criterion, the most recent previous classification is shown to be less effective in summarizing the set of characters used than most of the classifications proposed, which are part of one hierarchical series. The final choice of one classification depends, in part, on the level of morphological distinctness required by the species concept employed. The values for the optimality criterion for each of the 12 classifications and for 20 random classifications are compared. It is argued that the values for the 12 nonrandom classifications are extremely unlikely to occur at random.
10.2307/2418707|The Wedelia-like ancestors of Lipochaeta were probably dispersed to Hawaii by water, becoming established either on Kauai or Oahu. From the original colonizers, 25 species and four infraspecific taxa evolved. Polypoloidy played a major role in the formation of two independent evolutionary units. Among the diploids, the present distribution suggests that the species have evolved allopatrically on single islands through geographical isolation. The distribution pattern of the tetraploids suggests that they evolved allopatrically on separate islands rather than within different habitats on single islands as with the diploids. An analysis of leaf flavonoid chemistry has shown that the diploids synthesize few compounds, all flavonols. In contrast, the tetraploids elaborate many compounds, both flavones and flavonols. Although the diploids show marked morphological differences, their flavonoid systems have diverged very little. The broader array of compounds in the tetraploids suggests that their chemical systems are still under intense selection pressures.
10.2307/2418492|Meiotic analyses of naturally occurring F<sub>1</sub> hybrids between Cirsium discolor and C. muticum indicate that the chromosome arrangements of these two species differ by a minimum of two, or probably three, translocations and one paracentric inversion. The low average pollen fertility of 6% that characterizes the F<sub>1</sub> hybrids can be accounted for largely, perhaps entirely, by the meiotic aberrations resulting from the chromosomal heterozygosity, particularly the non-disjunction of chromosomes of translocation multiples. The substantial chromosomal differences between these two species (2n = 20) at the low end of the aneuploid sequence in Cirsium (2n = 34 to 2n = 18) contrasts with the apparent chromosomal stability of the many species at the high end of the aneuploid sequence (2n = 34). The three hybrid colonies examined all contain telocentric supernumerary chromosomes that are common in C. muticum and hybrids but absent in C. discolor. The nonrandom distribution of these telocentric chromosomes and the meiotic evidence from F<sub>1</sub> hybrids suggest that the telocentrics have been derived from a C. discolor metacentric chromosome in hybrids following centric breakage of a discentric chromosome or misdivision of a univalent.
10.2307/2418495|Rhododendron canescens and R. austrinum differ markedly in flavonoid profiles but have identical flowering times and occupy similar habitats. Flower color is the most reliable visible feature distinguishing these species. Analysis of experimental and putative hybrids between these species indicates a possible regulatory instability of flavonoid synthesis. In contrast, R. canescens and R. speciosum differ in chemistry, morphology, flowering time, and habitat. The variation of flavonoids detected in R. canescens x R. speciosum hybrids could be attributed to gene segregation and recombination.
10.2307/2418496|The first cytotaxonomic review of Loasaceae subfamily Loasoideae is presented including 14 new chromosome counts. Three genera, Sclerothrix (n = 12), Klaprothia (n = 24), and Kissenia (n = 12), and three species of Loasa (n = 13 and 14), two of Caiophora (n = 8), and one of Blumenbachia (n = 12) are reported for the first time. Eighteen previously reported counts are reviewed and evaluated. The cytotaxonomic evidence shows the subfamily to be composed of two diverse elements: an aneuploid series with small chromosomes-Loasa, Blumenbachia, Kissenia, Sclerothrix (n = 14, 13, 12) with one tetraploid, Klaprothia (n = 24)-and Caiophora (n = 8, 7) with large chromosomes. Specific cytotaxonomic problems concerning the limits of these two elements are outlined.
10.2307/2418497|One criterion that has been suggested as a basis for estimating the direction of evolutionary trends among the states of a character is to choose for the primitive state the one that occurs most frequently. A concept is presented of what it means for a character to support an estimate of evolutionary relationships. It is argued that if the common state is chosen as primitive, then more characters can support the same estimate of evolutionary relationships.
10.2307/2418499|A recently developed technique has provided the first chromosome counts for fern gametophytic populations that reproduce and develop geographic ranges independently of a sporophytic generation. The "Appalachian gametophyte" is now known to be a tetraploid (n = 120). Sporophytes of Vittaria lineata, the species to which the Appalachian gametophyte is now generally referred, are octoploid (2n = 240) whereas those of V. graminifolia, the only other vittarioid species reported from the continental United States, are tetraploid (2n = 120). The cytological data available thus far support the previously advanced hypothesis that the Appalachian gametophyte is conspecific with or derived from V. lineata.
10.2307/2418501|A continuous cline involving leaf shape in Nuphar luteum ssp. macrophyllum and spp. sagittifolium exists between inland ponds and coastal tidal streams in eastern North Carolina. Seeds of inland populations are exposed to longer periods of vernalization than those of populations nearer the coast. Two types of experimentally controlled vernalization studies, encompassing the naturally occurring vernalization conditions of the cline, prove that the gene pool of each subspecies is inclusive of that of the other and that vernalization is an effective selective mechanism in the maintenance of the cline.
10.2307/2418502|Three species of the primarily African genus Nesaea occur in the New World. One, N. palmeri, is described as new. The presence of the genus in North America has been obscured by its rarity and by an erroneous placement of the most widely distributed species, N. longipes, in the closely related genus Heimia. Morphological comparisons of Nesaea, Heimia, and Decodon-genera once included in Nesaea-confirm the distinctiveness of these genera and the correct placement of N. longipes.
10.2307/2418575|The construction of putative biosynthetic pathways for flavonoids provides a basis for evaluating qualitative differences between divergent flavonoid profiles. The differences are quantified with indices based upon minimum biosynthetic-step distance and biosynthetic-step identity. The biosynthetic-step indices and a standard similarity index based solely on compound identity were applied to studies of infraspecific flavone variation in Phlox carolina and interspecific flavone affinities among a reticulate species complex in which the allotetraploid taxon has a novel flavonoid profile. In both instances the biosynthetic-step indices proved chemically more definitive and systematically more consistent with other lines of evidence.
10.2307/2418577|A population of Collomia linearis was subdivided into two plots, one in a relatively disturbed site free from interspecific competition and the other in a meadow habitat characterized by high vegetative cover and considerable interspecific competition. Greenhouse progenies of the two subpopulations differed significantly with respect to seven morphological characters, indicating that the two subpopulations were genetically differentiated. Analysis of nine morphological characters in progenies subjected to 36 different environmental conditions revealed that plants of the disturbed plot were phenotypically more plastic than those of the meadow plot. It is concluded that phenotypic plasticity represents a genetic response and may arise through local differentiation under conditions of disruptive selection.
10.2307/2418578|Comparison of stainability of mature pollen tetrads in 25 structurally homozygous interspecific Epilobium hybrids and 28 hybrids heterozygous for reciprocal translocations reveals high frequencies of tetrads with zero viable pollen grains in structural heterozygotes. The average frequency of aborted tetrads is not different at  = .05 for hybrids with one translocation and hybrids with two overlapping translocations-48.7% and 45.9% respectively. Both differ from the abortion frequency in structural homozygotes, 8.5%. Comparison of the frequency of aborted tetrads with the expected frequency based on a binomial distribution provides an estimate of the frequency of adjacent disjunction among the translocated chromosomes. These frequencies are not different at  = .05 for hybrids with one translocation and hybrids with two overlapping translocations-27.6% and 28.7% respectively. Adjacent disjunction of an interchange association of four chromosomes in intraspecific E. glaberrimum hybrids approaches the 50% frequency expected for random centromere segregation whereas adjacent disjunction frequencies for an association of six in Boisduvalia stricta hybrids are below 50%.
10.2307/2418580|Seven species, representing three generally accepted series, of Quercus subgen. Erythrobalanus were subjected to numerical analyses. Results from principle coordinate analysis followed by nonmetric multidimensional scaling are compared to those from other analytic methods. The two-dimensional ordination demonstrates that the traditionally recognized series do not appear in these phenetic analyses, and these numerical results may be more indicative of actual evolutionary relationships.
10.2307/2418255|A data set consisting of 14 Evolutionary Units (EU's), diploid Avena species, was used to compare the results obtained by two numerical cladistic methods. Cladograms were obtained from Farris' method of computing Wagner trees and from Estabrook's compatibility and cliques approach. Only a few cladograms from each method are similar. It is maintained that in any cladistic study a number of different analyses should be made, using various methods, so that the most plausible cladogram can be selected. The choice is subjective to a degree, and the need for optimality criteria for making that choice is stressed.
10.2307/2418257|The fruit of the eight genera of the Ptychosperma alliance have complex sclerenchymatous endocarps that typically consist of a palisade layer derived from the locular epidermis, some sclerified ground tissue, and vascular bundles with thick fibrous sheaths. Highly integrated endocarps appear to have evolved in at least six different lines in the alliance, and unspecialized forms can be found in several genera. The exocarp consists of fibrous bundles and brachysclereids, and also shows varying degrees of integration. Although it is difficult to separate the large genera from one another upon pericarp characters alone, small genera, subgenera, and groups of species often separate readily, suggesting that the major taxonomic application of data from the pericarp will be at the infrageneric level in this alliance.
10.2307/2418259|Seed proteins from three Coffea species were compared using immunoelectrophoretic procedures. Nine precipitin bands appeared when two-dimensional immunoelectrophoresis (IE) was used with C. canephora antigen and antiserum, but only six bands appeared in conventional IE. Of these nine bands, C. arabica shared eight and C. robusta six. One band of C. canephora was unique. Quantitative studies with rocket IE showed that C. canephora had very high serological correspondence with C. arabica, but C. robusta is 30% lower. The three major rocket patterns are believed to be bands II, V, and VI on the two-dimensional IE plate, and their measurement was representative of the degree of total protein similarities among the species. These results provide a basis for additional taxonomic investigations of Coffea.
10.2307/2418260|Allozyme variation of leucine aminopeptidase, glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase and phosphoglucosisomerase was examined in Chenopodium fremontii, a species widely distributed in the western United States. Plants in the northern part of the range (western Nebraska, Wyoming, northern and western Colorado, and Utah) differ from those in New Mexico, Arizona, and California in allelic frequencies at one gene for phosphoglucosisomerase and one gene for glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase. The three populations from southern California are fixed for a transaminase allele that was not demonstrated to be present elsewhere. Allelic variation was encountered in six of 40 populations, and 13 individual plants, each with one heterozygous locus, were found.
10.2307/2418262|Catalpa speciosa is an obligate outcrosser pollinated diurnally by bumblebees and carpenter bees and nocturnally by various moths. More flowers are pollinated during the day, but there is no significant difference between day and night in the number of pollinations per hour. The quantity of nectar produced at night is significantly greater than during the day, but the sugar concentration of the nectar and the total sugar per flower is greater during the day. The quantity of nectar and sugar concentrations of C. speciosa flowers change from those typical of bumblebee-pollinated flowers during the day to those typical of moth-pollinated flowers at night.
10.2307/2418263|The Eupatorieae and Vernonieae differ in pubescence, leaf insertion, leaf shape and venation, corolla lobe form, anther bases, anther pubescence, endothecial cells, pollen grains, style branches, achene walls, and pappus. The Eupatorieae are related to the Heliantheae in the subfamily Asteroideae, and the Vernonieae are placed close to the Liabeae and Mutisieae in the subfamily Cichorioideae.
10.2307/2418265|Bigelowia, consisting of B. nudata with two subspecies and B. nuttallii, has a chromosomal base number of x = 9. Tetraploids and hexaploids as well as diploids are found in B. nuttallii, but polyploids are not frequent and pollen size is not consistently useful in identifying them. Karyotypes of the species are similar and close to those of Euthamia. Experimentally, unilateral interspecific hybridization occurs with B. nuttallii as the female parent; hybrids have reduced vigor and fertility. Subspeciation in B. nudata may be related to isolation in the past caused by fluctuations of Tertiary sea levels in Florida. Polyploids of B. nuttallii in the St. Petersburg region are suggested to have been derived from Pleistocene colonization from populations in Georgia or, more probably, Texas.
10.2307/2418457|Three species of Arctostaphylos in cismontane northwestern North America hybridize where sympatric. The combination A. columbiana x A. uva-ursi, named A. media (or A. x media), is common on disturbed forest land in western Washington and southern British Columbia. It is transient due to forest succession. The combination A. columbiana x A. nevadensis is locally common on the lower western slopes of Mt. Hood, Oregon, and adjacent southern Washington. The disturbance that may have led to the latter instance of sympatry and hybridization is less due to man than to natural causes: a mudflow on Mt. Hood dated at 1690 years B.P Morphology, floral biology, and ecological attributes of the hybrid populations are analyzed to document the interspecific gene flow.
10.2307/2418458|Progenies from nine populations of six species of Clarkia, including the new species C. calientensis, were compared using a similarity index based on the sum of significant differences for 22 morphological and developmental traits. The two most similar populations were conspecific. Other populations of different species were more similar to each other than to respective conspecific populations. Characteristics associated with pollination tend to have low plasticity and high interpopulation differences, suggesting rigorous selection for precisely integrated systems. Extremely plastic traits, such as the time to first flower and the number of seeds per capsule, result from a series of morphogenetic events, each of which in itself, may be highly plastic. Despite continuous adjustment, these highly plastic traits are efficient and consistent in differentiating between populations. A group of populations in woodland habitats and another in grassland habitats both show intragroup similarity in a number of characteristics, which indicate common adaptations, and some differences, which probably reflect a mode of isolation. Sympatric populations often have similar vegetative and developmental characteristics but different breeding-system characteristics; usually some characteristics of each system differentiate sympatric or adjacent populations. The greatest similarities occur in sympatric or environmentally equivalent situations, emphasizing the importance of environmental selection.
10.2307/2418460|In three populations of Gilia achilleifolia floral morphological and phenological characters and pollen distribution on stigmas suggest that different breeding systems are associated with the two main races of the species. The shade race has small corollas, stigmas maturing below the anthers, low pollen production, low pollen-ovule ratios, homogamy, many pollen grains per stigma, and high seed set. The sun race differs in all these characters.
10.2307/2418462|The karyotypes of Borrichia frutescens and B. arborescens and that of their hybrid, B. x cubana, are very similar. The 74 populations sampled contained diploid individuals (n = 14<sub>II</sub>), but one contained several triploid individuals (2n = 42) as well. Some aneuploidy may be present in southern populations of B. arborescens, but otherwise the genus is stable cytologically with x = 14.
10.2307/2418464|Borrichia frutescens and B. arborescens are essentially allopatric except in subtropical South Florida and Bermuda. In the region of sympatry in Florida the species form hybrids, originally described as B. cubana. Nine populations of hybrids were examined. Analysis of morphological characteristics of 64 individuals from the single population studied intensively indicated that the population was a hybrid swarm. Some individuals were also determined to be chemically intermediate between the parental forms. Both parental species and the hybrids formed 14<sub>II</sub> during meiosis. Experimentally produced hybrids were morphologically similar to the wild plants. An experimentally produced F<sub>2</sub> backcross individual indicates the possibility of some B. frutescens traits introgressing into B. arborescens. The presence of B. frutescens in the Florida Keys may be influencing the direction of evolution of B. arborescens there.
10.2307/2418465|Rumfordia (Asteraceae, Heliantheae, Melampodiinae), of montane Mesoamerica consists of six species-R. alcortae, R. connata, R. floribunda, R. guatemalensis, R. penninervis, and R. revealii. The most common, R. floribunda, is divided into the varieties floribunda, spectabilis, and the newly described australis and jaliscensis. The rationale for taxonomic judgments and the major remaining biosystematic problems are discussed. Comparative studies suggest close relationships of Rumfordia with Axiniphyllum and Polymnia. The first chromosome count for Rumfordia, R. floribunda with n = 24, is also reported.
10.2307/2418466|Discriminant analysis of 33 population samples of Lupinus nanus, including three annual samples of one population and two annual samples of five others, reveals that primary clustering of samples is an annual pattern of variation and that secondary ordination is a clinal pattern. The clinal pattern is west-east along moisture and climatic gradients from coastal fog belt to desert. The annual pattern is most likely related to water availability due to yearly decrease in winter rainfall, which results in differential germination of stored seed. Analysis denies the recognition of infraspecific taxa with a distinct geographic distribution; L. nanus should be considered as a species highly variable in vegetative and floral characters and in reproductive mode.
10.2307/2418468|Protogyny, generally assumed to be rare or nonexistent in the Cruciferae, has been reported in at least 61 species belonging to 32 genera in nine tribes. In Iraq 472 natural populations representing 91 species (nearly half the cruciferous flora) were examined, and 80 populations representing 24 species in 19 genera were found to exhibit protogyny. Protogyny is reported for the first time in 21 species and in the genera Diplotaxis, Savignya, Erucaria, Hirschfeldia, Neslia, Aubrieta, Sterigmostemum, and Sisymbrium.
10.2307/2418470|Reports suggesting that the basic chromosome number for Aster section Heterophylli is x = 9 have been cited to support the hypothesis that x = 9 is the ancestral basic number for the whole genus. The present report gives chromosome counts for 35 populations in ten species, nine of which are traditionally placed in section Heterophylli. The chromosome numbers in 33 populations present a polyploid series of n = 8, 16, 24, and 32. Reinterpretation of photomicrographs by Avers (1954) lends additional support to the finding that the basic number for the section is x = 8 rather than x = 9. If counts for the three species not yet re-examined agree with these results, the balance between species of the x = 8 and x = 9 groups will be significantly shifted, and phylogenetic considerations based on the number of species belonging in each of the three "modes" (x = 5, 8, and 9) in the genus must be reassessed. Inasmuch as all Old World species of Aster exhibit x = 9, this group remains the largest on a worldwide basis, but with the inclusion of section Heterophylli, the x = 8 group comprises the largest number of species in North America, the generally acknowledged center of origin for the genus. The present findings are interpreted as supporting the hypothesis that evolution proceeded from the low basic chromosome number of x = 4 or 5 rather than the high one of x = 9.
10.2307/2418528|Investigations on the adaptive significance of pollen morphology were conducted on 17 variables of pollen, floral and anthecological characters in 100 species of angiosperms. Three close interrelationships among the characters were established by factor analysis: (1) positive correlation between grain size, exine thickness, and aperture number; (2) strong association of grain shapes with aperture types, i.e. the prolate grain with colpus and the spherical and the oblate shapes with pore; and (3) a positive correlation among the pollinator's body size, the floral size, the style length, and the pollen grain size. Based on the above results, the following suggestions on the adaptive aspects of pollen can be made: (1) exine thickness is important for mechanical support with respect to grain size and aperture number; (2) larger grains require more apertures for rapid water absorption from the stigmatic surface; (3) the association of grain shape and aperture type plays a role in accommodation of volume change when the grains absorb or lose water; and (4) grain size is related to the capacity of stored nutrients which determine the potential length of a pollen tube.
10.2307/2418530|Genetic and mating system analysis of Ceratopteris thalictroides indicates that recessive deleterious and lethal genes (genetic load) are rare or non-existent in most sporophytes studied, although nearly all plants exhibit high probabilities of an outbreeding reproductive system in gametophyte populations. Genetic load expression is shown to be directly correlated with three complementary parameters of gametophyte morphology (gametangia sequence of hermaphroditic prothalli, ratio of male to hermaphrodites, and number dehisced antheridia in the two gametophyte types). Population studies indicate that most populations are genetically depauperate for lethal genes and that there is a direct relationship between population size and percent of sporophytes with deleterious genes. The low level of genetic load in most populations is hypothesized to be due to their mode of establishment, age, and frequency of vegetative reproduction.
10.2307/2418532|In an attempt to alleviate extensive confusion regarding infra-specific variation of Humulus lupulus (s.l.), numerical taxonomic analyses were conducted on 783 herbarium collections of this species. A method combining alternating cycles of principal coordinate analysis and canonical analysis was used to generate morphologically defined groups, the taxonomic acceptability of which was judged on the basis of geographical homogeneity. This technique produced five groups, which are formally recognized here as varieties. Humulus lupulus var. neomexicanus occupies western North America, especially the Cordillera, and is largely allopatric. Humulus lupulus var. pubescens (var. nov.) inhabits the American Midwest. Humulus lupulus var. lupulus occurs in Europe, where it is allopatric, and is introduced elsewhere, especially in eastern North America, where it comprises half of the herbarium plants from this region. Humulus lupulus var. lupuloides (var. nov.) occurs in the eastern part of North America, and intergrades with the other three varieties populating North America, wherever it is sympatric with them. Humulus lupulus var. cordifolius is found in eastern Asia, mainly in Japan. Attempts to cluster these variants hierarchically did not reveal an unambiguous pattern of relationship, although several of the techniques used produced the intuitively satisfying separation of the three North American taxa from the Asian variety and the European variety. Humulus japonicus, a distinctive relative, does not manifest comparable geographical differentiation. Humulus yunnanensis, a Chinese endemic species first described in 1936, has been almost universally unappreciated and identified as H. lupulus, which it resembles superficially. However, it is more similar to H. japonicus. Two contrasting genetic systems are perceivable in the four species comprising the Cannabaceae: Cannabis sativa and H. japonicus seem to have "general purpose genotypes" adapted to cosmopolitan distribution, whereas H. yunnanensis and the varieties of H. lupulus appear to be comparatively specialized for localized habitation.
10.2307/2418533|Flowers of several Solarium species are conspicuously divergent in regions of distributional overlap in Mexico. S. grayi and S. lumholtzianum are similar in floral size throughout most of their respective ranges, but in an extensive zone of sympatry flowers of S. grayi are much smaller than elsewhere. Similar patterns of displacement are observed in sympatric local populations of other species. The unusual heterandrous morphology of section Androceras flowers appears to restrict the size range of bee visitors that can effectively pollinate them, and co-existing species with flowers of disparate size may exploit quite different segments of the available pollinator fauna. Species of section Androceras display an extraordinary diversity of floral sizes in comparison with other Solanum alliances. Floral diversity in the section may have evolved via historical episodes of character displacement, driven by a potential for mechanical isolation.
10.2307/2418534|An introgressed population of Sabatia species exists on a sloping, edaphic cline. A stepwise discriminant analysis of ten morphological characters of one hundred fifty individuals from the incline indicates the presence of introgression when compared with a reference population of each species. The results of horizontal starch gel electrophoresis for six enzyme systems encompassing seven loci confirm that introgression has occurred and can be identified.
10.2307/2418535|Several workers have attempted karyotypic analysis of ferns and concluded that the high chromosome numbers that characterize extant fern genera reflect high polyploidy. An examination of fern karyotypic data suggests that observed differences in total length and arm length ratio between chromosomes and chromosome groups are subject to many errors. The possibility of such errors suggests that karyotypic analysis in ferns is a dubious practice. We have applied graphic and statistical methods of analysis to karyological data previously published by Tatuno and others and conclude that unreasonable inferences have been made from the karyotypic data. These data are consistent with an hypothesis that fern evolution at the generic level occurred from ancestors that had essentially the same high chromosome numbers observed in living ferns.
10.2307/2418536|Individuals from distylous and tristylous populations of Oxalis alpina (Rose) Knuth (section Ionoxalis) from southeastern Arizona were crossed and the fitness of the resultant F<sub>1</sub> hybrids analyzed to provide estimates of genetic divergence among populations. Crossability was highest when tristylous individuals were used as seed parents. Crosses among distylous populations resulted in the lowest seed set. Proportions of flowering F<sub>1</sub> progeny were highest for crosses with tristylous individuals as seed parents, and lowest for distylous x distylous crosses. Pollen fertility of F<sub>1</sub> progeny was higher in the tristylous x tristylous crosses than in distylous x distylous crosses. Results consistently indicated a higher degree of genetic relationship among tristylous populations than among distylous populations. A likely explanation for the present distribution of tristylous and distylous populations in Arizona is the initial migration of a tristylous race into this region, followed by disjunction into isolated populations due to Pleistocene drying. Following isolation, variation in evolutionary rate has apparently resulted in retention of tristyly in some populations, and the independent evolution of distyly in those populations which have diverged at the greatest rates. Crossability data and analysis of F<sub>1</sub> fitness thus suggest a likely dispersal pattern for O. alpina in southeastern Arizona as well as the evolutionary relationship between tristylous and distylous reproductive systems in this species.
10.2307/2418308|Allopatric introgression, according to Edgar Anderson, is a potent source of variation and evolution in nature, Nevertheless, in spite of claims to the contrary, reliable documentation of this phenomenon in plants has not been forthcoming. In the present study, we examine chemical data from volatile extracts of leaf foliage obtained from an array of populations of Juniperus virginiana and J scopulorum extending along a transect from near St. Louis, Missouri, to the vicinity of Missoula, Montana. Detailed analyses of these populational samples strongly suggest that the variation found in J virginiana across the Missouri River Basin is due to allopatric introgression from its more western cohort, J. scopulorum.
10.2307/2418310|Cladistics, the estimation of the relative recency of common ancestry, and thus of the branching pattern of phyletic lines, is a challenge of growing interest among plant systematists. Discussed in depth are two approaches to this challenge: minimizing the amount of evolution; and maximizing the number of supporting characters.
10.2307/2418311|Two of the principal goals of plant systematics are: (1) to provide predictive systems of classification and (2) to develop phylogenies. Traditionally, both of these goals have been sought by conventional phyletic approaches. However, the assumptions and methods of arriving at the classifications and phylogenies, especially as portrayed in phylogenetic tree diagrams, are frequently not evident. Cladistics has recently evolved as a method of more precisely achieving these goals. Beginning with Hennig's methodology over two decades ago, several approaches, some involving computer techniques, have been developed. These include Parsimony (including Farris Trees and Networks), and Character Compatibility. The efficacy of these methods to plant systematics has not yet been fully appreciated, particularly from the viewpoint of the practicing taxonomist. We recommend the routine use of cladistics in revisionary studies or in any other type of investigation which focuses on the development of phylogenetic trees. For the practicing plant taxonomist, cladistics offers a method of constructing phylogenies by objective and repeatable means. This presents certain advantages over inferring phylogeny by the conventional method, the most important of which is to facilitate discussion by a clear presentation of procedures and evolutionary assumptions.
10.2307/2418312|The seventeen taxa (thirteen species and four varieties) in the genus Crusea, as recognized by W. R. Anderson, are described with fifty-eight qualitative characters. A priori estimates of the directions of evolutionary trends among the character states of each character are made. The patterns of agreement and disagreement among these fifty-eight cladistic characters were revealed using Character Compatibility analysis. A large collection of mutually compatible characters was chosen to form the basis for an estimate of phylogenetic relationships. This estimate was then further refined within the major phyletic lines suggested, by further studying the patterns of agreement among characters within these lines to enlarge the collection of mutually compatible characters with compatible secondary characters. Finally, characters of special interest such as annual vs. perennial, and flower color are discussed in the context of this estimate of phylogenetic relationships.
10.2307/2418313|A recent computer technique, Character Compatibility, was used to examine cladistic relationships among the 27 taxa (two sections, Lipochaeta and Aphanopappus) of the genus Lipochaeta. The results were compared with a previous, intuitively derived, concept of relationships within the genus. The computer analysis produced four possible evolutionary trees. One tree was constructed primarily from reproductive characters which were previously shown to be conservative evolutionarily. The latter was in closer agreement with the intuitive analysis than were the other three. The computer study was helpful in assessing the previously obscure relationships of two taxa, Lipochaeta bryanii and L. degeneri. The intuitive phylogram and the computer cladograms were in close agreement regarding the relationships of the two sections to each other. Character Compatibility promises to be quite useful in plant systematics, but it should be used only after the plant group is well understood, i.e., it should be used as a final step rather than in the initial phases of a revisionary study.
10.2307/2418314|Biochemical, morphological and cytological data indicate that the taxon described in the present study, M. turneri, is a distinct species. Biochemically, M. turneri is more distinct from M. parviflora than the latter is from M. arizonica. Cytogenetic data show a small translocation and a paracentric inversion difference between M. turneri and M. parviflora. There is no overlap in five morphological characteristics used to separate the new species from M. parviflora.
10.2307/2418315|A new species of Machaeranthera sect. Psilactis, M. odyssei, is described from the mountains of southeastern Nuevo Leon, Mexico, and adjacent Tamaulipas. The new species apparently is endemic to a small area around Cerro Pena Nevada, but it is abundant in that area. The plants are perennial with horizontal rhizomes and fibrous roots, primarily monocephalous with spatulate basal leaves and reduced cauline leaves, and they have a striking glandularity on the stems, upper leaves, and phyllaries. Meiosis and pollen formation are normal; the chromosome number is n = 9. Machaeranthera odyssei is closely related to M. mexicana Turner & Horne, but the habit of the new species is unique in the section and genus.
10.2307/2418316|A study of a number of morphological characters confirms the presence of a hybrid between the two species of Costa Rican Gunnera, G. insignis and G. talamancana. Despite wind pollination and similar habitat preferences among all known species, hybrids of Gunnera are rare in nature because the disturbed sites they prefer are so small and labile. Road building, especially of the Pan-American Highway, has established large areas of more or less permanently disturbed habitat allowing the populations of the two different species to interdigitate and hybridize.
10.2307/2418295|Light and scanning electron microscopy of spores was used to examine exospore and perispore characters in Bommeria and related fern genera. All Bommeria species were found to possess a smooth exospore surface which offered no taxonomically significant variation. Perispore features, however, separate Bommeria species into two groups, one having a cristate and the other a reticulate topography. Analysis of perispore ontogenetic stages demonstrates that both perispore types are composed of a similar interwoven network of strands. The strands of the reticulate type have free distal portions whereas those of the cristate variant are fused distally. The cristate perispore surface is common to species of Bommeria, Hemionitis, Gymnopteris, Saffordia, Trachypteris and Doryopteris. Among the genera surveyed, the reticulate perispore surface is unique to Bommeria. The most closely related genus having a similar reticulate perispore ornamentation is Cheilanthes. These data indicate that spore morphology should be considered in any reevaluation of relationships among the gymnogrammoid and cheilanthoid ferns.
10.2307/2418297|Flavonoids of Solanum species investigated prior to this study were mostly flavonol 3-O-glycosides. Evolution of the highly specialized section Androceras from its ancestors in Solanum and the entrance of certain of its species into arid environments have been accompanied by extensive elaboration of new flavonoid biosynthetic pathways. Three putatively natural species groups are both morphologically and chemically recognizable in section Androceras. Flavonoids of the most primitive alliance, series Androceras, are restricted to flavonol 3-O-glycosides, typical for Solanum. The more advanced series, Violaceiflorum and Pacificum, are also rich in flavonol 3-O-glycosides but produce, in addition, flavones, C-glycosylflavones, 8-hydroxyflavonoids, and assorted methyl ethers. No C-glycosylflavones or 8-hydroxyflavonoids have previously been reported from Solanum. 8-Hydroxyflavonols with 4'-methylmyricetin B-rings in series Violaceiflorum contrast with chrysoeriol-type 8-hydroxyflavones found in series Pacificum; 8-O-glycosides are restricted to series Violaceiflorum. Most species of section Androceras are readily distinguished by their flavonoid profiles, including several "cryptic" species of previously controversial status.
10.2307/2418298|A systematic treatment is presented for the 8 presently recognized taxa of sect. Cephalophora, with synonymies, typifications, descriptions, discussions, and range maps. Helenium ovallense is described as new, H. vallenariense is officially transferred to Helenium from Cephalophora, and H. leguiffei is reduced in status to a variety of H. urmenetae. Chromosome counts are reported for 7 of the 8 taxa; all were diploid with n = 17.
10.2307/2418299|Chromosome numbers ranging from n = 17 to n = 42 are reported for 17 of the approximately 30 native species of Centaurium. With few exceptions, the American species are morphologically distinct from the 12 native species of Europe and, as a group, they are also cytologically dissimilar. Diploids (n = 10), known only from the Mediterranean region of southern Europe, have not been found in the Americas. Aneuploidy, which is much less common than euploidy in European species, is almost universal in the American species. Chromosome counts obtained in meiotic pollen mother cells were n = 17 (three species), n = 20 (two species), n = 21 (seven species), n = 22 (two species), n = 36 (two species), n = 40 (one species), n = 41 (one species), n = 42 (one species). Two chromosomal races of n = 21 and n = 22, respectively, were found in one widespread morphological species of Mexico and Central America. The absence of diploids, predominance of aneuploidy and generally higher chromosome numbers in American Centaurium support a conclusion that these taxa are derived from ancestral European members of the genus.
10.2307/2418300|Experimental manipulation of Asclepias tuberosa flowers indicates that intact pollinaria significantly increase successful insertions. The hypothesis that the groove of the corpusculum of an intact pollinarium serves as an attachment point for the translator arm is examined experimentally. Significantly fewer pollinia are inserted into flowers with the pollinaria removed than into flowers with the pollinaria intact.
10.2307/2418301|Chromosome counts from 235 populations of Claytonia (Montia) perfoliata (sensu lato) reveal a polyploid pillar complex based on three morphologically different and geographically defined diploids. Claytonia perfoliata Willdenow with linear juvenile leaves and deltoid (mucronate) mature basal leaves ranges southeastward from the Coast Ranges of California, through the Sonoran Desert Ranges of Arizona, to high elevation coniferous forests of Mexico and Guatemala. In contrast, diploid C. rubra (Howell) Tidestrom generally occurs in drier montane and transmontane coniferous woodlands of the Sierra Nevada and Cascade Ranges. It has basal leaves that vary ontogenetically from rhombic to deltoid (obtuse). Diploid C. parviflora Hooker is Sierra Nevadan and its juvenile and mature basal leaves are all linear. A fourth entity in this species complex, C. perfoliata ssp. viridis (Davidson) Fellows, contributes to variation at the tetraploid level but has not yet been found as a diploid. Progeny of field collected tetraploids resembling C. perfoliata and C. rubra diploids were grown under uniform regimes of light, temperature, and moisture for comparison with their diploid counterparts. Each family of progeny was indistinguishable from its parent, implying a high degree of self-fertilization in nature. Comparisons of pollen-ovule ratios and observations of flower structure indicate that diploid C. parviflora is facultatively xenogamous while the other two diploid species are prevailingly autogamous. The distribution of tetraploids tends to parallel that of their diploid morphological counterparts. The often discontinuous variability found in natural populations of this species complex can be ascribed in part to sympatry of autogamous heteroploid biotypes. Environmentally induced variation is an additional complicating factor in the morphological analysis of mixed populations. The developmental sequence of basal leaf shapes is genotypically determined, but plants in unfavorable habitats may flower prematurely and thus differ from their siblings in the taxonomically important trait of leaf shape.
10.2307/2418303|S. churchilliana has a diploid chromosome number of 2n = 60. Meiosis is highly disturbed with univalent, bivalent and trivalent configurations. Pollen ranges from about 20% well formed and apparently normal grains, to wholly sterile in different strains. No seed is produced, though the calyx is accrescent after pollination. Morphologically it is intermediate between S. galericulata (2n = 32) and S. lateriflora (2n = 88), species with which it is usually found growing. Hence it is concluded that S. churchilliana is an F<sub>1</sub> hybrid between these two species, but attempts to synthesize it have failed. Vegetative propagation ensures its dispersal and continued survival on rivers and lake shores. Its distribution is restricted to Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Maine.
10.2307/2418744|Critical review of the distribution of flavonoids in the angiosperms, combined with considerations of their biosynthesis has led to a reappraisal of existing dicta on the phylogenetic status of the various structural types. Caution is necessary when attempting evolutionary interpretations because there seem to be two trends operating within the angiosperms. The major one involves reduction in structural complexity, following a reverse direction down the biosynthetic pathway. Reduction in the actual number of flavonoid structures produced is also part of the trend. A secondary trend, often superimposed on the first, involves diversification whereby the flavonoid nucleus undergoes progressive elaboration (extra oxygenation, O-methylation, etc.). The complications engendered by these two trends require the recognition of at least three evolutionary grades: primitive, advanced and highly advanced. It is very difficult to distinguish between the primitive and highly advanced conditions because in many cases the flavonoid phenotype is identical: in the first case the simplicity is primary and in the second it is secondary by reduction. Correlations in distribution of the different flavonoid structures can not only be interpreted in phylogenetic terms but also in terms of adaptive complexes. Many structures and groups of structures have never been reported from nature-are these ill-adaptive? On the other hand, there are several combinations which do appear regularly and it is suggested that they contribute to adaptive peaks. These flavonoid combinations are shown, within the limits of their definition, to characterize many orders and superorders (with increased precision of definition, the combinations can also be used to characterize families and lower taxa). The flavonoid profiles of the orders show a remarkable correlation with the occurrences of other secondary metabolites such as benzyl isoquinoline alkaloids, tannins, iridoids, sesquiterpenes and polyacetylenes. It is possible that flavonoids are not independent in their efficiency of action but rather act in functional consort not only with other metabolites and physiological processes, but also with morphological and anatomical defenses.
10.2307/2418746|Biosynthetic-step indices represent a refinement over other methods for estimating affinities of flavonoid profiles because they allow a weighted evaluation of similarities and differences of end-product ensembles. Caution must be used, however, in inferring genetic similarities between plants solely on the basis of flavonoid phenotypes. Examples illustrating the disparity between genotype and flavonoid phenotype are presented.
10.2307/2418748|Eschscholzia mexicana Greene differs from E. californica Chamisso only by its entire (versus bifid) cotyledons and its consistent obligately annual growth form. Although the taxa are allopatric in the field, artificial hybrids are easily formed, and are fertile even in F<sub>2</sub> and backcross generations. Eschscholzia mexicana is best regarded as a subspecies of E. californica, which had extended its range into the Sonoran Desert region during glacial times and has subsequently been isolated by increasing warmth and dryness in the intervening regions.
10.2307/2418750|Scanning electron microscope examination of seeds of all thirteen species of Eschscholzia, a genus of western North America, reveals distinguishing features which can be used to separate species, provides evidence of seed flotation as an adaptation to runoff dispersal in some species, and provides additional data toward the resolution of taxonomic and evolutionary problems in the genus. Seed surfaces generally consist of ridges or tubercles of radially elongate cells surrounding facets of tabular cells. Surface features of the mature seed are a function of the collapse of these cells during desiccation.
10.2307/2418752|Previous studies on pollinator foraging behavior suggest that the apparent rate of outcrossing ought to be inversely correlated with plant density. The relationship of apparent outcrossing to plant density was examined for wild populations of Helianthus annuus using alcohol dehydrogenase allozymes as genetic markers. The apparent rate of outcrossing varies from 0.54 to 0.91 (x = 0.76) and is significantly inversely correlated with plant density. Heterozygote deficiency in the progeny also shows a significant inverse correlation. The proportion of heterozygotes in the maternal generation is not related to the rate of outcrossing.
10.2307/2418753|Three of California's four species of Bacopa are aliens. Bacopa rotundifolia, a tetraploid, native to central United States, was first recorded for California in 1923 and has since become one of the commonest weeds in rice fields of the state. Californian populations of this species were named B. nobsiana in 1952. Bacopa repens, a neotropical diploid, has been known from a single California station since 1949; its range within the state has not increased in some 30 years. The third alien, the pantropical B. monnieri, has been found in California only recently. The native, B. eisenii, is tetraploid and has apparently invaded rice fields to a significant degree only recently. Taxonomic interpretation of these species has depended on a synthesis of field, experimental, and herbarium studies.
10.2307/2418754|Reproduction in flowering plants involves a complex series of events, beginning with floral induction and ending with germination of the seed. Characters of the reproductive cycle, especially those of the flower, but also those of embryology, pollen, and other features, are of great traditional utility in taxonomy. The argument has been made that understanding the functional significance of reproductive characters strengthens taxonomic judgments made using these characters, but this is probably only rarely the case. Nevertheless, most of what we know about floral anatomy and morphology, embryological characters, pollen characters, and seed morphology was acquired with taxonomic motivations in mind, and this vast store of information is now being re-examined by systematists and others concerned with understanding the adaptive significance of this array of characters.
10.2307/2418755|Mirandea huastecensis is described from Huasteca Canyon in west-central Nuevo Leon. The subfamilial status of the genus is discussed. A character tabulation comparing the two species of Mirandea is included together with illustrations of the diagnostic morphological features of M. huastecensis.
10.2307/2418661|Thirteen species of Hedeoma, representing three subgenera, and one species of Poliomintha were artificially crossed to attempt 52 hybrid combinations. Crossability was generally high, and 83% of the attempted hybridizations between species pairs were successful. Intrasubgeneric hybrids within the subgenus Saturejoides were the most easily obtained, whereas intersubgeneric and intergeneric hybridization attempts accounted for most of the crossing failures. Only nine F<sub>1</sub> hybrids set viable seed, and almost all of these were intrasubgeneric crosses within subg. Saturejoides. Hybrid sterility is seemingly an important reproductive barrier in Hedeoma; translocations and inversions were among the observed meiotic irregularities. One nearly sterile hybrid was selfed to produce a relatively fertile F<sub>2</sub> generation. Intercorrelation analysis of the F<sub>2</sub> revealed significant correlations only among related morphological characters and no significant correlations were found between morphology and pollen stainability. It is concluded that, at least in this instance, the barrier of hybrid sterility can be easily overcome and hybridization may be a source of naturally occurring interpopulational variation.
10.2307/2418662|Pericarp structure in the ten genera of the Areca alliance is more heterogeneous than in the Ptychosperma alliance, but with some species closely approaching the ptychospermate condition. The endocarp is generally less well-defined, although composed of the same tissue types. Fibrovascular bundles functioning as part of the endocarp tend to be more dispersed among mesocarp tissues, sclerified ground tissue is less prominent, but the locular epidermis shows about the same range of variation. Four different types of exocarp are found in the group: 1) a layer of brachysclereids; 2) a layer of brachysclereids plus fibrous bundles; 3) a series of fibrous bundles alone; 4) a dense layer of specialized tanniniferous cells. Fibrous bundles can occur among the vascular bundles, or as separate series in the middle or outer pericarp. The alliance appears to be taxonomically divisible into two groups, on the basis of presence or absence of brachysclereids in the exocarp. Other minor taxonomic suggestions are made.
10.2307/2418663|The combination of reproductive isolation and significant morphological differences supports the recognition of two species of wild leek: Allium tricoccum Solander in Aiton and A. burdickii based on A. tricoccum var. burdickii Hanes. Plants of the latter are considerably smaller and have fewer flowers per umbel than those of the former. They also consistently lack the red pigmentation usually evident in scapes and petioles of A. tricoccum. Although the two taxa often occur together, hybridization between them is precluded by a phenological barrier. In 1977 and 1978, Illinois populations of A. burdickii flowered from June 2-21, while those of A. tricoccum began flowering about July 1. An estimated frequency of occurrence based on herbarium collections indicates that the probable center of distribution for A. burdickii lies in the area bounded by northern Illinois, northern Indiana, southern Wisconsin and southern Michigan. In the eastern United States, A. tricoccum seems to be the more common of the two species. As no type specimen of A. tricoccum can be found, a neotype is designated.
10.2307/2418664|A collection of Otopappus australis from Cerro Campana represents the first report for the genus from Panama. Aspects of the morphology at variance with the type description include longer and narrower leaves and narrower flowering heads. Details of stem and leaf anatomy are reported; exceptionally tall primary wood rays probably relate to the plant's vine-like habit. A variety of primitive and specialized features are found in the floral anatomy. Unusual topographic sites for trichomes include pappus awns, inside the corolla tube, anther appendages, and style branches. The junior authors conclude that this species is more properly a Zexmenia rather than an Otopappus. Geographical and morphological data are utilized to demonstrate that O. australis, Z. columbiana, and Z. mikanioides are conspecific. The latter two are considered Zexmenia mikanioides var. mikanioides, and the nomenclatural combination is made to make O. australis a variety of Z. mikanioides.
10.2307/2418665|Numerous stages in the evolution of distyly from tristyly may be observed among populations of Oxalis alpina in southeastern Arizona. At one extreme, the mid form is common in populations and features of floral morphology are similar to those of typical trimorphic species. At the other extreme, the mid form is absent and few of the morphological features of tristyly have been retained. A spectrum of populations with intermediate mid frequencies and floral morphology connects these extremes. Modifications of style form representation and floral morphology are consistent with those expected in populations where modified incompatibility has resulted in selection against the mid form. Disjunction of populations and variation in evolutionary rates have probably resulted in the diversity of intermediate reproductive systems occurring in this region.
10.2307/2418666|The genus Glandularia is recognized as a valid genus distinct from Verbena based on consistent differences in seed morphology, chromosome number, the length of the style, reproductive modes, ploidal levels, and continent of origin. Eight new chromosome counts are given. Also a revision of the taxonomy of the 23 North American species of Glandularia is presented. Two sections, three new species, and one new variety are recognized.
10.2307/2418849|Subpopulations of heterostylous Houstonia caerulea consist of both pin and thrum plants (heterogeneous) or of plants of a single morph (homogeneous). Crossing experiments demonstrate that pollination between morphs is essential for maximal fruit set. In heterogeneous subpopulations percent fruit set increases as the ratio of pins to thrums approaches unity. Fruit set also is positively correlated with subpopulation size but shows little relationship with distance to the nearest compatible subpopulation. In homogeneous subpopulations, however, fruit set decreases with increasing subpopulation size, and distance to the nearest compatible subpopulation is more important in determining percent fruit set. Substructuring, therefore, may profoundly affect the reproductive biology of plant populations.
10.2307/2418850|Dasysiphonia chejuensis gen. et sp. nov., a marine red alga belonging to the Dasyaceae, Ceramiales, is described from Cheju Island on the southern coast of Korea. The thallus grows sympodially, forming an indeterminate or determinate branch from every segment of main axes in bilateral-dorsiventral manner, and bears five pericentral cells derived alternately from each central cell. The main axes are lightly corticated. Spermatangial branches and tetrasporangial stichidia develop on monosiphonous determinate branches. Tetrasporangia are not completely protected by cover cells. Procarps bearing two sterile groups occur alternately in successive segments on specially developed polysiphonous fertile branchlets. The second or third pericentral cell adjacent to the first always becomes the supporting cell. The new genus morphologically resembles Heterosiphonia in its lateral-dorsiventral branch system, but is also similar to Dasya especially in tetrasporangium formation.
10.2307/2418851|Bidens ferulaefolia has been recognized as a species consisting of three varieties (var. ferulaefolia, var. foeniculifolia, and var. ludens) widely distributed from southwestern United States through Mexico and into Guatemala. Separation of these taxa was based on several highly variable morphological characters such as achene length, awn number, and degree of leaf dissection. These taxa were studied utilizing field and herbarium material, morphological data, cytotaxonomic studies, greenhouse and hybridization experiments, and comparative flavonoid chemistry. Results obtained from these investigations suggest that three species be recognized: B. ferulaefolia, B. carpodonta, and B. longistyla. Bidens ferulaefolia occurs in disturbed habitats on the high plateau from Guanajuato in southcentral Mexico northwest into the foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental in Chihuahua in northern Mexico. Bidens carpodonta inhabits disturbed areas in mountain valleys or on high plateaus, while B. longistyla is found in mountain valleys on gypsum and limestone outcrops, in the Sierra Madre Oriental of northeastern Mexico in the states of Nuevo Leon and Coahuila. Morphological characteristics based on quantitative and qualitative features, such as style branch lengths and presence or absence of a red pigment in the flowering heads, are useful for distinguishing the three taxa. Cytotaxonomic data for these three species showed that B. ferulaefolia has a chromosome number of n = 10, while B. carpodonta and B. longistyla are both n = 12. Hybridization experiments at the intra- and interspecific levels confirmed that each species is reproductively isolated from the other two. Flavonoid comparisons of leaf and floral tissues from B. ferulaefolia, B. carpodonta and B. longistyla established the presence of species-specific compounds that would allow for the chemical separation of these three taxa. The two varieties previously recognized (var. foeniculifolia and var. ludens) are placed in synonymy with B. ferulaefolia, whereas B. carpodonta and B. longistyla are distinguished as species. Finally, the geographical distribution formerly attributed to B. ferulaefolia was examined and was found to involve a number of related species.
10.2307/2418852|The apportionment of genetic variability at ten isozyme loci was studied in six populations of Polygonum pensylvanicum L. Thirty percent of the isozymes are polymorphic and the average individual heterozygosity per plant is low, 4 percent. Populations are genetically similar; the mean standardized genetic variance among populations is 0.12. Most of the total genetic diversity, 87.3 percent, is due to differences between individuals within populations; 12.7 percent of the diversity results from differences between populations. None of the populations is in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium; deviation from equilibrium expectations is due to a deficiency of heterozygotes.
10.2307/2418853|Interspecific hybrids between Haplopappus arenarius Benth. (n = 4) of section Blepharodon and H. squarrosus Hook. & Arn. (n = 5) of section Hazardia are vigorous but only 3.8% pollen fertile. However, pachytene analysis of microsporocytes shows that the chromosomes of the two species are highly homologous and differ primarily by translocations. Mean minimum chiasma frequency was reduced from that of the parents to 4.3 per cell. Both morphological similarity and cytogenetic analyses indicate that the two sections should be considered congeneric.
10.2307/2418854|Salix tyrrellii is an endemic taxon described from the active sand dunes south of Lake Athabasca, Saskatchewan. It is related to S. planifolia from which it differs in having slender erect branches which are often slightly tortuose, a prolonged juvenile growth form, smaller and thicker leaves with stomata on both surfaces and low concentrations of phenolic glycosides in bark tissues. Its amphistomatous leaves link this taxon to some arctic populations of S. planifolia in the N.W.T. and Manitoba which may be ancestral to it. The growth form of S. tyrrellii is probably an adaptation to active sand dune habitats. Phenolic glycosides may play a role in its adaptation to active sand dunes. Because of its close relationship to S. planifolia, the new combination S. planifolia ssp. tyrrellii (Raup) Argus is proposed.
10.2307/2418855|Amphiachyris is a North American genus of two species, A. dracunculoides and A. amoena. Related to Gutierrezia, it has in the past been placed in synonymy under that genus and also under Xanthocephalum. The generic status of Amphiachyris, as recognized by Solbrig, is accepted. Chromosome counts for both species and two species of Gutierrezia are reported. Counts of n = 4 for A. amoena and A. dracunculoides and n = 5 and n = 8 for G. texana are new. Preliminary chromatographic results indicate the presence of sulfated flavonoids in Amphiachyris.
10.2307/2418418|Vernonia is the largest genus of the tribe Vernonieae with nearly 1000 species found predominately in the New and Old World tropics. Morphological variation in vegetative features is extensive; however, floral characters are relatively uniform. This uniformity has led to difficulties in understanding relationships within Vernonia. Pollen morphology is distinctive however, and of taxonomic value in assessing infrageneric groups. In an attempt to understand better the patterns of radiation in the genus, pollen from over 500 species of Vernonia was examined from throughout the geographical range by light microscopy and SEM. There are six basic types of pollen grains. The distribution of pollen types is correlated with the radiation of related species groups. A widespread, probably ancestral, pollen type is found in both the New and Old Worlds, but other types are found to be exclusive to, or to predominate in, one hemisphere. Structural changes appear to be associated with functional modifications. The pattern of pollen distribution appears to reflect the evolutionary divergence of species within the genus over time and supports a broad concept of the genus.
10.2307/2418419|Four populations of two climax perennial species and 19 populations of eight colonizing annual species of section Androceras were surveyed for allozyme variation controlled by seven genes. Most populations of the annuals were monomorphic at all seven loci. Populations of perennials were substantially more variable. It is postulated that genetic bottlenecks associated with colonization may explain the low levels of variability encountered in annual populations. Speciation in section Androceras seems to be universally accompanied by evolution of internal barriers to hybridization that cause hybrid seeds to abort. The strength of these barriers is correlated with interpopulation genetic distance, suggesting that they arise as incidental by-products of divergent evolution. Interspecific genetic distances in section Androceras do not indicate an unusually rapid rate of speciation, and taxonomic species diversity in Solanum may instead reflect great age of the genus. A biochemical similarity dendrogram based on genetic distance is in overall agreement with estimates of phylogeny in section Androceras based on other criteria, but several taxa seem to be misplaced. Effects on genetic distance of natural hybridization and variance associated with the small sample of genes may be responsible for errors in phylogenetic interpretation.
10.2307/2418420|Pollen dispersal studies in natural populations have been significantly hampered by the lack of a technique providing effective pollen labeling. Such a method has been developed which utilizes <sup>14</sup>C labeling of pollen in the anther followed by identification of individual labeled grains using thick layer liquid emulsion autoradiography. This provides a safe, inexpensive and highly sensitive method of tracking individual pollen grains between plants or from plant to pollinator, etc., in natural populations.
10.2307/2418421|Quantitative and qualitative analyses for serological affinities within and among taxa of selected families of the "Amentiferae" were employed in this research. With only a few exceptions, there was good agreement between protein similarity as measured by the Boyden procedure, and the number of immunoprecipitating systems remaining after presaturation of the experimental sera. The Myricaceae, Juglandaceae, and Fagaceae revealed a degree of serological correspondence sufficient to warrant retaining them in the subclass Hamamelidae. The low levels of serological correspondence among taxa from these three families and the Anacardiaceae indicated a placement of the Anacardiaceae in a position divorced from the others tested. The obtained data provided support for Cronquist's and Takhtajan's classification of these taxa. In addition this investigation indicated that pollen, with its high protein content, provided an excellent source of extractable antigens for systematic serological research.
10.2307/2418422|A new taxonomy is proposed for Oenothera subsect. Euoenothera (Onagraceae). In this group, the species that are homozygous for the three major genomic complexes, A, B, and C, are well separated from one another. Within each of these three complexes, species that form bivalents or relatively small rings of chromosomes are represented: AA (O. elata, O. longissima, O. jamesii), BB (O. grandiflora), and CC (O. argillicola). There are also complex heterozygotes with the AA (O. villosa, O. wolfii) and BB (O. austromontana) genomic constitutions. The entity that has been called O. hookeri subsp. wolfii is an AA complex heterozygote, probably of separate origin from O. villosa and here accorded taxonomic recognition as a species, as is the BB homozygote hitherto called O. biennis subsp. austromontana. Each of the three possible combinations between the A, B, and C genomes is also recognized taxonomically: AB (O. biennis), AC (O. oakesiana, earlier considered a subspecies of O. parviflora), and BC (O. parviflora). Oenothera glazioviana (O. lamarckiana auct., O. erythrosepala) has the constitution AB, like O. biennis, and may have originated following hybridization between O. biennis or O. grandiflora as the pistillate parent and O. elata (O. hookeri) as the staminate parent: this probably occurred in a garden in Europe. Minor forms, many of hybrid origin, that have originated in Europe are relegated to the species they resemble most closely. To recapitulate the taxonomic changes with respect to the most recent North American taxonomic treatment (Munz, 1965), the complex heterozygote O. wolfii (AA) is separated as a species from the bivalent-forming O. elata; O. austromontana (BB) is separated as a species from O. biennis (AB); and O. parviflora (BC; = Parviflora-1) is separated from O. oakesiana (AC; = Parviflora-2). The races that have been called Biennis-1, in which the B-complex is transmitted through the egg, and Biennis-2, in which the A-complex is transmitted through the egg, are not separated taxonomically, not usually being distinguishable in nature, despite the subspecific recognition accorded them by Munz. Among the non-complex-heterozygotes, O. hookeri is regarded as a synonym of O. elata, because of the limited distinctiveness of these two entities as recognized earlier, and their broad geographical intergradation. Oenothera glazioviana (1882) is an earlier name for what has recently been called O. erythrosepala (1903), and, prior to that, O. lamarckiana by de Vries. Earlier attempts to create a taxonomy for this subsection, particularly in recent years in Europe, have split the species too finely for a general purpose taxonomy, mainly in imitation of genetic analyses but without the requisite genetic information in most cases to do this consistently.
10.2307/2418423|A new combination is made and two new species described from the malvaceous flora of Chiapas, Mexico: Malvaviscus achanioides (Turcz.) Fryx., Anoda pristina Fryx., and Sida anomalocalyx Fryx.
10.2307/2418805|The Old World grass genus, Crypsis, is represented in the United States by three naturalized taxa. Although these are usually treated as specifically distinct in America, European botanists consider two of them to be merely different growth forms of the same species. The few chromosome counts in the literature suggest x = 9 as the basic number. Our studies, including chromosome counts from 44 populations and seed protein analyses from 32 populations, demonstrate that the three taxa differ chemically and represent a polyploid series with a diploid, a tetraploid, and a hexaploid, and a basic chromosome number of x = 8. Each entity seems specifically distinct, and can be recognized by small, but consistent morphological characteristics. Evidence is presented indicating that the correct name for the species listed as C. niliaca in Hitchcock's Manual is Crypsis vaginiflora (Forsk.) Opiz.
10.2307/2418806|Seeds of 33 species of Agalinis were examined with the scanning electron microscope and the light microscope. Thin sections were cut of resin-embedded seeds from 11 taxa. The outer cells of the seed coats of all taxa form a reticulum. Thickenings (lignifications) are present on the inner tangential walls of cells making up the reticulum. The radial walls of the outermost cells of the seed coat and the thickenings on the inner tangential walls of these cells are smooth or variously ornamented. The seeds of Agalinis are classified into five major types based on seed shape, size, and color; cell shape and ornamentation; and pattern and ornamentation of thickenings. Species in certain previously recognized sections and subsections of the genus have seeds of a single type. In other cases the occurrence of species with dissimilar seeds within a section or subsection adds support to other morphological evidence that indicates a reclassification is warranted. While many species have characteristic seed patterns, infraspecific taxa cannot be differentiated on the basis of seed features.
10.2307/2418807|Tetrachyron is a genus of five species restricted to eastern Mexico and northern Guatemala. Most previous treatments regard these species as members of various subgenera in the large polymorphic genus Calea. As a result of the various systematic techniques utilized in this study, the genus Tetrachyron is reestablished; it includes the subgenera Tephrocalea and Tetrachyron (in part). Diagnostic features for Tetrachyron are its shrubby habit, opposite, entire to serrulate margined leaves, solitary to corymbose capitulescences, and four-angled achenes which usually bear four pappus scales. Generally, these and other morphological, anatomical, and chemical features distinguish Tetrachyron from Calea and other allied genera.
10.2307/2418808|An artificial hybridization program was conducted utilizing eastern species of Heuchera to determine whether genetic barriers could be detected between any of the species and, if so, to observe whether they could be correlated with the existing taxonomic treatment of the genus. Genetic barriers, although incomplete, can be detected among certain of the eastern species in the form of unilateral incompatibility, low pollen viability, reduced seed set, and reduced seed germination percentages. These genetic barriers do not correspond to the existing treatment of Heuchera, but support taxonomic changes at the sectional and subsectional levels.
10.2307/2418809|The computerization of label data in the University of Minnesota (MIN) Herbarium is described along with some of the advantages of using the data base management system called "System 2000." This system is very versatile, economical, easy to use and the data bases are directly transferrable to other institutions. So far all of the lichens in the MIN and ABSL herbaria have been computerized (about 48,000) and are in several data bases. Label data are keypunched on cards for entry and the arrangement and format of the data entered on the cards is presented. Of the numerous retrievals possible a few examples are described including computer generated distribution maps and local species lists. The computerization is progressing to other groups of plants and comments are presented about some of the problems in such a project.
10.2307/2418810|Sphagnum subtile is recognized as a species occurring widely in northeastern North America and occasionally in western North America in minerotrophic and often forested mires. By contrast, the allied species S. nemoreum and S. rubellum occur mostly in open, nearly ombrotrophic mires. A combination of non-falcatesecund branch leaves and triangular-lingulate to lingulate stem leaves with strong borders extending to the apex will separate S. subtile from S. nemoreum and S. rubellum.
10.2307/2418730|The evolution of gametophytic and sporophytic self-incompatibility systems in flowering plants may be the result of a conflict created by dissimilar reproductive requirements of the gametophytic and sporophytic generations. Stigmatic recognition and rejection of self-pollen is proposed as an evolutionary advancement by the sporophyte in this conflict. An increased number of incompatibility groups and flower heteromorphisms are breeding system characteristics that probably evolved to increase mating efficiency.
10.2307/2418731|The evolutionary origins of permanent translocation heterozygosity remain largely a matter of speculation. Two routes have been posited: (1) interspecific or interpopulational hybridization and (2) gradual accumulation of translocations within a population. To test these hypotheses for one such chromosomal heterozygote, Oenothera laciniata, allozyme data were collected for this species and other members of its subsection. These data show that O. laciniata is very closely related to the self-incompatible O. grandis (Nei's D = 0.003), which it resembles in morphology and ecology as well. The allozyme data suggest that O. laciniata is a stabilized hybrid, though not an interspecific one; instead, the data collected here and elsewhere suggest that O. laciniata arose more than once as an interpopulational hybrid of O. grandis.
10.2307/2418732|A base chromosome number of x = 7 characterizes many genera of the Saxifraginae. A high degree of karyotypic constancy was found among species representing six of these genera (Boykinia, Heuchera, Mitella, Sullivantia, Tiarella, and Tolmiea). Boykinia aconitifolia and six species of Sullivantia are characterized by the same karyotype. Four species of Heuchera, Mitella diphylla, Tiarella cordifolia, and Tolmiea menziesii (the last at the tetraploid level) possess a second karyotype that differs from the first in the position of the centromere of only one chromosome pair. These karyological observations suggest generic relationships that agree with those based on morphology, flavonoid chemistry, and crossability.
10.2307/2418733|Although numerous flowering plant species have been subjected to electrophoretic enzyme analysis, very few such studies have involved pteridophytes. This is largely because standard methodology typically results in little or no electrophoretically detectable enzymatic activity in pteridophytes. The presence of large amounts of phenolic compounds in leaves of most pteridophytes suggests that the electrophoretic difficulties heretofore encountered in this group result from complexing of enzymes by these compounds following cellular disruption. Use of a grinding buffer containing dimethylsulfoxide and several compounds inhibitory to phenolic complexing, in combination with a grinding procedure utilizing polyvinyl-pyrrolidone and liquid nitrogen, was found to overcome the difficulties of tissue preparation that result from high concentrations of phenolic compounds. Modifications of this grinding buffer and grinding procedure often resulted in reduced clarity of enzyme bands, or even a total loss of enzyme activity. In Bommeria, preparation of leaf tissue in liquid nitrogen and use of sodium tetraborate, sodium ascorbate, sodium meta-bisulfite, and sodium diethyldithiocarbamate were found to be of less importance than use of polyvinylpyrrolidone in obtaining active enzyme samples. We hope that discussion of our procedural data and provision of gel and electrode buffer recipes and staining schedules will stimulate further electrophoretic investigation of pteridophytes.
10.2307/2418734|In the Aurantioideae (Rutaceae), the advance in morphological specialization is accompanied by an increased complexity of flavonoid constituents. The capacity for C-glycosylation is retained throughout the subfamily. As morphological development proceeds from the remote citrus relatives to the more highly specialized true citrus fruit trees, flavone O-glycosides tend to replace flavonol O-glycosides except for Balsamocitrinae, where flavonols predominate. Distribution of flavanones is restricted to Pleiospermium and to the six genera of the true citrus fruit trees. Similarities in the flavonoid profiles of Citrinae and Balsamocitrinae support Swingle's (1943) taxonomic concept of the subfamily.
10.2307/2418735|The effect of artificial selection on grain dormancy was studied in six populations belonging to three species of Eleusine. Selection was effective in all populations but to different degrees. Genes for non-dormancy approached fixation at the fourth generation in one population of E. indica. Threshed grains exhibited higher degrees of germination in all selection cycles when compared with non-threshed grains. This resulted from the presence of inhibitors in the lemma and palea. Populations of E. coracana subsp. africana underwent an occasional drop in germination. This was attributed to a concomitant selection of ill-adapted genes or to fluctuation in allele frequency. It was concluded that man probably eliminated dormancy in finger-millet under domestication within a relatively short time period, particularly in cultivars used for malting.
10.2307/2418736|Sixty-nine collections of Agropyron elongatiforme Drob. and A. repens (L.) Beauv. were made in Iran in 1972. Differentiating the two species was difficult in the field because of close morphological similarities. The collections were subsequently grown at a common location near Logan, Utah, where their morphological and cytological characteristics were observed. No single morphological character can always be used to separate A. elongatiforme from A. repens. However, separations are easily made when the following characters are considered together: presence or absence of pubescence, awns vs. awnlessness, spikelet shape, plant color, and abundance or scarcity of culms. Chromosome number is a sure means of distinguishing between the two species; A. repens is hexaploid (2n = 42) and A. elongatiforme is octoploid or near-octoploid (2n = 52 to 56). A hybrid between A. repens and A. elongatiforme was morphologically intermediate to the parents. The hybrid had 49 chromosomes and averaged 8.03 I, 19.41 II, 0.37 III, 0.22 IV, and 0.03 V in 168 metaphase-I cells. Pairing relationships indicate that A. elongatiforme has the same chromosomes as A. repens plus an additional genome. Genome formulas of S<sub>1</sub>S<sub>1</sub>S<sub>2</sub>S<sub>2</sub>XX, S<sub>1</sub>S<sub>1</sub>S<sub>2</sub>S<sub>2</sub>XXYY, and S<sub>1</sub>S<sub>1</sub>S<sub>2</sub>S<sub>2</sub>XXY are proposed for A. repens, A. elongatiforme, and the F<sub>1</sub> hybrid, respectively The hybrid produced 75% stainable pollen and averaged 10.4 seeds per spike. Because of close morphological affinities, three genomes in common, and free gene exchange, A. elongatiforme is treated as A. repens subsp. elongatiforme (Drob.) D. R. Dewey.
10.2307/2418737|Based on data from chromosome numbers, comparative morphology, geographic distribution, and floral nectar amino acids, a narrow endemic of the eastern San Bernardino Mountains of Southern California that has been recognized under the name Castilleja ewanii (or C. martinii ssp./var. ewanii) is interpreted as an allopolyploid (n = 24, 36) derived from diploid races (n = 12) of C. chromosa and C. martinii var. martinii. Morphological evidence indicates that introgression from C. martinii var. martinii into C. chromosa has occurred either on the diploid level or via backcrossing to the allopolyploid derivatives in the same mountains. Thus both diploid introgressants and allopolyploids derived from the same parents are postulated. The type specimen of C. ewanii falls within the diploid introgressants and that name is placed in synonymy under C. chromosa. A new name, C. montigena, is proposed for the polyploids. Castilleja montigena, which possesses recombinant morphological features of the two diploid parental species, had an additive nectar amino acid complement of the other two species when they were sampled in several regions at some distance from the San Bernardino mountains. Thus glutamic acid is lacking in C. chromosa and valine is lacking in C. martinii var. martinii while both amino acids are present in the polyploids. In the San Bernardino Mountains, however, diploids of both parental species also possess the additive amino acid complement, thus corroborating morphological evidence for limited gene exchange between the diploids in this area.
10.2307/2418738|The two allopatric populations of Pinus balfouriana are distinct in many characteristics of the foliage, bark, cones, and seeds. With respect to some of these characteristics, the population in the southern Sierra Nevada is more similar to P. longaeva than to the northern Klamath Mtns. population; other features of Sierra Nevada P. balfouriana are intermediate between Klamath Mtns. P. balfouriana and P. longaeva. In recognition of the distinctness of the southern population of P. balfouriana, a new subspecies is described, Pinus balfouriana subsp. austrina, to include all P. balfouriana in the southern high Sierra Nevada.
10.2307/2418621|The reconstruction of evolutionary trees by either conventional or cladistic methods depends upon the determination of evolutionary directionality (or polarity) of character states. Many criteria have been used to determine primitive states of characters, but these sometimes have duplicated the same concept and sometimes have not been based on evolutionary reasoning. Some apply only to specific taxa. We recognize two broad categories of criteria of primitiveness: first-level criteria, in which nothing is known about any primitive condition; and second-level criteria, in which at least one primitive condition already is known. We recognize nine criteria, the first six being first-level and the last three being second-level criteria: (1) fossil evidence; (2) common is primitive; (3) co-occurrence of primitive states; (4) earliest ontogenetic state; (5) minor abnormalities of organogenesis; (6) vestigial organs; (7) association; (8) correlation; and (9) group trends. The many specific criteria of primitiveness (e.g., hypogyny preceding epigyny in the angiosperms) are regarded as tendency statements of restricted utility. The only absolute criterion of primitiveness is that the oldest character state is primitive, which can never be determined with certainty because we lack the true phylogeny. The criteria, therefore, can only help approximate real phylogenies. Some criteria are more generally useful than others, but their efficacy depends to some extent on the nature of characters and character states within individual taxa.
10.2307/2418622|An outline of the use of character compatibility analysis as an aid in taxonomic studies is given through a summary of phenetic and cladistic analyses of the Ranunculus hispidus complex. These results form a basis for discussing cladograms as an aid in the formulation of a classification. Simpson's concept of consistency is more desirable for analyzing a cladogram and its correspondence to a classification than is the sister group criterion of Hennig. Any classification is consistent (in Simpson's sense) with what is known about phylogeny if all the classes in the classification are convex. Convex, as applied to fully resolved cladograms, is operationally defined. Several examples, including studies of the Ranunculus hispidus complex, demonstrate the nature of convex groups, traditional classification, and cladograms. The use of the more flexible consistency criterion with an eclectic view of classification in which numerous lines of evidence can be helpful in understanding the taxonomic and evolutionary relationships of organisms is advocated.
10.2307/2418623|An extended outline of the logical basis of character compatibility analysis is presented. Convexity of taxa on the chosen estimate of phylogenetic history is advocated as a criterion for evaluating classifications. Thirty characters for fifteen genera of the Berberidaceae are analyzed for character compatibility. A final undirected estimate of phylogeny of the Berberidaceae is given. Airy Shaw's Berberidaceae s. str. is found to be polyphyletic on the final estimate while all of Janchen's taxa are convex. Character compatibility analysis supports recognition of four subfamilial taxa: 1) Berberis, Mahonia, and Ranzania; 2) Podophyllum, Dysosma, and Diphylleia; 3) Epimedium, Vancouveria, Jeffersonia, Plagiorhegma, and Achlys; and 4) Caulophyllum, Leontice, Bongardia, and Gymnospermium. This technique can be useful in the resolution of systematic problems above the generic level.
10.2307/2418624|The Groundplan-divergence Method of constructing phylogenetic trees was created during the 1950's for illustrating systematic principles, but it was taken up widely by researchers carrying out monographic research. Based upon a study of certain Hawaiian ferns, the method attempts to deduce pathways of genetic change on the basis of phenetic evidence. It tries to estimate the amounts (grades), directions (clades), and sequences (steps) of phylogenetic divergence, using the concept of generalized or groundplan characteristics as the basis of judging primitiveness. Groundplan-divergence analysis is concerned with pathways of actual biological changes rather than with their chronology (when the changes took place) or their geography (where they took place). Obvious parallelisms, reticulations, and co-existences of ancestors and derivatives are accepted and embodied in the cladistics. The method involves the interplay of phenetic classification, the detection of taxa of hybrid origin, analysis of character trends, synthesis of generalized character states, estimation of divergence levels, grouping according to divergence formulas, and the connecting of lines with hybrid reticulations. The method is not able to overcome problems that are caused by such factors as major gaps in the phylogenetic record, important missing characters, excessive hybridization, and evolutionary patterns that involve massive randomness or overwhelming amounts of parallelism. Examples of various uses of this method are cited.
10.2307/2418625|Phylogenetic systematics is a discipline with three major objectives: (1) reconstructing the phylogenetic (evolutionary) relationships among organisms, (2) studying character evolution in reference to such reconstructions, and (3) producing classifications that exactly reflect such relationships. Success in meeting objectives (1) and (2) depends upon the ability of the investigator to circumscribe monophyletic (natural) taxa. In turn, the ability to circumscribe monophyletic taxa depends on the ability of the investigator to determine which of two (or more) homologues is apomorphic (derived) because only apomorphic homologues justify monophyletic taxa. This determination may be made using outgroup comparisons and/or ontogeny. The criteria "common equals primitive" and "ancient equals primitive" are not recommended for use. There are several ways of meeting objective (3), including ranking, listing, indenting, or the use of numerical prefixes. Whatever system is used, phylogenetic classifications are superior to both phenetic and evolutionary taxonomic classifications for recovering information about genealogical descent and character evolution. Vicariance biogeography is a method of searching for congruent patterns of distribution among taxa and for comparing these distributions with earth history. The basic method, as currently practiced, is discussed. A recent analysis of Middle American fishes is used as a practical illustration.
10.2307/2418370|Anthoecia (lemmas and paleas) of the fossil grass Paleoeriocoma hitchcockii Elias from the Late Miocene Ash Hollow Formation of Nebraska and certain living species of Oryzopsis are similar in micromorphological and macromorphological features. This evidence indicates that Paleoeriocoma hitchcockii stock is ancestral to species of Oryzopsis of the North American sections Eriocoma and Oryzopsis (=Euoryzopsis) and possibly some species of Stipa. The occurrence of Nassella and Paleoeriocoma together in the deposits indicates that the genus Nassella has been distinct from the genera Oryzopsis and some Stipa since at least the late Miocene.
10.2307/2418371|Seeds of four species of South American Agalinis, five species of Aureolaria, the monotypic Brachystigma, and two species of Tomanthera were examined with the light microscope and the scanning electron microscope. The outer cells of seed coats form a reticulum in all taxa. The surfaces of radial walls of seed coat cells are striate, papillate, tuberculate, or granular. The inner tangential walls of seed coat cells may be smooth or a pattern of thickenings may be formed on them. Seed morphology is distinctive for each species of Agalinis, Brachystigma, and Tomanthera. Within Aureolaria the seeds are very similar among those taxa with winged seeds. The wingless, smaller seeds of Aureolaria pedicularia are distinctive.
10.2307/2418372|The taxonomic significance of those morphological characters that have been used to delimit Chenopodium sect. Chenopodium subsect. Cellulata has been questioned. Species of this alveolate-fruited group are therefore often not treated in regional manuals, especially those covering the eastern United States. Alveolate-fruited species usually are included with the synonymy of C. album s. lat. of subsect. Leiosperma. The validity of subsect. Cellulata was tested through two programs of artificial hybridization. Results support the circumscription of subsect. Cellulata as a unit distinct from other elements of sect. Chenopodium. Hybridization between taxa within subsect. Cellulata produced viable F<sub>1</sub> plants, whereas intersubsectional crosses resulted in inviable hybrids or none at all. Chenopodium bushianum, an alveolate-fruited species of northeastern North America that is often confused with C. album, showed complete genomic compatibility with C. berlandieri subsp. berlandieri, a common alveolate-fruited weed of western North America. This, plus the presence of apparent intergrading populations in the area of sympatry, indicates that the two might be better treated as a single species. When morphological, cytological, and hybridization data are considered, all taxa of the Cellulata complex appear to constitute a relatively coherent group that is well removed from C. album and related species of subsect. Leiosperma. Hybridization data also indicate the presence of a "restorer factor" for cytoplasmically inherited male-sterility in C. quinoa. This factor appears to be present in some strains of C. quinoa subsp. quinoa and some strains of C. berlandieri subsp. berlandieri.
10.2307/2418373|Data for 20 binary characters for 18 hypothetical evolutionary units, members of "Dendrogrammaceae," have been analyzed using various phenetic and cladistic methods. Phenograms from single link, complete link, UPGMA, and WPGMA cluster analysis, shortest spanning tree diagrams, and cladograms from groundplan-divergence, Wagner tree, and character compatibility analyses were constructed. The phenograms and cladograms derived from these analyses were compared with respect to topological distance matrices derived from each. Shortest spanning tree phenograms and cladograms were compared for the number and sequence of character changes occurring on each. From these comparisons, the advantages and limitations of each method as a means for expressing evolutionary relationships among organisms are discussed and a series of recommendations is outlined. Each method can contribute to the development of an estimate of the evolutionary history for a group of organisms and no single method is best for such studies.
10.2307/2418374|Pilocosta, here proposed as a new genus of Tibouchineae, is distinguished by its solitary axillary, ebracteate flowers, 4-merous floral pattern, and quadrangular, prominently ribbed hypanthia. Delimitation of taxa, based on gross morphology and chromosome numbers, is tempered by field observations of variation in natural populations. Data from these sources provide a rationale for recognizing three species-P. erythrophylla, P. nana, and P. oerstedii. The latter comprises subsp. oerstedii and the newly described subsp. campanensis. Counts of n = 7 and 14 for P. erythrophylla, n = 33 for P. nana, and n = 18 for P. oerstedii subsp. oerstedii are reported for the first time. A systematic treatment is presented for the four recognized taxa, with a key, synonymies, typifications, descriptions, discussions, and diagnostic illustrations for representative taxa.
10.2307/2418375|Bouteloua breviseta Vasey and B. ramosa Scribn. ex Vasey were described in 1890, both based on plants from Texas. Although the literature suggests that the type specimens for both species may have been collected in close proximity, this is not the case. The type of B. breviseta is from modern Reeves County, not far from the New Mexico state line, and about 210 airline kilometers north of the type locality of B. ramosa. For some 50 years these two taxa were treated as specifically distinct by agrostologists, but in the mid 1930's both W. A. Silveus and A. S. Hitchcock relegated B. ramosa to synonymy under B. breviseta. With few exceptions, this disposition has been followed by botanists since that time. The present study, which is based on field work throughout their ranges, along with examination of more than 180 herbarium specimens, demonstrates that these two taxa differ in a number of significant ways. Bouteloua breviseta is diploid (2n = 20) and is a gypsophile; B. ramosa is tetraploid (2n = 40) and is characteristic of calcareous soils. Each taxon occupies a different geographical area, and their ranges scarcely overlap. These distinctions, along with significant morphological dissimilarities, indicate that B. ramosa is in no sense a minor variant of B. breviseta but is as distinctive a species as many others commonly recognized in the genus Bouteloua.
10.2307/2418376|Cuphea inflata S. Graham is described as a new species of sect. Heterodon from Nayarit, Jalisco, and Sinaloa. It is distinguished from its closest relative, C. leptopoda Hemsl., by its secund or pyramidal inflorescence, wine-purple floral tube inflated at maturity, and chromosome number, n = 10.
10.2307/2418377|Cirsium coahuilense G. Ownb. & Pinkava occurs naturally in the desert areas of Coahuila, Mexico. Morphologically, the new species is most closely allied to C. excelsius (Robins.) Petrak from San Luis Potosi.
10.2307/2418516|Complex translocation heterozygotes have been discovered in three species of Homeria, a genus of southern African Iridaceae. These species, H. tenuis (2n = 10, 9), H. flavescens (ined., 2n = 9), and H. pallida (2n = 8) are the only aneuploid species or races in the genus; H. pallida also has forms with 2n = 12. Basic chromosome number in Homeria is x = 6 and most species are diploid, a few polyploid. The genus comprises mostly large-flowered outcrossing species, but self-compatibility and autogamy occur in several, including the three with complex heterozygosity. Observations on meiotic behavior in the species mentioned are incomplete but established in H. pallida in which alternate segregation of chromosomes regularly occurs. In all species pollen fertility is low, 55% or less, but abundant seed is produced.
10.2307/2418517|Twenty-two subjects ranging from distinguished professional systematists through graduate students to children were asked to classify the 29 Recent species of Caminalcules by whatever taxonomic principle seemed "natural" to them. The resulting classifications were compared with three standards-two of these are phenetic and based on a numerical taxonomic study of these images by A. J. Boyce and I. Huber, the third is the true cladogram furnished by J. H. Camin. Each experimental classification was coded numerically in two ways to furnish a phenetic and a cladistic interpretation of the classification. Correlations among the classifications reveal substantial variation among them. The average resemblance of the classifications is highest with the phenetic standard based on correlations, which is a better measure of shape; average resemblance is lower for the phenetic standard based on distances, which measure size; and the lowest resemblance is shown to the true cladistic classification. There is no relation between experience or field of expertise and closeness to a standard classification; children do as well as professionals. Errors in judgment about close affinities between pairs of operational taxonomic units are largly restricted to one genus, E. Application of the technique of judgment analysis revealed that four to six out of 112 characters predict the majority of the classificatory decisions of each of the subjects. These characters determine generic structure in the Caminalcules but are not the visually most striking characteristics. Classifications described by their originators as cladistic or phylogenetic were closer to phenetic standards than to the cladistic standard.
10.2307/2418518|Heteroblastic leaf development and seasonal heterophylly in some extant species of Populus result in diverse mature leaf forms during ontogeny of a single individual. Juvenile leaves of heteroblastic poplars, such as P. mexicana Wesmael and P. monticola T. Brandegee, are narrower than adult leaves of the same species and share corresponding differences in foliar venation. In species with seasonal heterophylly, early leaves of adult individuals are formed in the season preceding leaf expansion and overwinter in buds, while late leaves expand in the same season in which they are initiated. In P. monticola, late leaves have finer, more regular serrations than early leaves of the same shoots, but other species show other differences between the two leaf forms. Although their fossilized leaves are found as single detached organs, several Tertiary species of Populus that are related to extant heterophyllous species, exemplified by P. cinnamomoides (Lesquereux) MacGinitie, P. adamantea H. Becker, and P. cedrusensis J. Wolfe, probably possessed heteromorphic leaf types as well. Diverse leaf types of each of these species have been divided among two or three species apiece by paleobotanists. Some have been considered representatives of different genera. Foliar heteromorphism of the kinds found in Tertiary and Recent Populus may be a more prevalent source of taxonomic confusion in fossil floras than has heretofore been recognized.
10.2307/2418519|A crossing program was undertaken to study systematic relationships among perennial taxa of Linanthus. Most artificial crosses resulted in no seed set; self-pollinations set seed readily. The few successful artificial crosses produced vigorous yet sterile hybrids. Meiotic configurations observed in diploid x diploid hybrids and tetraploid x tetraploid hybrids showed a lack of complete pairing at diakinesis-metaphase I, and nearly 0% pollen stainability. Meiosis in diploid x tetraploid hybrids showed Drosera-type pairing with 9<sub>II</sub> + 9<sub>I</sub>. Data from meiosis in the artificial hybrids suggest a possible alloploid origin for naturally occurring tetraploid taxa.
10.2307/2418520|The central Pacific area has four taxa of Emilia: E. coccinea, E. fosbergii, E. sonchifolia var. sonchifolia, and E. sonchifolia var. javanica. The first three are widespread in the neotropics and intermediates do not occur. In the central Pacific intermediates are found where E. fosbergii and E. sonchifolia var. javanica are sympatric and, presumably, hybridize. A confusing complex exists in the western Pacific and eastern Asia, apparently because E. sonchifolia var. javanica hybridizes with at least one native species, such as E. prenanthoidea. The paper includes a discussion of morphological characteristics, keys and synonymy of the four taxa, and a survey of the literature on cytology and breeding systems in Emilia.
10.2307/2418521|Opuntia curvospina (n = 22) is intermediate in morphology and in ploidy level between O. chlorotica (n = 11) and O. phaeacantha (n = 33) and exhibits frequent meiotic aberrations and reduced pollen stainability. These data support the interpretation of O. curvospina as a species of hybrid origin between O. chlorotica and O. phaeacantha. Opuntia martiniana (L. Benson) Parfitt is superficially similar to O. curvospina, is also tetraploid (n = 22), but is distinguished by its style shape and other characters.
10.2307/2418522|Stegnospermaceae (A. Rich.) Nakai is a monotypic family containing the North American genus Stegnosperma Benth. with three species. Long associated with Phytolaccaceae as a tribe or subfamily, the family has been recognized by some workers as distinct from Phytolaccaceae (Nakai, Hutchinson, Airy Shaw), while other recent students of phylogeny have retained it in Phytolaccaceae (Takhtajan, Cronquist, Thorne). An examination of the wood anatomy, the first ever, reveals that Stegnospermaceae is more similar to Caryophyllaceae than to Phytolaccaceae. By considering floral, palynological, and biochemical evidences in addition to the new anatomical evidence, it appears that Stegnosperma is distinct from Phytolaccaceae and deserves formal familial recognition in Caryophyllales. Its relationship within the order is still among the less advanced families, representing an element related to the branch leading from Phytolaccaceae to Caryophyllaceae.
10.2307/2418523|Leaf flavonoids of Idiospermum australiense were examined and compared with those of Calycanthus and Chimonanthus (Calycanthaceae). Flavonoid data, in conjunction with morphological and anatomical features, were used to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships of the taxa. Five flavonol glycosides, based upon the aglycones quercetin and kaempferol, were isolated and identified from Calycanthus occidentalis, C. floridus, and Chimonanthus praecox. Two flavones (7-O-diglucosides of apigenin and luteolin) and a di-C-glycosylflavone were detected in Idiospermum. No intermediate flavonoid patterns between the two groups were found. We feel that the distinctive nature of the flavonoids of Idiospermum, together with the morphological and anatomical differences between the Calycanthaceae and Idiospermum that have been reported, support removing Idiospermum from the Calycanthaceae and placing it in a separate family, the Idiospermaceae.
10.2307/2418524|Acmanhera minima Anderson is described and illustrated. A key and distribution map for all six species of the genus are provided.
10.2307/2418525|Hampea reynae is described from the rain forest of Montecristo National Park in northern El Salvador. Discovery of this species has implications for infrageneric subdivision of Hampea.
10.2307/2418629|Gene flow distances in Diamorpha smallii (Crassulaceae) effected through pollen dispersal by ants (Formica schaufussi and F. subsericea) are extremely short and their frequency distributions are strongly leptokurtic in form. Increased plant density is associated with decreased pollen dispersal distances. This pattern of pollen dispersal may explain earlier electrophoretic data indicating a highly subdivided population structure in D. smallii.
10.2307/2418630|The Haplopappus phyllocephalus group consists of H. aureus Gray, H. annuus (Rydb.) Cory, and H. phyllocephalus DC. All are annuals with x = 6, campanulate involucres, and ray florets and were previously placed in H. M. Hall's sect. Blepharodon. As a representative of the group, H. aureus was crossed to H. venetus H.B.K. subsp. venetus of sect. Isocoma, which consists of shrubs with x = 6, generally turbinate heads, and no rays. F<sub>1</sub> hybrids were vigorous and chiasma frequency was only slightly reduced. However, chiasma frequency and pollen fertility were not much reduced from that found in hybrids within the phyllocephalus group. Presence/absence of ray florets is controlled by a single dominant/recessive gene locus; a 3:1 ratio of rayed to rayless was found in 67 F<sub>2</sub> plants. The two groups have in common the same chromosome number and abruptly constricted disc florets and are now considered to be closely related and members of the same section of the genus, i.e., sect. Isocoma.
10.2307/2418631|Twelve species of Coriaria, the sole genus of Coriariaceae; were examined for flavonoid constituents. The major compounds identified were 3-O-monoglycosides of quercetin and kaempferol comprising glucosides, galactosides, arabinosides, xylosides, and rhamnosides. Diglycosides isolated were the 3-O-rutinosides of both flavonols plus small amounts of the 3-O-xylosylglucosides (or 3-O-glucosylxylosides). Naringenin-7-O--D-glucopyranoside was observed as a major constituent of most taxa. The distribution of these compounds was very homogeneous among the species tested, giving no support to Good's three "groups." A comparison of flavonoid data obtained in this study with published information concerning those families with which Coriariaceae has been allied showed no close relationships. On the basis of flavanone distribution a tentative but distant relationship with the group Anacardiaceae-Rutaceae-Meliaceae might be suggested. The chemical evidence, however, supports the view that the family is an isolated one with no close relatives.
10.2307/2418632|Three allopatric, morphologically distinct diploid species and their auto- and allopolyploid derivatives constitute the Claytonia perfoliata complex. Diploid C. rubra synthesizes kaempferol-3-O-glucoside, kaempferol-3-O-arabinosylglucoside, and novel kaempferol-3-O-rhamnosylarabinosylglucoside. Claytonia perfoliata diploids yield the same array of glycosides but both kaempferol and quercetin are glycosylated. Unlike the autogamous C. rubra or C. perfoliata, the facultatively xenogamous diploid C. parviflora makes abundant diglycosides of kaempferol and quercetin including rhamnosylglucosides, arabinosylglucosides, and a glucosylglucoside. In all three taxa flavonol-3-O-glycosides show little interpopulational variation and are localized in floral tissue. Flavonoid data support a multi-species general-purpose classification for the C. perfoliata complex.
10.2307/2418633|Variation in composition of essential leaf oils in Citrus resulting from changes in rootstock have been correlated by an analysis of variance. Some components of leaf oil show significant variations with such changes.
10.2307/2418634|Previous morphological studies of the Delphinium carolinianum Walt. complex arrived at conflicting conclusions as to number of taxa recognized and characters distinguishing those taxa. Since 1900, various workers have recognized two to seven species in the complex. Over 15 basionyms and many more nomenclatural combinations have been applied. The objectives of this study were to clarify the relationships between taxa of the complex, to elucidate characters that may be used consistently to distinguish those taxa, and to determine their correct epithets. Two species, D. wootonii Rydb. and D. carolinianum, were recognized on the basis of extensive systematic investigations. Three subspecies [carolinianum, vimineum (D. Don) comb. nov., and penardii (Huth) comb. nov.] are included in D. carolinianum. Morphological and cytological data discussed here, as well as flavonoid chemistry and seed protein data discussed briefly here, support these conclusions.
10.2307/2418635|In bringing my monograph of western North American Arabis, published in 1941, up to date, a considerable extension of information concerning previously little known taxa has been made. Range extensions or clarification of the taxonomy of Arabis fernaldiana and A. shockleyi is given. A putative hybrid between A. holboellii var. pendulocarpa and a new species, A. williamsii, is discussed. New taxa, A. ophira from Nevada, A. lasiocarpa and A. pulchra M. E. Jones var. duchesnensis from Utah, and A. williamsii, from Wyoming are described.
10.2307/2418636|Two new species of Saurauia from Mexico are described, illustrated, and compared to their relatives. Saurauia madrensis occurs in cloud forests and Liquidambar forests of the Sierra Madre in Chiapas. Saurauia cana is found in wet forest habitats north of the trans-Mexican volcanic belt in the Sierra Madre Oriental.
10.2307/2418637|Nine species of Hedyosmum are now known from Panama, including three newly described here: H. burgerianum, H. correanum, and H. gentryi. Different modes of fruit presentation and associated bractlet arrays suggest possibilities for understanding the evolution of Hedyosmum.
10.2307/2418541|The pollination biology of angiosperms affects the quantity and quality of seeds produced by an individual. The amount of genetic variability present in the seeds of a single fruit is dependent on the number of male parents involved in fertilization. The variation in genetic relatedness of developing siblings in an ovary may lead to varying degrees of competition among young seeds for maternal nutrients. Kin selection theory predicts that closely related seeds resulting from fertilization by a single paternal parent will compete less with each other than seeds fertilized by different fathers. Ramdom dispersal of single pollen grains characteristic of wind pollination tends to produce less closely related seeds in multi-ovulate ovaries. Pollen transferred between flowers in large aggregations by specialized animal pollinators gives rise to seeds that are full siblings. The evolution of animal pollination, large pollen unit size, and multi-ovulate ovaries in some angiosperms may be understood in terms of competitive interactions among the developing seeds.
10.2307/2418542|Pollen proteins from selected Ambrosia taxa and selected relatives were compared using four serological techniques: radial immunodiffusion (RID), rocket immunoelectrophoresis (RIE), 2-dimensional immunoelectrophoresis (2-D IE), and Ouchterlony double diffusion. Data revealed that all Ambrosia species were distinguishable from putatively related species, even within the tribe. Ambrosioid and franserioid species were very similar to each other, confirming the congeneric nature of these taxa. A particular protein, antigen E, was found to be different in the species of the two groups. The combined techniques of presaturated antisera with RID and 2-D IE proved to be valuable for helping to make taxonomic interpretations concerning Ambrosia.
10.2307/2418543|Seeds of 13 southeastern United States taxa of Arenaria were examined with the scanning electron microscope. With a few exceptions, external morphology is distinctive and valuable for separating taxa at the species level. No differences were discerned, however, between the closely related A. alabamensis and A. uniflora. Arenaria glabra is variable in the degree of tubercle development, but otherwise it is identical to A. groenlandica. Interspecific variation in external seed morphology of the taxa examined does not support generic segregation of Minuartia from Arenaria.
10.2307/2418544|Abaxial epidermes of basal leaves of 49 species of Stipeae, almost all North American, were examined. It was not possible to recognize individual species by their epidermal characters but some taxonomically interesting correlations were found. Shape of costal silica bodies and numbers of costal and intercostal cell files were the most useful taxonomic characters. Most species had dumbbell- to nodulose-shaped costal silica bodies but a few species, notably Stipa pennata and members of S. sect. Hesperostipa, had bodies that were rectangular in outline. Species of Oryzopsis generally had fewer silica body-containing costal cell files and smoother long-cell walls than most species of Stipa. Species of Piptochaetium examined had relatively few silico-suberose pairs in the intercostal region and a relatively high number of costal cell files with silicose cells.
10.2307/2418545|Oenothera acutissima W. L. Wagner is a rare new species of sect. Lavauxia from Moffat Co., Colorado, and adjacent Daggett Co., Utah. Oenothera acutissima is clearly distinguished from its closest morphological relatives, O. flava and O. triloba, by its long slender branching taproot, which is capable of vegetative reproduction by producing new shoots along its length, linear irregularly dentate leaves, deep reddish-orange color of the faded petals, and small, fewer-seeded capsules. It occurs in seasonally moist sandy soils in medium altitude conifer forests to sagebrush scrub communities, whereas O. flava grows in heavier clay soils and rarely comes in contact with O. acutissima. Attempts to produce artificial hybrids produced mostly empty seed, but with difficulty two variegated plants were obtained.
10.2307/2418546|Placement of the South American genus Dicella Grisebach (Malpighiaceae), which contains six species, is discussed, as well as the salient morphological features employed in its taxonomy. A key is provided to the two sections and the six species. All taxa are described, including, for the first time, Dicella oliveirae and sect. Macropterys.
10.2307/2418547|Numerical taxonomic studies show that eleven species of Solanum sect. Solanum occur in North America. Five diploid (n = 12) species, S. americanum, S. douglasii, S. interius, S. pseudogracile, and S. ptycanthum are apparently native. A sixth diploid species, S. sarrachoides, is an introduction from South America. Three polyploid species, S. furcatum, S. nigrum, and S. villosum, occur infrequently. Two other polyploid species, S. scabrum and S. retroflexum, are sometimes cultivated. A notable nomenclatural change, necessitated by a previously selected lectotype for S. americanum, is the use of the name S. americanum for the species previously known as S. nodiflorum. The name S. ptycanthum is now used for the species of the northeastern United States formerly called S. americanum.
10.2307/2418282|Seed glucosinolate profiles (kinds and proportions of constituents) were analyzed by paper- and gas-chromatography for 89 collections of 40 species of Caulanthus and Streptanthus. Twenty-six compounds were identified; these are presumed to be biosynthesized from five different protein amino acids. Considerable interspecific variability was uncovered, with differences involving both the number of glucosinolates constituting a profile (diversity) and the nature of biosynthetic modifications affecting their production (complexity). Serpentine-adapted taxa appear to be as chemically diverse and complex as non-serpentine taxa. In general, a species possesses a characteristic chemical profile distinguishable from that of morphologically similar taxa. In six species significant intraspecific variability was detected; in S. cordatus this variability correlates with morphologically recognized infraspecific taxa. Suspected parallelism and convergence, however, reduce the taxonomic utility of glucosinolates as characters at subgeneric and generic levels in this group of Cruciferae.
10.2307/2418283|The 19th century transfer of Cicer (Fabaceae) from the Vicieae to the monotypic Cicereae was recently reiterated by Kupicha. We present evidence to support this transfer based on seed morphology and testa topography as shown by scanning electron microscopy. Examination of 11 of the 40 species (a 28% sample) reveals five characteristics not found in most Vicieae seeds: 1) triangular to pyriform seed shape because of prominent beak bearing the hilum, 2) usually elaborate lens, 3) testa surface usually composed of large plates often conspicuously elevated to conical or spinose protuberances, 4) almost circular hilum with more or less conspicuous hilar rim, 5) deltoid micropyle. Cicer microphyllum Benth. and C. montbretii Jaubert & Spach have an inconspicuous lens and a papillose surface, suggesting a link with Vicieae.
10.2307/2418284|Spilanthes is widespread throughout the New and Old World tropics. Morphological and chromosomal evidence supports separation of the genus into two genera, Spilanthes and Acmella, which can be distinguished by at least eight morphological characters and by distinctive basic chromosome numbers. Studies of other genera within the Heliantheae suggest that both Spilanthes and Acmella are allied to Salmea in the Verbesininae. Spilanthes is here recognized as comprising six species distributed primarily in sandy soils of South America, the West Indies, northern Australia, Malaysia, and central and western Africa. A phylogenetic reconstruction employing cladistic methods suggests that the New World species, S. leiocarpa, S. nervosa, S. paraguayensis, and S. urens, are more closely allied to each other than to the Old World species. The cladistic analysis further suggests a closer relationship between the Australo-Malaysian S. anactina and the New World species than with S. costata, a species restricted to central and western tropical Africa.
10.2307/2418285|Isocarpha comprises five species ranging from southern Texas and the Bahamas to northern Peru and northeastern Brazil. The genus belongs in Eupatorieae rather than Heliantheae, but structure of the head of Isocarpha with its elongate, chaffy receptacle is anomalous within Eupatorieae. An hypothesis is presented suggesting the evolutionary derivation of this type of head through formation of floral buds in the axils of the involucral bracts. Generic ties of Isocarpha within Eupatorieae are unclear, but the closest affinities appear to be with Ayapana and relatives.
10.2307/2418286|Mexacanthus is based on specimens from west-central Mexico and placed in the Justicieae, Odontoneminae. Its closest relatives appear to be Carlowrightia and Anisacanthus. The only known species, M. mevaughii, differs from these genera in several features including the bicolporate pollen.
10.2307/2418287|An examination was made of the material available to Gomez Ortega to determine the type of Phaseolus gibbosifolius. The original description and the specimen found indicate that P. gibbosifolius is conspecific with M. heterophyllum. A new combination, Macroptilium gibbosifolium (Ortega) A. Delgado, is proposed and the species is lectotypified.
10.2307/2418445|The hypothesis that angiosperms are primitively vesselless was tested in the context of a cladistic analysis of selected families of the Magnoliidae, Ranunculidae, and Hamamelididae. Results of this analysis show that the most parsimonious explanation of the absence of vessels in dicotyledons is that in all instances it is a derived feature. This conclusion is supported by three taxon out-group comparisons and does not alter our well-founded understanding of vessel member evolution within the angiosperms. I suggest that presence of vessel members with scalariform perforation plates and scalariform intervascular pitting, such as those in Austrobaileya, is the "primitive" condition within the angiosperms. I also suggest that in the earliest angiosperms vessels were restricted to secondary xylem. Absence of vessels in the eleven extant genera of "primitive" woody dicotyledons is a secondary loss, and it is suggested that the xylem of these genera is paedomorphic.
10.2307/2418446|Populations of species of four families of Angiosperms were sampled in Colombia in order to quantify variation within and among populations of the same and different species within each family. Variation estimates are also compared to results with Asclepiadaceae sampled from western North America. As sampled, Melastomataceae differ significantly from Piperaceae at the family level and from Rubiaceae at the population level. Melastomataceae shows the greatest range of variation from population to family of any of the six families and Bromeliaceae has nearly as great a range. The extent of variation for Rubiaceae and Piperaceae is much less. Variation within populations of Asclepiadaceae from North America resembles that for Melastomataceae. Explanations for the lower variability and extent of variability of Rubiaceae and Piperaceae rest upon population biology theory.
10.2307/2418447|The claim has been made that all convex groups are consistent with phylogenetic hypotheses that contain members of these groups. Convex groups may be either clades (monophyletic groups sensu Hennig) or paraphyletic grades. Convex characters are shared homologues. The logical meaning of consistency is explored and Hull's concept of consistency between classifications and phylogenies is applied to this claim and expanded to include consistency between grouping of organisms, character evolution, and other natural processes. Any classification containing only clades is consistent with both the branching sequence and character evolution of the organisms classified. Indeed there are many such consistent classifications. Some contain more information than others. In contrast, classifications containing paraphyletic grades are never consistent with the branching sequence of the organisms classified and, unless neutrality is claimed, will lead to inconsistent deductions about character evolution. Further, if neutrality is claimed, paraphyletic grades cannot be defined by characters, and classifications containing paraphyletic grades are usually less informative than the least informative classification containing only clades. In those cases where this is not true, the classification containing paraphyletic grades gives inconsistent (and misleading) information on character evolution.
10.2307/2418448|A workshop on cladistic methods was held in Berkeley, 23-28 Mar 1981. It was unusual in that it emphasized analysis of data sets submitted by the participants. This focused attention on the construction of data sets and the differences among computer algorithms rather than on issues of classification or historical biogeography. Like any approach to phylogeny reconstruction, cladistic methods depend heavily on choice of characters and character states, as well as determination of evolutionary polarity and transformation series, and implicit or explicit character weighting. If the group being analyzed is not monophyletic or if it includes hybrids the cladistic relationships of the taxa may be misinterpreted. Minor changes in the choice of characters or the choice of taxa often produced major differences in cladograms. Such problems may be magnified by computer analyses. Different algorithms produce different results because they are based on different assumptions about the likelihood of character state changes. Despite these problems, the great strength of cladistic methods is that they force careful consideration of the nature and distribution of taxonomic characters and in doing so provide us with our best estimates of phylogenetic history.
10.2307/2418449|Coreopsis cyclocarpa is a diploid, suffrutescent perennial occurring in the grasslands of high plateau regions of Mexico. The species consists of two allopatric varieties, var. pinnatisecta and the typical one. They are very similar morphologically and appear to differ only by a feature of the leaves. The two infraspecific taxa are highly interfertile. Electrophoresis was utilized to ascertain the amount of divergence between the varieties at 20 genetic loci coding for soluble enzymes. There is high genetic identity among populations of the same variety, with mean values of 0.98 for populations of var. cyclocarpa and 0.95 for var. pinnatisecta. When comparing mean identities for populations of the two varieties, the value is 0.75, indicating genetic divergence between the taxa. It is suggested that genetic differentiation between the two varieties is a reflection of the time they have been isolated.
10.2307/2418450|Electrophoretic analysis of South American Chenopodium (sect. Chenopodium subsect. Cellulata, 2n = 4x = 36) reveals multi-locus isozyme systems for leucine aminopeptidase (LAP) and phosphoglucoisomerase (PGI) that appear to be the result of tetraploid gene duplication. The bi-locus LAP system is monomorphic for active alleles with putative null alleles at each locus that are not present in populations at the northern range extreme. The null allele at Lap-1 appears to be sporadically distributed in the highlands of Peru, Bolivia, and Argentina, whereas the null variant at Lap-2 shows a clinal increase from north to south with fixation in the Argentine lowlands. All material (62 population samples from Chile, Argentina, Bolivia, and Peru, and 206 exemplar samples from Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia) is monomorphic at Pgi-1 and essentially monomorphic at the other two PGI loci, with the exception of low elevation populations of Argentina, which show five active variants and one null. Aside from clinal trends at two loci, the observed pattern of genetic variation is not consistent with extreme discontinuities in selective regime, habitat, and distribution. It is proposed that an archaic genotype has been conserved in the Andean area of chenopod cultivation through interpopulation gene flow mediated by weed-crop genetic interaction and human dispersal. A relatively high level of inter-population reproductive isolation in lowland Argentina has possibly allowed differentiation of PGI alleles and silencing of one LAP locus through fixation of null alleles. Populations from lowland Argentina include individuals showing electrophoretic diploidization in both isozyme systems, thus producing the typical phenotype of diploid Chenopodium. The percentage of heterozygous plants per population and level of detected out-crossing indicate a high potential for gene flow within populations of lowland Argentina, although genetic interaction with sympatric C. album was not detected.
10.2307/2418451|Experimental studies show that the type and most collections of Encelia laciniata are F<sub>1</sub> hybrids between E. ventorum and E. palmeri. Other collections referred to E. laciniata are hybrids between E. ventorum and E. asperifolia. Only where the parental species occur together can one find E. laciniata and then it is strictly confined to zones of intermediate habitat or disturbance. Progeny tests show that lack of pollinator fidelity results in many backcross and other recombinant embryos, but these are expressed as mature plants only in direct proportion to the severity of habitat disturbance and are absent altogether from undisturbed sites. Hybrids and their derivatives largely displace the parent species in areas of extreme disturbance. Only extremely intense to absolute post-dispersal selection can account for these phenomena.
10.2307/2418452|Populations making up the Poa secunda complex of South America are morphologically within the range of variation displayed by the group of western North American poas having only slightly compressed to rounded lemmas, all of the latter transitional to and possibly conspecific with Poa sandbergii Vasey. Moreover, the South American populations occupy areas with climates analogous to those in which the North American populations occur. Poa secunda Presl, therefore, is considered to be the correct name for the North American species and Poa sandbergii Vasey is reduced to synonymy.
10.2307/2418453|Six new species of Gloeocystidiellum (G. fimbriatum, G. marianus, G. sinuosum, G. tropicalis, G. turpe, and G. wakullum) from the southeastern United States are described and illustrated. Culture descriptions are provided for three species.
10.2307/2418648|Protogyny, in concert with a well-defined pattern of andromonoecism in umbel inflorescences and strong synchrony of floral and inflorescence development within individual stalks of Thaspium and Zizia, produces sexual phase alternations that promote a strong outcrossing system in plants of these genera despite full self-compatibility. Study of these phenology patterns in conjunction with selfing studies, analysis of stigmatic pollen loads, and determinations of pollen : ovule ratios in 9 populations (including 4 taxa) of Thaspium and Zizia revealed that incomplete protogyny in some individuals allows 5-10% mechanical self-pollination in T. barbinode and Z. trifoliata and up to 20% mechanical self-pollination in T. trifoliatum. Stalks of one plant do not generally flower synchronously and insect-mediated geitonogamy between stalks of a single plant may account for significant amounts of selfing within populations. Strong xenogamy within Thaspium and Zizia is suggested, however, by high pollen : ovule ratios and by stigmatic pollen-load data.
10.2307/2418649|In light of the continuing use of artificial hybridizations in plant systematics and certain inadequacies of traditional methods of displaying crossing data, a new technique is described for presentation of crossability indices. The matrix of crossability indices is first presented as a series of frequency distributions for each species. The "frequency distribution table" is a concise and useful method for reporting a large data set involving pairwise comparisons. All data are presented, and any of several coarse or fine grained patterns of crossing relationships are readily apparent. The frequency distribution table simplifies and encourages the application of numerical methods of summarization and analysis. "Crossability maps" are constructed to display the relationships suggested by the crossability indices. Each map exhibits all connections made between taxa at or above a given crossability level, providing a simple visual display of the taxonomic structure suggested by the results of artificial hybridizations. These diagrams greatly facilitate discussion of the systematic significance of the results of hybridization programs.
10.2307/2418650|Populations of Sullivantia species were investigated electrophoretically to evaluate the effect of geographic isolation and small population size on genetic variability. Starch gel electrophoresis demonstrated that Sullivantia species are allozymically depauperate. Only two of ten loci investigated are polymorphic and allozymic variability was detected in only two of 29 populations examined. The paucity of allozymic variability detected for species of Sullivantia is consistent with findings for most other plant species with narrowly restricted distributions. Founder effect and especially genetic drift probably are largely responsible for the very low levels of allozymic variability observed within Sullivantia populations for the two polymorphic enzymes (acid phosphatase and catalase). Because Sullivantia species typically are highly self-fertile, inbreeding probably also has been important in determining levels of variability within populations. This investigation also has demonstrated that taxa of Sullivantia, which are morphologically distinct and possess distinctive arrays of flavonoid constituents, cannot be distinguished allozymically based on ten loci analyzed.
10.2307/2418651|Correlations among morphological characters and flower color morphs of Platystemon californicus were examined to determine whether infraspecific taxa differing in flower color should be described. Among 56 morphological characters assessed in plants from 75 populations, no single character or subset of characters correlated with flower color. Similarity graph clustering, using 60 characters, failed to reveal morphologically homogeneous groups, although plants tended to cluster into northern and southern groups. Those groups could not be clearly defined by any morphological character studied, however, and recognition of the groups as infraspecific taxa was not justified.
10.2307/2418652|Cumminsiella santa, on Berberis spinulosa from southern Brazil, has characteristics more like Cumminsiella species on Mahonia than like those on Berberis. Other Cumminsiella species have distribution ranges that are correlated with subgeneric taxa of Mahonia. Keys present the comparative morphology of Cumminsiella species. Classification of Cumminsiella on Mahonia and Berberis supports the infrageneric taxonomy of Mahonia but not necessarily the separation of the two genera in the Western Hemisphere.
10.2307/2418653|The chromosome number of Aster hemisphaericus varies depending upon the number of supernumerary chromosomes present: 2n = 18 + 0-4 sup. The chromosome number of Aster paludosus (var. paludosus) is reported for the first time as 2n = 36. Karyotypes of the two species indicate the former to be diploid with x = 9 and the latter to be tetraploid with x = 9 as well. The two species differ primarily in inflorescence and distributional characteristics. Meiosis was observed in one individual of A. hemisphaericus with supernumeraries and the following configurations were seen in late diakinesis to late metaphase I: 2n = 9 II + 1 sup. I, 9 II + 2 sup. I, 9 II + 1 sup. II (= 10 II), 9 II + 1 sup. II + 1 sup. I and 9 II + 2 sup. II (= 11 II). During mitotic metaphase the supernumeraries were present as small metacentric euchromatic chromosomes that were about one-half as long as the smaller A-set chromosomes. The chromosome number of Aster chapmanii is reported for the first time as 2n = 14. The karyotype of this x = 7 species suggests it is an aneuploid derivative of an x = 9 ancestor. The cytological data indicate an x = 9 base for Heleastrum. Many morphological similarities exist between the less specialized species of sect. Heleastrum and many species of sects. Aster and Sericocarpus of subgenus Aster.
10.2307/2418654|Extensive morphological variation and a wide geographical range have led to difficulties in the taxonomy of Central American and West Indian species of Vernonia. Vernonia canescens and its relatives in Central and South America, and V. arborescens and V. divaricata of the West Indies, were similar appearing species whose taxonomic boundaries were poorly defined. These taxa had been distinguished primarily on the basis of leaf size, shape, and characteristics of the indument. Detailed comparison of vegetative and reproductive characters within and between populations of these taxa from Central America and the West Indies revealed extensive morphological variation. No characters were found that can be reliably used to separate taxa in this group. Other similar appearing taxa from northern South America, such as V. volubilis, were also found to be identical. Consequently, one highly polymorphic species, Vernonia arborescens, is recognized from the West Indies and Central and South America.
10.2307/2418655|Ichnanthus P. Beauv. comprises approximately 39 species of grasses; one is confined to tropical Asia, Africa, and Australia; the remainder are widely distributed in the American tropics. Ichnanthus is closely related to Echinolaena and Oplismenus, and to both section Panicum and the "Stolonifera" group of Panicum. It differs from these related taxa in one character of the fertile floret of the spikelet-two extensions from the rachilla of the upper lemma that are either actual winged structures or wing-like sclerified areas (also called excavations) at the base of the upper lemma by which the two sections are distinguished. In section Ichnanthus, the two winged appendages are attached to the base of the upper lemma; 19 species of this section are described. In section Foveolatus, wing-like sclerified areas are present at the base of the upper lemma. Anatomical observations and <sup>13</sup>C/<sup>12</sup>C ratios for selected species suggest that Ichnanthus includes only C<sub>3</sub> grasses with the typical Calvin cycle of photosynthesis.
10.2307/2418321|Erythroxylum coca vars. coca and ipadu and E. novogranatense vars. novogranatense and truxillense are closely related taxa cultivated in South America for their cocaine-bearing leaves. Taxonomically they have been variously treated, ranging from one to three separate species. Erythroxylum novogranatense var. truxillense is morphologically somewhat intermediate between E. c. var. coca and E. n. var. novogranatense and has been suggested to be a hybrid between the two. Evidence from artificial hybridizations, leaf flavonoid chemistry, and breeding system studies was used to clarify the taxonomic and evolutionary relationships of these plants. This evidence suggests that E. n. var. truxillense is intermediate between E. coca and E. n. novogranatense but it is not a hybrid between them. These three taxa represent a linear evolutionary series, with E. c. var. coca the ancestral taxon, E. n. var. truxillense derived from it, and E. n. var. novogranatense derived from E. n. var. truxillense. Erythroxylum c. var. ipadu was independently derived from E. c. var. coca. All of the taxa are partially isolated genetically except E. c. var. coca and E. c. var. ipadu. The taxonomic treatment that best reflects their relationships is to regard E. novogranatense var. novogranatense and E. n. var. truxillense as varieties of a species distinct from E. coca. Only limited material of E. c. var. ipadu was available for study, but it might better be regarded as a cultivar of E. coca.
10.2307/2418322|Tuberous lomatiums (Lomatium, Umbelliferae) constitute a well-defined infrageneric group that is characterized by adaptation to a short, early spring growing season followed by a long summer drought. All tuberous lomatiums are andromonoecious and all exhibit a pattern of increasing ratios of hermaphroditic to staminate flowers in successively maturing inflorescences. Floral visitation by a variety of Diptera, Hymenoptera, and Coleoptera effects outcrossing and may also mediate geitonogamous selfing. Xenogamy is promoted by protogyny of hermaphroditic flowers, the arrangement of staminate and perfect flowers, and the sequence of floral maturation. Geitonogamy is favored by the morphology of the inflorescences, overlap of the staminate and pistillate stages of different flowers on the same individual, and the behavior of pollinators. Andromonoecy and high pollen production favor both xenogamy and geitonogamy. The floral features of tuberous lomatiums ensure relatively high levels of seed production even though abundance and activity of pollinators may be limited by harsh environmental conditions.
10.2307/2418323|The flowers of Asarum caudatum Lindl. are protogynous and receptive for cross-pollination for approximately one week. After this period, the anthers dehisce near the stigmas and self-pollination occurs. Based largely on studies of garden plants in Europe, Vogel proposed that this species is allogamous but my observations of eight populations in northern California indicate that autogamy predominates because (a) the frequency of flower visitation is extremely low, (b) pollen was found on stigmas of only 8% of female-stage flowers, (c) emasculated flowers set few fruits and seeds compared to controls (fruit set: 20 vs. 99%; seed set: 5 vs. 67%), and (d) fruit and seed sets of bagged flowers were equivalent to those of controls. Fly eggs and larvae were present in some flowers in each population but I found no evidence to support Vogel's hypothesis that mating and ovipositing fungus gnats pollinate this species.
10.2307/2418324|The very common foliose lichen Pseudoparmelia caperata (Ascomycotina, Parmeliaceae) has an exceptionally broad amplitude of ecological tolerance, growing on trees and noncalcareous rocks on all continents. In most of eastern North American, however, it is primarily epiphytic, its place on rock being taken by the closely related, exclusively American P. baltimorensis. Juveniles of both species are morphologically indistinguishable but the frequent presence of gyrophoric acid in P. baltimorensis in much of its range gives a chemical marker for identifying most immature thalli. Juveniles are distributed approximately like adults, indicating that the factors responsible for excluding most P. caperata from rock and most P. baltimorensis from tree trunks must act very early, perhaps at the stage of first growth of the asexual propagules that account for most individuals in populations. Pseudoparmelia caperata in eastern North America may have sustained genetic impoverishment through the loss of gamodemes adapted to the microhabitat of rock as a result of intense competition with P. baltimorensis in the past. Each species still occasionally grows in the other's preferred microhabitat and both may grow in approximately equal numbers on tree bases, which seem to be ecologically intermediate, having the chemistry and texture of bark and the reduced light and increased moisture of the forest floor. In spite of the importance of asexual reproduction in propagating the best genotypes, apothecia with spores are still regularly produced in both species.
10.2307/2418325|Some of the sources of confusion that contributed to the mystery of the origin of grapefruit, or pomelo, Citrus paradisi Macf., have now been identified. Results of current research in genetic markers, and conventional and chemotaxonomic considerations, strongly support the earlier proposal that the grapefruit originated from a cross between a pummelo, Citrus grandis (L.) Osbeck, and sweet orange, Citrus sinensis (L.) Osbeck. We also conclude that C. sinensis was the pollen parent.
10.2307/2418326|Four flavonol glycosides, the 3-O-rhamnosides and 3-O-rhamnosylglucosides of kaempferol and quercetin, were isolated and identified from leaf material of four taxa in the Cnidoscolus tubulosus complex (Euphorbiaceae). Cnidoscolus rostratus subsp. rostratus and C. tehuacanensis each contain all four compounds, C. tubulosus only the two rhamnosylglucosides, and C. liebmannii only the two kaempferol glycosides. Flavonol glycoside patterns are highly constant within these taxa and may be of taxonomic and ecological significance. Cnidoscolus rostratus subsp. glabratus contains quercetin-3-O-rhamnosylglucoside (probably rutin) and perhaps trace amounts of the other flavonol glycosides as well.
10.2307/2418327|Chromosome cytology of Iridaceae in the New World is reviewed in detail, and original counts for nineteen species are presented, four of these first reports for genera. A tribal classification, based in part on cytology but also on morphological criteria, is outined in which three major groups are recognized, Sisyrinchieae, Trimezieae, and Tigridieae, the latter divided into Cipurinae and Tigridiinae. No decision has been made on whether to recognize Sisyrinchioideae as a subfamily distinct from Iridoideae. Sisyrinchieae comprises two karyotype groups Libertia (x = 19) and Orthrosanthus (x = 9) with tiny chromosomes and Sisyrinchium and Phaiophleps, both probably also x = 9 but with medium-sized chromosomes. Trimezieae have medium to large chromosomes and are cytologically diverse with n = 13 and 26 in Trimezia and n = 8, 9, and 16 in Neomarica. Tigridieae have x = 7 and bimodal karyotypes of one or two long pairs and five or six much smaller pairs. Tigridiinae appear polyploid, x = 14, with two long and 12 short pairs. The first counts for ten species and four genera presented here bring to 18 the number of Neotropical genera known cytologically, more than half the total, but less than 20% of the species in this area have been counted.
10.2307/2418328|Haplopappus sect. Gymnocoma consists of six taxa, H. humilis, H. integerrimus var. integerrimus, H. integerrimus var. punctatus comb. nov., H. pedunculosus, H. pinnatifidus, and H. schumannii comb. nov., all restricted to central Chile. Diagnostic features for sect. Gymnocoma include congested, linear to narrowly oblanceolate, pointed leaves that become strongly reflexed with age; narrow involucral bracts; and sterile ray florets with reduced ligules that scarcely exceed the involucre, to discoid in H. pinnatifidus. Section Gymnocoma is most closely related to, yet clearly circumscribed from, Haplopappus sect. Haplopappus, a section characterized by fertile ray florets with well-developed ligules and leaves that are neither congested and narrow nor congested and reflexed with age. Morphologically, the connecting link between the two sections appears to be H. pedunculosus of sect. Gymnocoma and three species, H. pulchellus, H. donianus, and H. stolpi, of sect. Haplopappus, each with narrow leaves that become weakly reflexed with age but not congested, and ray florets that are reduced yet conspicuous and fertile. As treated here the core of the genus Haplopappus is restricted to South America and consists of sections Haplopappus and Gymnocoma. The traditional placement of the South American sections Polyphylla and Xylolepis within Haplopappus seems doubtful.
10.2307/2418329|Stroganowia tiehmii, discovered in Nevada by Arnold Tiehm and his associates, is the only New World member of this otherwise central Asiatic genus. The disjunction evident in Stroganowia is an extreme case. Other genera of the Cruciferae show several patterns of disjunction but their geographical distributions also point to a definite relationsip between the floras of central Asia and interior western North America.
10.2307/2418330|Asplundia sleeperae, Asplundia ferruginea, and Sphaeradenia carrilloana are described and illustrated. The occurrence of these three novelties at a heavily used biological field station on Costa Rica's Caribbean slope suggests that both the family Cyclanthaceae and the Costa Rican lowland wet forests have been neglected by botanical collectors.
10.2307/2418386|The Boraginaceae and Scrophulariales have each been proposed as the closest extant relative of the Lamiales (i.e., Labiatae plus Verbenaceae). Characters supporting the two hypotheses are evaluated in light of cladistic principles. Character polarity is determined primarily through outgroup comparison. Because of uncertainty about the identity of the outgroup, separate analyses are conducted in relation to five possible outgroups. No matter which is used, there are more synapomorphies uniting the Lamiales with the Scrophulariales than with the Boraginaceae. This analysis departs from a strict Hennigian approach in permitting some variation within both the outgroup and the ingroup in characters used as synapomorphies. The magnitude of variation in many higher taxa of plants renders impractical a strict approach requiring consistent character differences. The use of apomorphic tendencies and judicious application of the commonality principle are advocated as means to tentative groupings in such cases.
10.2307/2418387|Numerical methods were used to evaluate phenetic similarities and hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships among the ten genera of Thelypodieae, considered by some to be the most primitive tribe in Brassicaceae. The complementary phenetic methods of cluster analysis and ordination with a nearest neighbor directed network indicated why the genera are sometimes difficult to delimit. Several of these genera are close and nearly equidistant from each other. Three phylogenetic hypotheses were tested by assuming different hypothetical ancestors for the tribe or for the nine genera that occur in North America. Given data available at present, we suggest that the phylogenetic tree that uses a Cleome-like ancestor most reliably represents the evolutionary relationships among the nine genera restricted to North America. The tenth genus, Macropodium, remains an enigma because of its restriction to temperate eastern Asia.
10.2307/2418388|A complete understanding of the systematics of perennial Urtica in North America has been lacking. Chromosome counts from plants from 77 locations revealed a base number of x = 13 with diploid and tetraploid levels. Artificial hybridization showed that diploid and tetraploid chromosome races were interfertile within their particular chromosome level. Scanning electron microscope observations of pollen grains revealed that different chromosome races are distinguishable by exine sculpturing. Biosystematic evidence supports the grouping of the perennial taxa into three subspecies of U. dioica.
10.2307/2418389|This taxonomic revision is based on previously published biosystematic data. One perennial species, Urtica dioica L., and its three subspecies, subsp. dioica, subsp. gracilis (Ait.) Selander, and subsp. holosericea (Nutt.) Thorne, are recognized, mapped, and discussed. A key to all Urtica taxa in North America north of Mexico, annual and perennial, is given.
10.2307/2418390|Streptanthus carinatus and S. arizonicus (Cruciferae) are mainly allopatric in southwestern United States; they are sympatric in south-central New Mexico and west Texas (the El Paso-Las Cruces area). Field study of natural hybrids, their normal meiosis and pollen, their chemical (glucosinolate) similarities, and the reconstitution of fertile hybrids in the greenhouse support the notion that the two taxa are conspecific. They are here considered subspecific variants: Streptanthus carinatus subsp. carinatus and Streptanthus carinatus subsp. arizonicus. This is the first known occurrence of natural hybridization in the genus.
10.2307/2418391|Review of morphology, cytology, breeding behavior, and field observations has resulted in a revised classification of Antennaria as represented in the eastern United States. Four sexual diploid (n = 14) species are recognized, namely A. plantaginifolia, A. neglecta, A. solitaria, and A. virginica. These diploids act as pillars that support a polyploid complex consisting of A. Parlinii s.l. with two subspecies including A. Parlinii subsp. fallax, comb. nov., and A. neodioica s.l. with three subspecies, including A. neodioica subsp. canadensis, comb. nov., and A. neodioica subsp. petaloidea, comb. nov. Many of the polyploids are apomictic and that has affected taxonomic difficulties.
10.2307/2418392|Taxonomic review based on morphology, flavonoid chemistry, cytology, breeding experiments, and ecogeographic considerations suggests emendation of the circumscription of Hemizonia sect. Madiomeris and recognition of 17 taxa (14 species, one with two and one with three subspecies) within the section. New names are: Hemizonia increscens, H. increscens subsp. foliosa, and H. increscens subsp. villosa. Hemizonia martirensis, heretofore unassigned to a section, is included in sect. Madiomeris. Chromosome counts for 16 of the 17 taxa demonstrate an aneuploid series of n = 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13.
10.2307/2418393|As described and illustrated here, Carex austromexicana seems to be similar to Californian species of section Strigosae; it is the second species of this section known from Mexico. Similarly, Carex mcvaughii is shown to be a very distinctive plant with no close relatives in the Mexican or North American Carex flora.
10.2307/2418670|Both terrestrial and epiphytic orchids share a specialized reproductive biology that is particularly marked in contrast to the facultative mechanisms of a basically terrestrial family, Asteraceae. The specialized biology of the orchids is attributed to an epiphytic ancestry for the family, with evidence from pollination mechanism, seeds, and roots. The zygomorphic orchid flower form can be traced to a pendant form of primitive inflorescence. Repeated reversions of orchids to the terrestrial habit are indicated, and extinction of primitive epiphytic forms is believed to follow a general pattern of extinction of primitive forms in other evolutionarily successful families such as Asteraceae.
10.2307/2418671|Coreopsis basalis and C. wrightii are diploid, annual plants centered in east and southeastern Texas, with the former introduced into the southeastern United States. The two species are very similar morphologically but are highly intersterile due to differences in chromosome structure. Electrophoresis determined the amount of divergence between the two taxa at 14 genetic loci coding soluble enzymes. Mean genetic identity for ten populations of C. basalis is 0.94 and the value for four populations of C. wrightii is 0.97. Average genetic identity for populations of the two species is 0.92, indicating little if any genetic divergence between the species as compared to conspecific populations. The enzyme data and morphology are concordant with the hypothesis that speciation occurred via chromosomal repatterning with minimal divergence at genes coding for isozymes. Isozyme data support the hypothesis that C. basalis and C. wrightii are more closely related to each other than either is to the other two annual species of sect. Coreopsis, C. nuecensoides and C. nuecensis. The mean genetic identities for C. basalis-C. nuecensoides, C. basalis-C. nuecensis, C. wrightii-C. nuecensoides, and C. wrightii-C. nuecensis are 0.77, 0.79, 0.73, and 0.76, respectively.
10.2307/2418672|Early taxonomic treatments of the Echinocereus enneacanthus complex recognize five species: E. enneacanthus, E. dubius, E. stramineus, E. merkeri, and E. conglomeratus. Benson later made a major revision of the group's taxonomy and relegated dubius, stramineus, and conglomeratus to varietal status under E. enneacanthus. Two taxa, enneacanthus and dubius, form intergrading populations in the lower canyons of the Rio Grande in Brewster County, Texas. Field observations in Mexico reveal that E. merkeri and E. conglomeratus are synonymous with enneacanthus and stramineus, respectively. Members of the E. enneacanthus complex are pollinated by small, solitary halictid and anthoporid bees. No taxon specificity of pollinators was discovered. Breeding system studies revealed that members of the complex are xenogamous. Reciprocal crosses between enneacanthus and dubius were presumed highly fertile (above 80% seed set), while crosses of enneacanthus x stramineus exhibited reduced fertility (50% to 80% seed set). A consistent floral flavonoid discontinuity was found between stramineus and enneacanthus-dubius. Isorhamnetin (3'-O-methyl quercetin)-3-O-diglycosides were present in enneacanthus-dubius and absent from stramineus. These facts, coupled with data from artificial hybridization experiments, comparative morphology, geographic distribution, and ecological studies, reveal that Echinocereus enneacanthus var. stramineus is in reality a separate species, Echinocereus stramineus. No basis was found for the maintenance of dubius as a species or as a variety of E. enneacanthus.
10.2307/2418673|A survey of the morphology and anatomy of vegetative perennating structures in Epilobium reveals a variety of forms, including soboles, sessile and pedicellate turions, bulbils, rosettes, caespitose shoots, and shoots from roots. The most notable specializations in the perennating buds are the condensed, decussate arrangement of leaf primordia and the subsucculent leaves with a lack of mesophyll differentiation. The generalized condition, represented by E. suffruticosum (sect. Cordylophorum), is perennation by axillary soboles at the base of parent and derivative stems. The major diversification in perennating structures occurs in sect. Epilobium, in which all classes of structure occur. The most extreme of these is the turion, a strobiloid shoot generally 5-20 mm long, sessile or pedicellate, with arrested internodes and a discrete base, and abundant starch grain storage in the leaves. The distribution of perennating structures in a diverse selection of 17 taxa in sect. Epilobium does not correlate well with information on chromosome structural heterozygosity, suggesting repeated and independent evolution of similar structures. A major departure from the shoot-from-root morphology is found in sect. Chamaenerion, especially in the well-studied E. angustifolium, and in E. siskiyouense (sect. Epilobium), in which shoots arise from horizontal roots. The structural data correlate well with available information on habit and habitat.
10.2307/2418674|Xanthocephalum, Gutierrezia, Greenella, Gymnosperma, Amphiachyris, and Thurovia have been variously treated with regard to their generic limits by several authors in the last 3 decades. The generic delimitation presented here is based on a thorough re-evaluation of all 26 known North American members of these genera. The data obtained in the study strongly support the following disposition of the taxa, which differs from all previous treatments. Xanthocephalum (x = 6), a genus of montane areas in western Mexico and the southwestern United States, contains five species (one with three varieties) and is more closely related to Grindelia and Olivaea than to Gutierrezia and its allies. Gutierrezia (x = 4) encompasses seventeen specific and infraspecific taxa in North America, including not only the eight taxa recognized for it by Solbrig, but also five taxa formerly of Xanthocephalum, and the genera Greenella and Thurovia (the last resulting in Gutierrezia triflora, comb. nov.). The genus thus constituted ranges from central Mexico north and west through the central and western United States to Saskatchewan. Amphiachyris (n = 4 or 5) with two grassland species of Texas and central United States, and the monotypic Gymnosperma (x = 8), which ranges from northern Guatemala to Texas and westward to Arizona, are closely allied to Gutierrezia.
10.2307/2418675|Three taxa of Sagittaria, previously treated as subspecies of S. engelmanniana were shown to be distinct species on the bases of standard herbarium techniques and experimental interfertility studies. Taxa recognized are S. engelmanniana, S. brevirostra, and S. australis (previously known by the misapplied name longirostra). Environmental parameters correlated with the distribution patterns of each of the three taxa appear to be effective, probably in combination with other environmental factors, in limiting the distributions of these species. A key to these taxa and closely related S. latifolia and S. cuneata is provided.
10.2307/2418676|Ten species of Verbena and their putative interspecific hybrids form the V. stricta complex. All species examined are self-compatible (4.0-87.9% seed-set) and cross-compatible with V. stricta; the greatest fertility from interspecific crosses was 55%. In most cases, natural seed-set was greater than that resulting from insect exclusion experiments. Morphologically, the species are distinct with the exceptions of the species pairs Verbena halei and V. officinalis and V. lasiostachys and V. robusta. The species are variably allogamous, cross-compatible, and often sympatric; therefore, the potential for hybridization is great. Limited numbers of individuals are morphologically intermediate indicating a hybrid origin. However, hybridization appears to be rare.
10.2307/2418677|Erigeron rybius, sp. nov., is segregated from E. rusbyi sensu Cronquist and hypothesized to be the closest relative of E. coulteri. A key summarizes the differences among E. rybius, E. rusbyi, and E. arizonicus, which is the closest relative of E. rusbyi. These four species share several distinctive features with a larger group of 34 species here recognized as Erigeron sect. Peregrinus, section nov. The Asian species E. thunbergii and closely similar Asian forms are members of sect. Peregrinus. Possible relationships between sect. Peregrinus and the E. philadelphicus group and between sect. Peregrinus and a set of monocephalous, arctic and alpine species are considered, but there is not adequate justification for including them.
10.2307/2418678|Shoshonea pulvinata is allied to Oreoxis, Musineon, Neoparrya, and Aletes and is restricted to calcareous habitats in Park County, Wyoming. The new genus is distinguished by its pulvinate habit, dimorphic flowers, vestigial carpophore, unwinged fruit ribs, and lignified pericarp.
10.2307/2418679|Podachaenium as heretofore constituted contains two very unlike elements, the arborescent, white-rayed, globose-headed P. eminens and the yellow-rayed P. skutchii. The latter species is here transferred to a new, monotypic genus as Squamopappus skutchii. Verbesina (Altamirania, Aspiliopsis) pachyphylla, also an arborescent, white-rayed species with globose heads, is transferred into Podachaenium, thereby redefining the genus to include only P. eminens and P. pachyphyllum. A key to the genera, and to their apparent generic allies, is presented.
10.2307/2418680|Dalechampia brownsbergensis sp. nov. from Surinam belongs to sect. Scandentes. It differs from other members of the section in bearing only small, vestigial resiniferous bractlets and in being pollinated by male euglossine bees. It also differs from the common and somewhat similar species D. tiliifolia by having involucral bracts that are green at anthesis and by bearing generally monomorphic trilobate leaves.
10.2307/2418681|New species of Justicia and Razisea are described from the Caribbean lowlands of northern Costa Rica. Justicia sarapiquensis sp. nov. is an unusual vine with large, magenta bracts and white, villous corollas. While morphologically most similar to several large-bracted South American justicias, the echinulate pollen grains of this species suggest a relationship with Rhacodiscus. This genus was distinguished from Justicia on the basis of echinulate pollen and appears to be an artificial grouping of species better placed within Justicia. Clarification of the relationships of Justicia sarapiquensis will await resolution of this large and taxonomically difficult genus as a whole. The four species currently placed in Razisea share several unusual features including monothecate anthers and corolla with the upper lip strongly reduced and the lower lip barely distinct from the tube. Pollen analysis of Razisea wilburii sp. nov., along with literature reports of pollen of the remaining species, indicates that this genus is incorrectly placed in Justiceae, Odontoneminae. Based on pollen evidence, as well as the long-recognized similarity between Razisea and Kalbreyeriella, it is recommended that Razisea be moved to Justiceae, Justiciinae.
10.2307/2418682|Potamogeton paramoanus sp. nov. from the paramo of the northern Andes is most similar to P. epihydrus.
10.2307/2418557|Galax, a monotype endemic to the southern Appalachian Mountains and outlying areas, has been reported to comprise both a diploid and tetraploid cytotype (x = 6). In this study more than 850 chromosome counts of Galax urceolata from 460 locations, including numerous intra-populational counts, were made and mapped along with most of Baldwin's original counts in order to obtain a clear picture of the geographic distribution of the cytotypes. A strong correlation between guard cell size and chromosome number allowed estimation of ploidy level of herbarium collections. The diploid race occurs over most of the range of the species. Tetraploids occupy a relatively smaller portion of the range; they are abundant along the area of the Blue Ridge escarpment, sharply bounded on the northwest by the escarpment in northern North Carolina and by the Blue Ridge divide further south. On the Virginia coastal plain and north-central piedmont of North Carolina tetraploids occur exclusive of diploids. Along the escarpment diploids and tetraploids occur in complex patterns of sympatry and triploids are abundant, usually growing intermixed with or immediately adjacent to one of the other cytotypes. Along the escarpment there is much overlap in habitat preference, but commonly the more xeric habitats are occupied by diploids and the more mesic ones by tetraploids. No differences in habitat are apparent on the piedmont and coastal plain where the cytotypes are allopatric.
10.2307/2418558|Although Galax urceolata typically has been considered one of the clearest examples of autopolyploidy in natural populations, there is a distinct paucity of detailed biosystematic data for the taxon. Flavonoid constituents of diploid, triploid, and tetraploid populations therefore were analyzed from throughout the range of G. urceolata. The taxon is characterized by a relatively simple array of kaempferol and quercetin aglycones and their 3-O-mono-, di-, and triglycosides. Several acylated derivatives of quercetin 3-O-glucoside also were detected, including a quercetin 3-O-glucoside gallate. Only very minor variation in flavonoid profile was detected among populations and no qualitative flavonoid differences were apparent between cytotypes. The high degree of homogeneity in flavonoid profile observed between diploid and tetraploid populations agrees with the hypothesis that the tetraploid cytotype is of autopolyploidal origin.
10.2307/2418559|Sedum pusillum, a succulent winter annual endemic to granitic outcrops in the southeastern United States, is self-compatible. Comparisons of F<sub>1</sub> progeny from artificial crosses in a population from South Carolina demonstrated either no difference in success for outcrossed versus selfed plants (percentage germination, pollen stainability) or slightly greater success for selfed progeny (survival to adult size, survival to flowering). Outcrossing may be promoted in the field by protandry, extrorse dehiscence of the anthers, and spatial separation of the stamens and pistils. Although S. pusillum has some pollinators in common with Diamorpha smallii, another outcrop endemic and supposed close relative, hybrids between the two taxa could not be produced in artificial crosses. In addition to these primary cytological and genetic barriers to crossing are a number of ecological and phenological differences that should result in complete reproductive isolation in natural populations.
10.2307/2418560|The isobilateral leaves of Leucophyllum have numerous, spherical air spaces between the abaxial and adaxial palisade mesophyll layers. These spaces are larger than the secretory cavities of Bontia (Myoporaceae) and have no epithelium. Early in ontogeny of air spaces in L. minus, cells lining the spaces enlarge periclinally to the surface of the space, as do the cells lining the young secretory cavities of Bontia. Dimensionally preferential cell enlargement does not occur in the early development of similar air spaces in L. frutescens var. frutescens and appears to serve no function in the development of the air spaces in L. minus. Dimensionally preferential cell enlargement may be a vestige of a morphogenetic pattern such as that that produces secretory cavities in Bontia. In the context of the several other lines of evidence favoring an alliance of Leucophylleae with Myoporaceae, we suggest that the air spaces of Leucophyllum are homologous with the secretory cavities of Bontia.
10.2307/2418561|Genetic fruit polymorphism, a phenomenon scantily documented in the literature, is demonstrated in four species of North American Valerianella and judged to occur in a fifth. Valerianella ozarkana, V longiflora, and V. nuttallii each have two fruit morphs and V. umbilicata has three. Evidence for this includes planting tests and morphological and distributional data. Controlled pollinations using both fruit-types of V. ozarkana show simple Mendelian inheritance, with the ozarkana fruit-type allele dominant over the bushii fruit-type allele. Four other taxa are judged to be fruit morphs of a fifth species, V. radiata, because they exhibit a pattern of occurrence in mixed populations and they are reliably distinguishable only by fruit morphology. Five new combinations and three newly described formae result from taxonomic recognition of genetic fruit polymorphism in North American Valerianella: Valerianella ozarkana f. bushii, comb. nov., V. umbilicata f. patellaria, comb. nov., V. umbilicata f. intermedia, comb. nov., V. radiata f. fernaldii, comb. nov., V. radiata f. parviflora, comb. nov., V. radiata f. demareei, f. nov., V. longiflora f. inexpansa, f. nov., and V. nuttallii f. compacta, f. nov.
10.2307/2418562|In order to establish a working hypothesis of phylogenetic relationships within Viburnum, 23 presumably monophyletic "cladistic units" were scored for 34 characters, the polarity of the states of these characters was assessed (in most cases) by out-group comparison, and the data were analyzed using the WAGNER '78 computer program. Character state transitions were traced on the resulting cladogram; this helped pinpoint characters about which there was uncertainty concerning independence, homology, scoring, and/or polarity. The data were re-evaluated and a second cladogram was generated, which again prompted a re-evaluation of the characters. This process was continued until four cladograms were obtained. In interpreting these cladograms attention was focused on the clades that were best supported by apomorphies and hence remained "stable." Resolving the cladistic relationships of the "labile" clades requires additional data. The most important conclusions of this analysis are that the New World sect. Lentago and the subsect. Punctata of the Old World sect. Megalotinus are sister groups, and sects. Odontotinus and Opulus form a clade within which Odontotinus is paraphyletic.
10.2307/2418563|Numerical analyses (principal components analysis, multidimensional scaling, and clustering of Euclidean distances) of 120 individuals representing eleven morphotypes of Crataegus series Pruinosae in southern Ontario consistently divided the data (based on 24 morphological characters) into three major groups. The results show various correlations with phenology, chromosome number, and apomixis. A common hypothesis for the evolution of Crataegus is that the complex variation patterns found today are the result of commingling and hybridization between a few distinct species in response to European settlement and forestry practices. Our results are conformable to this hypothesis but there are suggestions from related genera that some of the present variation may be of a more ancient origin.
10.2307/2418564|Many attempts have been made at splitting certain groups from the large and complex genus Aster. For North American species, however, most authors have adhered to the broad generic concept espoused by A. Gray in his Synoptical Flora of North America. In response to the recent segregation of Virgulus from Aster by Semple and Brouillet (under the name Lasallea), members of all sections of North American Aster s.l. (except Machaeranthera), plus six of the Old World groups, were subjected to phenetic and cladistic analyses. Nine "aster-like" species of Erigeron subg. Erigeron were selected to represent an out-group, and 47 OTUs (operational taxonomic units) were scored for 41 characters. The results of this study may not decisively favor a broad or a narrow generic concept of Aster but, in the shortest tree obtained to date, Aster subg. Oreostemma is the sister group of all other subgenera of Aster included in the investigation. At least six groups emerge that seem as well defined as Virgulus and deserving of equal rank: 1) Macrocephali, 2) Symphyotrichum (linked with Conyzopsis), 3) Tripolium (including Oxytripolium), 4) Aster s.str. (linked with Sericocarpus), 5) Galatella (including Doellingeria), and 6) Oreostemma. Symphyotrichum, comprising the entire x = 8 chromosome number assemblage, certainly could be recognized at the generic level with as much justification as Virgulus. Furthermore, Heleastrum consistently is linked with Virgulus. If the two taxa were segregated as a single genus or placed in the same subgenus, the name Heleastrum would have priority. However, because the supporting evidence for the break-up of Aster rests primarily upon karyotypic characters (i.e., chromosome number and structure-characters not suitable for identification of plants in the field or herbarium), we propose to retain a more traditional generic concept. The above-mentioned potential segregates, including Virgulus, are considered distinct at the subgeneric level.
10.2307/2418565|Examination of type and other herbarium material for a recent cladistic analysis of Aster prompts transfer of a species to Machaeranthera resulting in the new combination M. riparia.
10.2307/2418566|A fertile population of a Potamogeton (subsect. Pusilli, Potamogetonaceae) resembling P. Xlongiligulatus is known from Beebe Pond, Canaan, New York. The population, which is closely related to P. hillii, was originally identified as P. Xlongiligulatus and later as a hybrid between P hillii and P zosteriformis. Extensive studies of the plant's morphological characters and paper chromatography analyses indicate it to be a new species, P. ogdenii.
10.2307/2418567|Calea bucaramangensis, a radiate species occurring in the Andes of Northeastern Colombia, is described, illustrated, and compared with its nearest allies.
10.2307/2418687|The reproductive biology of Mabea occidentalis (Euphorbiaceae), an understory tree of tropical moist forests, was studied on Barro Colorado Island, Panama. Morphological and behavioral features of the flowers suggest that M. occidentalis is adapted to pollination by bats. These characteristic floral features include maroon and green inflorescences that hang outside of the foliage, nocturnal anthesis, strong musty odor, and many staminate flowers that produce relatively large amounts of pollen and nectar. Nectar concentration and composition fit the chiropterophilous syndrome. The largely self-incompatible inflorescences of M. occidentalis are visited nocturnally by small bats (Glossophaga soricina and Carollia castanea), the red woolly opossum, and noctuid and pyralid moths and diurnally by Trigona bees. The relative roles and contrasting foraging strategies of these potential pollinators are discussed. This is the first report of bat pollination for Euphorbiaceae.
10.2307/2418688|Flavone profile variation among 210 populations of Phlox pilosa substantially clarifies the history of subspecific divergence and range establishment in the species. Diagnostic profiles distinguish: 1) four of the five recognized subspecies, 2) two primary flavonoid lineages, one characterized by subsp. ozarkana and the other by subsp. detonsa, 3) a broad zone of detonsaozarkana intergradation but none between subsp. pilosa and subsp. detonsa, in the latter case contrary to expectations from morphology, and 4) two extremes of geographic variability within subspecies, either overall uniformity or a complex patchwork of sometimes regionalized profiles. Phenomenologically, the patterns of infraspecific flavone variation highlight a number of expected stages in the differentiation process leading to the interspecific flavonoid divergence generally observed in Phlox.
10.2307/2418689|Nine taxa of cultivated Citrus were studied by cluster analysis and principal coordinate analysis using 86 biochemical characters reported in the literature. Two main affinity groups were obtained. The first clusters C. medica, C. aurantifolia, and C. limon; the second includes C. reticulata, C. sinensis, C. paradisi, C. aurantium, C. jambhiri, and C. grandis, the last species being, however, isolated from the main grouping. Our results show taxonomic congruence with those obtained by Barrett and Rhodes and based solely on morphological data.
10.2307/2418690|Amphipterygium glaucum and Leitneria floridana in the past have been placed in the artificial grouping Amentiferae. With the breakup of Amentiferae these two taxa have been variously assigned to Fagales, Geraniales, Hamamelidales, Juglandales, and Sapindales. Serological experiments used antigens obtained from pollen protein extracts from 26 taxa belonging to 22 genera from 13 families with supposed affinities to Amphipterygium and Leitneria and antisera obtained from injections of pollen protein extracts from Ailanthus altissima, Amphipterygium glaucum, Leitneria floridana, and Rhus copallina. Techniques utilized included double diffusion, one dimensional immunoelectrophoresis, line immunoelectrophoresis, radial immunodiffusion, and absorbed antibody. Data revealed that both Amphipterygium and Leitneria shared closest serological affinities with those experimental taxa from the Rutiflorae. Specifically, anti-Amphipterygium serum had strongest reactivity with Rhus and Toxicodendron, while anti-Leitneria had strongest reactivity with Ailanthus and Picrasma of Simaroubaceae. Data supported other researchers who had reported similarities with taxa of Rutiflorae.
10.2307/2418691|Pollen morphology of 27 species of Heliconia (19 species with pendent inflorescences; eight species with erect inflorescences) was examined using brightfield and scanning electron microscopy. Pollen of species with erect inflorescences has many character states in common with pollen of pendent species. Among the species with pendent inflorescences four groups can be distinguished by pollen features. Within each group, however, species differences cannot always be resolved. A cladistic analysis of the 27 species based on pollen characters alone suggests that species with erect inflorescences have evolved independently several times from species possessing pendent inflorescences. This hypothesis is supported by a separate phylogenetic analysis in which additional reproductive and vegetative characters were used. Hence, inflorescence habit is of limited value in recognizing monophyletic groups (sensu Hennig) in Heliconia.
10.2307/2418692|Chromosome levels in the Bothriochloa saccharoides complex are hexaploid (2n = 60) and duodecaploid (2n = 120); pollen size correlates with chromosome number. These grasses reproduce sexually, via allogamy or autogamy, and have relatively high seed set (73-93%). Principal components analysis of morphological traits reveals three major clusters corresponding to the species, B. saccharoides, B. laguroides, and B. exaristata. A fourth species, B. longipaniculata, is segregated from the B. laguroides phenetic cluster. Proposed new combinations are B. saccharoides subsp. reevesii, B. laguroides subsp. torreyana, and B. longipaniculata. Bothriochloa imperatoides and Andropogon saccharoides subsp. paroispiculus are excluded from the complex. Keys, descriptions, and distribution maps are provided.
10.2307/2418693|Otopappus (Compositae, Heliantheae) is revised to contain 15 species from Mexico and Central America. Prominent among the taxonomic difficulties have been generic delimitations, especially with Notoptera. The principal differentia between the two genera, pappus with and without squamellae, is shown not to correlate with other features, and the two genera are merged. Within this complex two sections are recognized: Otopappus (10 species) and Loxosiphon (5 species) with the latter divided into series Loxosiphon (2 species) and series Hirsutus (3 species). Principal characters separating these major groups include discoid vs. radiate heads, numbers of rows of phyllaries and their length in relation to the paleae, color of corollas (white or yellow), and convex vs. conical receptacles. The genus is unified by its viny habit and conspicuously adaxially winged achenes and pappus awns. Within this context, O. australis, O. ferrugineus, and O. simplex seem better referred to Zexmenia and O. jaliscensis to Lasianthaea. Otopappus seems allied most closely to Salmea or Zexmenia. New combinations are Lasianthaea jaliscensis, Otopappus sect. Loxosiphon, O. series Hirsutus, O. guatemalensis, O. hirsutus, and Zexmenia simplex.
10.2307/2418694|Pulchranthus (Acanthaceae: Acanthoideae) is established for a series of species once referred to Odontonema or Pseuderanthemum. Four species are assigned to the genus: P. surinamensis (the type species) from Surinam, P. adenostachyus from Peru, southern Colombia, and western Brazil, P. variegatus from French Guiana and adjacent northeastern coastal Brazil, and P. congestus from the states of Amazonas and Para, Brazil. Pulchranthus is clearly related to Odontonema but differs in having a well-developed bilabiate, curved, white to violet corolla with dark purplish dots on the lobes, exserted and curved filaments, and glandular-puberulent rachises. In Odontonema the corollas are tubular, red or white to yellow or rarely purplish, and only weakly bilabiate, the filaments are straight and short with anthers usually included in the corolla tube, and the rachises of the inflorescences vary from glabrous to tomentose or rarely glandular. In Pseuderanthemum the flowers are narrowly salverform with a slender tube and a regular corolla.
10.2307/2418695|Panicum tamaulipense, sp. nov., from the Sierra de Tamaulipas area of eastern Mexico is a member of Panicum sect. Diffusa and has closest affinity to Panicum hallii var. filipes.
10.2307/2418476|A large population of mixed species of Castilleja was sampled for morphological variability, with each of 100 collected plants being keyed to species, many on a "best fit" basis. Using taximetric methods, including cluster, discriminant, and principal components analyses, patterns of similarities were established and related to key-assigned species determinations. The complementary results of the analyses indicated that four taxonomic species formed two major groups: C. parviflora vs. C. elmeri, C. rhexifolia, and C. hispida. The morphological overlap within the second group suggests extensive hybridization and backcrossing characteristic of a hybrid swarm, with C. hispida and C. elmeri linked by the intermediate C. rhexifolia. In addition, three apparent hybrid specimens involving C. parviflora indicate that interspecific barriers are incomplete for this species.
10.2307/2418477|Species of Tillandsioideae are usually epiphytic and portray a range of habits from strongly xeric with thick, narrow leaves that are densely covered with conspicuous, shield-shaped, moisture-absorbing trichomes to mesic with broad, thin leaves having few and inconspicuous trichomes. Phenetic groupings and evolutionary tree construction of the nine subgenera of Tillandsia and Vriesea and of the 36 species of T. subg. Phytarrhiza by means of cluster analysis, Wagner network, and character compatability, show subgenera with the xeric and mesic habit on the same major branches and with T. subg. Allardtia in an ancestral position on the subgeneric tree. Of the 36 species of T. subg. Phytarrhiza, the 17 of xeric habit are largely on separate branches and the five species of mesic habit, mostly Ecuadorian, are centrally located on the evolutionary tree between the xeric and the 14 semi-mesic species. A phenogram based on 43 characters and portraying overall similarity supports the separation of most of the xeric from the mesic species on the Phytarrhiza tree. The xeric and semi-mesic habits seem to have evolved several times; initially during evolutionary differentiation that we recognize at the generic and subgeneric levels. Xeric and semi-mesic species follow mesic ones on each of several different branches of the Phytarrhiza tree. Pleistocene climatic history in South America helps to explain the repeated evolution of species with the xeric habit. During the past decade, we have come to recognize from paleoclimatological studies in South America that the Quaternary climate, especially in upland areas, has undergone a series of humid and xeric phases. Such would have alternately favored evolution of xeric and mesic bromeliads and this seems to have occurred.
10.2307/2418478|There are two main infrageneric groups within Tripsacum and they differ in several correlated characters. Variation is essentially continuous between the groups for any single character but two well-defined modes of variation emerge when combinations of characters are considered. There are few intermediates and the vast majority of specimens studied fall unambiguously into one group or the other. These two groups are recognized as sections. They are the most distinct and well-defined natural groups within the genus. Section Fasciculata differs from sect. Tripsacum in having one spikelet of a staminate pair at a rachis node with a long, thin pedicel rather than both spikelets subsessile or one supported by a short, thick pedicel; thinner internodes in the male section of each inflorescence branch; and a longer primary axis of the terminal inflorescence with more internodes and more branches. Section Tripsacum has a wide geographical range extending from the central and northeastern United States to central South America. Section Fasciculata has a more restricted distribution extending from southern Arizona to El Salvador.
10.2307/2418479|The systematic relationships of the Luzulae group of Cyperus are elucidated by anatomical studies of the achenes and leaves. Epidermal patterns of the achenes are distinctive, consistent for each taxon, and useful in clarifying instances of interspecific hybridization; variation of the epidermal cells is most evident with respect to the size of the cell, the number, thickness, and sinuosity of the anticlinal walls per cell, and the shape and nature of the apex of the silica body found in the center of each cell. Leaf anatomical data support the present classification of the Luzulae group. Leaf epidermal patterns as well as the structure of the vascular bundles and the arrangements of sclerenchyma, mesophyll, and air spaces observed in leaf transverse sections are mostly uniform among the taxa. The most variable leaf anatomical characters are the number of vascular bundles per leaf (correlated with leaf width) and the occurrence of bulliform cells. The study confirms the use of achene epidermal features at the varietal or specific level, and the use of leaf anatomical features at the sectional, generic, or familial level.
10.2307/2418480|The Pelexia alliance is distinguished by a blade-like, truncate rostellum, a viscidium with a surface that must be ruptured, and an apical extension on the anther covering the immature viscidium. Pelexia, Sarcoglottis, and Cyclopogon and their sections are treated cladistically The unique position of the stylar canal entrance above the stigmatic surface in Pelexia and Sarcoglottis is considered specialized. Transfer of Pelexia sect. Potosia is confirmed. Various elements of the alliance appear specialized for different habitats and pollinators. The Pelexia alliance seems to have diverged early in the history of the subtribe.
10.2307/2418481|Bunchosia quaesitor has inflorescences terminating main axes, a characteristic unique to this endemic to southwestern Haiti. Bunchosia pauciflora from northern Haiti was confused by Niedenzu with B. haitiensis Urban & Niedenzu, but B. haitiensis is two-carpellate with a glabrous ovary and connate styles, and B. pauciflora is three-carpellate with a pilose ovary and distinct styles. Bunchosia articulata, endemic to Cuba, is distinguished from its closest relative, B. swartziana Griseb., by its petals with glandular limb margins, basally articulated peduncles, and elliptic leaf blades. Bunchosia macilenta, from Bahia, Brazil, can be divorced from Bunchosia acuminata, another new species from the same region, by its smaller, more meagre inflorescences with fewer flowers and smaller leaves with 4-6 abaxial glands. Bunchosia systyla (Niedenzu) Dobson was originally described as a form of B. fluminensis (Griseb.) Griseb. but is given species status here.
10.2307/2418482|Pyrola asarifolia in North America exhibits both habitat-correlated variations and a tendency towards regional differentiation in eastern and western populations. Multivariate analysis of morphological characters and chromatographic analysis of leaf flavonols reinforce the view based on traditional taxonomic evaluation that members of the P asarifolia complex (P asarifolia, P bracteata, and P californica) are best regarded as elements of a single polymorphic species, P asarifolia. Of the various segregates and infraspecific taxa included in this complex, only the large-bracteate specimens from the Pacific Northwest are sufficiently distinct to warrant taxonomic recognition. They reflect the regional differentiation of P. asarifolia in western North America towards a more robust growth form and oval leaf blade shape. Their status as a distinctive geographical element is recognized in the new combination, Pyrola asarifolia subsp. bracteata.
10.2307/2418483|Whereas former literature listed only two populations of O. canbyi, we have documented eight historical populations in Delaware, South Carolina, and Georgia. Oxypolis canbyi is distinguished from its closest related species, O. filiformis, by reproduction by rhizomes in O. canbyi versus reproduction by offsets in O. filiformis and by fruits 0.8-2 mm thick at edges in O. canbyi versus fruits 0.2 mm thick at edges in O. filiformis. Both species have n = 14. A neotype of O. filiformis is indicated.
10.2307/2418484|The eight taxa of Xanthocephalum, including X. durangense, X. gymnospermoides var. intermedium, and X. gymnospermoides var. eradiatum, are characterized by glabrous receptacles, goblet-shaped, pubescent disc corollas, deltate style branch appendages with short, rounded collecting hairs, and essentially glabrous achenes with very little or no pappus. The taxa are distributed in damp, generally montane valleys from central Mexico northwest through the Sierra Madre Occidental to southern Arizona and western Texas. The chromosome number of all species is n = 6. Two natural interspecific hybrids are known. Xanthocephalum has affinities with other entities of Astereae that have x = 6, particularly Grindelia and Olivaea.
10.2307/2418485|Lepidodendron hickii is the only anatomically preserved Carboniferous lepidodendrid with leaf cushions referable to the compression-based L. aculeatum, the type of Lepidodendron. Historically Lepidodendron has come to encompass several kinds of arborescent lycopods with distinctive vegetative and reproductive morphologies, among which no truly intermediate forms are known. These include totally or in part Lepidophloios (and Sublepidophloios, a possible congener), Paralycopodites, "Lepidodendron" sensu L. vasculare and others, and a large number of fragmentary specimens of varying affinities. The discrete nature of the character states defining these genera suggests that anatomy is sufficient for delimitation of lepidodendrid genera. Simple leaf-cushion shape is of dubious value in the delimitation of Lepidodendron because the "Lepidodendron"-shape appears to be plesiomorphic (ancestral). Lepidodendron hickii is associated with Achlamydocarpon takhtajanii megasporangium-sporophyll units, which suggests close alliance with the herbaceous L. serratum, also a producer of A. takhtajanii. At the generic level, Lepidodendron (sensu L. hickii and L. serratum) is most similar phenetically to Lepidophloios.
10.2307/2418354|Phenotypic plasticity diminishes a character's taxonomic utility because the environmental contribution to phenotypic variation obscures genetically based relationships. To evaluate potential taxonomic characters of Puccinellia, divided clones representing several putative taxa were grown under a series of salt- and drought-stress treatments representing naturally encountered environmental conditions. The resulting variation in 41 characters was partitioned by analysis of variance (ANOVA) into genetic and environmental components. Logarithmic transformation facilitates comparisons of variance levels among characters. Analogous nonparametric tests were used to analyze 40 characters not amenable to ANOVA. Levels of variance among genotypes and among treatments (phenotypic plasticity) are continuous in distribution and highly variable in magnitude. Attributes of the spikelet dominate the list of characters best meeting the criteria of high genotypic variability and low plasticity Ratios representing shapes and relative sizes tend to be more reliable than their component simple measurements. This analysis empirically confirms the importance of many characters emphasized in grass systematics and suggests characters for Puccinellia that previously have not been recognized as significant.
10.2307/2418355|Seven Inga species that occur in three adjacent forest types in cloud forest in Costa Rica have similar floral morphology. A comparative study of flowering phenology, floral biology, and visitor activity revealed that there is substantial overlap in flowering times of many species, and simultaneously blooming species attract the same pollinators, largely regardless of flower size. Principal pollinators are hummingbirds (Trochilidae), hawkmoths (Sphingidae), and other Lepidoptera (skippers, butterflies, and settling moths). Pollinator sharing is not absolute: differences in floral behavior (different flower opening times and different patterns of flower opening) result in some separation between co-occurring species and reduce the negative consequences of pollinator sharing. Multiple flower opening times in some species increases pollination opportunities in an unpredictable climate and reduces interspecific competition for pollinators. That total nectar production per flower is greater in flowers sampled repeatedly than in those sampled only once indicates that trees may respond to greater levels of visitation by increased nectar production.
10.2307/2418356|Solanum sect. Lasiocarpa is centered in northern South America; it includes several species with edible fruits and their near relatives. Relationships among species of the section were estimated from morphological and allozyme characters, using both cladistic and phenetic methods of analysis. Dendrograms depicting relationships among the species are quite similar, regardless of whether they were generated from morphological or molecular data and regardless of which analytical methods were used. Phenetic classifications were slightly more stable than cladistic. All analyses agree that S. stramonifolium and S. sessiliflorum-S. repandum are isolated lines within sect. Lasiocarpa. A third line, centered in the mountains of western Venezuela, includes S. vestissimum, S. hyporhodium, and S. felinum. A fourth assemblage includes S. lasiocarpum, S. candidum, S. quitoense, S. hirtum, and S. pseudolulo and is centered in Andean Colombia. The enigmatic S. pectinatum is allied with this last group. Frequency of speciation relative to morphological and molecular evolution has varied greatly among the different lineages. Interspecific genetic distances in sect. Lasiocarpa are large and not indicative of unusually rapid speciation; taxonomic diversity in Solanum may instead reflect antiquity of the genus.
10.2307/2418357|In central Pennsylvania, Entodon cladorrhizans is self-fertilizing and perigonia are initiated before perichaetia on a given stem. Maturation of antheridia and archegonia overlap and the fertilization interval is ca. 5 weeks (mostly July); sporophytes mature 6 to 9 months later. Numbers of perigonia per stem are greater and more variable than for perichaetia and the numbers of each are positively correlated along a stem. Some 90% of perichaetia initiate sporophytes. Frequency of perichaetial fertilization is independent of the number of perichaetia per stem. Three lines of evidence suggest that self-fertilization occurs: 1) frequency of fertilization is significantly higher on bisexual stems than on perichaetial stems, 2) "unfertilized perichaetia" tend to occur distal to perigonia of the same stem, and 3) stems with highest numbers of perigonia exhibit highest fertilization frequencies.
10.2307/2418358|In five populations of Entodon cladorrhizans in central Pennsylvania during the 1981 growing season more sporophytes were initiated than developed to maturity; the greater the number of sporophytes initiated per stem, the lower the probability that a given sporophyte developed to maturity; vegetative growth of the gametophyte was reduced during sporophyte development; sporophytes tended to abort early in their development; and the amount of vegetative growth on a stem prior to the initiation of sporophytes was positively correlated with the size and number of sporophytes produced. These findings suggest that sporophyte production in E. cladorrhizans is resource-limited and that sporophyte abortion allows matching of reproductive output to the available resources.
10.2307/2418359|Oryzopsis kingii is transferred to Ptilagrostis as P. kingii on the basis of its morphological, anatomical, ecological, and cytological similarity to other members of that genus. In addition, P. porteri is transferred to P. mongholica as P. mongholica subsp. porteri. Stipa stillmanii, whose inclusion in Ptilagrostis has also been suggested, is retained in Stipa s.l. Numerical analyses of morphological similarities among various supraspecific taxa of Stipeae support previous suggestions that the generic limits within the tribe, particularly as interpreted in North America, should be reevaluated.
10.2307/2418360|This report includes two new varieties in Astragalus, A. missouriensis var. humistratus and A. newberryi var. aquarii, and twelve new combinations in Astragalus, A. allochrous var. playanus, A. australis var. major, A. australis var. olympicus, A. bigelovii var. marcidus, A. episcopus var. lancearius, A. howelii var. pauper, A. iodanthus var. pseudoiodanthus, A. limnocharis var. montii, A. lonchocarpus var. hamiltonii, A. missouriensis var. accumbens, A. monoensis var. ravenii, and A. monumentalis var. cottamii. New combinations in Orophaca are O. barriae, O. hyalina, and O. proimantha. New combinations in Oxytropis are O. nana var. argophylla, O. nana var. besseyi, O. nana var. fallax, O. nana var. obnapiformis, O. nana var. salmonensis, and O. nana var. ventosa. The taxonomic reasons for these nomenclatural changes are briefly discussed.
10.2307/2418361|Based on morphology, Melochia makateaensis, from the Tuamotu Archipelago, Pacific Ocean, is described.
10.2307/2418362|In the first complete taxonomic treatment of Neopringlea, a group of shrubs widespread in Mexico and Guatemala, three species are recognized: N. integrifolia, N. viscosa, and N. trinervia. The taxonomic affinities of Neopringlea have long remained unclear; the genus is here treated as a member of the large tropical family Flacourtiaceae.
10.2307/2418363|Githopsis comprises four species of annuals usually associated with oak woodland and distributed in western North America from northern Baja California Norte to southern British Columbia. Chromosome numbers of Githopsis are based on 10, a base number not found elsewhere in western North American Campanulaceae. Breeding systems in Githopsis range from obligately allogamous to primarily autogamous. Autogamy is mediated by late invagination of stylar hairs or deposition of pollen on the stigmatic surface before anthesis. Reduction in flower size, narrowness of filament base, and reduction in extent of stylar papillae are character state changes associated with the shift to autogamy. Githopsis pulchella grows in xeric sites in the foothills of northern Sierra Nevada and southern Cascade Range of California. It is obligately outcrossed, diploid (n = 10), and here divided into three subspecies. Githopsis specularioides grows in xeric sites from northern San Luis Obispo and Kern counties, California, north to southern British Columbia. It is facultatively autogamous and tetraploid (n = 19, 20). I propose that G. specularioides is a derivative of G. pulchella. Githopsis diffusa grows in mesic sites in California and Baja California Norte in the coastal mountain ranges and east to the southern part of the Cascade Range. It is primarily autogamous and comprises three diploid (n = 10) and one tetraploid (n = 20) subspecies. Githopsis tenella is diploid (n = 9), primarily cleistogamous, and occurs in mesic areas in the Greenhorn and Tehachapi Mountains of Kern and Tulare counties, California. Four other new taxa are described here: Githopsis pulchella subsp. campestris, G. pulchella subsp. serpentinicola, G. diffusa subsp. robusta, and G. diffusa var. guadalupensis; and four new combinations are made: G. diffusa subsp. filicaulis, G. diffusa subsp. candida, G. diffusa var. candida, and G. pulchella var. glabra.
10.2307/2418399|Chaetopappa elegans, a narrow endemic from the White Mountains of south-central New Mexico, is unusual in Chaetopappa because of its double pappus of numerous bristles and narrow scales, comparatively long, lanceolate stylar appendages, crinkled stem pubescence, alveolate receptacle, faint cypsela nerves, long ligules, and occurrence on granitic rock. Its chromosome number is 2n = 9<sub>II</sub>. In habit it resembles C. hersheyi from the nearby Guadalupe Mountains, but characteristics of the head are more like those of C. bellioides and C. pulchella from north-central Mexico and the Big Bend region of Texas, and Leucelene ericoides, widespread in arid southwestern North America. In its alveolate receptacle it resembles some species of Aster and the West Coast genus Pentachaeta, whereas its double pappus is reminiscent of some species of Erigeron and Aster (sect. Ionactis). The crinkly stem hairs are like those of some Erigeron species.
10.2307/2418400|In the hope of clarifying relationships among Elmera, Heuchera, and Tellima, karyotypes of E. racemosa, nine species of Heuchera, and T. grandiflora were compared. This and a previous study have demonstrated karyotypic constancy in Heuchera; thirteen species of Heuchera, representing all five sections have essentially identical karyotypes. Heuchera and the monotypic genera Elmera and Tellima have distinctive karyotypes, and that of Elmera appears to be most similar to that of Heuchera. Karyological data agree with palynological and flavonoid data, which also indicate that Elmera is distinct from Heuchera and Tellima and should be maintained as a separate genus. Hy-banding revealed prominent centromeric and telomeric heterochromatin, which confirmed the karyotypes proposed based on gross chromosomal morphology and permitted differentiation of several of the shorter chromosome pairs that morphologically are very similar. The relative ease with which chromosomes of Heuchera, Elmera, and Tellima respond to the Hy-banding procedure and the large amounts of heterochromatin present is similar to earlier observations for Mitella, Tiarella, and Tolmiea. This investigation further illustrates the conservative nature of chromosomal evolution in taxa of Saxifrageae characterized by x = 7.
10.2307/2418401|Arnica gracilis is a putative natural hybrid between A. cordifolia and A. latifolia. Because it is relatively common, morphologically ecologically distinct, and an autonomous apomict, A. gracilis is recognized at the specific level. Its flavonoid profile consists of fourteen compounds and is essentially a summation of the two parental profiles. Four compounds are common to both A. gracilis and A. cordifolia, three compounds are common to both A. gracilis and A. latifolia, two compounds are unique to A. gracilis, and five compounds are common to all three species. Arnica gracilis probably originated prior to or during the Pleistocene.
10.2307/2418402|Greenhouse hybrids involving ten of the 12 native species of Epilobium in South America and two from elsewhere were analyzed for meiotic chromosome behavior and hybrid fertility. Two chromosome end arrangements-AA and BB-characterize nine of the ten South American species studied; the one strain of E. puberulum used here differs from BB by one translocation. One strain of E. hirtigerum is shown to have a novel arrangement that differs from two other South American strains of this species, both of which possess the BB arrangement. Biogeographic interpretations suggest that the species with AA chromosomes were derived from North American ancestors and those with BB chromosomes originated from Australasian ancestors.
10.2307/2418403|Eleven flavonoid compounds-one C-glycosyl flavone and ten flavonol glycosides-were isolated and identified from leaf material of Cnidoscolus aconitifolius, C. souzae, and C. spinosus. The flavonol glycosides were the galactosides, glucosides, rhamnosides, and rhamnosylglucosides of quercetin and kaempferol, and two triglycosides of the latter flavonol. Cnidoscolus aconitifolius and C. spinosus exhibit considerable chemical variability The flavonoid data support the inclusion in C. aconitifolius of C. aconitifolius subsp. polyanthus and C. aconitifolius subsp. aconitifolius cv Chayamansa, "chaya," a plant of some economic importance. The data also suggest that these two taxa originated in the Yucatan region of Mexico.
10.2307/2418404|Comparisons of branching systems in a wide variety of taxa in Lejeuneaceae (Hepaticae) revealed six characters that are particularly significant at the subfamilial level: lateral branch type, leaf sequence of Lejeunea-type branches, leaf sequence of innovational branches, position of terminal leaf on gynoecial branches, single innovation position, and gynoecial pattern. Distribution of character states suggests the presence of two main evolutionary lines within the family: the lejeuneoid line and the cololejeuneoid line.
10.2307/2418405|Aztekium and Strombocactus, monotypic genera of Mexican cacti, have been considered to be congeneric. Studies in the field and laboratory dealt with habitat, distribution, flowers, fruits, outer cell layers of the stem, spines, pollen, and seeds. Although the genera are similar, particularly with regard to habitat and seeds, there are numerous distinguishing features. These two genera are compared to each other and to eight other genera of Cactinae in a table of 30 characters. Aztekium and Strombocactus should continue provisionally to be recognized as distinct genera.
10.2307/2418406|Oenothera kleinii is a very rare new species of sect. Anogra known from only one site in Colorado, Mineral Co., below Wolf Creek Pass. The site has recently been destroyed by road construction. The species is morphologically most similar to O. deltoides, a polytypic species that ranges from sandy xeric habitats in the Sonoran and Mojave deserts to the seasonally dry interior valleys of California. Oenothera kleinii is especially similar to the only perennial taxon of O. deltoides, subsp. howellii.
10.2307/2418407|For valves of the same diameter, type material of Stephanodiscus rotula, observed with light and scanning electron microscopy, has more total spines, more central strutted processes, and narrower mantles than does S. magarae. However, these characters covary with diameter and with one another within each species. Thus, characters that distinguish between individuals in a species also contribute, in a multivariate context, to differences between species. Principal component analysis resolves variation in these and other characters into two major factors: a general pooled diameter-effect and a factor explaining differences between the two species.
10.2307/2418408|All populations proved to be self-compatible but most required pollination by insects. Cross-pollination led to a slightly higher seed production than selfing. Self-pollinating populations were found in two localities. Clonal material grown under different environmental conditions produced very different phenotypes; leaf shape, inflorescence development, and stature are particularly plastic. Pubescence and capsule characters are not influenced by environment; however, most wild populations were heterozygous for these characters. No correlation was found between polyploidy and morphology or taxonomy, though there were differences in pollen diameter between the main cytotypes. Crosses were produced between major cytotypes, the main variational entities, and widely separated populations. All proved successful and the progeny were fertile. The interacting roles of reproductive biology, genetic variability, and phenotypic plasticity are presented.
10.2307/2418409|Chromosome numbers are presented for 132 populations of 27 taxa and three naturally occurring hybrids of Antennaria. Of the 27 taxa, 15 apparently have not been counted before and two counts are new numbers for species previously determined. Twenty taxa consist entirely or partially of sexual diploids (2n = 28): A. arcuata, A. argentea, "aromatica," A. corymbosa, A. dimorpha, A. dioica, A. flagellaris, A. Geyeri, A. lanata, A. luzuloides, A. media, A. microcephala, A. microphylla, A. neglecta, A. plantaginifolia, A. racemosa, A. solitaria, A. suffrutescens, A. umbrinella, and A. virginica. Six other species for which counts are not available are thought to exist as sexual diploids, bringing to 26 the total number of sexual diploids in the genus as a whole. Chromosome numbers are also presented for the five heteroploid complexes: A. alpina s.l. (including A. media), A. neodioica s.l., A. parlinii s.l., A. parvifolia s.l., and A. rosea s.l. While A. alpina s.l., A. rosea s.l., and A. neodioica s.l. each consist of one or two euploid chromosome levels, A. parlinii and A. parvifolia each have at least four different levels. Antennaria parvifolia has the highest chromosome number known in the genus, 2n = 140 (decaploid). B-chromosomes were found in A. suffrutescens. Based on the counts presented and karyotypic information, it is hypothesized that the original base number in Antennaria was x = 14. A fourth subspecies of the A. neodioica complex, Antennaria neodioica subsp. howellii, is formally named.
10.2307/2418410|Six new Brazilian species are described and illustrated. Eremanthus argenteus, E. auriculatus, and E. uniflorus are restricted to the Chapada dos Veadeiros of central Goias. Eremanthus seidelii is endemic to the cerrado surrounding Furnas reservoir in southwestern Minas Gerais, and E. graciellae is limited to the Serra Geral mountain range separating Goias and Bahia. Eremanthus rondoniensis is closely related to E. mattogrossensis and represents a western extension (into Rondonia) of the glomerulatus-goyazensis-mattogrossensis complex.
10.2307/2418411|Bradburia hirtella is a small annual endemic to eastern Texas and Louisiana. The species includes two cytotypes n = 3 and n = 4, the latter known from only one plant. Under cultivation an n = 4 individual existed as a short-lived perennial blooming several times over the course of 2.5 years. The two cytotypes were crossed and the 2n = 7 progeny survived and bloomed. Meiosis was studied in 2n = 6, 7, and 8 individuals. Three bivalents were typically observed in late prophase and metaphase I in pollen parent cells of 2n = 6 plants. Four bivalents were typical in the 2n = 8 plant. In meiosis in the 2n = 7 plants, bivalents and multivalents were observed. The mitotic metaphase karyotypes were also compared. Both the 2n = 6 and the 2n = 8 plants had one large acrocentric pair and a smaller acrocentric satellite chromosome with a short arm with subequal satellite and proximal portions. The 2n = 8 plant had two small metacentric pairs. The 2n = 6 plants had only one large submetacentric pair. The presumed closest relatives are in Chrysopsis. Efforts to cross Bradburia with several species of Chrysopsis were unsuccessful. Flavonoid patterns in the two genera were similar but did not confirm or refute a close relationship. On the basis of karyotypes the n = 4 race of Bradburia appears to be intermediate between the n = 4 perennial C. mariana and the more specialized n = 4 annual C. pilosa. While B. hirtella could be transferred to Chrysopsis, the distinctive staminate disc florets of the former are considered sufficient to separate the two at the generic level.
10.2307/2418412|A test of Skog and Banks's hypothesis of the origin of Sphenopsida from members of Cladoxylopsida and plants similar to Ibyka, now placed in Iridopteridales, has been devised using cladistic principles. The test utilizes "whorled appendages," an unambiguous feature uniting the two major groups of sphenopsids, Equisetales (sensu Good) and Sphenophyllales, and two other characters, with states partially redefined by us, which we regard as significant to the problem. These characters are: 1) a morphological series involving dissection of a ribbed protostele and loss of central xylem ultimately resulting in the equisetalean type of stele, and 2) a proposed series suggesting homology between equisetalean and sphenophyllalean "sporangiophores" and the sporangial complexes of some cladoxylopsids. The distribution of known taxa among defined character states forces us to conclude that the three characters are mutually incompatible, that is, no character supports the same estimate of phylogeny as any other. However, if we consider one character to be "true," then only a few parallelisms or reversals are necessary to explain the data. Allowing each character in turn to be "true" generates a total of six partially resolved phylogenetic hypotheses, only three of which are consistent with stratigraphic evidence. Each of our hypotheses is unique, but the set as a whole shares some features that do not occur in the hypothesis of Skog and Banks. Reasons for this, we believe, are: 1) increased understanding of members of Iridopteridales, and 2) rejection by us of the idea that similar features of cladoxylopsids are necessarily the result of parallelism. One of our hypotheses based on the "presphenopsid sporangiophore" concept, is most similar to Skog and Banks's hypothesis. However, we are unable to find a testable argument that supports a greater likelihood of "truth" in thus character compared to the others. Therefore, we do not believe that relationships suggested by it are more likely to be true. In our opinion, the recognition of character incompatibilities can be a powerful analytic device in phylogenetic analyses, especially involving fossil taxa.
10.2307/2418816|Ludwigia ravenii, a uniform new species with scattered distribution in the Coastal Plains from Virginia south to northeastern Florida, belongs to the diverse sect. Microcarpium and bears a striking superficial resemblance to L. pilosa and, to some degree, L. sphaerocarpa. Careful morphological study and field observations reveal that they differ significantly in floral details and in breeding system. Ludwigia ravenii is one of eight tetraploid taxa in sect. Microcarpium, which is a polyploid complex. The other seven tetraploid taxa are interfertile; there are presumably no genetic barriers between L. ravenii and them.
10.2307/2418817|Historically, Eremanthus has contained a melange of unrelated elements exhibiting varying degrees of syncephaly. As a result of comprehensive investigations into the generic and specific boundaries of Eremanthus and Vanillosmopsis, several nomenclatural transactions have become necessary Vernonia veadeiroensis, V. leucodendron, and V. pabstii are new combinations resulting from transfers from Eremanthus. Vernonia pannosus and V. crispa, however, are new combinations for taxa for which earliest epithets were preoccupied in Vernonia but had other available epithets. The original epithets of V. shanynensis, V. ramospatana, and V. klattii are also preoccupied in Vernonia and because no other epithets are available, these names represent nomina nova.
10.2307/2418818|All three species of Jepsonia are characterized by a base chromosome number of x = 7. Jepsonia malvifolia and J. parryi (some populations of the latter are tetraploid) possess essentially identical karyotypes that differ only slightly from the karyotype of J. heterandra. Karyotypic data agree with evidence from flavonoid chemistry, which also indicates that J. malvifolia and J. parryi are more closely related to each other than either is to J. heterandra. Karyotypes of Jepsonias differ markedly from those of other taxa of Saxifrageae. Chromosomes of species of Jepsonia are significantly smaller than those of other Saxifrageae with x = 7. This difference in chromosome size is correlated with habitat; Jepsonia is xerophytically adapted, whereas most genera of Saxifrageae occur in mesic habitats. Karyology and gross morphology indicate that Jepsonia is a distinctive genus with no close allies in Saxifrageae.
10.2307/2418819|Crossing and cytological studies demonstrate the nature and extent of reproductive isolation among the 12 taxa of Sedum sect. Gormania. Artificial hybridizations between the taxa show that crossing barriers are few or essentially nonexistent. An analysis of the synthesized hybrids, including assessments of interfertilities, pollen stainabilities, and chromosomal configurations, confirms that genetic isolation of the taxa operates at the F<sub>1</sub> generation. That intertaxon hybrids are sterile or scarcely interfertile supports the present delineation of taxa and provides clues to their evolutionary pathways. Hypotheses regarding the origin of the polyploid taxa are supported: 1) that S. laxum subsp. eastwoodiae (4x) arose from S. laxum subsp. laxum (2x) and/or S. laxum subsp. heckneri (2x); 2) that S. laxum subsp. flavidum (4x) arose from S. laxum subsp. heckneri (2x) and S. obtusatum subsp. obtusatum (2x); 3) that S. obtusatum subsp. retusum (4x) arose from S. obtusatum subsp. obtusatum (2x) and/or S. obtusatum subsp. boreale (2x); and 4) that S. oregonense (6x) arose via alloploidy from S. obtusatum subsp. retusum (4x) and S. laxum subsp. laxum (2x).
10.2307/2418820|This report considers two related subjects: the habitat preferences of ancestral orchids and the unparalleled expansion of Orchidaceae, particularly in tropical forest canopies. We challenge a proposal that extant terrestrial family members evolved from epiphytic antecedents (Robinson and Burns-Balogh 1982) on the grounds that much evidence and several precedents in Orchidaceae and other taxa were ignored or misinterpreted. These authors' hypothesis rests on certain key orchid characteristics that they claim are indicative of an epiphytic bottleneck in orchid phylogeny. But the same features could have emerged in soil-rooted ancestors. Some, such as microspermy and carbon mycotrophy, are almost certainly terrestrial in origin. We conclude that the more conventional view of epiphytism in Orchidaceae as secondary is probably correct. We support this notion with a conceptual model of orchid ecological-physiological phylogeny that is consistent with functional correlates of microspermy, mycotrophy, and orchid root anatomy. Also offered is a hypothetical scheme depicting forces that may have promoted this family's great diversity through selection of certain adaptive features. Questions that must be pursued to develop greater insight on the adaptive history of Orchidaceae are identified.
10.2307/2418821|In New England, Podostemum ceratophyllum flowers at all levels in relation to the water's surface (above, at, below). Only one of three populations studied produces seed, the others mature unfilled capsules. In the seed-producing population pre-anthesis cleistogamy characterizes the breeding system. Outcrossing is unlikely. Capsule maturation takes 2 or 3 weeks. Capsules dehisce largely in response to desiccation, and seeds are initially shed close to the capsules. Hydrochory is a likely agent of further dispersal. Initially, seeds become attached to the substratum by drying of the outer mucilaginous cells of the seed coat. Seed germination occurs only when the seeds are submersed; the emerging radicle is green and presumably photosynthetic. Seedlings are attached via rhizoidal outgrowths of the radicle epidermis. The functional plant originates from a meristem at the base of the hypocotyl and consists of a prostrate axis from which upright flowering shoots are produced. The time from germination to flowering in the young plant is less than 2 months.
10.2307/2418822|The Aster occidentalis complex is a western North American group of rhizomatous perennials. The group shows considerable morphological variation and includes at least six ploidy levels with chromosome numbers ranging from n = 8 to n = 48. In this study, 283 chromosome counts are reported; most specimens sampled had euploid chromosome numbers based on x = 8, but a few aneuploid plants were also found. The relationship between morphological variation and chromosome number was assessed using a cluster analysis and principal components analysis of up to 35 characters in 172 specimens of known ploidy level. The diploid specimens fell into six morphological groups, corresponding to five of the approximately ten species included in the complex. The polyploids showed greater variability and more extensive intergradation between groups than did the diploids. The geographic distributions of chromosome numbers in the more widely distributed species are also discussed.
10.2307/2418823|The outgroup substitution approach can be used when a well-corroborated hypothesis of the more inclusive cladistic relationships of a study group is unavailable. It is particularly appropriate when the set of outgroups, each of which could plausibly be the sister group, includes some that may be only distantly related to others. All plausible sister groups are used as outgroups, alone and in various arrangements, to assess character polarities. In each case an ingroup cladogram is constructed and these are searched for areas of congruence. Through this approach, robust phylogenetic hypotheses can be generated in spite of uncertain outgroup relationships. Caution must be exercised because polarity assessment is sensitive to the exact arrangement of outgroups. Even if completely congruent cladograms are obtained, it may not be possible to specify character support for particular clades. The approach may be most useful when one's primary objective is to establish an outgroup hypothesis for a subsequent cladistic analysis at a lower taxonomic level.
10.2307/2418824|An average of 14(7-34) plants each for 61 different collections of Zea (maize and its wild relatives, the teosintes) were studied for 12 enzyme systems coded for by 21 loci. Principal component and cluster analyses based on allele frequencies showed Zea can be divided into two major groups: 1) sect. Luxuriantes, including Z. perennis, Z. diploperennis, and Z. luxurians; and 2) sect. Zea (in part), including Z. mays subsp. mays, var. parviglumis, and subsp. mexicana. Zea mays var. huehuetenangensis (Huehuetenango teosinte) is isoenzymatically distinct from both sections, but shows its closest relationship to Z. mays var. parviglumis of sect. Zea. Populations of Z. mays subsp. mexicana and var. parviglumis grade isoenzymatically from one into the other without any clear break, but without any overlap either. Five populations of Z. mays subsp. mays are all isoenzymatically very similar to Z. mays var. parviglumis. The isozyme data are consistent with the theory that Mexican annual teosinte is the ancestor of maize. With the exception of the unusual isoenzymatic nature of Z. mays var. huehuetenangensis, the isoenzymatic data agree with previous studies of tassel morphology and cytoplasm DNAs. A comparison of sympatric populations of maize and teosinte suggests that teosintes are not greatly affected by introgression from maize. Zea mays var. parviglumis and Z. diploperennis have considerable within and among population variation; Z. luxurians has much less. Race Central Plateau of Z. mays subsp. mexicana has greater among population variation than any other taxon in Zea. Zea tends to show greater within population heterozygosity and more variance within species and subspecies than most other plants that have been studied isoenzymatically.
10.2307/2418825|Coreopsis grandiflora is an herbaceous perennial occurring primarily in the southeastern United States. It is morphologically variable and the variation is accommodated in three diploid (var. grandiflora, var. harveyana, var. saxicola) and one hexaploid (var. longipes) varieties. Populations of the three diploid varieties are usually highly interfertile. An electrophoretic study of 14 soluble enzymes presumably coded by 26 genes revealed no differentiation between any of the varieties. Comparable levels of genetic variation were found in populations of each variety and within each variety as a whole. The high genetic identity between the hexaploid var. longipes and the three diploid varieties suggests that the former is an autopolyploid in the sense that its origin lies exclusively within C. grandiflora. All alleles detected in the hexaploid were also found in the diploids, and no fixed heterozygosity was found at any gene in any population of var. longipes. The electrophoretic evidence is concordant with the high morphological similarity between var. longipes and diploid varieties of C. grandiflora in suggesting an autoploid origin for the former.
10.2307/2418826|Palicourea spathacea, a new species from montane Costa Rica, is noteworthy for its spathaceous calyx. This species seems best placed in Palicourea because it is closely related to several species of this genus.
10.2307/2418827|A new monotypic genus, Jablonskia, based on the South American Securinega congesta (Euphorbiaceae, Phyllanthoideae), resembles genera of the Antidesmeae in pollen and wood characters, but the floral structure is more similar to that in genera of Aporuseae such as Ashtonia and Richeria. From Securinega, where it was originally placed, and the taxa of Antidesmeae and Aporuseae, Jablonskia may be separated by a combination of characteristics: monoecious; inflorescences axillary; flowers conspicuously bracteate, the staminate sessile; pollen grains prolate, exine tectate-perforate, germ pore lalongate; seeds with fleshy exotesta, paired in each locule of the irregularly dehiscing capsule; embryo with radicle equalling the cotyledons.
10.2307/2418828|The wood of Jablonskia, a new monotypic genus up till now considered to belong in Securinega, differs from that of Securinega in various respects. It would be better accommodated anatomically in Flueggea sensu Webster, except for the presence of scalariform perforation plates in some of the vessels. This feature is not known in any of the genera of Phyllantheae (sensu Webster 1975) with the exception of Chascotheca neopeltandra. The wood structure of Jablonskia is characterized by narrow vessels in short radial rows, small intervascular pits, imperforate tracheary elements consisting of septate and non-septate libriform fibers of moderate length, rays uniseriate and multiseriate, the latter heterogeneous with long uniseriate extensions of tall upright cells, large vessel/ray pitting, and very scarce vasicentric parenchyma. This combination of features occurs in some taxa of Antidesmeae, e.g., in Celianella and Antidesma. The anatomical structure of taxa of Aporuseae shows less similarity to the wood of Jablonskia.
10.2307/2418829|Myrrhidendron donnellsmithii is a woody, andromonoecious member of the apioid Umbelliferae indigenous to Costa Rica. Hermaphrodite flowers are protogynous and concentrated in the outer umbellets of secondary umbels, while the primary and tertiary umbels consist almost entirely of male flowers. Neither hermaphrodite nor male flowers open fully, the petals remain erect with their tips strongly infolded, and together with the filaments form a floral tube, the base of which surrounds the nectariferous stylopodium. This tubular corolla probably excludes nonadapted flower visitors, but allows access to nectar by longer-tongued, specialized pollinators such as those seen visiting the umbels. As the staminal filaments form an integral part of the floral tube, protogyny is probably the most advantageous dichogamous system, because delay of male function postpones disruption of the tube following anther dehiscence.
10.2307/2418830|Scanning electron microscopy of abaxial leaf epidermes of 15 North American species of Andropogon sect. Leptopogon revealed species-specific epidermal patterns in most species. Andropogon elliottii and A. virginicus are variable and intergrade. Epidermal features support recognition of A. capillipes as a variety of A. virginicus and A. cabanisii as a variety of A. ternarius. Andropogon arctatus, A. floridanus, and A. gracilis have distinct epidermal features that reinforce their discrete morphological characteristics. Differences in epidermal features between the A. ternarius and the A. virginicus groups are not as pronounced as those based on morphology and ploidy level.
10.2307/2418604|Leptodactylon glabrum is known only from two localities in Nevada and Idaho. It appears to be allied morphologically with the more widely distributed intermountain species L. watsonii.
10.2307/2418605|Although considerable adaptive radiation has resulted in varied morphology and habitat among the seven diploid species of Scaevola that are endemic to the Hawaiian Islands, members of the group show quite similar flavonoid profiles. All possess one apigenin glycoside plus several quercetin glycosides. Minor differences in glycosylation characterize some species. The similarity in flavonoid profiles supports an hypothesis of close systematic relationship among these taxa.
10.2307/2418606|Chromosome counts from 140 populations referable to the Claytonia sibirica complex reveal a polyploid series of diploids, tetraploids, and hexaploids based on x = 6. Three morphologically distinct and largely allopatric diploids are recognizable in C. sibirica s.str., and additional diploids occur in two other closely allied taxa. Variability found at the diploid level includes differences in climatic adaptations, habitat, shape of basal leaves, and presence or absence of basal bulblets and rhizomes. Morphological and ecological diversity at the tetraploid level reflects that found among the diploids and suggests that intraspecific polyploidy, including hybridization between divergent diploids, has been important in the evolution of the complex. Tetraploids are found over most of the range of the species, but only diploids occur in the disjunct eastern segment of distribution in northwestern Idaho and adjacent states. Hexaploids are restricted to the redwood forest region of coastal northwestern California, where they exist to the exclusion of the other cytotypes. The species still remains to be sampled on its northern range in coastal Alaska and eastern Siberia.
10.2307/2418607|Dalechampia websteri from Costa Rica and Panama, although superficially similar to members of sect. Triphyllae, appears to be more closely related to members of sect. Dioscoreifoliae. Dalechampia arenalensis from Costa Rica, although superficially similar to members of sect. Dioscoreifoliae, appears to be more closely related to members of sects. Triphyllae and Scandentes.
10.2307/2418608|Morphological studies of populations belonging to three taxa of Leymus revealed that L. salinus comprises L. salinus subsp. salinus and L. salinus subsp. salmonis. These subspecies are geographically separated: subsp. salinus occurs in eastern Utah, northern Arizona, southwestern Wyoming, and western Colorado whereas subsp. salmonis occurs in Idaho, Nevada, and western Utah. Leymus ambiguus is distinct from both these taxa and is restricted to the Colorado Front Range. Both tetraploid (2n = 28) and octoploid (2n = 56) plants occur in L. salinus subsp. salinus and L. ambiguus, but only tetraploids were found in L. salinus subsp. salmonis. One population of L. salinus subsp. salinus included a natural hexaploid (2n = 42), the first such record for this taxon.
10.2307/2418609|Archibaccharis jacksonii is now known from two localities in the mountains of Costa Rica and is most closely allied to A. panamensis.
10.2307/2418610|Clustering and ordination studies demonstrated a phenetically coherent assemblage of 11 core families of Centrospermae, widely separated from Plumbaginaceae and Polygonaceae. Cladistic analyses based on 71 out-group-polarized characters provided strong evidence for monophyly of centrosperms but only weak support for close sister-group status with Plumbaginaceae and Polygonaceae. Both phenetic and cladistic results indicated divergence between Caryophyllaceae, problematically allied with Molluginaceae, and the betalain-producing centrosperms. Three distinct clades emerged among the betalain taxa: a primitive group of Nyctaginaceae + Phytolaccaceae; an intermediate group of Amaranthaceae + Chenopodiaceae; and an advanced group of succulents-Aizoaceae + Cactaceae, Portulacaceae, and Basellaceae + Didiereaceae. We present a revised classification of Centrospermae, emphasizing cladistic relationships of the 11 core families and including several aberrant or little-known genera subordinated and sequenced according to conventions described by Wiley (1981). The new classification is compatible with recent interpretations of floral homologies and with external data from nucleic acid, ultrastructural, and serological comparisons.
10.2307/2418611|The flavonoids of Menziesia ferruginea and M. pilosa are based, mainly, on flavonols. Menziesia ferruginea accumulates derivatives of kaempferol, 7-O-methylkaempferol, quercetin, 7-O-methylquercetin, myricetin, and gossypetin, although some individual plants do not have all compounds. The compounds occur as a complex mixture of mono-, di-, and triglycosides some of which occur as acetylated derivatives. Very polar derivatives of kaempferol and quercetin also occur. Triglycosides are of seldom and scattered distribution. Menziesia pilosa has a simpler flavonoid profile; it lacks 7-O-methylated flavonols, triglycosides, and gossypetin. The two species are further distinguished by the presence of an unidentified flavanone in M. ferruginea and dihydromyricetin in M. pilosa. Differences in flavonoid profile were found between material collected from several areas within the range of M. ferruginea but these differences do not correlate with infraspecific taxa that were recognized by earlier workers. The pattern of variation in occurrence of flavonoids is more complex in M. ferruginea than in M. pilosa. ANOVA of principal components analysis axis scores showed that geographical differences are most significant; between-year and within-year variation are less significant. The amount of variation accounted for by these factors, however, is comparatively small; principal components analysis showed that only about 30% of the total variation is accounted for by the first two axes. With respect to infraspecific flavonoid variation, Menziesia resembles the situation described for species of Phlox by Levy and coworkers.
10.2307/2418612|Meiotic chromosome numbers are reported for 30 taxa representing 12 genera of Acanthaceae from Mexico and the southwestern United States. Chromosome numbers of 25 of these taxa are reported for the first time. Chromosome numbers obtained in Henrya (n = 18), Holographis (n = 13, 26, 39), Mexacanthus (n = 18), Mirandea (n = 18), and Stenandrium (n = 26) are the first for these genera. A newly reported chromosome number in Justicia is n = 11. Polyploidy and aneuploidy appear to have been frequent events in the family and are especially evident in the large, polymorphic genus Justicia. Generic relationships are discussed with respect to the known chromosome numbers.
10.2307/2418613|Myrospermum sousanum A. Delgado & M. C. Johnston, a morphologically and geographically distinctive species from Nuevo Leon, Mexico, is described, illustrated and compared to its nearest relative, M. frutescens.
10.2307/2418614|A revision of the Andean genus Semiramisia updates our knowledge of the genus by providing a brief historical background, discussion of relationships, taxonomic descriptions, synonymy, specimen citations, illustrations, and a key to the species currently recognized, among them Semiramisia alata Luteyn, sp. nov.
10.2307/2418786|Comparative plant morphology is an empirical discipline that provides evidence whereby plant structures may be homologized. Historical example amply illustrates how its procedures are successfully applied. Developmental evidence is often critical for analysis and, by virtue of the modular or metameric construction of higher plants, ontogenetic and primordial developmental processes must be carefully distinguished. Both phenotypic and genotypic variation add confusion to the comparative process. The typological basis of comparative studies is emphasized, but in a non-idealistic sense. An agnostic approach is healthy, and the futility of certain comparisons sometimes needs to be recognized. Case studies show how phylogeny, development, and systematics need to be integrated while added evidence placed in a biological or functional context may resolve apparent difficulties. In other instances ignorance of morphogenetic processes may prevent an immediate resolution. Variation may even repeat developmental patterns, so that convergence in structural plans is easily possible. Because of the extended ontogeny of modular organisms evolutionary diversification is likely to involve extensive neotenous metamorphism, both in indeterminate structures and determinate organ complexes.
10.2307/2418787|The notions of essential similarity and/or common ancestry underlie the majority of homology concepts that have been proposed so far. Both notions have limitations and lead to difficulties. As an alternative, a flexible approach taking into consideration the existing variety of structural relationships is suggested. This approach recognizes different kinds and grades of structural relationships, i.e., 1:1 correspondences and partial correspondences. The latter include, for example, relationships that occur between members of a morphocline. The 1:1 correspondences may be seen as borderline cases in which the partial correspondences approach 100%; thus the two are not fundamentally different from each other. Structural relationships (which may or may not be termed homologies) are relative to the level of organization, the background theory, and, in phylogenetic considerations, the level in the cladogram. Transformational analysis investigates structural relationships in terms of the processes that produce them. It underlines the dynamic aspect of plant form and facilitates comparison where the search for structural correspondence is inappropriate. In such cases it may supersede structural homologization, whereas in other cases, it may be complementary to the latter. Transformational analysis may reflect phylogeny. However, in cases where sufficient phylogenetic evidence is lacking, it may represent formal transformations.
10.2307/2418788|A definition of homology, similarity in structure in a group of organisms that delimits that group alone and that was found in their common ancestor, is discussed. This definition clarifies the level of universality at which structures are homologous and various kinds of similarity relationships between structures. Similarities are 1:1 correspondences in the structures being compared; similar structures that appear to be derived after using outgroup analysis are potentially homologous. Final hypotheses of homology (synapomorphies) are made after the evaluation of all potentially homologous characters in the formation of an hypothesized phylogeny. Similarity refers simply to some commonality in the structures being compared, not to structures in their entirety; failure to make this distinction clear is responsible for much of the confusion over the term "homology." The emphasis on the necessity of 1:1 correspondence highlights the danger of constructing morphoclines via chains of similarity relationships, the two ends of which show no commonality. Kinds of evidence used in establishing similarity are discussed, with emphasis on the use, as well as the limitations, of developmental evidence. Such evidence is particularly valuable in establishing transformational relationships between homologies characterizing different taxonomic levels. Similarly, both the significance of terata and the nature of the serially repeating construction of plants can be understood best by emphasizing levels of developmental and evolutionary complexity; results of confusing the level of analysis are shown. Reification of an unsuitable terminology is shown to affect initial assessments of similarity and hence final hypotheses of homology. Any connection between the definition of homology proposed and essentialistic typology is dismissed. Finally, notions that the concept of homology is necessarily circular and untestable are discussed. It is suggested that the connection between assessments of similarity and aspects of the evolutionary process is a necessary one in any attempt to uncover groups that does not involve direct observation of their formation. In the general discussion it is emphasized that the phylogenetic framework in which the definition of homology is placed specifies levels between and within which comparisons can most usefully be made, so enabling problems of interest to both systematists and morphologists to be tackled. The mechanisms by which changes occur in an organism during evolution are, however, not necessarily clarified by the phylogenetic or, indeed, any approach. It is suggested that the common meeting place of the systematist and morphologist is the analysis of similarity and its conversion into hypotheses of homology.
10.2307/2418789|Review of collections referable to Omiltemia resulted in recognition of four species, including Omiltemia scoti, newly described from Oaxaca, and O. floribunda, transferred from Edithea.
10.2307/2418790|The following new species are described: Pavonia discolor from Nayarit, Periptera ctenotricha from Jalisco, Robinsonella chiangii from Puebla, and Dirhamphis mexicana from Guerrero. The first three species are from genera well represented in Mexico, but Dirhamphis mexicana is the second species to be described of a genus previously known only from Bolivia and Paraguay.
10.2307/2418791|Intraspecific variation in seed morphology was analyzed by SEM for nine populations of Arenaria uniflora, a winter annual endemic to rock outcrops in the southeastern United States. Seed lengths ranged from 0.47-0.58 mm and showed almost no overlap between populations. Seed coats varied from corrugate surfaces with sinuate cell margins in plants from the center of the range in Georgia to smooth surfaces with entire cell margins for plants from the peripheries of the distribution in Alabama and the Carolinas. Rough, thick seed coats were characteristic of dry sites, and smooth, thin seed coats, of wet sites. Germination of smooth seeds occurred most rapidly, while more corrugate seeds required progressively longer to reach similar germination percentages. The wide range of variation detected in A. uniflora is probably due to the high potential for local differentiation of populations isolated on rock outcrops. The high levels of intraspecific variation reported here suggest that caution should be used whenever SEM-level features are employed to characterize species or other taxa.
10.2307/2418792|Patterns of resource allocation and pollen-ovule ratios were measured in nine populations of Arenaria uniflora, a winter annual endemic to rock outcrops in the southeastern United States. Dry weights of plants from cross-pollinating populations were greater than those from self-pollinating populations for both vegetative and reproductive biomass. Reproductive effort (proportion of total biomass represented by reproductive structures), however, was greater for selfers. Pollen-ovule ratios showed a close fit to expectations: low pollen-ovule ratios are associated with low rates of outcrossing (assessed in terms of degree of protandry). Number of pollen grains per flower and pollen-ovule ratios show no variation between years and little variation within and among flowers or plants. Number of ovules per ovary is less stable. It is suggested that use of pollen-ovule ratios obscures the evolutionary dynamics of forces influencing pollen grain number and ovule number. Pollen and ovule production should be studied as separate, and potentially independently varying characters.
10.2307/2418793|Tiarella comprises three species, T. cordifolia, T. trifoliata, and T. polyphylla, distributed in eastern North America, western North America, and eastern Asia, respectively. Few systematic studies have compared related species displaying this well-known floristic disjunction. The flavonoids and karyotypes of species of Tiarella were therefore compared to determine the extent of differentiation among these apparently long-isolated species. Species of Tiarella possess the same chromosome number (2n = 14) and very similar karyotypes. Tiarella polyphylla exhibits a distinctive secondary constriction and associated heterochromatic band not observed in either T. cordifolia or T. trifoliata. Each species has a distinctive array of flavonoid constituents. Differences in mono- and diglycosides exist between T. cordifolia and T. trifoliata. Triglycosides are absent from T. polyphylla, whereas they are present in T. cordifolia and T. trifoliata; T. polyphylla displays the simplest array of flavonoids.
10.2307/2418794|Gaillardia pulchella and G. amblyodon are obligately outcrossed, diploid annuals that occur sympatrically in Texas. Gaillardia pulchella consists of three parapatric varieties and at least four chromosomally differentiated races. Six of thirteen allozyme loci assayed (46%) are polymorphic in both species. Mean expected heterozygosities are 0.188 for G. pulchella and 0.125 for G. amblyodon. No significant linkage disequilibria were observed between pairs of polymorphic loci, and no deviations from Hardy-Weinberg expectations were detected. Nei's coefficient of gene differentiation (G<sub>ST</sub>) was 0.160 between convarietal populations, 0.021 between varieties of G. pulchella, 0.146 between populations of G. amblyodon, and 0.144 between the two species. Mean values of Nei's genetic distance (D) were 0.035 among local populations, 0.059 among varieties, and 0.285 between species. There is little allozyme differentiation among varieties of G. pulchella. Clustering (UPGMA) of populations by genetic distance failed to discern either morphological varieties or chromosomal races within this species. Genetic distances are significantly correlated with geographic distances within G. pulchella, suggesting gene flow may be an important deterrent to differentiation. Data from other outcrossing plant taxa are consistent with the contention that strong barriers to gene flow are a prerequisite for allozyme differentiation. It is suggested that allozyme variation within species will often show little concordance with variation in other characters and may therefore be of limited use for delimiting infraspecific taxa.
10.2307/2418795|Wood anatomy of three specimens of Neowawraea phyllanthoides Rock, a rare and endangered member of Euphorbiaceae endemic to the Hawaiian Islands, is described and compared with woods of other genera of subfamily Phyllanthoideae. Neowawraea has often been associated or synonymized with Drypetes Vahl. Wood of Neowawraea is diffuse porous, perforation plates are simple, imperforate tracheary elements are thin-walled septate fiber-tracheids, rays are heterocellular and crystalliferous, and axial xylem parenchyma is restricted to a few scanty paratracheal and terminal cells. In several respects these results differ from earlier published descriptions of the wood of this taxon; these earlier descriptions are shown to be in error. Further, as described here, wood of Neowawraea differs greatly from that of Drypetes. Accordingly, generic status for Neowawraea is warranted on anatomical grounds and relationship with certain genera of tribe Phyllantheae such as Breynia Forst., Glochidion Forst., or Phyllanthus L. is favored over relationship with Drypetes.
10.2307/2418796|Jatropha is a morphologically diverse genus of 160-175 species of trees, shrubs, rhizomatous subshrubs, and geophytes, distributed primarily in the seasonally dry tropics. The results of attempted interspecific hybridization of 20 species in eight of the ten sections support the previously suggested phylogenetic relationships of various taxa; decrease in ability to cross corresponds with evolutionary advancement, which is indicated by morphological reductions including dioecy, drastic shifts in growth habit, and/or changes in ploidy level. Except for the dioecious species, these plants have an autoxenogamous breeding system and moderate to well-defined interspecific differences in floral mechanisms. Related species show largely a high degree of unilateral compatibility (genetic incongruity) and may be separated by preferential fertilization, rather than incompatibility, whereas more phylogenetically distant taxa are separated by actual incompatibility barriers. Geographical isolation notwithstanding, related species are capable of gene exchange within wide limits under artificial conditions; phylogenetic relationships may be inferred by crossability of the taxa.
10.2307/2418797|Evidence is presented from electrophoretic analyses of segregation patterns within single families of 24 diploid species of Clarkia (Onagraceae) that the structural genes specifying both the plastid and cytosolic isozymes of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (EC 1.1.1.44) are duplicated throughout the genus. However, several closely related species, assigned to a taxonomically advanced section, lack one or both duplications, a loss apparently resulting from mutation(s) or chromosomal deletion. The loss of one of the duplications clarifies the phylogenetic relationships of C. epilobioides.
10.2307/2418798|Karyotypes of Hexastylis arifolia, H. lewisii, H. virginica, Asarum canadense, and A. caudatum were compared. Karyotypic differences were not apparent among species of the subgeneric groups of Hexastylis. Species of Hexastylis possess 10 pairs of chromosomes with median centromeres and 3 pairs with submedian centromeres, differing from the two species of Asarum which possess 11 and 2 chromosome pairs with median and submedian centromeres, respectively.
10.2307/2418431|Chromosome numbers are documented for the first time for Brazoria, Macbridea, and Synandra. The latter two have 2n = 18. Brazoria comprises two cytologically distinct subgroups: 1) B. scutellarioides, with 2n = 20 plus one to four small bodies interpreted as supernumerary chromosomes, and 2) B. arenaria, B. pulcherrima, and B. truncata, with 2n = 28 and lacking supernumerary chromosomes. Chromosomal data corroborate morphologically circumscribed subgroups within Brazoria and provide weak support for a relationship between Macbridea and Synandra.
10.2307/2418432|Gutierrezia comprises sixteen North American species; two have two varieties each. Thurovia and Greenella are congeners of Gutierrezia, five taxa formerly of Xanthocephalum are members of Gutierrezia, and G. argyrocarpa is a distinct species. Characteristics shared by all taxa include alveolate receptacles that are pubescent with uniseriate trichomes that are swollen medially and long-attenuate apically, disc corollas that are clavate or funnelform and glabrous (except in one species), disc style-branch appendages that are linear with penicillate collecting hairs, achenes that are clavate or cylindrical and pubescent, and a pappus of scales that are united and/or greatly reduced in some taxa. In North America, the genus is distributed from the area of Mexico City northward throughout the Sierras Madres Occidental and Oriental, the central plateau of Mexico, and the central and western United States northward to western Canada. Habitats are well-drained, high montane slopes, mesic or semi-arid grasslands, and deserts.
10.2307/2418433|Oenothera sect. Oenothera subsect. Emersonia consists of four species, O. stubbei sp. nov., O maysillesii, O. macrosceles, and O. organensis, which have scattered relictual distributions in central and northern Mexico and the Organ Mountains, New Mexico, United States. Diagnostic features of subsect. Emersonia include: perennial habit; stems decumbent, ascending or weakly erect, rooting at the nodes in O. maysillesii and O. stubbei; dentate to subentire leaves, erect buds; yellow vespertine hawkmoth-pollinated flowers; cylindrical to narrowly lanceoloid capsules; and seeds with the testa thickened distally, this thickened area with an internal cavity. Fully fertile hybrids can be made in most combinations between these four species, and it is in part because of this result that these somewhat heterogeneous species are grouped together. Based on morphology, distribution, and ability to form fertile hybrids, especially in the case of O. maysillesii, with members of the other four subsections of sect. Oenothera, the species of subsect. Emersonia appear to represent a lineage that diverged relatively early in the evolution of the section. All four species of subsect. Emersonia are diploid, n = 7, but some of the plants of each species that we examined are heterozygous for usually one or two reciprocal translocations and up to four translocations in some populations of O. maysillesii. Oenothera macrosceles is self-compatible, but modally outcrossing; the other three species are self-incompatible. Among the species in subsect. Emersonia, features of the seeds are heterogeneous, more so than in most other sections of Oenothera. Certain seed characters suggest relationships between species of subsect. Emersonia and those of other subsections of sect. Oenothera. Dedication. This work is dedicated to Professor Dr. Wilfried Stubbe of the Botanisches Institut der Universitat Dusseldorf, on the occasion of his 65th birthday on January 21, 1985. This dedication honors the pioneering research of Professor Stubbe on Oenothera, especially concerning the evolution of plastids and the interactions of plastome and genome in sect. Oenothera.
10.2307/2418434|Lack of agreement has characterized delimitation of Phytolaccaceae s.l. over the past several decades. The inclusion or exclusion of Achatocarpus and Phaulothamnus, Agdestis, Stegnosperma, and Barbeuia, often referred to as anomalous genera in Phytolaccaceae s.l., has been the reason for disagreement in the classification of Phytolaccaceae. Chromosome and distributional data for the genera of Phytolaccaceae s.l. indicate that the family is polyphyletic. We used the Wagner Network and cluster analysis algorithms and concluded that Phytolaccaceae should be reclassified into Phytolacceae s.str. (Anisomeria, Ercilla, Gisekia, and Phytolacca), Petiveriaceae (Gallesia, Hilleria, Ledenbergia, Lophiocarpus, Microtea, Monococcus, Petiveria, Rivina, Schindleria, Seguieria, and Trichostigma), Achatocarpaceae (Achatocarpus and Phaulothamnus), and three unigeneric families (Agdestidaceae, Barbeuiaceae, and Stegnospermaceae). Microtea, Lophiocarpus, and Monococcus are tentatively placed in Petiveriaceae in this treatment. Further data would help clarify their true affinities within Centrospermae.
10.2307/2418435|Tetramolopium is a genus of shrubby to suffrutescent perennial Compositae known only from New Guinea and the Hawaiian Islands. Evidence from biogeography suggests the genus was introduced into Hawaii from New Guinea recently, and perhaps originated from a single introduction. The morphological and ecological diversity of Tetramolopium in the Hawaiian Islands suggest there has been rapid divergence associated with adaptive radiation. Despite the diversity, all taxa are completely interfertile with fertile F<sub>1</sub>, F<sub>2</sub>, and F<sub>3</sub> hybrids having been obtained. An electrophoretic study of allozymes revealed little divergence at 22 genes coding soluble enzymes. The mean genetic identity for pairwise comparisons of 19 populations from seven species is 0.95, a very high value normally obtained for conspecific plant populations. The results for Tetramolopium contrast sharply with other instances of high genetic identity between species, where taxa are similar morphologically and usually reproductively isolated. The enzyme data also support the hypothesis of recent, rapid divergence in Hawaiian Tetramolopium.
10.2307/2418436|Phycodrina Wynne, gen. nov (Delesseriaceae, Ceramiales), is established, containing the sole species P. elegans (Setch. & Gardn.) Wynne comb. nov. (basionym: Phycodrys elegans Setch. & Gardn.). This species is known only from sublittoral collections from the Galapagos Islands. Arguments are presented to demonstrate that Phycodrina is best assigned to the Delesseria group of subfamily Delesserioideae.
10.2307/2418437|Brocchinia reducta, a tank-forming member of subfamily Pitcairnioideae (Bromeliaceae), possesses foliar trichomes capable of absorbing <sup>3</sup>H-leucine as do those borne by other members of the same family (all Tillandsioideae and some species of Bromelioideae). In general, pitcairnioid trichomes have been considered incapable of participating in nutrient uptake. Other features of leaf anatomy and physiology, such as the presence of the C3 photosynthetic pathway, suggest that either 1) Brocchinia and tillandsioid tank shoots bearing absorptive hairs are a result of convergence or 2) both subfamilies acquired this feature from the same ancestor. All in all, Tillandsioideae and Pitcairnioideae share more vegetative features in common than either does with Bromelioideae and, thus, may be more closely related than was previously suspected. Tank deployment in Bromelioideae seems to have originated independently from a semi-xeric terrestrial habit that incorporated the CAM syndrome. Factors that could have led to the emergence of absorptive trichomes in Bromeliaceae are identified.
10.2307/2418438|As is true of other plants inhabiting xeric environments, desert ferns may be morphologically similar because of convergent evolution. Since phylogenetically important reproductive features in these plants may be affected by vegetative modifications, electrophoretically detectable variability in 11 enzymes coding for 13 loci has been analyzed to provide an expanded, comparative data base for defining systematic relationships and population structure in the four species of Bommeria. Contrary to the ad hoc assumption that because Bommeria species have relatively high chromosome numbers they should be polyploid, enzyme studies suggest that all species are genetic diploids. These studies also demonstrate that genetic variability is partitioned among the individuals within populations and that the sexual species are outcrossing. Analyses of allelic frequencies indicate that the four species are genetically more distinct from one another than are angiosperm congeners. Bommeria subpaleacea and B. ehrenbergiana emerge as the most similar taxa with B. pedata and B. hispida being more distant. The enzyme data, combined with other characters, support the hypotheses that the mountains of west-central Mexico are the center of origin of Bommeria and that the triploid apomict B. pedata was not derived through hybridization among extant sexual species. Although the corroborative morphological, biogeographical, and enzymatic data present a reasonable phylogenetic hypothesis, the extraordinary genetic distance among these congeners suggests that Bommeria may be polyphyletic, composed of species that are grouped together because of superficial resemblance.
10.2307/2418439|Fusion in the angiosperm flower is regarded as progressive only to the degree dictated by structural factors, and it is subject to parallelisms and reversals. Fused parts are not seen as basically more competitive than equally specialized unfused parts, but fusion increases the options for evolutionary variability toward increased, reduced, or more integrated fusion of parts, and this is expressed in a more diverse progeny with more options for survival.
10.2307/2418440|The annual Hemizonia fasciculata (sect. Madiomeris) was artificially crossed with two perennials, H. clementina and H. minthornii (sect. Zonamra). Morphological analyses of these respective hybrids were shown to be intermediate in most floral characters, while vegetative characters resembled on parent more than the other. Meiotic analyses of the hybrids suggested strongly that the genome of H. clementina is more closely related to that of H. fasciculata than the genome of H. minthornii is to that of H. fasciculata. Hybrid sterility (pollen stainability less than 5%) is presumed to be the result of chromosomal and genie differences between the respective genomes. Morphological and cytogenetical analyses support the contention that these two perennial species are independently derived from annual taxa. Lack of natural hybridization and low fertility of artificial hybrids suggest strong external and internal reproductive isolating barriers occur among these three species.
10.2307/2418338|The genus Basistemon (Scrophulariaceae) consists of eight species of low shrubs with few-seeded fruits. The genus is allied to Angelonia and shares with it the saccate corolla tubes with internal glandular hairs and exalbuminous seeds with reticulate exotestae. Basistemon klugii and B. argutus are described as new and the new combination B. pulchellus is made based on Desdemona pulchella S. Moore.
10.2307/2418339|Both widespread and endemic species occur in Lepechinia sect. Parviflorae. The endemic species occur in southern Ecuador and northern Peru (the Huancabamba Deflection), a region characterized by highly dissected mountain ranges with deep, dry valleys. The relationship between phylogenetic pattern and historical process in interpreting these patterns of endemism is discussed. Results from cladistic analyses suggest that the endemic species are a more recently evolved group than are the widespread species. It is suggested that climatic fluctuations during the Pleistocene (cooler and drier glacial episodes alternating with warmer and wetter inter-glacials) resulted in periodic range contractions and expansions of Lepechinia populations and subsequent speciation. It is hypothesized that the phylogenetic pattern and historical process supports a peripheral isolate model of speciation.
10.2307/2418340|Species of Lepechinia sect. Parviflorae (Lamiaceae) are gynodioecious and dioecious; the flowers of these species are white, less than 8.0 mm long, and pollinated by short-tongued bees and flies. Species of Lepechinia sects. Salviifoliae and Speciosae that are phylogenetically most closely related are gynodioecious and hermaphroditic; the flowers of these species are blue or violet, 11.5-40 cm long, and pollinated by long-tongued insects and birds. Hermaphroditic and gynodioecious species have larger corollas than do dioecious species. In the dioecious species of Lepechinia sect. Parviflorae the pistillate flowers have comparatively larger calyces, but smaller corollas than do the staminate flowers. The importance of phylogeny in understanding the relative roles of genetic vs. ecological factors in the evolution of dioecism is discussed. The results of phylogenetic analysis of Lepechinia sects. Parviflorae and Salviifoliae are included. Dioecism appears to have evolved from gynodioecism at least twice. The commonly held idea that gynodioecism is necessarily stable in the Lamiaceae does not apply in Lepechinia. Dioecism also seems correlated with xeric habitats and weediness.
10.2307/2418341|The phenetic variation in Clarkia unguiculata and its relatives was assessed by a principal components analysis of thirteen characters found to be variable within these taxa. The results of this analysis are discussed and interpreted in the context of previously established crossing relationships, cytological differentiation, and ecological responses of the taxa. The evidence presented suggests that C. tembloriensis and C. calientensis were not derived independently from C. unguiculata as had been previously hypothesized. In fact, C. calientensis may have been derived from C. tembloriensis. Although no taxonomic scheme is compatible with all of the evidence presented, a scheme in which these two taxa are regarded as conspecific is the most useful. The necessary new combination is provided.
10.2307/2418342|Caryodaphnopsis Airy-Shaw, a genus previously known only from southeastern Asia, is reported to occur in the Neotropics and is represented there by two species, Caryodaphnopsis theobromifolia (Gentry) van der Werff & Richter and C. inaequalis (A. C. Smith) van der Werff & Richter. Both species were originally described in Persea, but floral and wood anatomical characters indicate they belong in Caryodaphnopsis.
10.2307/2418343|Quantitative and qualitative features are presented for seven collections of four woody species of Coriaria. Wood features of the family include: presence of growth rings (vessels narrower in latewood, paratracheal parenchyma extending tangentially in beds in latewood); pores rounded; vessel elements short but wide, with simple perforation plates, lateral wall pits circular to polygonal (pit apertures interconnected by grooves in C. arborea and C. thymifolia); vessels often grouped (mean: 2.1 vessels per group); imperforate tracheary elements all libriform fibers (mean: 2.9 times as long as vessel elements); axial parenchyma vasicentric (mostly 2-3 cells wide around vessels), cells undivided or in strands of 2; rays multiseriate only, ray cells predominantly erect to square (procumbent cells common in large stems only); wood storied (vessels and axial parenchyma, rarely fibers); crystals (hexagonal in outline, one per cell) in some ray cells; amorphous deposits present. Most of these wood features can be closely matched in selected genera of Ranunculaceae, Corynocarpaceae, and Simaroubaceae. Resemblances between Coriariaceae and Rutales (Sapindales, Terebinthales) include also features of floral morphology, chemistry (phenolics), embryology, and possibly pollen and cytology. Resemblances between Coriariaceae and Ranunculales include also features of floral morphology, chemistry ("toxic compounds" of Hegnauer 1964), and, to a limited extent, habit. The affinities of Coriariaceae remain elusive, but a wide search is recommended. Wood anatomy of C. japonica Gray, which experiences frost, is xeromorphic; for the remainder of the species studied, wood is mesomorphic, which may be related to the tendency for initiation and loss of branches of varying size as a more important device than wood features in coping with water relations.
10.2307/2418344|The Appalachian Asplenium complex consists of six fertile species: three diploids and their three allotetraploid derivatives. This reticulate evolutionary pattern, originally proposed on the basis of morphological and cytological evidence, was later corroborated by analyses of flavonoid composition. Presented here are data from starch gel electrophoresis of 11 enzyme systems, coded by 15 interpretable loci, which are highly consistent with the proposed relationships in the Appalachian Asplenium complex. The diploids are strongly differentiated (genetic distance (D) = 0.67 to 1.30); each diploid possesses unique alleles at several loci. Each allotetraploid expresses the heterozygous, or less often homozygous, enzyme phenotypes expected for combinations of parental alleles at most loci. Exceptions are the expression of a novel PGI-2 allele and the loss of expression of parental IDH alleles in both allotetraploids.
10.2307/2418345|Heuchera americana, H. parviflora, H. pubescens, and H. villosa are diploid, herbaceous perennials native to eastern North America. Starch gel electrophoresis was used to estimate the amount of genetic divergence among these four species. Mean genetic identities for populations of H. americana, H. parviflora, H. pubescens, and H. villosa are 0.98, 0.98, 1.00, and 0.99, respectively. The mean genetic identity for pairwise comparisons of populations of all four species is 0.92, indicating a high degree of allozymic similarity among these species. Isozyme data suggest two pairs of closely related species: H. americana and H. pubescens; and H parviflora and H. villosa. The mean genetic identity for populations of H. americana and H. pubescens is 0.99, while the value for populations of H. parviflora and H. villosa is 0.98. In contrast, mean genetic identity values for all other species comparisons are less than 0.90. Within each of these two species pairs the members are highly interfertile and isolated ecologically in nature. Speciation in this group apparently occurs with little divergence at genes coding for isozymes.
10.2307/2418346|A new triploid hybrid in the genus Polystichum is reported from high-montane Costa Rica, which is intermediate between a diploid, indusiate forest species and a tetraploid, exindusiate alpine species. The triploids are anomalous in indusium development: mean development is intermediate, but individual sori are likely to have either reduced or well-developed indusia. Recent human disturbance has apparently promoted the formation of hybrids, because the parents are rarely found together except in areas affected by man, and the hybrids are all from areas affected by man. The anomalous inheritance of the indusia is interpreted in the context of the literature on the blending of radically different character states in fern hybrids.
10.2307/2418347|The discovery of interconnected stems, leaves, and pollen cones with enclosed prepollen in Upper Pennsylvanian sediments of eastern North America provides a basis for the description of Mesoxylon priapi, an anatomically preserved fossil cordaite. The plant has mesarch stems that bear helically arranged leaves of the Cordaites felicis-type. Branching is axillary and consists of either single or paired branches. Some branches are vegetative, while others are compound cones. Pollen cones compare favorably with Gothania, but are structurally distinct from previously described species of the genus. At maturity, the simultaneously maturing pollen sacs contain large quantities of Sullisaccites-type prepollen, thereby establishing the natural affinities of this sporae dispersae genus. Vascular architecture of the stems consists of downward extensions of leaf traces with cauline bundles wanting. Through the reconstruction of sporophytes based upon the attachment of organs from a single locality, it is possible to formulate whole plant biology concepts for many fossil plants, and thereby increase the taxonomic resolution upon which interpretations of systematics, floristics, paleoecology, and phylogeny of tracheophytes rests.
10.2307/2418348|Cellular patterns on the peristome of Mittenia plumula (Mitt.) Lindb., as revealed by scanning electron microscopy, support the interpretation made by Ilma Stone in 1961 that the peristome of this species is neither haplolepideous nor diplolepideous. The outer peristome teeth of Mittenia are homologous to the endostome of diplolepideous mosses, and to the single peristome of haplolepideous mosses. There is no other peristomial structure known in mosses that is homologous to the inner peristome of Mittenia. The Mitteniaceae are removed from the Bryales, and a new order, the Mitteniales, is recognized. The Sorapillaceae and Eustichiaceae, traditionally placed near the Mitteniaceae, have peristomes that are probably derived from the haplolepideous type.
10.2307/2418589|The relationships of the monotypic genus Chillania are discussed. It is shown to be congeneric with Eleocharis, in which it is consequently included.
10.2307/2418590|From morphological, karyological, and field observations, we recognize 10 taxa representing eight species and two varieties of Calea from Mexico, Central America, and Jamaica. The name C. ternifolia Kunth, long thought to apply to a Colombian species, is the correct name for the "C. zacatechichi" complex. Calea urticifolia, C. ternifolia, and C. jamaicensis are widespread and weedy; the other species have rather narrow distributions. All taxa for which chromosome numbers are known appear to have n = 19. Natural hybridization is suspected between C. ternifolia and C. urticifolia. Calea crocinervosa and C. urticifolia var. yucatanensis are described as new and the new combination C. ternifolia var. calyculata is made.
10.2307/2418591|Horsfordia exalata is distinguished from the other three species of Horsfordia by the absence of wings on the fruits. Robinsonella glabrifolia differs from its congeners in having glabrous, elliptic leaves. Abutilon procerum is apparently without close allies in the genus.
10.2307/2418592|The histological structure of mature seed coats was examined among 32 species in 12 New World genera in tribe Antirrhineae. Seven anatomical patterns (mabryoid, lophospermoid, mohaveoid, saerorhinoid, pseudorontioid, galvezioid, and linarioid) are recognized using three testal characters: 1) persistence and thickness of the hypodermis; 2) contribution of the hypodermal layer to morphological sculpturing pattern; and 3) percentage of radially elongate epidermal cells. Similar structural arrangements have been reported previously in seeds of Old World Antirrhineae. Four of the patterns each characterize seed coats of a single supraspecific taxon while the remaining three categories (mabryoid, mohaveoid, saerorhinoid) describe seeds found in two to four genera or infrageneric taxa. Each New World supraspecific taxon has seed coats with a single anatomical organization but often more than one exomorphological pattern. Concordance of seed coat morphological and anatomical data supports several hypotheses: 1) the distinctness of Linaria sect. Leptoplectron from other taxa in subtribe Linariinae sensu Rothmaler; 2) a close phylogenetic relationship among species in Antirrhinum sect. Saerorhinum and the segregate genera Neogaerrhinum, Gambelia, and Saccularia; 3) a close phylogenetic relationship between Lophospermum and Rhodochiton and among Maurandya subg. Maurandya and some Mabrya species; 4) the distinctness of Pseudorontium from Antirrhinum; and 5) the parallel evolution of winged seeds among three genera in subtribe Maurandyinae and seeds with cup-shaped outgrowths in Pseudorontium and Mohavea.
10.2307/2418593|Phyllanthus fraguensis M. C. Johnston, a distinctive species from the Sierra de la Fragua, west-central Coahuila, Mexico, is described and compared to P. ericoides Torrey, which appears to be its nearest relative.
10.2307/2418594|Peregrina is proposed to accommodate the single species Peregrina linearifolia, which has been assigned to four related genera since its discovery. Peregrina is probably derived from Janusia, but its unique samara with equally well-developed dorsal and lateral wings, somewhat similar to that of Gaudichaudia, makes it necessary to segregate the species as a distinct genus.
10.2307/2418595|The Turnera ulmifolia complex is a polymorphic assemblage of perennial weeds native to the Neotropics. Thirteen population samples from a wide geographical range, representing six taxonomic varieties, were selected for a comparison of morphological differentiation and crossability. The complex is polyploid with diploid and tetraploid populations exhibiting distyly and hexaploid populations homostyly. Thirty-eight morphological characters were measured on plants grown under uniform glasshouse conditions and seed set data collected from 2195 controlled crosses made in all combinations among the thirteen populations. Discriminant analysis and clustering techniques were employed to investigate phenetic relationships among populations and quantitative methods were used to compare the structure of the data from the morphological and crossability studies. Analysis of the phenetic and crossability data sets, using the Kc statistic, indicated that these data sets were significantly associated although discrepancies were apparent in the dendrograms produced. A dendrogram generated from the crossability data was composed solely of clusters of populations of the same ploidal levels, while the dendrogram based on phenetic data included one cluster containing populations at all ploidal levels. It is suggested that autopolyploidy or segmental allopolyploidy is responsible for the discordance between data sets. Morphological, cytological, and crossability data indicate that the complex might be better treated taxonomically as a number of separate species.
10.2307/2418596|Multivariate studies of flower, fruit, and leaf variation in Crataegus crus-galli L. s. l. have largely confirmed a priori notions of the structure of this species complex in Ontario. Four morphotypes are recognized and these are assigned to taxa published by earlier workers. Intensive sampling of local stands of the two most common morphotypes indicates a high degree of between-site heterogeneity and within-site homogeneity It appears that the partitioning of variability observed in C. crus-galli s. l. may be explained by features of dispersal, habitat preference, and the occurrence of uniparental reproduction. These results suggest possible explanations for the very narrow circumscriptions and limited distributions of many North American Crataegus taxa described at the beginning of the twentieth century.
10.2307/2418597|The plumule morphology of the species of Ceratophyllum was studied for the purposes of: 1) determining the extent of variability in forking of the first epicotyl leaves, and 2) evaluating plumule features as taxonomic characters by assessing interspecific and intraspecific (inter- and intrapopulational) variation. Embryos from specimens collected throughout the ranges of eight of the species (Ceratophyllum australe, C. demersum, C. llerenae, C. muricatum, C. oryzetorum, C. platyacanthum, C. submersum, and C. tanaiticum) exhibited no variation in morphology of the first epicotyl leaves. In all instances the leaves were simple. In addition, no intrapopulational variation in the character was detected in C. demersum, C. llerenae, or C. submersum (rarity of material prohibited study of intrapopulational variation in the other five species). In contrast, embryos from specimens collected throughout the range of the ninth species, C. echinatum, possessed forked leaves at all nodes of the plumule. In C. echinatum, interpopulational variability was observed in the number of segments produced by the forked plumule leaves at the first node. The segment number is not correlated geographically, and most combinations of segment number can be observed within a single population. The unusual plumule morphology of C. echinatum is distinctive within the genus and has probably resulted from phylogenetic reduction of the lower plumule axis. These observations support recognition of C. echinatum as a distinct species.
10.2307/2418598|Glaziovianthus is a showy and unique Brazilian endemic of southcentral Goias and includes only two species, G. curumbensis and G. speciosus, both new combinations. Glaziovianthus is remarkable within Vernonieae for its distinctive rose-red corollas with a band of yellow at the base of the lobes; most Vernonieae evince a reddish purple corolla color. Members of this genus are readily recognizable in the field because of the large solitary red and yellow glomerule terminating a long (to 60 cm) peduncle. Glaziovianthus is further characterized by primitive Vernonia type-A pollen with very short colpi and a subechinate surface and by large cylindrical achenes with sulcate sericeous surfaces, prominent carpopodia, and a biseriate deciduous paleaceous pappus.
10.2307/2418599|An intersectional hybridization event between hummingbird-pollinated Costus pulverulentus (sect. Ornithophilus) and large bee-pollinated C. guanaiensis var. macrostrobilus (sect. Costus) in Belize, Central America, is documented by analyses of morphology and pollination biology. Morphologically the hybrid is intermediate between the parental species and retains floral characteristics adaptive to both hummingbird and bee pollination. Nectar secretion rate and sugar concentration but not sucrose: hexose ratio in the hybrid are intermediate between those of the parental species. The hybridization event probably arose by breakdown of strict hummingbird pollination in Costus pulverulentus.
10.2307/2418600|Foliar flavonoid data are given for 13 of the taxa recognized in Circaea and for six of the nine known naturally occurring hybrids. Analysis of 113 populations revealed the presence of eight glycoflavones, two flavones, and two flavonols in the genus. The glycoflavones are orientin, isoorientin, isoorientin O-acylate, vitexin, vitexin O-acylate, isovitexin, isovitexin O-acylate, and vicinin-1. Apigenin 7-O-glucoside and luteolin 7-O-glucoside are the two flavones and kaempferol 3-O-glucoside and quercetin 3-O-glucoside are the two flavonols. Circaea differs from other genera of the Onagraceae investigated in exhibiting considerable interspecific and interpopulational variation in flavonoid composition. Two groups of species can be recognized in Circaea based on flavonoid data; the same two groups are also recognized using morphological criteria. As in other Onagraceae, Circaea shows reduction in structural diversity and overall number of compounds with evolutionary advancement.
10.2307/2419132|Most diploid species have unique polygenic systems; since they are complex and coadapted throughout the genome, their integrity is not easily perturbed. A recent theory calls for the formation of new species to proceed in two phases: 1) disorganization of the polygenic system by genetic recombination under relaxed selection in a subpopulation of the parent species and 2) a major selective reorganization in the same subpopulation to form a new coadapted system. Founder events, hybridization, in situ reduction of population size and shifting balance can contribute to the disorganization phase. The selection in the second phase makes the population phenotypically recognizable as a new species. Two quite different character sets may be the object of the second or selective phase: either A) adaptation altering the system of sexual reproduction or B) adaptation to the ambient (non-sexual) environment. In animals there is a general tendency for A to occur first; in plants, the reverse tendency is seen. If the order is A  B, reproductive isolation may result as a by-product. This has led the zoologist to overemphasize the role of reproductive isolation as a criterion for recognizing a new species. Selection is rarely directed towards reinforcing reproductive isolation. Rather, it will maximize fitness by making reproduction more efficient through mate recognition and sexual selection. If the order is B  A, as in many plants, we see that species are rarely swamped out of existence by hybridization; normalizing selection prevents this. If the zoologist would abandon insistence on reproductive isolation as a prime species criterion and substitute the notion of a positive fitness system under stabilizing selection, a theory of speciation encompassing plants and animals is possible.
10.2307/2419133|Genomic differentiation occurs by structural rearrangements of chromosomes, by addition or deletion of DNA segments, and by mutations that affect the behavior of chromosomes or entire genomes. Depending on their size and other factors, structural changes can cause varying degrees of sterility in hybrids without regard to taxonomic level. Mitotic instability due to different kinds of mutations, structural rearrangements, and asynchronous behavior of heterochromatin can lead to hybrid weakness and segregational sterility in meiosis. Many structural changes of chromosomes are undoubtedly due to transposable elements. Hologenomic mutations, affecting entire genomes, may exert their effect in somatic tissue by causing certain kinds of mitotic instability such as centromere inactivation. However, some of these mutations may be expressed only in meiosis where they prevent normal chromosome pairing and/or failure of chiasma formation, so sterility in hybrids is caused by unbalanced gametes resulting from random disjunction of univalents.
10.2307/2419134|Electrophoretic information is a useful supplement to other data used to infer modes of speciation in plants. With regard to primary speciation (evolutionary divergence), available data from enzyme electrophoresis indicate that: 1) rapid and recent speciation is correlated with little or no allozyme divergence; and 2) geographical modes of speciation are evidenced by divergence at genes coding soluble enzymes. Isozyme data are useful for testing hypotheses of hybrid speciation at the diploid level. Enzyme electrophoresis may also provide useful information for distinguishing auto- and allopolyploids, and for determining the diploid progenitors of the latter.
10.2307/2419135|Developmental factors (e.g., canalization, plasticity, epistasis) weaken the integration of genomic and morphological diversification. Numerous non-lethal morphological mutations and several cases of substantial morphological differentiation associated with negligible isozymic divergence have been documented. These observations suggest that evolution of plant form often may be punctuational. Patterns of morphological variation observed within and among plant populations indicate that morphology can diverge in apparently random directions. A comparison of characters in which intraspecific (racial) and interspecific divergence has occurred suggests that adaptation, which is frequently an important component of ecotypic differentiation, may often be a less important factor in speciation. These observations converge to suggest that the differentiation of morphological plant species is frequently rapid and random in direction.
10.2307/2419136|A phenetic analysis based on morphological features of the Physalis viscosa complex revealed four major clusters of OTUs, each previously recognized at the species level. Crossing studies are generally consistent with taxonomic inferences based on the phenetic analysis, although species from two of the groups are interfertile. Flavonoid profiles also show congruence with the other analyses. Based on the data from all analyses, the Physalis viscosa complex is revised to consist of four species in North America. Physalis cinerascens and P. mollis, previously considered conspecific, are now recognized as distinct species. Physalis cinerascens, with two varieties, is geographically widespread from the south-central United States to Yucatan. Physalis mollis occurs in eastern Texas and adjacent states, and has one glandular variety in the southernmost portion of its range. Natural hybridization apparently does not occur between P. cinerascens and P. mollis, and only rarely occurs between the varieties within each species. The remaining taxa, found in coastal habitats in the southeastern United States, are treated here as two species: P. angustifolia from the Gulf Coast; and P. walteri from the southern Atlantic Coast. Although there are high levels of interpopulational variation in both P. angustifolia and P. walteri, no discrete infraspecific taxa are recognized. Indistinct species boundaries in peninsular Florida suggest that hybridization may have occurred between these two species in this region. However, the two are distinct in the remainder of their ranges.
10.2307/2419137|Agastache sect. Agastache consists of seven species occurring in North America and one in eastern Asia. Intra- and interspecific crosses were made within sect. Agastache, with special emphasis given to crossing relationships between Asian and North American groups. Interspecific hybrids were obtained between all species-pairs of sect. Agastache; percentages of pollen stainability for these hybrids ranged from 0.0 to 99.5%. Crosses between Asian A. rugosa and North American species from which it presumably has been separated for over 12 million years produce vigorous but infertile offspring. Cytogenetic analyses indicate that chromosomal rearrangements may in part be responsible for the reduced pollen fertility observed in these intercontinental hybrids. However, meiosis in these hybrids appears to be otherwise normal. In addition, intersectional hybrids were obtained between sects. Agastache and Brittonastrum; intersectional percentages of hybrid pollen stainability ranged from 0.0 to 49.1%. Since many intersectional hybrids are more fertile than many intrasectional hybrids in sect. Agastache, pollen stainability data do not support current sectional delimitation of the genus.
10.2307/2419138|Diaphorodendron is described as a new genus on the basis of anatomically preserved specimens previously included in Lepidodendron. Species include D. vasculare (type species), D. scleroticum, D. dicentricum, and D. phillipsii. Circumscription of this new genus leaves Lepidodendron as a monophyletic, morphologically cohesive taxon. Traditionally Lepidodendron has been recognized by its higher-than-wide leaf cushions, a character that appears to be the ancestral (plesiomorphic) state in the Lepidodendrales. The consequence of relying on this single trait has been inclusion of forms distinct in most aspects of basic morphology within Lepidodendron, masking rather extensive diversification in the Lepidodendrales. While sharing basic leaf-cushion shape, Diaphorodendron and Lepidodendron differ in many anatomical features and details of leaf-cushion morphology (especially relative "thickness" of leaf cushions and presence or absence of infrafoliar parichnos). By correlating anatomy and leaf-cushion morphology, characteristics can be recognized by which Diaphorodendron and Lepidodendron can be distinguished in compression preservation.
10.2307/2419139|Chresta and Pycnocephalum are syncephalous herbs that are restricted to the Central Plateau of Brazil. Chresta is adapted to the arid conditions of cerrado, grassy campo, and campo rupestre. The plants are characterized by tomentose to glabrate, strongly coriaceous leaves, corymbs of glomerules or single, terminal glomerules (formed by the concrescence of several subglomerules), 20 to more than 200 heads per glomerule, typically 3 florets per head, and corollas 5-11 mm tall with a tube to lobe length ratio of 1-2. In contrast, Pycnocephalum is adapted to wet areas at high elevations within these arid regions and is distinguished by typically glabrate, membranaceous leaves, solitary glomerules (not formed by concrescence) or compound corymbs of 6-10 glomerules, 5-25 heads per glomerule, 4-12 florets per head, and corollas 8-21 mm tall with a tube to lobe length ratio of 2-4.5. Two new combinations are made: Pycnocephalum angustifolium and P. pinnatifidum.
10.2307/2419140|Documented meiotic and mitotic chromosome numbers and behavior are reported for 62 taxa representing 11 genera of Cactaceae from the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. Chromosome numbers for 12 species and six natural interspecific hybrids are first counts. New numbers were determined for four additional species. Chromosome counts of diploid and polyploid taxa, including triploid and pentaploid hybrids, are all consistent with the base number, x = 11. Translocations are reported for the first time in the Cactaceae.
10.2307/2419141|Layia discoidea (Asteraceae), a narrow serpentine endemic in California, and L. glandulosa, a widespread species in the far western U.S.A., originally studied by Clausen et al. (1947), differ strikingly in a number of discrete and quantitative traits yet are fully interfertile, making them an attractive model in which to examine differences sometimes characteristic of plant genera. Layia discoidea differs from L. glandulosa in lacking ray florets and phyllaries and in the structure of its pappus. We have initiated a study of development, character correlation, and genetic divergence between the two species. Layia discoidea had smaller and fewer rosette leaves, was quicker to flower, shorter in stature with fewer stem nodes and shorter internodes, had smaller heads containing many fewer and smaller disk florets, and produced smaller achenes than L. glandulosa. Canonical variates analyses showed that shoot height and number of disk florets were the most important quantitative characters contributing to the species differences in the vegetative and floral analyses, respectively. Electrophoretic analyses of enzymes coded by 21 gene loci demonstrated that populations of the two species have a high genetic identity (I = 0.90). This result suggests that L. discoidea is a recent derivative of L. glandulosa and not, as the Clausen group concluded, a relict species. Both species have duplicated genes specifying the cytosolic isozyme of phosphoglucomutase and triplicated genes specifying cytosolic isocitrate dehydrogenase.
10.2307/2418936|Numerical studies (principal components and cluster analyses) of 46 populations of the Ipomopsls aggregata complex from the Colorado Front Range revealed considerable intergradation between the two major modes of morphological variation. Among 24 morphological characters, seven vegetative ones showed no significant pattern of variation among populations. A high proportion of populations showed intermediacy for one or more of the remaining 17 characters. A priori statistical analyses showed that the two major modes were separable consistently only on the basis of an estimate of corolla color and number of flowers per lateral cyme. Evaluation of morphological variation, geographic distribution, and ecological patterns suggests that subspecific status best conveys taxonomic relationships: Ipomopsis aggregata subsp, candida (Rydberg) V. & A. Grant and L aggregata subsp. collina (Greene) Wilken & Allard, comb. nov.
10.2307/2418937|An annotated catalogue of the species of Cyperus named by F. M. Liebmann in "Mexicos halvgraes" (1850) is presented. All of Liebmann's type collections have been examined for the 40 taxa named in that paper. The names, C. fugax, C. dipsaceus, C. camphoratus, and Mariscus atrosanguineus (=C. sanguineo-ater) are currently recognized as species. The appropriate placement in synonymy of Liebmann's remaining species of Cyperus is discussed in detail under each species. A brief itinerary for Liebmann's collecting trip to Mexico in 1841-1843 is presented as well as an exsiccatae list of his collections of Cyperus.
10.2307/2418939|Flavonoid constituents of diploid (2n = 14) and tetraploid (2n = 28) populations were analyzed throughout the range of Tolmiea menziesii. The species contains kaempferol and quercetin 3-O-mono-, di, and triglycosides, as well as myricetin and isorhamnetin 3-O-mono- and diglycosides. Minor variation in flavonoid constituents was observed among populations, but this was not correlated with ploidy. The qualitative identity in flavonoid constituents between the diploid and tetraploid cytotypes supports the contention that the tetraploid cytotype is of autopolyploid origin. Flavonoid data are therefore m agreement with evidence from gross morphology, karyology, floral ant hocyanins, ribosomal genes, and enzyme electrophoresis, all of which support the hypothesis of autopolyploidy.
10.2307/2418941|Trophopods, persistent petiole bases containing starch, are found m all members of the fern genus Athynum (Aspleniaceae) in North America north of Mexico. Trophopods are produced on both cataphylls and foliage leaves, remain on the plant for several years, and contribute significantly to the starch storage capacity of the plant. The characteristic trophopods of A. pycnocarpon, A. thelypterioides, and A. filix-femina can be distinguished in the absence of leaves and on dried specimens. Those of A. alpestre are, however, very similar to those of A. filix-femina. Trophopods may have wider comparative application in the genus as a whole.
10.2307/2418942|Anthocyanin content in diploid and tetraploid populations of Tolmiea menziesii was analyzed in an attempt to determine the origin of the tetraploid cytotype. All populations examined exhibited 3-O-glucosides of malvidin, cyanidin, and delphinidin. One diploid and one tetraploid population also displayed an additional malvidin glycoside. The qualitative identity in anthocyanin chemistry of diploid and tetraploid cytotypes of Tolmiea is in agreement with other systematic data that indicate that tetraploid Tolmiea is of autopolyploid origin.
10.2307/2418943|Phyllanthus barbarae is described and illustrated. It is known only from the type locality in the Sierra de Guatemala, southwestern Tamaulipas, and may be related to P. galeottianus Baillon.
10.2307/2418944|Pinus torreyana is one of three species in Pinus subsect. Sabinianae (big-cone pines), but its maritime habitat and disjunct, edaphically restricted distribution indicate ecological similarity with coastal species of P. subsect. Oocarpae (closed-cone pines). Only two populations of Pinus torreyana exist, one on the southern California mainland, the other 280 km distant on Santa Rosa Island. These populations are shown to be distinct on the basis of gross morphology, both in the wild and in a common garden planting. Other investigators have shown differences based on turpentine composition and isozyme analysis. Authorship of the species and early confusion over the number of leaves per fascicle are discussed and clarified. The island population is given the name Pinus torreyana subsp, insularis. Evidence for the relict status of the species is presented. It is suggested that the island population may be as old or older than the present mainland population.
10.2307/2418945|Meiotic chromosome numbers are reported for all 12 taxa of Viguiera series Dentatae Blake including first reports for eight taxa. Ten taxa from Baja California and nearby desert areas are characterized by a base chromosome number of x = 18 and appear to form a natural group. Two other species, V. dentata and V. potosina, are characterized by chromosome numbers of x = 17 and are incorrectly placed with the other taxa. Taxa formerly classified as varieties of V. deltoidea comprise part of a polyploid complex that includes diploids, hexaploids, and an octoploid.
10.2307/2418947|Carex (Cyperaceae) sect. Hymenochlaenae comprises 13 Mexican and Central American species. The section is defined broadly to include species formerly placed in sects. Longirostres, Sylvaticae, and "Viridiflorae." Three new species are described, C. brunnipes, C. flexirostris, and C. ixtapalucensis. The names C. pertenuis and C. viridis are lectotypified and lectotypes are chosen for sects. Hymenochlaenae and Longirostres. Section Hymenochlaenae is distinguished from all others by: perigynia usually more or less trigonous or even orbicular in cross section, never strongly flattened; perigynium apices entire, erose, or obscurely bidentulate; several to many elongate-cylindric spikes usually pendulous on filiform, flexuous peduncles; and leaf-like, sheathing inflorescence bracts. The section is distributed from northeastern Mexico to western Guatemala. Habitats are moist montane forest, wet meadows, and stream banks at 1500-3700 m.
10.2307/2418948|Three new species and two new varieties of Passiflora in the subgenera Tacsonia and Rathea are described. All are endemic to Andean habitats at altitudes above 2600 meters, with Passiflora huamachucoensis, P. runa, and P. trifoliata var. tarmensis known only from Peru. Passiflora rugosa var. venezolana is found m the Cordillera de Merida, Venezuela and northeastern Colombia while P. colombiana is confined to the southernmost Andes of Colombia.
10.2307/2418949|The proposed phylogeny of Gaura section Gaura is supported by experimental hybridization studies. The generally high average capsule-set of crosses between species of section Gaura (78%), compared with capsule-set averages for intersectional crosses (32%), agrees with a pattern of morphological 'similarity and geographical congruence in confirming the close relationships among these species. Higher average crossing success for G. longiflora and its derivatives, G. biennis and G. demareei, suggests the central importance of G. longiflora within the section. Measures of chromosomal diversity demonstrate the apparent conservation of G. longiflora chromosome end arrangements within both G. angustifolia and G. neomexicana, as well as supporting the hypothesis of a hybrid origin for G. demareen (G. lindheimen x G. longiflora). Apparent levels of translocation diversity in natural populations depend upon the breeding system. Selfing tends to distribute structurally diverse arrangements among homozygous individuals. The extreme chromosomal diversity of G. biennis sets it apart as a unique genetic system, as does its permanent translocation heterozygosity. Segregation distortion for chromosomal complexes from a ring of four chromosomes is present in one individual of G. neomexicana. Speciation in section Gaura has not depended upon post-mating, reproductive isolating mechanisms. Factors that contribute to the maintenance of each species as a distinct natural entity are: geographical isolation due to ecological specialization and/or range expansion ( G. angustifolia, G. biennis, G. lindheimeri); self-compatibility (G. angustifolia, G. biennis, G. neomexicana); displacement of seasonal (G. angustifolia, G. lindheimeri) and daily (G. demareei, G. lindheimeri) flowering times; and permanent translocation heterozygosity (G. blennis).
10.2307/2418950|A new genus and species, Gouldochloa curvifolia, is described from Tamaulipas, Mexico. Features of its spikelet morphology, leaf anatomy, embryo structure, and cytology indicate that Gouldochloa is allied to the centothecoid grasses. The embryo formula is P+PP and the chromosome number is 2n = 24. Gouldochloa is most closely related to Chasmanthmm. A key to the genera of the Centotheceae in the New World is presented.
10.2307/2418951|Four new species are described in the neotropical genus Stigmaphyllon (Malpighiaceae): S. adenophorum from Costa Rica and S. aberrans, S. florosum, and S. singulare from South America. A new combination, S. fioribundum, is made to provide a correct name in Stigmaphyllon for the West Indian species known by the illegitimate name S. tomentosum (Desf. ex DC) Nied. All species are illustrated.
10.2307/2418952|Pohlidium petiolatum is described as a new genus and species based on collections made along the Rio Tife in Panama. It belongs to the Centotheceae on the basis of its petiolate, tesseUately veined blades, two truncate, glabrous lodicules, laterally compressed caryopsis, chromosome number of n = 12, and anatomical characteristics. It differs most prominently from other genera in the tribe in its unisexual spikelets, absence of both glumes in the female spikelet and reduction to one or no glumes in the male spikelet, adaxially projecting midrib, and papillate abaxial epidermis. Its closest affinity appears to be with Calderonella and Zeugites.
10.2307/2418953|A review of four species in two closely allied genera, Gaussia H. A. Wendl. and Opsiandra Cook, revealed a lack of truly distinguishing characters. Combining of these two genera as one required the new combinations Gaussia maya and Gaussia gomez-pompae, transferred from Opsiandra.
10.2307/2418954|Embryos are quite variable in subtribe Myrtinae (Myrtaceae). Observations of anatomy and germination indicate that differences are mainly due to degrees of swelling of the hypocotyl. Swollen hypocotyls have enlarged cells filled with starch. Misinterpretation of embryo structure of genera with swollen hypocotyls has led previous workers to recognize formal taxonomic entities that we do not accept. Xanthomyrtus Diels, which has been assigned to Myrtinae (subfam. Myrtoideae), has an embryo unlike any other in the subtribe. It seems to be most similar to genera of Leptospermoideae. It is hypothesized that the three predominant embryo structures in Myrteae are derived from a small ancestral embryo and are independent adaptations for increasing the amount of stored food in the embryo. Marlieriopsis eggersii Kiaerskou is transferred to Blepharocalyx Berg.
10.2307/2418955|A subfamilial level classification of Labiatae, originally proposed by G. Erdtman on the basis of pollen features, has received substantial corroboration in the European literature but remains little known in North America. In subfam. Lamioideae, pollen is usually tricolpate and shed in a two-celled stage; in subfam. Nepetoideae (Dumortier) Luerssen, it is usually hexacolpate and shed in a three-celled stage. The number of pollen cells and colpi are reported here for 108 genera of Labiatae, including 93 for which one or both had not previously been reported. The established relationship between number of colpi and pollen ceils is consistent in 95% of the labiate genera for which data are available. In the remaining genera, one pollen character is constant while the other varies; in no genus is the pollen consistently tricolpate and three-celled when shed or consistently hexacolpate and two-celled. Other characters whose variation patterns closely parallel the pollen characters include occurrence of endosperm, embryo shape, cotyledon shape, volatile terpenoid content, occurrence of rosmarinic acid, occurrence of iridoid glycosides, degree of unsaturation of fatty acids in the seed oils, and myxospermy. Erdtman's subfamilies appear to be the primary phenetic groupings of the Labiatae, but only subfam. Nepetoideae can be shown to be monophyletic on the basis of synapomorphies. Briquet's (1895-1897) widely used classification is highly incongruent with Erdtman's, and it is recommended that the former be abandoned. A tabulation is provided of the component genera of each of Erdtman's subfamilies, along with the character state data upon which subfamilial assignments were based.
10.2307/2418956|Stipa hirticulmis Hatch, Valdes & Morden, from Nuevo Leon, Mexico, is described. It differs from other Stipa species by having numerous nodes with elongated retrorsely hirsute culm internodes, and relatively short leaf blades.
10.2307/2418957|The development of gametophores of 38 populations belonging to 11 species of Tortula Hedwig was studied. The observed sequence of juvenile leaves was compared to the diversity of mature leaf-forms found in various species within this monophyletic group (Tortula sensu stricto) in the context of their cladistic relationships. Several features common to all species examined allow some generalizations. Juvenile leaves have an acute apex, no hairpoint, a costa ending well below the apex, and plane margins. The upper leaf-cells of the very first juvenile leaves are usually smooth, while later leaves have progressively more mammillose and papillose leaf-cells. Depending on the species, mature leaves have an acute, obtuse, or emarginate apex, hairpoint, excurrent costa, and/or recurred margins. Some striking parallels can be seen between at least some characteristics of juvenile leaves and the mature leaves of certain species, as well as between juvenile leaves and the differentiated brood leaves (speaalized asexual propagules) produced by some species. Character polarity assessments based on a previous cladistic analysis of these species indicate that some of these parallels are instances of paedomorphosis, while others are instances of recapitulation. Some of the instances of paedomorphosis are best interpreted as cases of neoteny, in;particular, the neotenic retention at asexual "maturity" of the ancestral juvenile leaf-form by species such as Tortula fragilis. Juvenile leaves have a much greater ability than mature leaves to proliferate. However, the mature leaf morphology of species such as T. obtusissima confers certain advantages for water relationships, particularly in providing capillary systems functioning in the external conduction of water. An adaptive trade-off is likely to exist between the prolific asexual reproductive capabilities of juvenile leaves and the efficient water relationships of the mature leaves of some species.
10.2307/2418958|Portlandia guatemalensis Standley (Rubiaceae) is transferred to Coutaportla as C. guatemalensis (Standley) Lorence, comb. nov., based on new evidence from capsule and seed morphology.
10.2307/2418959|The secondary xylem of five species representing all three genera of Alseuosmiaceae was studied. Salient anatomical features that circumscribe the family include narrow vessel elements with many-barred, scalariform perforation plates, pores distributed as a combination of both solitary elements and radial multiples, living septate fibers with stored starch at maturity, and the scarcity or absence of axial parenchyma. An absence of rays characterizes Alseuosmia and Wittsteina vacciniacea. The insular species, W. balansae from New Caledonia, contains exclusively multiseriate rays that are very wide and tall and composed completely of erect and square cells. The large rays and the occasional scalariform lateral wall pitting of vessel elements of this species are probably best interpreted as paedomorphosis related to the increased size of this plant. The ancestral habit of the family remains unclear since Cnspiloba disperma has retained a more primitive xylem structure as evidenced by the occurrence of axial parenchyma and shorter and narrower heterocellular rays. Xylem anatomy can be used to support a position for the Alseuosmiaceae in or near the woody Saxifragaceae.
10.2307/2418960|Trans-carvone oxide has been found in the floral fragrances of nine species of Catasetum, one species each of Aspasia and Notylia (all three genera in Orchidaceae), and in one species of Dalechampia (Euphorbiaceae). Carvone oxide is a major fragrance component in I1 of the 12 species analyzed, and has been synthesized and used in field bioassays in Panama, where it attracts five species of Eulaema and three species of Euglossa. We predict it will be a major attractant of Eulaema species that previously have not been attracted to chemical baits. We suggest that synthesis and secretion of carvone oxide by several genera of Orchidaceae and one species of Euphorbiaceae are the result of evolutionary convergence in floral rewards.
10.2307/2418961|The genus Fischena is characterized by dorsally inflated anthers and deeply lobed corollas crisped to the right. The six species, ranging from Mexico and the West Indies to Brazil and northern Argentina, are separated by differences in floral pubescence, floral size, and pollinium length. All are climbing vines with both pilose and puberulent vegetative parts.
10.2307/2418962|The following new species of Leochilus (Orchidaceae) are described: Leochilus puertoricensis from Puerto Rico, and Leochilus hagsateri from southwestern Mexico. Both species have sister species known from nearby locations that have prevented their recognition as distinct species, even though collections of both have been known for many years.
10.2307/2419112|A scanning electron microscopical survey of the lemma epidermal features in the 17 North American species of Melica and selected species of Briza, Catabrosa, Glyceria, Neostapfia, Pleuropogon, and Schizachne is presented. Melica is characterized by the universal presence of numerous hooks (=barbs, crown, or crochet cells of authors) alternating with long cells with straight to slightly undulating walls. Prickles also occur in all taxa, but their size, shape, and abundance were variable, both between and, in one case, within species. Macrohairs and stomatal complexes were occasionally observed on species of Melica, but silica bodies were not found on any of the species. Lemma epidermal features of Briza, Catabrosa, Glyceria, Pleuropogon, Schizachne, and Neostapfia suggest that Melica, Catabrosa, Glyceria, and Pleuropogon may be closely related but that the genera Briza, Schizachne, and Neostapfia are distinct from this group.
10.2307/2419114|Multivariate analyses of morphological data from both pure and mixed natural populations of Lycopodium lucidulum and L. porophilum support the recognition of L. porophilum as a species distinct from L. lucidulum. Hybridization between these species accounts for the sterile intermediates observed in mixed populations. Patterns of co-occurrence and experimental data demonstrate a genetic rather than an environmental basis for the observed differences between the species.
10.2307/2419115|Arnicastrum guerrerense, collected in the Sierra Madre del Sur, in Guerrero, is described as a new species, and a synopsis of the genus is provided.
10.2307/2419116|Phylogenetic reconstructions of the Andropogon virginicus complex were performed using Swofford's computer programs for maximum parsimony. Character state polarity is based on outgroup analysis of Andropogon sect. Leptopogon, to which the virginicus complex belongs. A previously undetected synapomorphy justifies monophyly of this section. The data used in the reconstructions contain extensive homoplasy, and tree topology changes considerably with minor changes in the data. Nevertheless, the interrelationships of the taxa on the most parsimonious trees are largely concordant with the results of previous studies. These cladistic analyses do, however, suggest different evolutionary relationships for the subspecific taxa of A. virginicus and A. glomeratus, the two most complex species. As a consequence of these analyses, two new varieties, A. virginicus var. decipiens and A. glomeratus var. scabriglumus, are described.
10.2307/2419118|Based on morphology, intergeneric hybridization appeared evident between Conimitella williamsii and Mitella stauropetala in a mixed population of these species from western Wyoming. Evidence from starch gel electrophoresis confirmed the occurrence of natural intergeneric hybridization between these taxa. Conimitella williamsii and M. stauropetala each possess unique allozymes at four of 18 loci examined. Using these allozymes as markers, plants of intermediate morphology were determined to be of hybrid origin. Electrophoretic data also suggest that several additional plants were the result of backcrossing of F<sub>1</sub> hybrid plants to M. stauropetala, or that they are F<sub>2</sub> or later generation plants. Although this is the first report of intergeneric hybridization between Conimitella and Mitella, naturally occurring hybrids have been reported between other related genera of tribe Saxifrageae, including Mitella and Tiarella, and Tellima and Tolmiea. The occurrence of hybrids between so many genera of Saxifrageae suggests that barriers to crossability often are not well-developed among genera of this tribe. Furthermore, since these genera are vegetatively very homogeneous and differ largely in floral morphology, the occurrence of intergeneric hybrids suggests that they may not be highly differentiated genetically.
10.2307/2419119|Remijia chelomaphylla is known from one locality in eastern Peru. Although also distinct from other species of the genus because of vestiture and size and shape of the capsule, the type material is unique because it has lobed or sinuate leaf margins, rarely seen in the Rubiaceae. The wall of the foliar trichomes is sculptured with cuticular micropapillae. This sculpturing is reported to be found in other members of the Cinchoneae.
10.2307/2419120|Seeds of seven southeastern and one southwestern United States species of Portulaca were examined with the scanning electron microscope. Some species could be characterized by the external seed morphology while others could not. Those species with the largest geographical ranges and ecological diversities showed the greatest variation in morphology. Comparisons between species often showed significant overlap of morphological characteristics. Seed morphology in Portulaca can be used as a taxonomic trait, but should be combined with other traits for the diagnostic determination of species.
10.2307/2419121|Two new Isoetes from South America are described and contrasted with morphologically similar and sympatric species. The first of these species, I. baculata, represents a relictual morphotype within the Isoetaceae as indicated by the presence of completely laminate leaves. The other species, I. eshbaughii, is unique in forming desiccation resistant foliar gemmae which are completely enclosed by sclerified scales. Analyses on the distribution of alate leaves and scales, as well as peripheral fibrous bundles and sporangial pigmentation, show that there are nested sets of species within the Isoetaceae which represent major phylogenetic lineages. The pattern of character nesting suggests an historical transition from a primitively aquatic habit to a seasonally amphibious one, with subsequent parallel reversions back to aquatic zones. These habitat changes have resulted in convergent morphologies which are in large part responsible for the previous confusion regarding the evolution of the genus and the dependence on megaspore morphology as the sole basis of infrageneric classification. A major advantage of the proposed phylogeny is that the demarcation of major lineages now allows for the establishment of functional ingroups and outgroups, and thus provides a frame of reference from which additional phylogenetic hypotheses can be formulated.
10.2307/2419122|Using in vitro pollen germination experiments, we quantified the effects of flower age, drying time, and pollen source on germinability of pollinia of Asclepias exaltata. Germinability varied greatly among plants; some plants produced pollinia that germinated with twice the average success of other pollen sources. Flower age had comparatively little effect on pollen germinability, although germination rates for 3- and 4-day-old flowers were slightly less than for 0-, 1-, and 2-day-old flowers. Pollinia that were removed from flowers and allowed to dry lost viability relatively rapidly. After 24 hours, their germinability was reduced by more than 50%. Thus, even though the durable covering of milkweed pollinia may reduce the rate of desiccation and loss of germinability, pollen dispersal distances should still be largely restricted to distances that pollinators travel in a 24-hour period.
10.2307/2419123|Nectar production and pollination of the herbaceous perennial milkweed Asclepias exaltata were studied in three populations in southwestern Virginia. Individual flowers were available to pollinators, chiefly large bees and wasps, an average of 6.2 days. Volumes, concentrations, and amounts of sucrose in nectar decreased as flowers aged. Most nectar was secreted overnight, and standing stocks increased in concentration from 20-30% in the morning to 40-60% in the afternoon. There were significant differences among plants in all components of nectar production, with sucrose amounts varying up to four-fold. The average number of pollinaria removed per flower was significantly greater in 1981 (1.38 + 1.25; ~ + s) than in 1982 (0.78 + 0.09), as was the average number of insertions per flower (0.66 + 0.93 versus 0.39 + 0.66). Pollination efficiency, the ratio of insertions to removals, was nearly the same in 1981 (0.43 + 0.66) as in 1982 (0.36 + 0.59). Rates of pollination were positively correlated with nectar concentration. In addition, plants producing concentrated nectar matured more fruits and had higher percentage fruit-set than did plants with dilute nectar. These data from natural populations agree with general results of laboratory trials suggesting that bees prefer concentrated nectar and that bees can respond to differences in nectar quality among plants.
10.2307/2419124|The monotypic genus Callaeum (Malpighiaceae) was proposed by J. K. Small in 1910 to accommodate an aberrant mascagnioid plant, Jubelina nicaraguensis Griseb. On the basis of flower, fruit, and leaf characters this genus is again recognized as distinct from Mascagnia, in which it was submerged by Niedenzu, and is augmented by the addition of most of the remaining members of Niedenzu's Mascagnia subg. Plagiogynixa, to which Niedenzu assigned C. nicaraguense. This makes necessary the new combinations Callaeum antifebrile, C. macropterum, C. malpighioides, C. psilophyllum, and C. septentrionale. In addition, C. chiapense is added by transfer from Stigmaphyllon, and three new species, Callaeum clavipetalum, C. coactum, and C. reticulatum, are described. Keys, descriptions, and citations of representative specimens are provided for the ten recognized species, and the segregation of this genus from Mascagnia is discussed.
10.2307/2419126|The chromosomal relationships of the 11 annual diploid species in Helianthus sect. Helianthus were investigated by analyzing meiotic abnormalities in the interspecific hybrids. Hybrids were secured from 40 of the 55 interspecific cross combinations via embryo culture or conventional hybridization techniques. Species differed from each other by 0-6 translocations and 0-8 paracentric inversions. Intraspecific variation in chromosome structure was found in some species but was not as complex as the interspecific variation. Pollen stainability for the different hybrids was 1% to over 75%, mainly reflecting the meiotic abnormalities of the hybrids. Chromosome end arrangements consistent with the observed hybrid multivalent configurations are presented for all but two of the species. A phylogenetic diagram based on translocation differences is presented. The chromosome end arrangement of H. debilis is considered ancestral, while those of H. neglectus and H. annuus are the most differentiated from the ancestral arrangement.
10.2307/2419074|Six different methods of cladogram construction were applied to a data set embracing 34 species and subspecies of Pontederiaceae. Nineteen Wagner trees were constructed using different combinations of character subsets and outgroups. Although 12 trees were constructed using the largest character cliques uncovered by character compatibility analysis, these were highly unresolved. Four additional trees were constructed using phenetic methods. Trees resulting from the various procedures were compared using several optimality criteria. Wagner trees based on all 42 characters or on the subset of 27 reproductive characters were most successful according to these criteria. Branch-swapping trials, based upon common features found in the Wagner and other trees produced another 10 trees that were as successful as the Wagner trees. The number of about equally successful trees is partly a function of homoplasy. Two-thirds of the character state changes on the trees are homoplasious. The primitive breeding system of the Pontederiaceae is not clearly resolved, but heterostyly is probably a synapomorphy of only one lineage of the family. A vicariance explanation of the biogeography of the family, based on a Gondwanan distribution, seems less parsimonious than an origin in South America, followed by several eastward dispersals. While Monochoria and Pontederia are apparently monophyletic under different analyses, Eichhornia and Heteranthera, as presently circumscribed, are probably paraphyletic.
10.2307/2419075|Crossability and cytological studies have led to a recent taxonomic revision of Lens. Starch gel electrophoresis of isozymes was employed to clarify the relationships among the revised Lens taxa and provide further insight as to the origin of the cultivated lentil, L. culinaris ssp. culinaris. The 14 enzymes studied yielded scorable products of 25 putative isozyme loci, 16 of which were polymorphic. Isozyme polymorphism within accessions was extremely low while greater amounts of variation were observed among accessions and even greater amounts among taxa. A high degree of electrophoretic similarity was found among L. culinaris ssp. culinaris, L. culinaris ssp. orientalis, and L. culinaris ssp. odemensis. Lens nigricans ssp. ervoides possessed more allozymes in common with all three L. culinaris subspecies than with L. nigricans ssp. nigricans. Similarly, a differentiated cytotype of ssp. nigricans showed more electrophoretic affinity with all three L. culinaris subspecies and ssp. ervoides than with the remaining accessions of ssp. nigricans which emerged as the most electrophoretically distinct group. On the basis of the electrophoretic data alone, ssp. orientalis and ssp. odemensis are the most likely progenitors of the cultivated lentil, ssp. culinaris.
10.2307/2419076|Fifty-two flavonoids are distributed among the 11 species of Lychnophora in species-specific combinations. The flavonoids occur largely as methylated, O-glycosylated, and C-glycosylated derivatives of four aglycone types: apigenin, luteolin, kaempferol, and quercetin. Discontinuities in morphological characters used to delimit species of Lychnophora correspond to observed discontinuities in flavonoid variation patterns. In contrast, the relationships among Lychnophora species suggested by exomorphology are not supported by the flavonoid distributions or the numerical analysis of the chemical data. The large amount of infraspecific variation in L. ericoides, L. salicifolia, and L. uniflora appears to be random. On morphological grounds, L. bahiensis and L. rosmarinifolia have been considered to be hybrids. The flavonoid data provide no additional evidence in support of these hypotheses.
10.2307/2419077|Caryodaphnopsis fosteri, a tall rain forest tree from Amazonian Peru, is described as a new species. It differs from the other neotropical species of Caryodaphnopsis by its strongly tripliveined leaves and its small, round fruits. Diagnostic characters for the genus Caryodaphnopsis are discussed in view of variation in certain characters in the neotropical species. A key to the neotropical species of Caryodaphnopsis is presented.
10.2307/2419078|Spatial autocorrelation analysis was used to study the patterns of geographic variation in Populus deltoides (Salicaceae). Ten characters reflecting the vegetative morphology in this species were analyzed for each of 522 individuals in 302 localities scattered throughout eastern North America. Factor analysis reduced the dimensionality of the matrix. The first factor, reflecting leaf size, shows a clear clinal pattern throughout the study area, with larger leaves in the south and southeast. Other factors, reflecting twig size, leaf apical shape, and leaf base shape also exhibit spatial patterns but on a smaller geographic scale. The influence of large-scale environmental and climatic variation on these patterns was examined by regressing the factor scores against a matrix of five environmental parameters. The regression residuals were then examined for spatial pattern. In most cases the residuals retain no spatial patterning. However, the first factor, that reflecting leaf size, shows some small-scale pattern.
10.2307/2419080|Analyses of morphological and isozymic variability were used to discriminate populations of Camassia angusta from those of C. scilloides. Camassia scilloides had a distinct, earlier flowering period than C. angusta. Populations identified on the basis of differences in relative flowering time showed little morphological and isozymic divergence but could be correctly classified by taxon-specific patterns of variation for these characters. The allozymes of C. angusta were mostly a subset of those of C. scilloides; the latter had nine unique, rare alleles at 10 loci and the former had only two. Camassia angusta, therefore, may be a relatively recent derivative of C. scilloides. While the taxa have diverged little from each other for the characters examined, they appear reproductively isolated and should be maintained taxonomically as separate species.
10.2307/2419081|Hymenodon and Hymenodontopsis are two small genera in the Rhizogoniaceae with single peristomes traditionally thought to be endostomes. Based on cellular patterns on the inner and outer surfaces, the peristome of Hymenodontopsis is confirmed as an endostome. The single peristomes of Hymenodon sericeus and H. angustifolius are, however, exostomes, with peristomial formulae of 4:2. The former species has a preperistome formed from the OPL-2. Hymenodon parvulus has a double peristome and this, combined with distinctive gametophytic morphology, indicates that the species is misplaced in Hymenodon. A placement in Powellia (Racopilaceae) is accepted with hesitation.
10.2307/2419082|Though a region's climate sets the limits for a biota, geology enriches local discontinuity and habitat diversity. When slope, exposure, and physical and chemical properties of rock and soil are arrayed discontinuously, the opportunities for events leading to speciation can occur. Several scenarios can account for evolution in geologically diverse landscapes. They range from ecotypic differentiation and disruptive selection to saltational speciation. I draw upon evidence from microevolutionary response to heavy metals and from serpentine endemism. The western North American genus Streptanthus (Cruciferae), with a number of serpentine endemics, illustrates the possible modes of evolutionary diversification on this demanding substrate.
10.2307/2419083|Annual members of the genus Zizania have been classified either as one species, Z. aquatica with five varieties, or as two species: Z. aquatica with three varieties and Z. palustris with two varieties. Electrophoretic divergence among the annual Zizania taxa was examined in 33 populations collected throughout northeastern North America, including: 11 of var. aquatica, 11 of var. brevis, two of var. subbrevis, three of var. palustris (=var. angustifolia), and six of var. interior, as well as three commercially available cultivars. Eleven enzyme systems presumed to be coded by 17 gene loci were surveyed in 12-24 seedlings of each population. The five varieties divided into two groups on the basis of four enzymes: malate dehydrogenase, hexokinase, phosphoglucose isomerase, and phosphoglucomutase. These corresponded to the two species, Z. aquatica (including vars. aquatica, subbrevis, and brevis) and Z. palustris (including vars. palustris and interior). The five varieties had similar patterns of variation for the other seven enzyme systems. Genetic identity values between Z. aquatica and Z. palustris were similar to levels expected for congeneric species, whereas identity values between varieties within each of the two species and between populations of each variety were similar to those expected for conspecific populations. No isozyme evidence for intermediacy or gene flow between the two species was found. Zizania aquatica varieties could not be distinguished electrophoretically but small differences were apparent between var. palustris and var. interior in four isozymes. Cultivated varieties, previously considered to be improved strains of Z. palustris var. palustris, were found to be more closely related to Z. palustris var. interior based on the shared presence of unique alleles at six loci.
10.2307/2419084|Burmeistera pinnatisecta is described, illustrated, and compared to B. pteridioides McVaugh. Both species are characterized by pinnatifid leaves and belong to sect. Imberbes subsect. Genuinae following Wimmer (1943).
10.2307/2419085|Floral morphology has been the mainstay of orchid systematics, often to the exclusion of all other information. Vegetative features and chromosome number only rarely have been used in tribal, subtribal, and generic classification. Such has been the case in the oncidioid orchids, in which lip size, shape, and angle of attachment to the column often have been the sole determinants of generic affinities. A realignment of the oncidioid genera is presented and based on a series of previously under-utilized floral characteristics (e.g., the general form of lip calli, nectaries, and pollinaria), vegetative morphology, life history traits, and chromosome number. Two anomalous genera, Lockhartia Hook. and Trichocentrum Poeppig & Endl., are also discussed in relation to the two main lineages, as exemplified by Rodriguezia Ruiz Lopez & Pavon and the 56-chromosome species of Oncidium Sw.
10.2307/2419029|Calea sect. Lemmatium, known from southern Brazil, contains nine species including Brasilia sickii, the basis for the monotypic genus Brasilia, and Amphicalea fruticosa, which is reinstated from the synonymy of C. rotundifolia. Morphologically, members of the section are allied closely to the more diverse and widespread Calea sect. Calea but may be distinguished from them by their crowded corymbiform capitulescences and achenes longer than the pappus scales. Calea nitida is considered the most primitive species in sect. Lemmatium; C. rotundifolia and C. sickii, both with connate pappus scales, are the most advanced. Two new combinations are made: C. sickii and C. fruticosa. Lectotypes are chosen for C. rotundifolia, C. nitida Less., C. lemmatioides, C. nitida Chodat, non Less., and C. acaulis.
10.2307/2419031|Cladistic analysis of 43 foliar characters was used to explore the phylogeny of genera in Phyllanthoideae and to test the systematic value of foliar morphology. Character polarities were assessed by outgroup analysis treating other subfamilies of Euphorbiaceae and primitive genera in Flacourtiaceae as outgroups. Results indicated that several major tribes recognized in the most recent classification of the subfamily are essentially monophyletic, including Aporuseae, Bridelieae, Drypeteae, and most of Wielandieae, whereas others, notably Antidesmeae, are probably paraphyletic. Conflicts between leaf-based cladograms and the previous classification appeared in the relationships of Astrocasia, Didymocistus, Neowawraea, and genera in Amanoeae, but relationships were clarified for genera like Bischofia, Uapaca, and Hymenocardia, whose positions have previously been obscure. These results verify the systematic value of foliar characters. However, the rates of homoplasy found in this study are higher than found in most cladistic analyses, possibly indicating that many foliar characters are of most value at lower taxonomic levels. Relatively conservative characters include outer vein loop size, tertiary vein pattern, areolation development, unicellular trichome type, and tanniniferous epidermal cells.
10.2307/2419032|The Lennoaceae are a small family of New World holorhizoparasites distantly related to the Boraginaceae and Verbenaceae. The three genera and total of seven species that have traditionally been accepted for the family are here reduced to two genera and four species. Lennoa is a genus of annual plants with 8-merous flowers, biseriate nodding stamens with basally spreading thecae, 7-12 vascular bundles per stem, pollen exine with a granular infrastructural layer, and diploid with n = 9. Lennoa is monotypic, with two formae of L. madreporoides recognized. Pholisma is a genus of perennial plants with 4-10-merous flowers, uniseriate erect stamens with parallel thecae, 15-25 vascular bundles per stem, tectate-columellate exine infrastructure, and tetraploid with n = 18. Pholisma (including Ammobroma) contains three very well-marked species: P. arenarium, P. culiacanum, and P. sonorae.
10.2307/2419033|Variational studies of Ceratophyllum apiculatum, C. demersum, and C. submersum demonstrate that C. demersum and C. submersum are separable by multivariate statistical analyses, whereas C. demersum and C. apiculatum are not. In fruits of C. demersum, stylar and basal spine lengths are highly correlated and related linearly. A comparison of interspecific spine-length variation with variation observed within a clonal population (identified by enzyme electrophoresis) indicated that a large component of spine-length variation in the species is genetic. In C. demersum, the frequency distribution of basal spine lengths is bi-modal as a result of spine abscission. These results provide evidence that C. apiculatum fruit phenotypes are simply variational phases of C. demersum. The data are useful for inferring possible evolutionary relationships in the genus.
10.2307/2419034|The importance of morphological variation for evolutionary and phylogenetic studies is well recognized. This paper concentrates on morphological differences within and among population samples of several species of grasses to interpret potential for further differentiation. Analysis of gross morphology, a traditional tool of systematics, is coupled with numerical taxonomy to identify kinds of morphological differentiation among populations of species of four steppe grasses: Bromus japonicus, B. tectorum, Poa secunda, Pseudoregneria spicata. Floral and vegetative variation in Poa secunda is consistent with apomictic differentiation. Floral characteristics in this species were responsible for more phenotypic divergence between populations (71%) than within populations (35%), while vegetative traits were responsible for 29% of total variance between populations and 65% within populations. Inbreeding in the two Bromus species is not associated with any notable morphological differentiation between populations. Bromus tectorum appears to retain morphological uniformity throughout the area sampled. Character states for Pseudoregneria spicata exhibit varying degrees of plasticity depending on the population. This comparative study, concerned with differences and similarities in amounts and kinds of variation of morphological traits, represents a first attempt to assess how morphological variation can be examined to detect the potential for some kinds of speciational events.
10.2307/2419035|The morphological diversity of the North American component of Trisetum spicatum was analyzed in an attempt to resolve taxonomic problems associated with inconsistent infraspecific treatments. Three-hundred and fifty specimens representing the North American distribution were measured for 33 morphological characters and the data were analyzed phenetically. The morphological data reveal extreme variation within the species and do not support the recognition of infraspecific taxa or the elevation of the hexaploids to specific rank.
10.2307/2419036|Cordia macvaughii is an uncommon species of section Cerdanae and is known only from the western Mexican states of Jalisco and Michoacan. It differs from other species in the section in having a large paniculate inflorescence covered with a downy-velutinous indument and corolla lobes that are wider than long.
10.2307/2419037|The Carex crinita Lam. complex (Cryptocarpae) comprises eight validly described taxa occurring in eastern North America. Modern taxonomic treatments of the complex differ considerably recognizing from three to seven taxa of varying rank. For this study, 36 populations representing the range of morphological variation in the complex were examined utilizing starch gel electrophoresis and allozyme analysis. Data were collected for 18 putative genetic loci. Although 13 of these loci were variable across the species complex, only 15 populations were polymorphic at one or more loci. The number of alleles per locus averaged 1.06, whereas the average percentage of polymorphic loci was 5.26. The majority of genetic variation is distributed among taxa as evidenced by the values obtained for Nei's gene diversity statistic; a G<sub>ST</sub> of 0.658 indicates that these populations are highly differentiated. Averaged by taxon, Nei's unbiased genetic identity ranged from 0.726 for pairwise comparisons of populations of C. gynandra and C. mitchelliana to 0.866 for C. gynandra and C. crinita var. brevicrinis. These data support the recognition of four taxa comprising this species complex. Additionally, statistically significant deviations from Hardy-Weinberg expected heterozygosity and high positive values for Wright's fixation index suggest high levels of inbreeding. These data contrast with morphological evidence suggesting outcrossing through wind dispersal of pollen.
10.2307/2419038|Quantitative data were collected for 24 commercial cultivars of Cucurbita pepo, four C. pepo collections from Mexico, six populations of C. texana from Texas, and three spontaneous populations of texana-like plants from Alabama, Arkansas, and Illinois. Canonical variate and principal component analyses revealed variation in the size and shape of C. pepo seeds which was similar to recently documented patterns of allozyme variation. Additionally, variation in seed characters appears to reflect effects of human selection. Stepwise selection was used to select four characters useful in discriminating between C. texana and C. pepo var. ovifera seeds. Most significant were characters describing the sinus area near the seed scar. A discriminant function based on these characters was capable of correctly identifying seeds with 86% accuracy, indicating inherent differences between these taxa. On the basis of this discriminant function, the spontaneous populations from Alabama, Arkansas, and Illinois were classified. Although 80% of the seeds from these populations were classified as C. pepo var. ovifera, the general nature of these populations was one of intermediacy between the two taxa. This intermediacy is an important consideration in interpreting the relationship between C. texana and C. pepo. Although generally assumed to be feral populations of relatively recent origin, these populations could also represent remnants of the wild species in an area northeast of its current distribution in Texas.
10.2307/2419209|Croizatia, a genus known from Panama and Venezuela (Euphorbiaceae, Phyllanthoideae), has been considered closely related to the Old World genus Actephila. However, the spinose pollen of Croizatia is very different from the semitectate pollen of Actephila, and the two genera appear clearly distinct. The pollen morphology of Croizatia suggests a possible relationship with the Oldfieldioideae, and it may be the closest extant taxon to a connecting link between the subfamilies. Three species of Croizatia are tentatively recognized, including a new species, Croizatia panamensis; but species delimitations must be regarded as provisional.
10.2307/2419210|Primula anvilensis (Primulaceae: Farinosae) is described as a new species endemic to the Seward Peninsula of western Alaska. It is distinguished by its delicate stature, efarinose denticulate leaves, and umbels of small white flowers subtended by plane bracts. Although first collected in the early part of this century, it has been confused with several other taxa, including Primula borealis Duby, P. parvifolia Duby, P. tenuis Small, P. chamissonis Busch, P. stricta Hornem., and P mistassinica Michx.
10.2307/2419211|Bolandra, Boykinia, and Suksdorfia are all characterized by x = 7 and have essentially identical Hy-banded patterns and gross morphological karyotypes. Cytological data suggest a close relationship between Boykinia intermedia and B. major, both of which are unusual in possessing 2n = 28. Karyotypes of Bolandra, Boykinia, and Suksdorfia appear to be indistinguishable from those reported earlier for Sullivantia. Peltoboykinia differs from Bolandra, Boykinia, Suksdorfia, as well as Sullivantia, in having x = 11. Peltoboykinia also exhibits a distinctive karyotype that readily differentiates it from these genera. Karyotypic data suggest that Bolandra, Boykinia, Suksdorfia, and Sullivantia form a natural group. These genera are united also by several morphological features, including axile placentation and a monotelic inflorescence. Data from flavonoid chemistry and the host preferences of Puccinia rusts also indicate a close relationship among these four genera. Although Peltoboykinia is clearly allied with Bolandra, Boykinia, Suksdorfia, and Sullivantia, on the basis of cytological evidence its closest affinities may lie elsewhere in Saxifragaceae, perhaps with Saxifraga.
10.2307/2419212|The Carpinus caroliniana Walter complex (Betulaceae) is a morphologically variable group extending geographically from southeastern Canada to northern Central America. In this study, a series of multivariate procedures has been applied to morphological data obtained from throughout the range of the complex to identify and characterize patterns of regional variation. The methods used include principal components analysis, an a posteriori test procedure (SNK test), and stepwise discriminant analysis. Coefficients of phenetic variation were obtained to estimate the within- and among-population variabilities of subgroups, and multiple regression analyses were used to determine relationships between variation patterns of morphological and environmental variables. These analyses demonstrate patterns of significant morphological differences corresponding to large geographical regions having distinct environmental conditions. Four major morpho-geographic groups are recognizable, these integrating in relatively narrow zones at their points of contact. Within the various groups, which possess character states linked to different ecological roles or survival strategies, the expression of individual characters is often in divergent directions, the changes related to different environmental features.
10.2307/2419213|Damnxanthodium and D. calvum are based on the type (1897) and recent (1969-1982) collections of Perymenium (?) calvum Greenman from Sinaloa and Durango. Rose 3225 (GH) becomes the lectotype.
10.2307/2419214|The delimitations of Lantana depressa and L. ovatifolia are reviewed using field studies, common garden plantings, morphology, chromosome numbers, and artificial hybridization. Thirteen morphological characters were incorporated in a principal components analysis. Lantana depressa, a diploid (2n = 22), is restricted to native vegetation on dunes, coastal prairies, and limestone ridges in peninsular Florida. The species comprises three varieties. Lantana depressa var. floridana, comb. nov., and L. depressa var. sanibelensis, var. nov., previously had been unrecognized and treated as elements of L. ovatifolia. Lantana ovatifolia, a tetraploid (2n = 44), is endemic to Grand Bahama Island. Confusion between the species involves naturalized L. camara, a tetraploid (2n = 44), which has hybridized with L. depressa. The triploid (2n = 33) hybrids resemble L. ovatifolia and form a morphological continuum between the parental taxa.
10.2307/2419215|Data from natural populations and from experiments involving cuttings and seedlings in cultivation were used to evaluate putative, pubescence-based subspecies and varieties of Arctostaphylos uva-ursi in North America. Field studies indicated that for some of the taxa ecological and related geographic differences exist, although in several instances plants of different identities occurred side by side under seemingly identical conditions. Variation among plants obtained from nature was found to be nearly continuous, however, suggesting that the taxa are not morphologically distinct. Garden studies indicated that environmental, ontogenetic, and genetic factors contribute to the variation. Pubescence assignable to more than one taxon was frequently generated among cuttings or seedlings propagated from a single individual. It is concluded that the taxonomic significance of these variants lies above the level of form but beneath that of ecotype and variety, and retention of formal names for them is not recommended.
10.2307/2419216|A discussion is presented of convexity as a consistency criterion for evaluating classifications in relation to cladograms. Convex groups are monophyletic groups of Haeckel. Two types of convex groups are defined, holophyletic and paraphyletic groups. Polyphyletic groups are not convex. Constructing holophyletic classifications when ancestor-descendant relationships are asserted is impossible. A logical conflict exists between Popperian logic and Hennigian grouping by synapomorphy. The practical benefits of convex classification, particularly simplicity and stability, are discussed using entomological, zoological, and botanical examples. Contrary to assertions recently presented in the cladistic literature, convexity is a valid and useful consistency criterion. The definition of this criterion that we present is an explicit formulation of traditional evolutionary systematics.
10.2307/2419217|A radioimmunoassay comparison of seed proteins from nine of the ten genera of Pinaceae supports two major groupings in the family. These correspond to those of Van Tieghem, which are also supported by morphological evidence. The abietoid group, which forms a tighter cluster in the immunological analysis, consists of Abies, Keteleeria, Cedrus, Tsuga, and Pseudolarix, while the pinoid group consists of Pinus, Picea, Cathaya, Larix, and Pseudotsuga. Vierhapper's classification based on shoot dimorphism is thus rejected as artificial. Pseudotsuga and Larix form a well marked lineage within the pinoid group as indicated by both immunology and morphology.
10.2307/2419218|Several pollination systems including anemophily, ephydrophily, and hyphydrophily have been reported for the aerial and/or submerged flowers of Potamogeton. Anemophily is generally believed to characterize the aerial-flowered taxa. The supposition that hyphydrophily characterizes submerged-flowered taxa derives from observations of underwater seed production. Hyphydrophily is often associated with larger pollen and, like anemophily, generally implies xenogamy and stochastic pollen delivery-features predicting high pollen/ovule (P/O) ratios. Relative to this, we present data from limited breeding studies and extensive analyses of pollen size and P/O ratios of North American species. The species tested were partly autogamous. Aerial-flowered species bear larger pollen and show significantly higher P/O ratios than those with submerged flowers. Thus, we suggest autogamy as an alternative to hyphydrophily for the submerged-flowered species of Potamogeton. Hydroautogamy is proposed to define a special class of autogamy; e.g., in Potamogeton, wherein self pollination is effected by pollen moving from anthers to stigmas over the surface of air bubbles. Autogamy is posited as a more likely first hypothesis in studies of breeding systems of submerged-flowering angiosperms with bisexual flowers. We also suggest that in Potamogeton P/O ratios reflect both breeding and pollination systems. A model is presented that shows how higher P/O ratios, than the breeding system of a taxon would imply, could be generated by the added effect of the pollination system.
10.2307/2419220|Three species, Coursetia oaxacensis, Coursetia robinioides, and Coursetia paniculata are described as new In addition, two varieties of C. polyphylla, var. breviloba and var. acutifolia, are described as new. The relationship of these newly described taxa lies within Rydberg's sections Madrensis and Polyphyllae of the genus Coursetia, both of which are herein referred to as the Madrensis group. The Madrensis group is delimited and briefly compared with the other species groups of Coursetia, and diagnostic keys are provided to distinguish among the taxa within this group.
10.2307/2419221|After its original description as Woodsia oregana (cathcartiana) x W. ilvensis, W. x abbeae has been interpreted by all authors as the hybrid between W. ilvensis and W. scopulina, on the basis of its scopulina-like hairs, which are absent in W. ilvensis and W. oregana. Evidence is presented here that the form of the pinnae, glands, indusial segments and sorus, and the chromosome number, support the original interpretation of W. ilvensis x oregana.
10.2307/2419222|Samples from populations of all four North American species of Plectritis from throughout their range in the United States were assayed for isoenzymes of 14 enzyme systems presumably coded by 29 loci. Analysis of the levels and organization of isoenzyme diversity in the genus indicated that the four species form two groups with regard to population genetic structure. Plectritis congesta is a relatively highly outcrossed species, with high levels of polymorphism and observed heterozygosity. It has significantly less of its total diversity attributable to interpopulational differentiation than any of the other three species studied. Plectritis brachystemon, P. macrocera, and P. ciliosa have lower outcrossing rates, levels of polymorphism and heterozygosity, and a higher proportion of total diversity due to interpopulational differentiation. Average genetic distances among conspecific Plectritis populations were well above that reported for other species by Gottlieb. Patterns of genetic distances among Plectritis populations do not appear to be strongly associated with either geographic patterns or with established systematic relationships. It is clear that it may not always be appropriate to use isoenzyme data to make taxonomic decisions. Nevertheless, the details of population biology and population genetics that such data reveal may clarify the sources of problems in some "problem" taxa, for instance by confirming a taxon as highly selfed, with consequent interpopulational differentiation.
10.2307/2419223|Boltonia apalachicolensis (Asteraceae) is formally described and illustrated. Morphological comparisons are made among all species of the genus. Previously unreported diagnostic features, particularly of the achene surface, are illustrated.
10.2307/2419224|Taximetric methods, including principal components analysis, cluster analysis, and discriminant analysis, were used to study morphological variability present in the Lathyrus vestitus-laetiflorus complex of the Pacific coast of North America. Flower size is shown to increase clinally from north to south. Cluster analysis and discriminant analysis suggest that five "modal phenotypes" exist within the complex. These modal phenotypes replace one another from north to south, and in areas of sympatry, morphological intergradation is extensive. This geographic variability is interpreted to be the result of incomplete primary differentiation and not introgression. The five phenotypes are treated as subspecies of L. vestitus. Lathyrus vestitus subsp. laevicarpus is described as a new subspecies; L. vestitus subsp. laetiflorus and alefeldii are new combinations.
10.2307/2419225|Tellima and Tolmiea are monotypic genera of Saxifrageae and part of a natural group that includes Conimitella, Heuchera, Mitella, and Tiarella. Natural intergeneric hybrids have been reported between several of these genera, including Commitella and Mitella, Mitella and Tiarella, Tiarella and Heuchera, and Tellima and Tolmiea. Since members of this natural group are vegetatively very homogeneous and differ largely in floral morphology, the occurrence of hybrids between so many of these genera suggests that they may not be highly differentiated genetically. To test this hypothesis, Tellima grandiflora and Tolmiea menziesii were compared electrophoretically. Evidence from enzyme electrophoresis indicates a high degree of allozymic similarity between Tolmiea menziesii and Tellima grandiflora (I = 0.49). These two species are more highly differentiated than are species within genera of Saxifrageae, such as Heuchera and Sullivantia. However, the degree of allozymic differentiation between Tolmiea and Tellima appears comparable to that reported for congeneric species of other plant groups.
10.2307/2419226|Elleanthus hirsutis is from the elfin forest above La Peca, Amazonas, Peru. It is distinctive because it has hirsute leaves and inflorescences on both short and long stems. The presence of inflorescences on two types of shoots calls into question the use of inflorescence position to distinguish sections within the genus. Elleanthus steyermarkii is from dense, wet forest near Topo, Pastaza, Ecuador. It resembles members of the E. linifolius complex, but differs in its spiralled bracts and acute leaves.
10.2307/2419228|Thirteen species of Polygonum sect. Echinocaulon were examined for leaf flavonoid constituents. Thirty-six flavonoid compounds were isolated and identified, most of which were glycosylated and/or methoxylated derivatives of the flavonols kaempferol, quercetin, and myricetin, and of the flavones apigenin and luteolin. Among them, quercetin 3-O-glycosides were major flavonoid constituents, and present in all species. Species of section Echinocaulon exhibit relatively complex patterns of leaf flavonoid constituents. Although the flavonoid data for some species are lacking, those available appear to be very useful for species delimitation and for recognizing species relationships in the section. Most species of section Echinocaulon are readily distinguished by their flavonoid profiles, and the cladogram based on nine flavonoid characters suggests four basic chemical lineages in the section.
10.2307/2419316|Twenty-nine species and three varieties of Ichnanthus are recognized taxonomically, with eleven species and one variety in section Foveolatus. All species of Ichnanthus are found in tropical America. One taxon, I. pallens var. majus, is found principally in Africa, India, Australia, and southeast Asia as far north as the Ryukyu Islands, but also is present in the neotropics. Although I. pallens var. pallens is primarily neotropical, some collections have been made in the Old World tropics. Because of their strictly racemose inflorescence and spikelet structure, three taxa (formerly known as I. minarum, I. oplismenoides, and I. standleyi) are transferred from Ichnanthus to Echinolaena. For section Ichnanthus, I. riedelii now includes I. drepanophyllus and the species description is amended accordingly. Maps show the distribution of all species of Ichnanthus, and an index of synonymy is provided.
10.2307/2419317|Parsimony analysis of the outgroup shows that the best estimate of the plesiomorphic condition is extremely sensitive to the exact topology of the outgroup cladogram. For some topologies the rare outgroup character state is the best estimate; outgroup common-is-primitive gives the wrong answer in these cases. Direct parsimony analysis can only be applied if the outgroup cladogram is known in detail, but this information is usually unavailable. In these cases the common-is-primitive rule would be very useful if it could be justified by a reasonable evaluation of its reliability. Such an evaluation may be made if all topologically distinct outgroup trees are assumed to be equally probable, and the proportion of these trees that favor each of the possibly primitive states is determined. If one state is suggested by a large preponderance of trees, then this state may be used in cladistic analysis of the ingroup. A general computer algorithm has been implemented in two programs (for the Apple computer); one program deals with a single binary character, while the other handles many characters simultaneously, each of which may be binary or multistate. Results show that if an outgroup character is only moderately uncommon, it is rarely the best guess for the plesiomorphic condition of the ingroup. Interpretation is complicated by the relatively large number of trees that are equivocal in the estimate of the plesiomorphic condition. Character states often associate in unexpected patterns when the plesiomorphic condition is determined for several characters simultaneously. These methods can also be applied to partially resolved outgroup cladograms. If the shape of the ingroup cladogram is not being determined, then the methods may be used in a combination ingroup-outgroup determination of the plesiomorphic ingroup state; a sample calculation suggests that the terrestrial habit is primitive in the orchids. These methods are likely to be most useful 1) in preliminary studies and 2) when the closest outgroup is known but several more distant outgroups form an unresolved multichotomy.
10.2307/2419318|Three new varieties are recognized in Passiflora cumbalensis (Karsten) Harms, an edible-fruited member of Passiflora subgenus Tacsonia section Bracteogama found in the Andes of South America. New combinations and change in status make a total of seven varieties recognized in this species.
10.2307/2419319|Much debate has ensued during the past decade on the positive and negative aspects of the three major approaches to biological classification: cladistics, evolutionary classification (=phyletics), and phenetics. Most of the discussion has taken place between practitioners of cladistics and phenetics with claims being made for the supremacy of one or the other. Evolutionary classification has not been central to the discussion because of the lack of explicit approaches. Having such avenues would be useful to allow focus on the merits and deficiencies of evolutionary classification relative to phenetics and cladistics. Further, it would also allow for more informative comparisons of classifications being produced by the majority of practicing systematists. This paper presents several approaches toward explicit evolutionary classification, involving different combinations of cladistic, patristic, and phenetic information. Different kinds of phylograms and two-dimensional plots are suggested, all of which are explicitly derived. An example of these approaches is given from the genus Lagascea (Compositae).
10.2307/2419320|Starch gel electrophoresis was employed to examine allozyme variation within and between the domesticated ornamental gourds (Cucurbita pepo var. ovifera) and the closely related, wild C. texana. Data on 12 loci representing six enzyme systems (GOT, IDH, MDH, PER, PGI, and PGM) were analyzed for 17 C. texana populations from Texas, six spontaneous populations from beyond Texas, 12 ornamental gourd cultivars, and four edible C. pepo cultivars. Populations of C. texana were relatively homogeneous with low levels of polymorphism and mean heterozygosity, while diversity within and among ornamental gourds was much higher. Relative genetic affinity among ornamental gourds and edible cultivars suggests that circumscription of var. ovifera (s. lat.) based on "ornamental" fruits does not reflect biological relationships. The pumpkin cultivar and associated ornamental gourds formed a distinct group in both cluster and principal component analyses. Cucurbita texana populations were also distinct, having a mean genetic identity value with C. pepo of I = 0.731. Position of the unclassified spontaneous populations was intermediate with respect to the two species. Relatively high frequencies of C. texana alleles in these populations suggest an ancient link between spontaneous populations in Texas and those northeast of Texas. The presence of typical C. pepo alleles in spontaneous populations is probably the result of gene flow between wild and cultivated populations.
10.2307/2419321|Three new species of Malvaceae are described: Abutilon burandtii from Venezuela (allied to the Peruvian-Ecuadorian A. reflexum species-group), Hibiscus peralbus from northwestern Australia (of H. sect. Bombicella), and Alyogyne cravenii from northern Australia. In addition, three new names are proposed for Mexican Malvaceae, as follows: Malvaviscus urticifolius (K. Presl) comb. nov., Pavonia uniflora (Sesse & Mocino) comb. nov., and Pavonia venusta nom. nov.
10.2307/2419322|A mixed population of the two recently derived allopolyploid species of Tragopogon, T. mirus and T. miscellus, was discovered in Pullman, Washington. The presence of morphologically intermediate plants suggested that interspecific hybridization had occurred. Evidence from enzyme electrophoresis confirmed the occurrence of hybridization between T. mirus and T. miscellus. Each species possessed unique enzyme bands at three of the eleven enzyme loci examined. Seedlings obtained from the presumed F<sub>1</sub> hybrid plants combined the enzyme bands of the two parental species, and displayed additive enzyme phenotypes. Because the seedlings were F<sub>1</sub> or later generation plants, or the result of backcrossing, individual seedlings did not display additivity at all three loci. Although diploid species of Tragopogon have provided classical, thoroughly documented examples of interspecific hybridization since 1759, this is the first report of naturally occurring hybridization between the newly derived tetraploid species.
10.2307/2419323|Three new species are described in the genus Tauschia: T. hintoniorum from Coahuila and Nuevo Leon, T. infernicola from Nuevo Leon, and T. moorei from Hidalgo and Puebla.
10.2307/2419324|Two new species of Cercocarpus are described from limestone areas in the Sierra Madre Oriental in eastern Mexico. Cercocarpus mexicanus appears most similar to the C. montanus complex, but has prominent stomatal crypts as in C. fothergilloides; it differs from both in its thickened leaf-blades with distinct rows of conspicuous stomatal crypts on the abaxial leaf surface. Cercocarpus rzedowskii is similar to C. ledifolius but differs in the absence of bundle sheath extensions in leaves. In leaf and stem vestiture it has similarities with C. fothergilloides.
10.2307/2419325|Stephanomeria exigua subsp. coronaria (COR) and S. malheurensis (MAL) are related as progenitor and recent derivative and occur sympatrically at the only known site of MAL in eastern Oregon. MAL is predominantly self-pollinating, but COR is obligately outcrossing because it has a sporophytic self-incompatibility system. Self-pollination is an important component that contributes to the reproductive isolation of MAL and evolved following a breakdown in the self-incompatibility (SI) system it inherited from COR. We found a single COR plant derived from the parent population growing in our greenhouse that was self-compatible and self-pollinating. It was used to study the genetic basis of the change in compatibility within COR. We also analyzed the change in interspecific hybrids between COR and MAL. In both cases, the difference in compatibility was governed by a single gene, probably the S locus which controls the incompatibility reactions between the pollen grain and the stigmatic surface. The discovery of a SC allele and accompanying self-pollination in the progenitor population of COR bolsters the model that the origin of MAL required few genetic changes.
10.2307/2419326|The current study presents 137 new chromosome determinations for Antennaria from throughout North America. Previously unreported species include A. atriceps, A. marginata, A. rosulata, and A. stenophylla. Although a few taxa remain uncounted, a reasonable summary of the chromosomal diversity for the entire genus can be made. Three groups of taxa are recognized based primarily on ploidy level and reproductive mode. One assemblage of taxa (group 1) is always sexual, primarily diploid, and is unrelated to the polyploid agamic complexes of group 3. Another category (group 2) consists of species that occur as diploids or tetraploids and are the probable diploid progenitors of the polyploids. The sexual diploid taxa are distinct morphologically and generally occur in southern latitudes and unglaciated regions. The polyploids (group 3) are frequently widely distributed in both southern latitudes and northern glaciated ones and are morphologically diverse.
10.2307/2419327|All members of Lupinus section Platycarpos, here taken to include L. kingii and section Lupinellus which consists of L. uncialis, have been examined for their flavonoid content. A rich array of O-glucosyl and C-glucosyl flavones was found. Flavonoid profiles of the entire group support our earlier conclusion, based upon a smaller sample, that the annual lupines with connate cotyledons exhibit a unique array of pigments. Furthermore, the distribution of these compounds clearly supports an earlier view of C. P. Smith that two groups of species should be recognized. His group Microcarpi is characterized by accumulating major amounts of C-glucosylflavones while his Pusilli exhibits major amount of O-glucosylflavones. Lupinus kingii, although a member of Pusilli on the basis of its floral features, and L. uncialis exhibit flavonoid profiles somewhat different from the other groups.
10.2307/2419328|Pyrola picta, P. dentata, and P. aphylla are shown to represent variant morphotypes of a single, highly variable species, P. picta. Different degrees of leaf reduction and aphylly occur in the species, with aphyllous scapes commonly being produced on rhizomes bearing leafy scapes. Leaf shapes in picta and dentata morphotypes form a continuous series with no clear discontinuity evident. No qualitative differences exist in floral morphology that can be used to differentiate leafy from aphyllous shoots, although such leafless forms do tend to have larger flowers. Differences between picta and dentata morphotypes in leaf flavonols are restricted to a single glycoside of quercetin. Picta morphotypes appear to have the broadest distribution over the species' range in western North America, and the dentata form occupies the drier, more exposed sites.
10.2307/2419258|Six comparative approaches widely employed in systematics-alpha taxonomy, numerical taxonomy, experimental hybridization, chemotaxonomy, allozyme comparisons, and DNA/DNA hybridization-are critically compared for Mimulus sect. Erythranthe. Each approach is used to indicate the relationships of the same set of nine populations. The set was carefully chosen to represent fairly and fully the morphological and ecological diversity of the section. The results for each method are summarized in a key, crossing polygon, or dendrogram, as appropriate. The chemotaxonomic, allozyme comparisons, and repetitive DNA/DNA hybridization methods reveal significant differences clearly separating out one or more populations, e.g., M. rupestris, but tend, overall, to emphasize the underlying similarities of the whole Erythranthe section. The alpha taxonomic, numerical taxonomic, and experimental hybridization methods distinguish subgroups of populations as well as differentiating the populations comprising the subgroups. The six methods are only partially congruent, but they are definitely complementary. Taken together, the numerical taxonomic and experimental hybridization methods produce the clearest distinctions and groupings of the entities of the section and would be the most useful for floristic studies. The other methods add clarity and detail important in monographic studies.
10.2307/2419259|Starch gel electrophoresis was utilized to estimate the amount of genetic divergence at 16 putative isozyme loci among populations of six native red oak species occurring in New Jersey: Quercus coccinea, Q. ilicifolia, Q. marilandica, Q. palustris, Q. rubra, and Q. velutina. The mean genetic identity for pair-wise comparisons of 15 populations of the six species was 0.876. This value increased to 0.958 upon exclusion of populations of Q. palustris, indicating a high degree of allozymic similarity among the remaining species. Gene diversity analysis demonstrated that most of the variation present in Quercus populations exists within populations. Additionally, standard measures of genetic variability obtained from this limited number of Quercus populations were concordant with reported and predicted estimates from widespread outcrossing plants that exhibit similar life history and ecological traits. With the exception of Q. palustris, the isozymes examined are of little value in identifying species since marker alleles were not found. However, differences in gene frequencies at polymorphic loci were detected. Patterns of genetic differentiation did not correlate with the five classical taxonomic series delimiting these species suggesting that the series do not represent genetically differentiated groups of species excluding series Palustres (Q. palustris). It is also suggested that speciation among the five closely related red oak species was rapid and apparently occurred with minimal changes in the genes coding for the isozymes examined. These preliminary data document detectable genetic divergence in at least one species within the red oak species complex.
10.2307/2419260|Two new species, Meriania brevipedunculata and M. parvifolia, are described from Morne Formon in Parc National Pic Macaya, in the Massif de la Hotte, Haiti. These species are compared with M. involucrata, M. ekmanii, and M. squamulosa, the three species of the genus previously known from Hispaniola. All five species are endemic to Hispaniola, and all except M. involucrata are limited to the Massif de la Hotte, a region of exceptional endemism. The flora of the Massif de la Hotte is discussed briefly.
10.2307/2419261|Weissia sharpii Anders. & Lemmon is a recently described species endemic to the Southern Appalachian-Ozarkian region. It was distinguished from the more widespread species, W. controversa Hedw., on the basis of its diploid gametophytes, restricted habitat in cedar glades, and several morphological features of the gametophytes. An experiment was performed in which two populations each of W. sharpii and W. controversa were grown reciprocally on soil from each other's native habitats, and twelve morphological characters were measured. Soil type had virtually no effect on the expression of any of the characters. An analysis of variance indicates that the species differ significantly in leaf length-width ratio, upper leaf width, and in the width of the gap between involuted leaf margins. These morphological discontinuities, combined with differences in chromosome number and ecology, indicate that W. sharpii and W. controversa should be treated as separate species. Weissia controversa exhibited a greater degree of variation between populations than did W. sharpii when both were grown experimentally. This is in agreement with the relative variability of W. controversa in nature. Experimental studies on the plasticity of morphological characters in mosses and liverworts are reviewed.
10.2307/2419263|Introgression was studied in Salvia apiana and S. mellifera in two respects. First, a geographical survey was made to determine characteristic parameters of variation and the nature and extent of hybridization. Secondly, published and unpublished introgression data collected over a timespan of 30 years were analyzed to determine the stability of an introgressed population. Environmental data were assayed to assist in the interpretation of morphological variation in flower structure. Pollen viability was investigated for both species and their hybrids and found to be high in both parental and introgressed individuals. Computer analyses were used to test relationships between characters, to calculate descriptive statistics, and to identify any time-related changes. Results of the geographical studies in S. mellifera showed no statistically significant variation due to environmental or geographical factors, whereas populations of S. apiana showed statistically significant variation, indicating a topocline. Data from this study of introgression were compared to Anderson and Anderson's original data of 1952. Progressive gene infiltration (introgression) and long term maintenance of introgression was documented. Further, it was demonstrated that at three different sites introgressed populations persist in the absence of one of the parental species, S. apiana in each case.
10.2307/2419264|Marasmiellus nodosus is described as a new species in section Ramealini. The fungus is distinct because of the spore size, brown encrusting pigments on the hyphae of the pileus surface, and conspicuous cheilocystidia. Marasmiellus praeacutus is proposed as a new combination based on Marasmius praeacutus. It possesses a subinsititious stipe with a constricted base and a poorly developed Rameales-structure on the pileus surface. Both features are indicative of Marasmiellus section Tetrachroi.
10.2307/2419265|Sanicula mariversa is a rare new species restricted to a single low-altitude, xeric site on one ridge of the Wai'anae Mountains, on the Hawaiian island of O'ahu. Sanicula mariversa is distinguished from its closest morphological relative, S. sandwicensis, by foliar, floral, and fruit characters. It is geographically isolated from S. sandwicensis, which occurs in high-altitude sites on the islands of Maui and Hawai'i. In erecting the new species, we recognize the need for more detailed studies of Sanicula in the Hawaiian archipelago.
10.2307/2419266|From Colombia, two new species (Pitcairnia jaramilloi and P. altoatratoensis) and two new varieties (Pitcairnia killipiana var. viridis and P. brachysperma var. snowii) are described. Pitcairnia alversonii of Colombia is reduced to a variety of P. occidentalis. The description of P. luteyniorum is emended and Pitcairnia lepidopetalon is considered to be a close relative of P. luteyniorum. For the first time in Pitcairnia, two species groups (the "maidifolia-complex" and "sprucei-complex") are delimited to include certain species from Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru.
10.2307/2419267|The Carpinus caroliniana complex consists of a series of geographical races ranging north and south through the deciduous forest zone of eastern temperate North America and the mountains of Mexico and northern Central America. All of these races are morphologically variable and difficult to distinguish on the basis of independent characters. Nevertheless, each possesses a broadly distinctive set of features related to a particular ecological situation. Published records of Pleistocene and post-Pleistocene pollen floras suggest that Carpinus survived Wisconsin glaciations throughout much of its present range in unglaciated eastern North America, both east and west of the Appalachian Mountains, and geological and paleobotanical evidence supports the hypothesis of pre-Pleistocene western introduction of the genus into Mexico. The complex is divided to form two species. The northern C. caroliniana consists of subsp. caroliniana of the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plains of the southeastern United States and subsp. virginiana of the Appalachian Mountains and northern interior regions to the west. The Latin American C. tropicalis is separated into subsp. tropicalis of the deciduous forest zone of the highlands of southern Mexico and northern Central America and subsp. mexicana of the cool humid zone of mountains in northeastern Mexico and the trans-Mexican volcanic belt.
10.2307/2419268|The genus Dendroseris, consisting of rosette trees or shrubs, is endemic to the Juan Fernandez Islands, Chile. With 11 species it is the largest genus on the Islands. The considerable morphological diversity among the species is reflected by the recognition of three subgenera. The relatively young age of the Islands, ca. four million years for Masatierra and one to two million for Masafuera, indicates that speciation may have occurred recently and rapidly in Dendroseris. An electrophoretic study of 14 enzymes revealed little divergence among the six species examined. The three species in subgenus Dendroseris and the three in subgenus Rea are all monomorphic for the same allele at 21 of the 34 genes. The two subgenera are fixed for different alleles at two genes, which supports their recognition as monophyletic lines. The lack of divergence among the species at genes specifying soluble enzymes is concordant with the hypothesis of rapid speciation, perhaps the result of adaptive radiation into a variety of habitats. The chromosome number of n = 18 in Dendroseris suggests it is a tetraploid. Enzyme electrophoresis revealed extensive gene duplication in Dendroseris indicating the genus likely consists of relatively "young" tetraploids. Data from gene number indicate that polyploidy may have been associated with the origin of Dendroseris from a diploid progenitor, or that polyploidy was established shortly after the origin of the genus.
10.2307/2418882|Light and scanning electron microscopy are employed to describe the ultrastructure of Cymbella sinuata and allied taxa. Observations show the C. sinuata group shares features of valve symmetry and number of apical pore fields with members of the genus Cymbella s. str., while having raphe, striae, and stigmal features similar to Gomphonema species. The features shared between the C. sinuata group and Cymbella appear to be symplesiomorphies, while the group lacks apomorphic features characteristic of Gomphonema. These observations, in addition to a unique construction of the apical pore fields in the C. sinuata group, suggest its placement in a new genus, Reimeria. Features of the new genus are described and its systematic position discussed. A new fossil species, R. lacus-idahoensis is proposed.
10.2307/2418883|Eucrosia is a small, rare, polymorphic, central Andean genus of petiolate-leaved Amaryllidaceae. Seven species and two varieties are recognized. Three species are endemic to Ecuador and two to Peru; two additional, largely Ecuadorean, species are occasional in Peru. Eucrosia is primarily a xeric, lowland, floristic element, inhabiting seasonally dry vegetation of the lower, western slopes and Pacific coastal lowlands, with a single species adapted to montane rainforest understory. The genus is marked by its petiolate leaves with wide laminae; weakly to strongly zygomorphic flowers; long, declinate stamens in all but one species; and the presence of androecial nectar glands in five of the species. Pollen exine morphology exhibits a phylogenetically significant transformation series from semi-tectate/reticulate to verrucate/fossulate. The most common somatic chromosome number is 2n = 46. The flowers are putatively adapted for butterfly pollination, but a single report of hummingbird visitation is recorded for E. eucrosioides. Phylogenetic analysis places E. stricklandii as the most primitive species in the genus. Phaedranassa and Rauhia are the genera closest to Eucrosia, and it is hypothesized that Stenomesson is ancestral to these three.
10.2307/2418884|Cladistics, phenetics, and our understanding of chromosomal evolution were applied to questions of the relationships and resemblances among the three subfamilies of the monocot family Bromeliaceae. This large, distinct family (2100 species) is mostly from the new world tropics. Among 10 possibly closely related families to the monotypic order Bromeliales, Velloziaceae of Bromeliflorae appear to be the most likely to share the same common ancestor with Bromeliacae, though other members of Bromeliflorae (and some Zingiberiflorae and Commeliniflorae) are also implicated by the analyses. Nearly all of these sister taxa have the same effect in polarizing morphological and anatomical characters. Cladistic analyses placed Bromelioideae and Tillandsioideae as sister taxa and the third subfamily, Pitcairnioideae in close proximity to the family's putative ancestor. A possible explanation of the revealed, multiple lineage relationships and phenetic resemblances among families is a hybrid, paleopolyploid origin of Bromeliaceae. Chromosome numbers are in accord with this notion of reticulate evolution having occurred during the origin of the monotypic order, Bromeliales.
10.2307/2418885|A new species of Ammandra (A. natalia) (Palmae) is described and illustrated. Notes on its morphology, reproductive biology, distribution, and economic botany are given.
10.2307/2418886|The concept we call Cornus sensu lato was milleniums old when Carl Linnaeus wrote Species plantarum. Following tradition, he viewed Cornus as embracing the cornelian cherry and the bractless dogwoods; following Dillenius and Plukenet, he added dwarf cornels and flowering dogwood. Today, in eastern Europe and in Asia, steadfast splitters view all those as genera-Cornus sensu stricto, Swida, Chamaepericlymenum, Cynoxylon-and make four more from dogwoods that Linnaeus did not know-Afrocrania, Bothrocaryum, Dendrobenthamia, Discocrania. No one's thoughts on evolution mandate splitting-all agree the segregates are closer to each other than to any group outside of Cornus-and there are the following reasons for retaining Cornus in its broad sense: some splits were made on weak grounds (Chamaepericlymenum) or on arguments now overweighed by other evidence (Dendrobenthamia crosses with Cynoxylon). In England, Japan, and North America, experiments with splitting won few converts. Splitting upsets nomenclature, making it depend on how one views the names of Rafinesque or where one sees divergence of the dogwood subgroups. Indeed, splitting hinders thinking on divergence (those who split off Afrocrania, for instance, lose sight of its kinship with cornelian cherry), and misaligning subgroups within Cornus hinders circumscription of Cornaceae, a most unruly family.
10.2307/2418887|A new genus and species of Lythraceae, Lourtella resinosa, is described from Dpto. La Libertad, Peru. It is unique in the family by possessing globose, spiny to spinulose trichomes, discontinuous nectaries, and especially by conspicuous secretory ducts in the stem and pedicel. Floral morphology and anatomy, pollen morphology, and leaf and stem anatomy are detailed. Lourtella is allied to a cluster of four genera, Adenaria, Koehneria, Pehria, and Woodfordia, but the presence of secretory ducts, together with the deviating nature of its globose trichomes and other apomorphies, isolate it within the group.
10.2307/2418888|Utilizing column, 2-dimensional paper, thin layer, and high performance liquid chromatography, 13 flavonoids, predominantly flavonol diglycosides, were isolated from 20 of the 22 species of Solanum section Basarthrum. Twelve of the flavonols were fully characterized as glycosides of quercetin and kaempferol. The flavonols proved useful at two levels. Although series within the section are not fully characterized by unique compounds, morphologically cryptic sibling species pairs are separable with flavonol characters. Second, a comparison of the flavonoid data published for the genus shows that the sections studied to date are quite distinct, and that sections considered most closely related morphologically are also most similar chemically. The domesticated S. muricatum possessed the greatest array of flavonols; however, the flavonol pattern did not serve to indicate which of the three wild species closest to S. muricatum was the most likely ancestor.
10.2307/2418889|Principal Components (PCA) and Similarity-Graph Clustering (SIMGRA) analyses of morphological and biochemical characters were used to demonstrate the phenetic relationships of the cultivated, weed, and wild forms of the Bolivian diploid potato cultigen Solanum x ajanhuiri and its relatives. Results of both numerical methods supported the proposed intermediacy of cultigens of S. x ajanhuiri (2x) between S. megistacrolobum (2x) and S. stenotomum (2x), its putative wild and cultivated progenitors respectively, while showing the close affinity of these cultigens with sympatric weed populations. Sisu cultigens, a group of frost-resistant triploids sympatric with S. x ajanhuiri, were interpreted as a heteroploidal hybrid between S. x ajanhuiri and the wild tetraploid S. acaule. This analysis of the products of hybridization involving S. megistacrolobum, S. stenotomum, and S. acaule underline the reticulate nature of the evolution of cultivated potatoes.
10.2307/2418890|Polypodium virginianum comprises three morphologically similar cytotypes: diploid (2n = 74), triploid (2n = 111), and tetraploid (2n = 148). Previous cytological and morphological analyses suggested that tetraploid P virginianum was actually of allopolyploid origin resulting from hybridization between diploid P. virginianum and another diploid Polypodium species. To test this, an electrophoretic investigation of diploid, triploid, and tetraploid populations of P. virginianum was undertaken. Analysis of eight enzymes showed 15 loci common to all three cytotypes. Fixed heterozygosity due to the presence of two additional isozymes was detected in triploid and tetraploid P virginianum: This increase in isozyme number in the tetraploid is suggestive of the addition of two divergent genomes in its formation. One of the parental genomes involved in the formation of tetraploid P virginianum clearly is diploid P. virginianum; the second parental genome appears to be P amorphum. Electrophoretic data are in agreement with 1) an allopolyploid origin of tetraploid P virginianum, and 2) formation of the triploid cytotype via hybridization between diploid and tetraploid P. virginianum.
10.2307/2418891|Foliar scales of 45 species representing seven pitcairnioid genera were examined with light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Scale form varies among pitcairnioid genera in: 1) number of central disc cells; 2) type of arrangement of cells around the central disc; 3) organization of marginal wings; 4) gross structure and symmetry of scales; and 5) their distribution, arrangement, and density. Thick, opaque, marginal wings of foliar scales and their arrangement in several overlapping periclinal tiers, evident from several taxa (e.g., Abromeitiella, Deuterocohnia, Dyckia) have not been noted previously in the subfamily. Pitcairnioid scales differ from those of the tillandsioids in the absence of an orderly increase in the cells of the peripheral rings. Funnel-shaped scales and their arrangement in linear rows are common to Pitcairnioideae and Bromlioideae. Several scale features support two generic groups of Pitcairnioideae recognized also on the basis of leaf anatomy. Scale characteristics appear to have evolved differently in mesic and xeric environments. Functional and developmental aspects of the pitcairnioid foliar scales appear to be rewarding areas for further research.
10.2307/2418892|Carex sect. Abditispicae Wheeler, described from southern South America, belongs in subg. Carex. It is comprised of four species: C. macrosolen Steudel which was formerly placed in sect. Physocarpae (Drejer) L. Bailey subsect. Lupulinae (Tuckerman) Kuk.; C. acaulis Urv. formerly placed in sect. Spirostachyae (Drejer) L. Bailey; C. subantarctica Speg., previously unplaced, and a new species, C. pisanoi. Section Abditispicae is distinguished from all others by: culms solitary or few together from long-creeping rhizomes; basal sheaths brown; bract and leaf margins with irregularly-spaced, unbranched and 2(4)-branched, short, stiff hairs; spikes 1-5, the lateral ones (when present) borne at or near the plant base and largely hidden among leaves or slightly exserted on more or less erect peduncles; perigynia subcoriaceous or coriaceous, more or less papillose, 9-15-veined, plano-convex to biconvex or suborbicular in cross section; perigynium beak essentially lacking teeth, or, if toothed, the teeth weak and scarious; staminal filaments sometimes connate (stamens monadelphous), then the anthers in groups of 2's or 3's; stigmas 2. The section appears to be endemic to southern South America, occurring in Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego, with isolated populations also known from west-central Argentina and the Falkland Islands. Habitats are moist to wet grasslands, swales, spring seepages, "bogs" and swamps, mossy vega, lake shores, and wet sands and gravels by the sea.
10.2307/2418893|Comarostaphylis is a genus of shrubs and small trees distributed from southern California to western Panama. Because taxa within the genus are often separated by quantitative rather than qualitative characters, populations were sampled in an attempt to provide an adequate representation of the pattern of variation. The resultant data, mostly on vegetative characters, were analyzed by a multivariate technique (canonical analysis or multiple discriminant analysis) and by a clustering technique (UPGMA) to provide evidence concerning infrageneric, specific, and subspecific circumscriptions. A key is provided to the 10 species and the total of 16 taxa that are recognized as a result of the quantitative analyses as well as an interpretation of qualitative data.
10.2307/2418894|Remya (tribe Astereae) is a genus of three species endemic to the Hawaiian Islands. Until 1985, only two species, R. mauiensis and R. kauaiensis, were known. They were both thought to be extinct. Although rediscovered in 1971 and 1983, respectively, the plants are very rare and the populations endangered. A new species in the genus is described: R. montgomeryi sp. nov., known only from cliffs near the rim of Kalalau Valley, Kaua'i. The most diagnostic features distinguishing it within the genus include complete lack of pubescence; long, thin peduncles; heads with a larger, hemispherical involucre; acute to obtuse phyllaries; and more numerous disk florets. Examination of material of all three species suggests that the heads are monoecious; the ray florets are pistillate and disk florets functionally staminate. Remya kauaierisis and R. montgomeryi differ from R. mauiensis in having dimorphic disk florets; the outer ones are smaller, have funnelform corollas, and apparently are neutral or pistillate whereas the inner ones are considerably larger, have campanulate corollas, and appear to be functionally staminate. Remya may be related to the Australasian genus Olearia.
10.2307/2418895|Previous taxonomic treatments of Neopringlea, typically emphasizing only one or a few morphological features, have allied the genus with as many as five different families: Celastraceae, Hippocrateaceae, Sapindaceae, Simaroubaceae, and Flacourtiaceae. The present study demonstrates similarities in xylem anatomy and external morphology which suggest a relationship between Neopringlea and the small African genus Trimeria of the Flacourtiaceae.
10.2307/2418896|The neotropical fern genus Polybotrya has strongly dimorphic sterile and fertile leaves (trophophylls and sporophylls). Sterile-fertile leaf dimorphy involves an ensemble of characteristics and not merely a single feature of the leaf. The reduction of green tissue is the most conspicuous aspect of dimorphy, but differences also occur in seasonality, duration, orientation, placement, size, color, texture, and venation. The sori of Polybotrya were previously described as acrostichoid, but three types of sori occur in the genus: botryoid, coenosoric, and a new type here termed "amphiacrostichoid." Botryoid sori, which are round and discrete, are considered primitive on the basis of outgroup comparison with other dryopteroid ferns. Coenosoric sori, which are oblong to linear, probably evolved from the botryoid type by basipetal fusion of the sori. Amphiacrostichoid sori developed from a coenosoric ancestor by the expansion of the margins of the receptacle beyond the original adaxial surface. As a result, the receptacle assumed its own adaxial surface and sporangia appeared on both surfaces of the leaf. Coenosoric and amphiacrostichoid sori contain diplodesmic veins that develop from the normal veins of the sterile leaf.
10.2307/2419235|Electrophoretic variation in isozymes coded by approximately 14 loci was examined in the diploids Clarkia amoena, C. lassenensis, and C. arcuata and in the four subspecies of the tetraploid C. gracilis. The objectives of the study were to determine if the tetraploid subspecies were monophyletic, and to determine their diploid ancestry. The electrophoretic evidence revealed that the four subspecies diverged following a single origin. The genotypes found in C. gracilis subsp. gracilis, subsp. albicaulis, and subsp. sonomensis were, with two exceptions, a subset of those found in subsp. tracyi. The electrophoretic evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that C. amoena subsp. huntiana was one of the diploid parents of C. gracilis and that the second diploid parent was a now extinct species similar or ancestral to C. arcuata and C. lassenensis.
10.2307/2419236|Vegetative and floral features of specimens of Acacia macracantha, A. pennatula, and A. cochliacantha from Mexico, Central America, and the West Indies were scored and analyzed by principal components analysis (PCA). Specimens that came from areas where the three species are allopatric could be assigned to a species group by inspection; this procedure was confirmed by PCA. Acacia pennatula is subdivided into two subspecies with distinct geographic ranges; A. pennatula subsp. parvicephala being newly described. Acacia cochliacantha is divided into two largely sympatric forms; A. cochliacantha forma houghii is a new combination. It is postulated that these two subgroups are of hybrid origin involving A. macracantha. This is supported by intermediacy of vegetative and floral characters, and by the presence of cyanogenic compounds in subgroups of both species. These compounds are otherwise uncommon in A. pennatula and A. cochliacantha but are common in A. macracantha. Some plants of A. pennatula or A. cochliacantha, and A. macracantha from areas of sympatry are intermediate in character and seem to be F<sub>1</sub> hybrids and/or backcrosses. With PCA, these putative hybrids are placed in positions intermediate to the other taxa.
10.2307/2419237|Phacelia mohavensis var. mohavensis and P. mohavensis var. exilis are distinct entities that differ in their stamen length; petal, pollen, and filament color; petal shape and orientation; petal venation patterns; and leaf morphology. As a consequence of these differences, P. mohavensis var. exilis is considered to be a distinct species: P. exilis. Both species have a haploid chromosome number of n = 9.
10.2307/2419238|Four new species of Hedyosmum subg. Tafalla are described from the montane forests of Andean South America. Three, H. spectabile, H. steinii, and H. anisodorum, belong to sect. Microcarpa, while H. luteynii is in sect. Macrocarpa.
10.2307/2419239|The taxonomic identity of the economically important group of palms known in Brazil as babassu (Orbignya spp.) has been a source of confusion for well over a century, largely due to a proliferation of species described from incomplete specimens obtained at a limited number of sites. To resolve this confusion, we collected complete material over a wide part of babassu's distribution in Brazil and Bolivia; additional material was obtained from Surinam. Based on the literature, biological data obtained in the field, and detailed morphological comparisons of specimens in the laboratory, we conclude that the babassu complex is comprised of two principal species, each with a pronounced tendency to hybridize. The most widely distributed species is Orbignya phalerata C. Martius, originally described from Bolivia, which is identical to a number of subsequently described (and consequently synonymous) species from Brazil. A second species, O. oleifera Burret, appears to be restricted to the Sao Francisco River Basin in Minas Gerais, Brazil. The wide geographic range of this complex and its propensity to hybridize have probably contributed to its high morphological variability. We suspect that this variability will prove to be a common theme in certain groups of palms currently thought to be comprised of many species.
10.2307/2419240|The pollen morphology as shown with scanning and transmission electron microscopy of a sample of 10 species of the Martyniaceae revealed three distinct types within this family: reticulate (in Martynia), areolate (Proboscidea/Ibicella), and "ring-like" (Craniolaria). Pollen morphology coincided with other characters and suggested that Proboscidea and Ibicella should be considered congeneric. Neither SEM nor TEM resolved the aperture type. Intergeneric differences in pollen morphology may be associated with differences in pollinators. Comparisons of pollen suggested that the Martyniaceae and the Pedaliaceae should be maintained as separate families.
10.2307/2419241|Hybrids derived from crossing five species of Lesquerella together with plants of each of the five self-incompatible species were allowed to produce a hybrid swarm. The resulting population has persisted through twenty-two generations spanning a period of twenty-two years. An examination of this population showed that none of the species persisted as such. Some features of each species could be identified among the hybrids but some, such as the flattened silique shape of L. lescurii had disappeared. A strong correlation between white flowers and a perforate septum of the siliques in the hybrid population follows the same correlation as in the white-flowered species. No evolutionary trends or novel characters were perceived in the hybrid population. The hybrid is given the cultivar name, Lesquerella 'Kathryn'.
10.2307/2419242|With the exception of Mitella breweri and M. trifida, all North American species of Mitella, Conimitella williamsii, and species of Lithophragma possess essentially identical chromosome morphology. The high degree of karyotypic similarity among genera is further indicated by normal bivalent formation and high pollen stainability in intergeneric hybrids involving Conimitella williamsii and Mitella stauropetala. Conimitella, Lithophragma, and most species of Mitella possess karyotypes that are indistinguishable from those of species of Heuchera, Tolmiea, and Tiarella. Chromosomal data, as well as evidence from morphology, intergeneric hybridization, flavonoid chemistry, and the host preferences of Puccinia rusts, suggest that Conimitella, Lithophragma, Mitella, Heuchera, Tiarella, and Tolmiea form the core of a natural group of genera having x = 7. The monotypic Bensoniella, as well as Elmera and Tellima, differ in chromosome morphology from species of these six genera. Other lines of evidence, including morphology and flavonoid chemistry, indicate, however, that all of these genera are closely allied. A second natural group of genera having x = 7 is composed of Bolandra, Boykinia, Suksdorfia, and Sullivantia. Studies of species throughout Saxifrageae indicate that chromosome morphology is highly conserved in the tribe. Chromosomal data, in conjunction with insights from enzyme electrophoresis, suggest that this group radiated rapidly in North America with little accompanying chromosomal or genetic divergence.
10.2307/2419243|Correlations of clustering relationships, phytogeography, and other data justify the continued taxonomic recognition of Ceratophyllum echinatum, C. submersum, and C. tanaiticum as distinct species. Variational patterns indicate a high degree of morphological similarity among C. australe, C. muricatum, and C. kossinskyi although each is separable by specific fruit characters and their geographical distributions are allopatric. They are treated here as vicarious subspecies of C. muricatum. Data from variational analyses indicate a close relationship between C. echinatum and C. submersum. Patterns of morphological variability indicate that spiny-margined species undergo frequent sexual reproduction.
10.2307/2419244|Principal component analyses were utilized to ascertain phenetic relationships within Lens, a genus which has been recently subjected to intensive biosystematic and evolutionary study. The first analysis was conducted on a combination of qualitative and quantitative characters and a second analysis was conducted on quantitative characters only. In the first analysis, L. orientalis grouped closest to L. culinaris, the cultivated species. The second closest to L. culinaris was L. nigricans while L. ervoides was the most removed. Two accessions of L. nigricans and one accession of L. ervoides were spatially removed from their respective groups. The second analysis yielded similar results except that a larger number of L. nigricans separated from the main group. These results agreed with recent cytogenetic studies and also provided new insight in understanding the evolution of Lens.
10.2307/2419245|Patterns of variation are documented within and between four local stands of facultatively apomictic Crataegus series Rotundifoliae in southwestern Ontario. Of interest are the number of objectively recognizable groups present in the sample, the relative levels of within-group variation, and the degree to which the groups recognized are morphologically differentiated into their component populations. Cluster analysis and principal components analysis based on 29 morphological descriptors revealed the presence of four reasonably well-defined groups in the sample. Multivariate analysis of variance and discriminant analysis of the four groups, based on a subset of six descriptors, revealed widely different levels of within-group variation and clearly separated group centroids. No clear subdivision of groups into component populations was evident in cluster analysis but specific tests for such differentiation, using MANOVA, did indicate some, more cryptic, morphometric differences between populations of two of the groups. The results presented here differ from expectation (based on a generalized model for agamic complexes originally proposed by Babcock and Stebbins) in that only a small number of groups, and these showing widely different levels of variation, could be identified. It is suggested that the facultative nature of apomixis in series Rotundifoliae militates against the maintenance of a large number of rather uniform apomictic forms.
10.2307/2419246|Carica cnidoscoloides from Oaxaca is described and illustrated and its affinities discussed. It differs from all the other species of Carica by its needle-like urticating trichomes, entire subcapitate stigma, and winged fruits. A new section, sect. Holostigma, is described to accommodate this species.
10.2307/2419247|Austrofolium Wynne, gen. nov. contains three species of foliose red algae occurring on the coast of Peru and the Galapagos Islands. Austrofolium hassleri (W. Tayl.) Wynne, comb. nov. (Hemineura hassleri W. Tayl.) is designated the type of the genus. Austrofolium howellii (W. Tayl.) Wynne, comb. nov. (Hemineura (?) howellii W. Tayl.) and A. equatorianum (E. Y. Daws.) Wynne, comb. nov. (Bartoniella (?) equatoriana E. Y. Daws.) are also assigned to the new genus. The absence of intercalary cell divisions and the failure of some tertiary initials to reach the blade margin demonstrate that Austrofolium is a member of the Membranoptera group of subfamily Delesserioideae. The blades become polystromatic relatively close to the apex.
10.2307/2419248|Myrteola (Myrtaceae: Myrtinae) is a South American genus of cool maritime climates of southern South America and high elevations of the tropical mountains. Four taxa are recognized: M. acerosa (Berg) Burret, M. microphylla Berg var. microphylla, M. microphylla var. glabrata Berg, and M. nummularia (Poiret) Berg. Myrteola's closest relatives are: Ugni in South America; Lophomyrtus, Neomyrtus, Myrtastrum, and some species of Austromyrtus in Australasia; and Myrtus communis of the Mediterranean. Certain species assigned to Austromyrtus are not closely related to Myrteola and seem to be more closely allied to Pilidiostigma.
10.2307/2419249|Epipterygium vanuatuicum is described, illustrated, and compared with E. tozeri (Grev.) Lindb. It grows in gulches subject to sulphur fumes from active volcanoes in Vanuatu.
10.2307/2419250|Three species of Luffa are recognized as indigenous to tropical America: L. astorii, found sparingly in Venezuela, Ecuador, and Peru; the widespread L. operculata which ranges from Panama into Brazil and Peru; and L. quinquefida which extends from western Mexico to Nicaragua. Although the species are not as well marked as those of the Old World, they can be distinguished by several morphological features. Artificial hybrids between the species are sterile or show considerable reduction in fertility. Luffa operculata is widely used in folk medicine, particularly for the treatment of sinusitis.
10.2307/2419251|Artificial hybridizations and compatibility studies were conducted on four chromosome races of Carex pachystachya and two related species, C. macloviana and C. preslii. As measured by percent seed set, percent seed germination, and percent germination as a function of the total number of flowers, three levels of compatibility were found. The highest level was obtained through selfing, indicating the plants are self compatible and likely to be autogamous in nature. Lower compatibility was observed when plants were outcrossed. The lowest level of compatibility was obtained in interracial and interspecific crosses, although seed set and germination values as high as 79% and 100%, respectively, indicate plants are cross compatible, with crosses among species as successful as among races. No conclusive evidence of agamospermy is found. As in other Carex groups, ecogeographic factors and breeding system are primarily involved in maintaining reproductive isolation among the species. Considering the results in the context of agmatoploid evolution indicates that changes in chromosome number have little to no effect on compatibility among closely related species, and thus chromosome number changes at most may be only associated with genetic adaptations to new habitats.
10.2307/2419252|Morphological features of seeds of Eucnide and species of subfamily Loasoideae, including the genera Blumenbachia, Cajophora, Loasa, Sclerothrix, and Scyphanthus, were examined to better understand relationships among Loasaceae. Seeds of Eucnide are bipolar with the hilum at one pole. They are essentially cylindrical with a radial transectional symmetry. Longitudinal ridges extend between the poles of each seed. The seed surface is also characterized by irregular granulations that may be large and rough, small and fine, or even largely indistinct, depending upon the species. As has been reported for other loasaceous genera, morphological features of seeds of Eucnide are generally conservative at the sectional level. Differences at the sectional level include size, shape, and secondary surface sculpture. Examination of herbarium collections has shown that E. hirta is more morphologically diverse than other species of Eucnide. Secondary surface sculpture of seeds is used to support the proposition that E. pringlei, recently considered conspecific with E. hirta, is a distinct species. Seeds of a disjunct population of E. hypomalaca have been valuable for showing potential evolutionary relationships between this species and E. pringlei and E. cordata. Seeds of Eucnide sect. Sympetaleia are, perhaps, paedomorphic derivatives of an ancestor with a seed morphology similar to that currently presently in E. bartonioides. Among examined species of subfamily Loasoideae, seeds appear primarily to have reticulate surface sculpturing. This reticulate pattern may be a plesiomorphic condition of the family shared by certain sections of various genera of subfamily Loasoideae and Mentzelia (subfamily Mentzelioideae). Seeds of Loasa sect. Huidobria have a surface sculpture composed of longitudinal ridges or folds that superficially cause seeds of these species to resemble those of Eucnide. Certain realignments of species of Cajophora with other genera in subfamily Loasoideae that were suggested by Poston do not seem necessarily appropriate based on data of seed structures reported in her study and this one.
10.2307/2419093|A phylogenetic hypothesis is presented based upon floral flavonoid glycoside characters from 87 geographically separated populations representing 14 species of Echinocereus including E. chloranthus, E. engelmannii, E. enneacanthus, E. fendleri, E. pectinatus, E. polyacanthus, E. reichenbachii, E. rigidissimus, E. scopulorum, E. stoloniferus, E. stramineus, E. subinermis, E. triglochidiatus, and E. viridiflorus. A biosynthetic scheme involving flavanone-, dihydroflavonol-, flavone-, and flavonol-7-O-glycosides is put forth to clarify critical assumptions of character polarity. The unifying model proposes that intensification of ultraviolet solar radiation accompanied climatic change and increasing aridity of post-pluvial natural habitats. It is assumed that climatic change was the driving force behind the modification of floral flavonoids which act in cactus flowers as possible ultraviolet screens. Taxa which share the derived micromolecular chemosyndrome (presence of flavanone- and dihydroflavonol-7-O-glycosides) are considered more advanced than those species with 3-O-mono- and diglycosides of the common flavonols, because these flavonoids presumably better shield the cactus flowers from potentially damaging radiation in the UV-B. Flavone- and flavonol-7-O-glycosides are also considered to be apomorphic since they are immediate biosynthetic derivations of the UV-B flavonoid screening agents. Camin-Sokal Parsimony with known ancestral states (determined from the unifying model) allowed the construction of hypothetical phylogenies for 14 species.
10.2307/2419094|Bidens clavata, a new species from Mexico, is described and illustrated. This species is related to Bidens odorata, but can be distinguished morphologically by its clavate outer achenes and chemically by differences in the flavonoids accumulated in its leaves.
10.2307/2419096|Multivariate statistical techniques are used to show that the type specimen of Eurybia commixia Nees [=Aster commixtus (Nees) Kuntze] belongs to A. spectabilis Aiton. The two species are, therefore, conspecific and the names E. commixta and A. commixtus are later synonyms for A. spectabilis. Statistical analyses also demonstrate that the plants native to the southeastern United States to which the name A. commixtus has been applied do not belong to A. spectabilis, but to two other distinct species, the diploid A. mirabilis Torrey & A. Gray, and a previously unnamed hexaploid species, A. jonesiae Lamboy, described here as new.
10.2307/2419097|Two new taxa, Piptochaetium avenacellum Barkworth from Tamaulipas and P. brevicalyx subsp. flexuosum Barkworth from Durango, are described. Descriptions, illustrations, and detailed distributional data are given.
10.2307/2419098|A new species of Carex, C. moorei, is described from southern Patagonia, where it grows on rocky slopes and in mountain meadows (vegas) at elevations of about 650-800 m. This unispicate species, which is here placed in Carex sect. Junciformes, has perigynia with mostly two-branched styles, although three-branched styles occur infrequently. Carex moorei is thought to link the tristigmatic members of sect. Junciformes and C. sorianoi, a bistigmatic species previously placed in sect. Microcephalae but herein considered a member of sect. Junciformes.
10.2307/2419099|Taxonomic study of the Allium douglasii complex reveals that each of the four varieties (var. douglasii, var. columbianum, var. constrictum, and var. nevii) are morphologically distinct and geographically isolated. Previous treatment of the four varieties rendered A. douglasii paraphyletic. Cladistic analysis indicates that A. douglasii var. constrictum is the most derived and most recently evolved member of the group. The group of three varieties, A. douglasii var. douglasii, var. columbianum, and var. constrictum, is interpreted as monophyletic, supported by two synapomorphies (three rather than two floral bracts and more than 25 flowers per inflorescence). Using A. falcifolium, A. lemmonii, or A. pleianthum as an outgroup, A. macrum is the sister taxon to the three-taxa group. Our data on morphology, coupled with allopatric distribution patterns, support recognition of four distinct species (A. douglasii, A. columbianum, A. constrictum, and A. nevii). A key using several new characters to differentiate among the species is included.
10.2307/2419100|The domesticated Andean grain chenopod, Chenopodium quinoa, is sympatric with closely related wild types that are classified as two species. Large-fruited (1.5-1.8 mm diam.), broad-leaved plants are placed with C. quinoa, as either subsp. milleanum or var. melanospermum. Plants with smaller fruits (1.0-1.5 mm) and rhombic to tri-lobed leaves are treated as Andean varieties of C. hircinum, a species originally described from the eastern plains of South America. This alignment was evaluated by comparative analysis of electrophoretic and morphometric data taken from populations occurring throughout the range of C. hircinum (s.l.). Samples from the eastern Andean slopes and plains of Argentina (C. hircinum s. str.) form a coherent group that is positioned at one extreme in the pattern of leaf and fruit variation. These samples, characterized by small, obtuse-margined fruits and acute, lobed leaves, are linked to material from the high Andes through a series of intermediate Andean samples. Andean material shows a wide range of variation in fruit size and shape. Leaf shape is more conservative, although samples from Bolivia trend toward the acute, trilobed condition. In contrast to morphological relationships, allozyme variation is simple and well defined. Andean material is homogeneous (I > 0.98), with unique alleles widely dispersed, mainly in southern populations. Populations of C. hircinum (s. str.) are more variable (I = 0.951) and well differentiated from the highland group (\bar{I} = 0.825) by a relatively common set of unique alleles. Minimal electrophoretic differentiation among Andean samples indicates that the companion weed of C. quinoa is a single biological entity that may represent an Andean element of C. hircinum, although the pattern of fruit variation suggests linkage to C. quinoa.
10.2307/2419101|Natural interspecific hybridization has been proposed to account for morphological variation in the annual members of the genus Zizania, commonly known as wild-rice, although isozyme data, as reported in a single study, have disclosed no evidence of introgression. Experimental hybridizations were conducted in all possible combinations among the five varieties of the two annual species of wild-rice. Meaningful intraspecific variation in crossability was not detected, which is in agreement with morphological and isozyme data. A unilateral interspecific crossability barrier was found between the two annual species. Pistillate florets of Z. palustris typically failed to produce viable fruits when pollinated by Z. aquatica. The reciprocal interspecific cross was successful at a low level of crossability. This evidence further strengthens the taxonomic separation of the two annual species previously defined by spikelet morphology, ultrastructure, and isozyme variation. Examination of pollinated stigmas of the infertile types of crosses disclosed that pollen tubes had penetrated the entire length of the stigma. The crossing barrier is therefore not due to a pollen/stigma interaction that severely interferes with pollen tube growth. Interspecific F<sub>1</sub> hybrids expressed the spikelet morphology of the Z. aquatica parent exclusively, although other morphological characters were typically expressed as intermediate to those of the parent species. The potential for natural hybridization between Z. aquatica and Z. palustris is discussed.
10.2307/2419102|Aphelandra glabrata is a highly distinctive member of the A. pulcherrima complex. Within this monophyletic group, A. glabrata belongs to a phylogenetic lineage that is marked by extrafloral (bracteal) nectary patches composed of numerous minute (<0.1 mm in diam.) glands. The species occurs in western South America, from central Colombia south into Peru and Bolivia. Aphelandra pulcherrima (with which A. glabrata has previously been combined) differs from this species in numerous features (e.g., nectary morphology, corolla vestiture, stigma morphology, and pollen morphology), and belongs to a different lineage within the A. pulcherrima complex. Aphelandra pulcherrima is a species of northern South America, occurring in northern Colombia, Venezuela, Trinidad, Guyana, and Surinam.
10.2307/2419103|Botanists disagree about the relationship of the serpentine and the woodland members of the Adiantum pedatum complex in eastern North America. Whereas some recognize the two taxa as subspecies, others judge variation to be strictly ecophenic. In the present investigation, starch gel electrophoresis, cytology, and multivariate morphometric analysis were used to elucidate the systematic relationship of these two diploid taxa. Populations of the serpentine and the woodland maidenhair fern are quite divergent genetically. Seven alleles are unique to the serpentine taxon, and genetic identities between populations of the two taxa are low (I = 0.495). This value is comparable to those for pairs of congeneric species in other groups of ferns, and particularly low compared to genetic identities for angiosperm species. Patterns of variation in morphological characters of A. pedatum reflect the genetic divergence between the diploid taxa: the taxa are well separated in a discriminant analysis, but no single character is diagnostic. A taxon of tetraploid maidenhair ferns discovered in the study is apparently the polyploid derivative of a hybrid between the serpentine and the woodland maidenhair ferns, as demonstrated by its electrophoretic phenotype. Non-segregation of alleles in gametophyte progeny of the tetraploid indicates that little pairing occurs between the two progenitor genomes. Recent origin of the tetraploid is suggested by several of its attributes: presence of multivalents at meiosis, duplicated gene loci, and restricted geographic range.
10.2307/2419104|Coreopsis gigantea and C. maritima consist of herbaceous perennial, diploid plants occupying maritime habitats in California and Baja California. They are distinct from all other members of Coreopsis and comprise the only two members of section Tuckermannia. The two species differ by a number of morphological features but their synthetic hybrids are highly fertile, and their allopatric distributions appear to be largely responsible for lack of hybridization under natural conditions. An electrophoretic study of 10 enzymes revealed a lowered mean genetic identity for populations of the two species as compared to conspecific populations. The lowered identity ostensibly results in part from mutations that have accumulated at isozyme genes during the gradual divergence of the two taxa via a geographic mode of speciation. This pattern is contrasted with that found in a number of annual plants where presumed rapid speciation is accompanied by little or no divergence at genes specifying soluble enzymes. Greater gene diversity was found in C. maritima than in C. gigantea, and this suggests possible alternatives within the geographic mode of divergence. Apparent gene duplications for several enzymes are reported and discussed briefly.
10.2307/2419105|Four new species in the Neotropical genus Cyphomandra are described and illustrated. Cyphomandra pilosa and C. foetida are found on the eastern slopes of the Andes from Colombia to Peru. Cyphomandra oblongifolia is a morphologically variable species of Suriname and the Amazon basin. Cyphomandra sibundoyensis is known only from a small area in southern Colombia.
10.2307/2419106|Two new species are described in the genus Hechtia: H. carlsoniae and H. pumila. Hechtia melanocarpa, previously thought to be known only from its type, is represented by several collections. In contrast to the type specimen which is of horticultural origin, collections from the type locality have consistently larger inflorescences with elongate lateral branches. Moreover, staminate and pistillate individuals differ significantly in inflorescence form and petal shape.
10.2307/2419107|The phylogenetic relationships among the sixteen genera of the subfamily Pitcairnioideae are resolved with the aid of cladistic methods. Two genera of Velloziaceae (Barbacenia, Vellozia) and three each from the bromeliad subfamilies Tillandsioideae (Glomeropitcairnia, Guzmania, Vriesea) and Bromelioideae (Hohenbergia, Neoregelia, and Orthophytum) were used individually to determine the polarity of the characters of Pitcairnioideae. The most parsimonious phylogenetic reconstruction suggests three monophyletic lineages within the subfamily. Brocchinia represents its own, perhaps ancient lineage; Ayensua, Connellia, Cottendorfia, Fosterella, Navia, Pepinia, Pitcairnia, and Steyerbromelia constitute the second monophyletic group; and Abromeitiella, Brewcaria, Deuterocohnia, Dyckia, Encholirium, Hechtia, and Puya the third. Together with the present day geographic distributions of taxa and the past environmental changes in the Neotropics, this study concludes that the subfamily has radiated from the Guayana Highlands to several geographical areas.
10.2307/2419108|In our phylogenetic analysis of the subfamily Pitcairnioideae, three monophyletic groups of genera became evident. These are formally treated as tribes, namely, Brocchinieae (Brocchinia); Pitcairnieae (Ayensua, Connellia, Cottendorfia, Fosterella, Navia, Pepinia, Pitcairnia, and Steyerbromelia); Puyeae (Abromeitiella, Brewcaria, Deuterocohnia, Dyckia, Encholirium, Hechtia, and Puya). Pepinia, most recently considered a subgenus of Pitcairnia, is recognized as a genus in Pitcairnieae.
10.2307/2419294|A synopsis of and key to the 10 species of Dalechampia that occur in Costa Rica are provided. Dalechampia osana is described as a new species from the Osa Peninsula, Costa Rica, where it appears to be endemic. It is very similar to D. shankii (A. Molina) Huft, but differs from that species in having pseudanthial inflorescences with fewer staminate flowers, only 3 fertile pleiochasial arms, and a resin gland. The section, Tiliifoliae, represented by one species in Costa Rica, is described as new.
10.2307/2419295|A survey of seed morphology, using scanning electron microscopy, of the Oncidiinae and related Neotropical subtribes found that the majority of these taxa exhibit a uniform seed condition, designated the Maxillaria type. The two major variants within the Oncidiinae are anticlinal wall ornamentation and two different forms of extensions of the testa cells: the former in the vegetatively modified ("rat-tailed" and "mule-eared" oncidiums) groups and the latter in taxa restricted to the outer portions of the canopy (twig epiphytes). Other minor variants are also discussed. The exhibited variation is systematically significant only above the generic level. This study identified the Maxillariinae as a close relative of the Oncidiinae but failed to find any differences between the types of seeds observed in the Lockhartiinae, Oncidiinae, Ornithocephalinae, Pachyphyllinae, and Telipogoninae.
10.2307/2419296|Higher rates of capsule-set for intrasectional crosses (81%) than for intersectional crosses (20%, P \ll 0.001) support the delimitation of four annual, diploid, species with winged fruits as Gaura sect. Pterogaura. Rates of capsule-set for interspecific crosses divide the section into two groups that parallel phylogenetic hypotheses based upon morphology, chromosomal data, and ecogeography. Interspecific crosses distinguish G. brachycarpa and G. suffulta (generalized, large flowers, outcrossing, 85% and 73% capsule-set, respectively) from G. hexandra or G. triangulata (specialized, small flowers, autogamous, 57% and 44% capsule-set, respectively, P < 0.001). The order by species of average, interspecific cross-success is G. triangulata (7%), G. brachycarpa (6%), G. suffulta (4%), and G. hexandra (2%). Of the two outcrossing species, G. suffulta is considered more generalized due to its self-incompatibility, a presumed characteristic of the section progenitor. Gaura brachycarpa is self-compatible but predominantly outcrossed, and the presumed, close relationship to G. suffulta is supported by the high rates of success of crosses between these generalized species. The low interspecific fertility of G. hexandra is attributed to the morphological and genetic specializations that have accompanied adaptation to autogamy. Crossing data do little to establish the proposed relationship between G. hexandra and G. suffulta. High cross-success by G. triangulata in crosses with G. brachycarpa or G. suffulta supports the hypothesis that G. triangulata, a permanent translocation heterozygote, originated as an interspecific hybrid between these two species. Pollen staining in hybrids is inversely correlated with the level of translocation heterozygosity per individual (r = -0.80, P \ll 0.01). This relationship between pollen staining and translocation heterozygosity is unique to section Pterogaura, and contrasts with data from sections Gaura and Stipogaura, in which these factors are independent.
10.2307/2419297|Six annual, self-compatible species of section Phaeostoma fall into two breeding system groups: one of outcrossers and the other of selfers. The outcrossers, including Clarkia unguiculata, C. springvillensis, and most populations of C. tembloriensis and C. xantiana, are both protandrous and herkogamous, and have large flowers which require pollen vectors for successful pollination. The selfers, including Clarkia calientensis, C. exilis, and some populations of C. xantiana and C. tembloriensis, are homogamous and autogamous, and have small flowers capable of unaided self pollination. Both groups include species with mixed mating systems and, hence, they are interpreted to be facultative outcrossers and facultative selfers. On average, the outcrossers produce about 12,000 to 14,500 pollen grains and 90 to 95 ovules per flower, with mean pollen/ovule ratios (P/O) ranging from about 127 to 159. The selfers produce about 4000 to 6000 pollen grains and 67 to 116 ovules per flower, with mean P/O's ranging from 38 to 62. Population to population differences are significant within species of the outcrossing group, but interspecific differences are not significant. Similarly, interpopulational differences are significant within species of the selfing group, but interspecific differences are not significant. Therefore, P/O's in Clarkia are useful in determining the general breeding system type, but cannot readily resolve differences in the degree of outcrossing or the degree of selfing within those types. Seeds and pollen grains are generally larger in outcrossers than in selfers, but vary extensively in both groups and, therefore, are not reliable indicators of sex allocation.
10.2307/2419298|Allozyme differentiation at 32 loci was studied in the three Californian species of Pinus subsect. Oocarpae: P. attenuata, P. muricata, and P. radiata, and in a small sample of a Latin American species of the subsection, P oocarpa. The Californian species were previously known to comprise highly differentiated, disjunct populations, but with uncertain phylogenetic relationships among several populations and species. All populations had clear affinities for single species. The controversial Channel Islands (Santa Cruz Island) population of P. muricata and the Mexican Island (Guadalupe and Cedros islands) populations of P. radiata were distinct within their respective species, but clearly fell within each species complex. Contrary to evidence from other traits, the Californian species were equally differentiated from one another allozymically, with no evidence of close relationships among pairwise comparisons of the three species. Pinus oocarpa, the putative ancestral species, was about two times more variable, and at substantial and approximately equal genetic distance from each of the three Californian species. Divergence of populations within species was generally clinal. The initial radiation of P. attenuata was in the Sierra Nevada, and subsequent divergence was toward the coast in the Siskiyou Mountains, and then south through the coast range to southern California. Divergence in both P. muricata and P. radiata occurred northward along the coast, with the southern island populations retaining ancestral alleles, and differentiation from P oocarpa increasing northward within species. Genetic differentiation among species was twice that among populations within species.
10.2307/2419299|Revision of Viguiera sect. Maculatae (formerly series Maculatae) results in recognition of 14 taxa, including 13 species and one subspecies. Of these, V. guerrerana, V. mirandae, V. sharpii, V. splendens, and V. eriophora subsp. poblana are newly described. All taxa are endemic to Mexico; distribution maps and illustrations are presented for each. Cladistic analysis, based on morphological characters, was used to explore possible phyletic relationships among taxa, and led to the division of the section into two series. Series Adenophyllae is characterized by subcylindric or campanulate heads and oblong pales; series Maculatae has campanulate to hemispheric heads and ovate pales. Chromosome numbers determined for ten of the taxa are uniformly n = 17, suggesting that, for the section, this is the base number and that polyploidy does not occur.
10.2307/2419300|Rhynchospora crinipes, previously known only from the holotype and paratype from Alabama, has recently been discovered in western Florida. Collection and habitat data are given, and the species description is emended because Florida plants are generally more robust than the earlier collections. A comparison with the similar R. filifolia indicates its distinctness. Scanning electron micrographs of achenes of the two species illustrate certain distinctions.
10.2307/2419301|Rangewide samples from mature natural stands of Pinus brutia Ten. subsp. brutia, subsp. stankewiczii (Sukaczew) Nahal, subsp. pithyusa (Stevenson) Nahal, and subsp. eldarica (Medw.) Nahal from throughout the eastern Mediterranean display a continuum of allozyme variation for 30 loci. Ten geographic samples of subsp. brutia from Greek islands of the eastern Aegean Sea, and from Turkey, Cyprus, and Iraq have a mean expected heterozygosity of 0.12 (range from 0.10 to 0.14) and similar allelic variation suggesting that they share a common gene pool with minor geographic differentiation. Subspecies stankewiczii, a narrow endemic of the Crimea, has expected heterozygosity equal to the mean for subsp. brutia populations; subsp. eldarica has the lowest expected heterozygosity (0.08) among these closely related pines. Pines of the P. brutia group are polymorphic for many loci that are monomorphic and are presumed fixed in a widespread parapatric close relative, P. halepensis Mill. Consequently, they have nearly three times more variation than P halepensis. Of all the subspecies sampled, stankewiczii has allozyme traits most like those expected in a progenitor of the entire P brutia-P halepensis complex. Its allele frequencies resemble subsp. brutia and it has a moderate frequency for an allele that is fixed in P. halepensis but which is sparse or lacking in other samples of the P. brutia group. Subspecies pithyusa's allele frequencies resemble those of subsp. stankewiczii and several subsp. brutia populations. Subspecies eldarica's allozyme similarities to the easternmost subsp. brutia populations and reduced diversity provide evidence of its derivation from subsp. brutia. Allele frequencies of Quetta pine (a provenance from a P. brutia-like naturalized race in southwestern Asia) closely match those of subsp. eldarica and provide evidence of its derivation from subsp. eldarica. Genetic distances between P. brutia and P. halepensis average 0.35 for Nei's unbiased distance and 0.47 for Cavalli-Sforza and Edwards's chord distance. Allozyme characteristics support the hypothesis that P. halepensis was derived from progenitors similar to pines of the extant P. brutia group mainly by fixation of alleles that are still polymorphic in pines of the group.
10.2307/2419302|Mimosa xochipalensis, a new species from the State of Guerrero, Mexico is described and illustrated. It presently is known only from the vicinity of Xochipala, located in the Balsas River Basin in the region known as "Canon del Zopilote." The new species is referred to the series Leptostachyae, section Habbasia. It is related to Mimosa rosei Robinson, M. spirocarpa Rose, M. guatemalensis (Hook. & Arn.) Benth., and M. egregia Sandw.
10.2307/2419303|Calyptrogyne anomala is described, illustrated, and compared with other species of the genus. Calyptrogyne is compared with the morphologically similar Calyptronoma, and the two genera are discussed.
10.2307/2419304|Hedyotis spellenbergii Nesom & Vorobik is described from west-central Chihuahua, Mexico, where it appears to be endemic to the area of Basaseachic. It is a member of the "H. rubra group," which is characterized primarily by recurved fruiting pedicels and deeply concave seeds. The new species is most similar to H. cervantesii but is distinctive in its prostrate, mat-forming habit and salverform corollas. In addition, the following new combinations to Hedyotis are made: H. butterwickiae (Terrell) Nesom, H. kingii (Terrell) Nesom, H. sharpii (Terrell) Nesom, and H. teretifolia (Terrell) Nesom.
10.2307/2419305|Chiangiodendron, a new genus of Flacourtiaceae with the single species C. mexicanum, is described from karst rain forests of the Uxpanapa area of southeastern Mexico. It belongs to the tribe Pangieae (new to the New World) subtribe Hydnocarpinae, formerly known only from southern and southeastern Asia to Australia. Its closest relatives appear to be Baileyoxylon and Eleutherandra, but its pollen is more similar to that of Hydnocarpus and Chlorocarpa. Morphological, ecological, cytological (n = 12), palynological, and germination features are described. Disjunction between southeastern Asia-Australia and Mexico-Central America is also found in a few other taxa; this pattern probably resulted from the disruption of a once widespread wet-tropical Laurasian flora.
10.2307/2419306|Maternal genotypes and three morphometric data sets (cone morphology, short shoot needle cross-sectional anatomy and shape) are available for samples (N = 8 to 11) from two populations of tamarack from each of five provenance regions in northern Ontario (North Bay, Kenogami R., Thunder Bay, Fort Frances, Red Lake). Data sets were compared using multivariate methods, including canonical variates analysis and a permutation test for resemblance matrix independence. Data sets were represented as dendrograms based on matrices of distances between populations to test the congruence of data sets with the geographic distances between populations, as well as with each other. The distance functions used were chord distance and Nei's genetic distance calculated from genotype data, Euclidean distances calculated from morphometric data (previously ranged if not commensurate), and Mahalanobis' generalized distances calculated for each data set from population centroid multi-group principal components analysis scores. Average-linkage was the single sorting algorithm used for clustering. Dendrograms were compared using five descriptors of their structure that were summarized by means of principal coordinates analysis of the Euclidean distances between dendrograms. The effect of data set on resemblances between dendrograms is considerably greater than that of distance function. Populations from the same region tend to resemble each other less than do populations from different regions, with respect to cone and genetic data; only the needle data were appreciably congruent with the geographic relationships. These results plus earlier ones suggest the probable importance of patterns of dispersal and establishment, inbreeding, and the geographic scale of comparison, as well as selection, for the patterns observed.
10.2307/2419307|Biometric study of natural populations and artificial hybrids revealed hybridization and possible introgression between Asclepias exaltata and A. syriaca. Herbarium specimens and plants from natural populations in Virginia, West Virginia, and Michigan were measured for 17 vegetative characters. The elliptic leaves of A. exaltata were glabrous to sparsely pubescent and tapered to an acute base and broadly acuminate apex. In contrast, the densely tomentose leaves of A. syriaca were ovate or broad throughout their length, typically with a rounded base and a cuspidate apex. Principal components analysis showed that the two parental species are highly distinct and suggested an intermediate placement of putative F<sub>1</sub> hybrids. More complex patterns from certain natural populations suggested that backcrossing and introgression had occurred. A total of 20 reproductive characters also was measured for natural populations and for F<sub>1</sub> hybrids from artificial pollinations. Again, parental populations were highly distinctive and putative hybrid populations were intermediate for most characters, including umbel size, pedicel length, petal length, horn length, anther head length, number of hood teeth, median and lateral hood tooth heights, hood width, the ratio of hood height to horn extension, and the width to length ratios for anther head and column. Bumblebees and butterflies were observed on both species and their hybrids, and considerable overlap in flowering time occurred. Experimental cross-pollinations were successful using either species as the maternal parent. Seeds from these interspecific crosses germinated and grew into viable, fertile, F<sub>1</sub> hybrids, which were successfully backcrossed to A. syriaca. Vegetative and reproductive morphology of these plants was similar to that observed for naturally occurring hybrids and backcrosses. Contrary to prevailing dogma, it appears that hybridization does occur in milkweeds.
10.2307/2419193|Fuchsia pachyrrhiza is described and is the type of the new section Pachyrrhiza. The species is known from only two localities along the western slope of the Peruvian Andes. Distinguishing sectional characters are the presence of a whorl of reflexed stamens, tuberous roots, alternate leaves, pollen with smooth viscin threads, and small flowers with a distinctively ridged nectary The tuberous roots appear to be adapted for water as well as starch storage, and are most likely related to the strongly seasonal habitat and deciduous habit of the species. Chromosome number is n = 11, the normal diploid condition for the genus, and only bivalents are present at meiosis. No clear affinities with other sections of Fuchsia can be discerned based on the characters examined.
10.2307/2419194|The new species, Gouania axilliflora, is described from the province of Cajamarca, Peru. The resemblance to the Brazilian Alvimiantha tricamerata Grey-Wilson is discussed.
10.2307/2419195|Two new taxa of Lobelioideae (Campanulaceae) are described from Kaua'i: Cyanea spathulata subsp. longipetiolata Lammers and Delissea undulata subsp. kauaiensis Lammers. Cyanea pohaku Lammers and Delissea lauliiana Lammers are proposed as substitute names for Clermontia haleakalensis Rock and Delissea laciniata var. parvifolia Rock, respectively. Two new combinations are proposed at specific rank: Cyanea elliptica (Rock) Lammers and Lobelia monostachya (Rock) Lammers. Nineteen additional new combinations are proposed at subspecific rank, most involving taxa formerly recognized as species: Clermontia arborescens subsp. waihiae (Wawra) Lammers, C. clermontioides subsp. rockiana (F. Wimmer) Lammers, C. grandiflora subsp. munroi (H. St. John) Lammers, C. oblongifolia subsp. brevipes (F. Wimmer) Lammers, C. oblongifolia subsp. mauiensis (Rock) Lammers, C. samuelii subsp. hanaensis (H. St. John) Lammers, Cyanea copelandii subsp. haleakalaensis (H. St. John) Lammers, C. fissa subsp. gayana (Rock) Lammers, C. grimesiana subsp. cylindrocalyx (Rock) Lammers, C. grimesiana subsp. obatae (H. St. John) Lammers, C. hamatiflora subsp. carlsonii (Rock) Lammers, C. macrostegia subsp. gibsonii (Hillebrand) Lammers, C. pilosa subsp. longipedunculata (Rock) Lammers, C. superba subsp. regina (Wawra) Lammers, Delissea sinuata subsp. lanaiensis (Rock) Lammers, D. undulata subsp. niihauensis (H. St. John) Lammers, Lobelia dunbarii subsp. paniculata (Rock) Lammers, L. gaudichaudii subsp. koolauensis (Hosaka & Fosb.) Lammers, and Rollandia lanceolata subsp. calycina (Cham.) Lammers.
10.2307/2419196|Variational studies of Ceratophyllum demersum, C. oryzetorum, and C. platyacanthum indicate that these species are probably closely related but that each is separable by multivariate statistical analyses of morphological features. Basal, stylar, and facial fruit-spine lengths are correlated in C. oryzetorum. In C. platyacanthum, however, correlations between spine lengths are less pronounced than in other species studied previously. The spiny, marginal achene wing of C. platyacanthum accounts for a major phenotypic difference between fruits of this species and those of C. demersum. Observations of phenotypically similar fruit mutations occurring sporadically in isolated populations of C. demersum indicate that the feature probably has a simple genetic basis. Regardless, the presence of facial spines and unusually long stylar and basal spines are characters which effectively separate both C. platyacanthum and C. oryzetorum from C. demersum. From interpreting the results of variational analyses in context with phytogeographical and chromosomal data, a revised taxonomic scheme is proposed which maintains C. demersum and C. platyacanthum as distinct species, and recognizes C. oryzetorum as C. platyacanthum subsp. oryzetorum (V. Komarov) Les.
10.2307/2419197|Two new species of Calliandra are described from Oaxaca and Guerrero. Calliandra erythrocephala belongs to series Macrophyllae Benth. and appears to be related to C. laevis. Calliandra physocalyx clearly belongs to series Racemosae Benth. and differs from the remaining species of this group by its remarkable inflated calyces.
10.2307/2419198|Antennaria is a genus of dioecious, perennial herbs, widely distributed throughout temperate and arctic North America and Eurasia. Four sexually reproducing, primarily diploid species (2n = 28) in section Dioicae from western North America were investigated for genetic differentiation at 19 putative isozymes. Antennaria corymbosa, A. marginata, A. microphylla, and A. rosulata are morphologically distinct, but display only moderate divergence at gene loci specifying soluble enzymes. Some correlations exist between genetic distances and geographic patterns within the species examined. Neighboring populations tend to be more similar electrophoretically than geographically distant or marginal ones. The inferred mode of speciation, based on morphology and biochemical genetics, is one in which rapid evolution (adaptive radiation) has occurred, leading to morphological divergence, but only conservative amounts of divergence at the 19 isozymes surveyed.
10.2307/2419199|Aster breweri is a rayless, high montane Californian species first described as Chrysopsis breweri and placed in C. subg. Ammodia (=Heterotheca sect. Ammodia). It has always been considered to be related to the goldenaster Heterotheca oregona (synonym: C. oregona) because both lack the well developed short outer pappus whorl and yellow rays typical for Heterotheca. However, Aster breweri has the diagnostic hair and phyllary traits of Aster sect. Eucephalus, not those of Heterotheca. Critical are its smooth-surfaced woolly hairs, lacking the tuberculae typical of Heterotheca. Chrysopsis breweri var. multibracteata is placed in synonymy under Aster brickellioides (including A. siskiyouensis). New combination: Aster breweri.
10.2307/2419200|A study of the morphological variation among herbarium specimens of Heterotheca sect. Ammodia yielded 1) data supporting the division H. oregona into four previously described varieties, and 2) the exclusion of Brewer's (golden)aster from the section and the genus. The types of Chrysopsis breweri var. multibracteata and C. gracilis were determined to be forms of Aster brickellioides and both have been assigned to Aster sect. Eucephalus. The four varieties of H. oregona were found to be distinguishable on the basis of sets of habit, leaf, and pubescence traits. Variety oregona is native to the Cascade and Coastal ranges from Washington to central California. Variety rudis occurs from extreme southern Oregon to east of Monterey, California. The range of var. compacta is similar, but does not extend into the South Coastal Range or Oregon. Variety scaberrima is found in the South Coastal Range. Putative hybrids between pairs of the four varieties have been collected occasionally where sympatric. The following are first reports of chromosome numbers: H. oregona var. oregona, 2n = 9<sub>II</sub>, H. oregona var. rudis, 2n = 9<sub>II</sub>; H. oregona var. scaberrima, 2n = 9<sub>II</sub>. One new combination is proposed: Heterotheca brandegei.
10.2307/2419201|Starch gel electrophoresis and allozyme analyses were employed to assess the systematic relationships among the morphologically similar Aeschynomene virginica, A. indica, and A. rudis. Electrophoretic data were also used to compare genetic variation in the rare A. virginica, designated a threatened species throughout most of its geographical range, and the widespread A. indica. Nei's genetic identity based on allele frequencies at 20 loci in eight populations of A. virginica, 11 populations of A. indica, and 1 population of A. rudis is 0.651 between A. virginica and A. indica, 0.789 between A. virginica and A. rudis, and 0.711 between A. indica and A. rudis. These data reveal that the species are well differentiated, with no evidence of interspecific hybridization. Both A. virginica and A. indica have low levels of polymorphism at isozyme loci. However, indices of genetic variation, including percent loci polymorphic and average heterozygosity, indicate that A. indica maintains more electrophoretic variation within populations than A. virginica.
10.2307/2419202|Dubautia scabra (DC.) Keck subsp. scabra (n = 14) and D. ciliolata (DC.) Keck subsp. glutinosa G. Carr (n = 13) are colonizers of relatively recent lava flows on the island of Hawaii. In areas where populations of these subspecies meet, hybrids commonly form. The flavonoid profiles of the parental taxa differ substantially. Dubautia scabra subsp. scabra lacks external flavonoid aglycones, whereas D. ciliolata subsp. glutinosa produces a series of flavones, flavonols, and flavanones. This pattern is consistent throughout the genus: the n = 14 taxa lack external flavonoid aglycones, while the n = 13 taxa generally produce them. The hybrids' external flavonoid profiles generally include a subset of the compounds produced by D. ciliolata subsp. glutinosa, and the variability in these profiles suggests that backcrossing toward this parent may be occurring in the population of hybrids. Both parental subspecies produce vacuolar flavonoid glycosides. The glycoside profile of D. scabra subsp. scabra is more complex than that of D. ciliolata subsp. glutinosa, and the hybrids produce profiles combining the structural types of the parents with shared or novel sugar substitution patterns. Thus, the hybrids exhibit a degree of complementation in flavonoid glycoside biosynthetic pathways, as well as partial additivity.
10.2307/2419203|Data from floral flavonoid chemistry of Simsia are not of widespread use in analyzing interspecific relationships but bear on a few problems within the genus. Most members of the "S. fruticulosa group" share a relatively simple floral flavonoid profile based on quercetin glycosides. In the "S. amplexicaulis group", which is characterized by flavone glycosides in addition to quercetin glycosides, the presence of apigenin 7-glucoside links S. lagascaeformis and S. eurylepis, and the presence of coreopsin/sulfurein unites S. foetida, S. grandiflora, S. guatemalensis, S. megacephala, and S. panamensis. The presence of coreopsin/sulfurein in S. chaseae provides a chemical trait to link it to S. foetida, one of the putative parental species in the hypothesis of diploid hybrid speciation that has been proposed for its origin. At the generic level, the occurrence of anthochlors links Simsia to Viguiera and related genera. Among these genera it appears that in floral flavonoids Simsia is characterized by a relatively distinctive compound, quercetin 3-glucuronide.
10.2307/2419204|A comprehensive study of generic concepts and evaluation of taxonomic characters is presented for the Paniceae of North America. An original set of data, consisting of 409 characters recorded for 25 genera, was collected and analyzed to produce a bracketed key to the genera. The data were analyzed to select the best subset of characters for inclusion in a synoptic key and descriptions. Character concepts and differences among the recognized character states for each of the selected 57 characters are discussed. A synoptic key, showing the distribution of genera for the character states, is presented. Pertinent nomenclatural data and fully comparative descriptions are given. Italicized within each description are the diagnostic characters required for identification. Remarks on the morphology and relationships of each genus are given. New combinations are proposed for Digitaria cognata var. arenicola, Urochloa ciliatissima, Urochloa platyphylla, Urochloa plantaginea, and Urochloa adspersa.
10.2307/2419045|The following new artificial interspecific hybrids are reported in Solanum sect. Lasiocarpa: S. hirtum x stramonifolium, S. hyporhodium x quitoense, S. lasiocarpum x sessiliflorum, S. pseudolulo x hirtum, S. pseudolulo x stramonifolium, and S. repandum x lasiocarpum. As a result of hybridizations, three groups of species may be recognized in the section: (1) S. pectinatum, (2) S. sessiliflorum, and (3) the remainder of the species. It seems likely that interspecific hybridization will be most useful in the improvement of the naranjilla, S. quitoense.
10.2307/2419046|Calochortus umpquaensis (Liliaceae), a new species from Oregon, is from a very limited area in Douglas County. Morphological comparisons are made between it and the closely related C. howellii, which is endemic to the Illinois River drainage of Josephine County, Oregon. Differences include petal coloration and size, capsule length and position, and seed shape, size, surface ornamentation, and cell shape. Morphological and cytological evidence support placement of C. umpquaensis with C. howellii in subsection Nitidi of section Calochortus.
10.2307/2419047|Haptanthus hazlettii genus novum monotypicum is described. The plant is a dicotyledon with a combination of characters not found in any family. The inflorescences consist of a single central carpellate flower and two branches of 5-6 staminate flowers each. The flowers lack a perianth, merely being subtended by a minute bracteole. The staminate flowers are monandrous and the carpellate flowers have a tricarpellate, stipitate pistil with three large sessile stigmas and ovary with three parietal placentas, each with 8-15 ovules in two ranks. The plant is a completely glabrous shrub. The leaves are opposite, simple, entire and not glandular punctate. Stipules are absent and no stipular scars are evident.
10.2307/2419048|A new species of Fabaceae, Brongniartia vazquezii, from the state of Morelos is described and illustrated. Its affinities with B. abbottiae as well as its distinguishing morphological features are discussed, and habitat data are given.
10.2307/2419049|Peristome morphology provides much of the basis for the modern classification of mosses. Arthrodontous moss peristomes are generally divided into haplolepideous and diplolepideous types. Diplolepideous peristomes are further divided into Funaria- and Bryum-types. The Funaria-type peristome, characteristic of the Funariaceae, has been interpreted as primitive with regard to the other arthrodontous types. The complete developmental sequence leading to peristome formation in Funaria hygrometrica is the first such study from the Funariaceae. Development of the peristome in Bryum bicolor and B. pseudocapillare is also described and the sequences of cell divisions preceding differentiation of the teeth are compared to those in Funaria. An important difference between Bryum- and Funaria-type peristomes is the relative displacement of anticlinal walls in adjacent peristomial layers of the Bryum-type; displacement does not occur in the Funaria-type. We have determined that displacement can be traced both to the position of some anticlinal walls at their formation, and to the shifting of other walls late in development of Bryum-type peristomes.
10.2307/2419050|Carex humahuacaensis (sp. nov.) of sect. Abditispicae is described from Jujuy Province in northern Argentina, where it has been collected at 3700 m. This species is distinctive with the unusual feature of having all of its spikes hidden among leaves at the plant base. The species formerly called Vesicarex collumanthus, which occurs in Colombia and Venezuela, is considered to be a Carex that belongs in sect. Abditispicae. At present, six species comprise this section, all of which are endemic to South America. A key is presented for these six species.
10.2307/2419051|Section Leptocalyx of the New World genus Cuphea, delimited by long, slender floral tubes that are often red, is closely allied to and imperfectly separated from sects. Melvilla, Diploptychia, and Heterodon. As revised, it includes seven species and two varieties of herbaceous and suffrutescent perennials, distributed from Sonora, Mexico to Panama. Included in the revision is a key to the species, descriptions of vegetative and floral morphology, pollen morphological studies for all taxa, and chromosome numbers and seed oil chemistry for four species. The diversity of floral, trichome, pollen, and seed oil characters suggests that the species are derived from at least three independent evolutionary lines. Maintenance of sect. Leptocalyx is not supported by the totality of information now available and the species are expected to be more naturally aligned when revision of the allied sects. Melvilla and Diploptychia is complete.
10.2307/2419052|Eighteen extracellular secondary products were identified from members of the Porpidiaceae. Eight compounds were new to the family, including one, methyl 2'-O-methylmicrophyllinate, new to science. These secondary products occur in eight sets in particular relative concentrations. Because of their discernibility and reproducibility, each set is meaningfully interpreted as a taxonomic character state. Each set, or character state, may represent a single recurring chemical pathway, and similarities in the pathways offer a preliminary basis for proposing evolutionary homology, suggesting how the individual states might be grouped into characters. Nonhomologues, proposed on the basis of dissimilarity, are corroborated by co-occurrence.
10.2307/2419053|Vegetative and floral features of more than 300 specimens of Acacia rigidula and related species were scored and analyzed by Principal Components analysis (PCA) and Stepwise Discriminate Analysis (SDA). The results of these analyses indicate that A. bilimekii, A. brandegeana, and A. rigidula form distinct groups and that two other species, A. californica and A. pringlei, are very similar but distinct from the other three. The data suggest that A. californica and A. pringlei are closely related and probably represent disjunct subspecies of one species. A new combination is hereby proposed: A. pringlei subsp. californica. The results of PCA studies also suggest that plants previously considered as A. conzattii, A. sesquijuga, and A. unijuga are all conspecific with A. pringlei subsp. pringlei and that plants previously considered to be A. sonorensis are conspecific with A. pringlei subsp. californica.
10.2307/2419054|In the Guanica Forest Reserve, Puerto Rico, Encyclia krugii lacks pollinator rewards, is visited infrequently and matures few fruits. Hand-pollinations showed that flowers are self-incompatible. In 22 censuses, I monitored the number of flowers, fruits, vegetative shoots, and active inflorescences that were produced over two years. During the first 20 censuses, all open flowers of 43 randomly assigned, experimental plants were cross-pollinated. Fruiting of these plants was compared with 37 open pollinated controls to determine if plants were pollination limited. Fruit set estimates were 4% for controls and 8% for experimentals. Fruit production was limited by several factors. More than half the fruits initiated by both groups either aborted or were eaten. At least some of the abortions were probably caused by incompatible pollinations. Inflorescences that produced fruits subsequently produced fewer flowers than those that produced no fruits. This short-term adjustment of reproductive effort suggests that resources do limit the number of flowers and fruits produced. Moreover, experimentally augmented fruit production had some long-term effects on subsequent growth. Thus, sexual reproduction by E. krugii is limited by a combination of factors: incompatible pollinations, resource constraints, predation, and paucity of pollinations. In most orchids studied thus far, paucity of pollinations and resource availability are the dominant constraints and combine to limit sexual reproduction.
10.2307/2419055|Over 400 taxa in the Bromeliaceae were surveyed for stigma morphology. Five morphological categories (conduplicate-spiral, simple-erect, cupulate, convolute-blade, and coralliform) account for all known variation in bromeliad stigma morphology. The coralliform type is described and illustrated for the first time. The subfamilies Bromelioideae and Pitcairnioideae appear to be nearly homogeneous for the conduplicate-spiral stigma type. All five of the stigma types are found in the third subfamily, Tillandsioideae, where stigma variability promises to be the most useful systematically. There appear to be correlations between the simple-erect stigma type and 1) derived sexual systems (i.e., dioecism, andromonoecism, cleistogamy) within the family, and 2) xericepiphytism in the genus Tillandsia. In conjunction with other floral features, stigma morphology may be useful in refining generic and infrageneric circumscriptions.
10.2307/2419056|Brighamia is a genus of caudiciform succulents endemic to coastal cliffs on four of the Hawaiian Islands. Aside from its habit, the genus is also unusual among Lobelioideae in its salverform corolla and few-flowered axillary inflorescences. The four species and two non-autonymic infraspecific taxa previously recognized are reduced to two allopatric species: Brighamia insignis of Ni'ihau and Kaua'i, with deltate to ovate calyx lobes 0.2-1 mm long, pedicels 10-30 mm long, papillose seeds, and yellow to pale cream (rarely white) corollas; and B. rockii of Moloka'i and Maui (and possibly Lana'i), with oblong to elliptic calyx lobes 2.5-8 mm long, pedicels 6-12 mm long, smooth seeds, and white corollas. The relationships of Brighamia to other genera are obscure. Possibly, it is most closely related to the endemic Australian genus Isotoma. The floral nectar is rich in sucrose, supporting suggestions based on floral morphology that the genus is pollinated by hawkmoths (Lepidoptera: Sphingidae).
10.2307/2418900|Seed protein extracts were compared by radioimmunoassay to assess relationships among genera of the traditional Taxodiaceae and Cupressaceae and their position relative to the other conifer families. Immunological distance data indicate that the Cupressaceae and Taxodiaceae form a distinct lineage, of which the Cupressaceae s. str. is a monophyletic subset. Subgroups of the Taxodiaceae are at least as distant from one another as they are from the Cupressaceae, supporting Eckenwalder's proposal to merge the two families. The morphologically anomalous genus Sciadopitys, often assigned to the Taxodiaceae, is as distant immunologically from the taxodiaceous genera as it is from the other families of conifers, supporting its treatment as the monotypic family Sciadopityaceae. Phylogenetic interpretation of morphological data generally accords well with the immunological analysis, but indicates that Sciadopitys is the closest extant relative of the cupressaceoustaxodiaceous lineage.
10.2307/2418901|The new combination Poikilacanthus capitatus is made following the transfer of Jacobinta capitata to Poikilacanthus on the basis of pollen morphology and anisophyllous leaves. The genus is represented in Mexico by two species.
10.2307/2418902|A new species, Tillandsia (subg. Anoplophytum) guasamayensis (Bromeliaceae) from northwest Argentina is described and illustrated. Included are keys to a group of five, putatively related taxa within the subgenus. The new species differs from others in the strikingly purple floral bracts of intermediate size (3.0-3.5 cm long), the white petals to 4.0 cm long, and sepals that are 1.8 to 2.5 cm long.
10.2307/2418903|An electrophoretic survey of eight enzyme loci in Riccia dictyospora detected three distinct sets of genotypes among 38 sampling localities representing the southeastern quarter of the United States. Mean genetic identity for populations representing a single genotypic set ranged from I = 0.856-0.939 while for populations representing different genotypic sets I = 0.211-0.454. The apparent inability of linkage to account for these genotypic sets and the frequent coexistence at individual collection localities of representatives of different genotypic sets suggest that R. dictyospora represents a composite of three sibling species.
10.2307/2418904|Carex sect. Aciculares comb. nov. comprises seven South American species and one variety and about four species in Australasia and a single species in Africa. Two new taxa, C. toroensis and C. vallis-pulchrae var. barrosiana, are described and illustrated here. Two previously unplaced species, C. minutissima and C. transandina, are also included. Plants called C. castellanosii in recent South American literature are here referred to C. vallis-pulchrae var. vallis-pulchrae. The name C. trichodes is lectotypified and a lectotype is chosen for sect. Aciculares. This section is distinguished from all others by: spike solitary, androgynous, few-flowered; scales caducous, the one or two outermost ones bract-like and fertile; perigynia erect to widely spreading at maturity but never reflexed, two veins prominent or faint and the rest obscure, apex of beak entire to bidentulate; leaves filiform, blades 1 mm wide or less, the tips mostly obtuse and cartilaginous; and plants less than 30 cm tall, growing in loose to dense clumps. All South American members of sect. Aciculares grow south of the Tropic of Capricorn, occurring in central Chile, west-central Argentina, Patagonia, Tierra del Fuego, and the Falkland Islands. Habitats are "bogs" and swamps, mossy margins of streams and creeks, wet borders of lakes and ponds, glacial moraines, persistently wet swales, damp depressions among tufts of grasses, moist rock crevices, rocky and sandy soil, and rock talus and scree.
10.2307/2418905|Koyamaea neblinensis W. Thomas & Davidse, gen. et sp. nov., from Cerro de la Neblina, Venezuela and Brazil, is described and illustrated. Because of its bisexual spikelets, each bearing one pistillate flower and many staminate flowers, presence of well-developed glumellae in both kinds of flowers, spirally arranged glumes, and regular fruit without a cupule, Koyamaea is classified as a new genus of Sclerioideae. It is probably not closely related to any other genus in the subfamily and is, therefore, placed in its own tribe, the Koyamaeae W. Thomas & Davidse, tribus nov.
10.2307/2418906|Dicerandra christmanii, differing from D. frutescens in anther and corolla color, essential oils, average leaf length, and anther connective glandularity, is described from sclerophyllous oak-sand pine scrub on yellow, well drained sandy soils near Sebring, in Highlands County, Florida. Its distinctness and phylogenetic placement are substantiated by phenetic analysis of morphological features, field study of variability in natural populations, survey of leaf essential oils, SEM study of anther micromorphology, preliminary investigation of pollination biology, garden observations, and a revised cladistic analysis of the genus. The discovery of D. christmanii is indicative of the need for additional taxonomic studies involving the highly endemic flora of the Lake Wales Ridge, a region of extensive and continuing habitat destruction due to agricultural and urban development.
10.2307/2418907|A new species in the genus Zamia (Zamiaceae), Z. standleyi, from northern Honduras is described. This subterranean-stemmed species appears most closely allied to Z. splendens. The combination of characteristics that set Z. standleyi apart from other species in the genus are its arcuate leaves, slightly folded leaflets, sexual dimorphism in cone habit, and pronounced falcate leaflets with extremely spinulose marginal teeth. Its diploid chromosome number is 16.
10.2307/2418908|Panicum validum is studied from an exomorphological, anatomical, and cytological point of view, establishing its position within Panicum. Panicum validum is treated as the type species of the new sect. Valida, within subg. Agrostoides, based upon the following characters: it is a C<sub>4</sub>, MS plant, with spikelets having the lower glume (1)3-nerved and the upper glume and lower lemma 5(7)-nerved, and a basic chromosome number of x = 10. Affinities and differences between sects. of subg. Agrostoides are also discussed.
10.2307/2418909|To provide an up-to-date nomenclature for current and future floras, the following new taxa and combinations in Ivesia are presented preliminary to a monograph of the genus. Potentilla saxosa, P. patellifera, and Purpusia saxosa are transferred into Ivesia as I. saxosa, I. patellifera, and I. arizonica, respectively, the last containing var. arizonica and var. saxosa. The new taxa I. longibracteata, I. shockleyi var. ostleri, I. rhypara var. shellyi, and I. pityocharis are described. Ivesia eremica becomes I. kingii var. eremica. Ivesia beneolens is resurrected as I. baileyi var. beneolens. Keys to differentiate the new taxa from close relatives are provided.
10.2307/2418910|Dedeckera eurekensis is a rare, shrubby, perennial endemic to the Mojave Desert of California. Although many thousands of flowers are produced, only about 1% of the ovules mature into viable seeds and no seedlings or juvenile plants are known; hence this species is potentially threatened with extinction. Enzyme electrophoresis was used to determine levels of genetic variation within and between six populations. Dedeckera is surprisingly variable genetically as suggested by the relatively high number of alleles per locus (2.6), mean percentage of polymorphic loci (80.5), and mean heterozygosity (0.269). These results stand in contrast to the expectation of limited genetic diversity in other plant species with similar life histories, and restricted distributions. A gene duplication has apparently resulted in a third PGM locus, which may be useful in phylogenetic studies of Dedeckera and related genera.
10.2307/2418911|Multivariate analyses of species and subspecies of Ceratophyllum confirm the phenetic integrity of all groups recognized in preceding parts of this series. Relative morphological similarity decreases hierarchically with the greatest degree existing among conspecific subspecies and less characterizing separate species and certain species pairs. The pattern of relative morphological similarity provides for a hypothesis of interspecific phylogenetic relationships in Ceratophyllum, which is expressed by the recognition of three new sections within the genus: sect. Ceratophyllum, sect. Muricatum, and sect. Submersum. Relationships within two of the sections correlate with phytogeographic factors related to tectonic events. An evolutionary reduction series is apparent in the achene morphology of two sections of the genus, whereas increasing specialization characterizes a third section.
10.2307/2418917|The recent publication of Cordia sect. Superbiflorae based on Brazilian species brings into question the sectional placement of some extra-Brazilian members of the genus. Pollen of 24 species of sects. Cordia and Superbiflorae and several additional species with large corollas was examined in an attempt to resolve problems of sectional assignment of the species with funnelform corollas. At least three pollen types are found in Cordia, which correlate closely with sectional limits. Sections Cordia and Superbiflorae differ from the remainder of the genus in their large, funnelform corollas, but they can be distinguished by the striate-reticulate tectum of pollen in the former and spinulose tectum in the latter. These studies suggest that Cordia boissieri, C. crispiflora, C. curbeloi, C. dodecandra, C. fitchii, C. ignea, C. pulverulenta, C. rickseckeri, C. salvifolia, C. seleriana, C. subcordata, C. tortuensis, and C. truncatifolia are best placed in sect. Cordia. Cordia bordasii is unique in the genus in its rugulose tectum but is more closely related to sect. Cordia than to other sections. Cordia aberrans, C. anabaptista, C. rufescens, C. superba, and C. taguahyensis were the basis for sect. Superbiflorae. Pollen morphology suggests that C. decandra is more closely related to these species than to other sections. Cordia lauta and C. chabrensis are still best referred to sect. Varronia despite their unusual corollas. Cordia aurantiaca is unusual in having pollen with a clavate tectum but seems best placed in sect. Myxa based on floral/fruit morphology.
10.2307/2418918|A new species of Gesneriaceae is described from Cerro de la Neblina, Venezuela: Nautilocalyx pemphidius L. Skog.
10.2307/2418919|Layia glandulosa and L. discoidea are self-incompatible annual plants, native to California, which are completely interfertile and appear to be related as progenitor and recent derivative. They are conspicuously different in floral morphology. Layia glandulosa has sunflower-like heads with showy female ray florets associated with clasping involucral bracts, while L. discoidea lacks both ray florets and clasping bracts, a difference governed primarily by two genes. F<sub>2</sub> and backcross progenies were examined in order to determine whether the quantitative traits distinguishing the species were correlated with each other or with the major gene differences governing head type. A number of significant pairwise correlations were found between the quantitative characters. Radiate and discoid F<sub>2</sub> plants differed in head size, disk floret corolla length, and disk floret pappus length but did not consistently differ in vegetative traits. In backcross progenies, radiate and discoid plants differed slightly in pappus length but not in other traits. The associations of quantitative characters with head type accounted for only a fraction of their variance in the hybrid progenies. Thus, the evolution of discoid heads in L. discoidea does not appear to have required the coordinated evolution of other traits by which it differs from L. glandulosa.
10.2307/2418920|Ruellia macrosolen is validated by a Latin diagnosis, described, and illustrated. Data on its pollen morphology, karyotype, phenology, and distribution are also given. It differs from other species of Ruellia sect. Ruellia from southern South America most markedly by its corolla morphology, the erect position, long basal tube, white lobes without differential markings, and nocturnal anthesis of the flowers suggesting pollination by moths. The role of peramorphosis in the evolution of this species is discussed.
10.2307/2418921|Experimental hybridizations have been undertaken among 17 species in all four genera of subtribe Maurandyinae to assess inter- and intrageneric crossing relationships. Average crossability index (CI) values, hybrid production, and average hybrid pollen fertilities are greater in interspecific crosses conducted within genera than between genera. Congeneric CI values range from 0.107 (Mabrya) to 0.438 (Maurandya) while intergeneric CI values range from 0.018 (Lophospermum x Maurandya) to 0.073 (Lophospermum x Mabrya). Interspecific hybrids from 11 congeneric combinations have been obtained while only four combinations of species in Lophosphermum x Mabrya have produced hybrids. Pollen fertilities from intrageneric crosses are also higher (range 38.5% to 89.8%) than fertility values among intergeneric hybrids (range 16.9% to 36.9%). Crossing and fertility data are generally concordant with generic and infrageneric boundaries and support a purported close phylogenetic relationship between Mabrya and Lophospermum. Results from this and previous studies suggest subtribe Maurandyinae is a group in which geographic speciation is prevalent, prezygotic spatial and ecological isolation is the rule, and incompatibility/inviability barriers accrue slowly.
10.2307/2418922|Muhlenbergia majalcensis P. Peterson from Chihuahua, Mexico is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished by its short (1.0-1.2 mm), glabrous, obtuse lemmas, nodding and reflexed pedicels, and auriculate ligules. A tabular comparison with M. annua and a key distinguishing the new species from ten other putatively related taxa are given.
10.2307/2418923|Independent analyses of phylogenetic relationships in the Scutellaria angustifolia complex were carried out using both molecular and morphological data. A best estimate of the phylogenetic relationships among the 10 taxa of the S. angustifolia complex is derived from a synthesis of the molecular and morphological analyses. This approach provides greater resolution than the congruence approach and retains the interpretative value of using two independent data sets, which would be lost if the data were combined. The phylogeny based on morphology is both less well resolved than, and not congruent with, the phylogeny based on molecular data. However, morphology provides important clues to help resolve one portion of the phylogeny that is poorly resolved using the molecular data. The best estimate of phylogeny for the group is then used to interpret the evolution of vegetative and reproductive characters, habitat preference, and biogeography The results suggest that long-flowered, outcrossing species have evolved in parallel on three separate occasions from short-flowered, more highly selfing species, a trend that is atypical in flowering plants. Three taxa are identified as having morphologies that are apparently ancestral to other taxa, thereby furnishing an example of morphological stasis without evidence from the fossil record. The evolution of habitat preference generally has been from wet to dry sites and the biogeographic history of the group is one of eastward dispersal accompanied by speciation from an origin in California.
10.2307/2418924|The genus Glomeropitcairnia has long been poorly understood. It has been placed variously within the bromeliad subfamily Tillandsioideae along with five other recognized tillandsioid genera (Catopsis, Guzmania, Mezobromelia, Tillandsia, and Vriesea); in its own tribe of the tillandsioid subfamily; and, alternatively, has been considered to be a subgenus within Pitcairnia (subfamily Pitcairnioideae). New data on chromosomes and stigma architecture provide, respectively, plesiomorphies and autapomorphies relative to the family's sister taxon. All available data including morphology and anatomy, as well as the cladistic analysis, support retention of Glomeropitcairnia within subfamily Tillandsioideae and suggest that the genus is sister taxon to the most recent common ancestor of the tillandsioid genera, Guzmania and Mezobromelia.
10.2307/2418925|The American genus Pappophorum, with species in both Northern and Southern hemispheres, has been a source of considerable taxonomic confusion. During the past two decades, various agrostologists have estimated the number of species to be from 9 to 20. Not only has there been disagreement regarding the number of species, the application of various binomials has differed among specialists who have studied the group. Three names that have continued to be applied in different senses are: P mucronulatum, P. subbulbosum, and P. vaginatum Buckley, non Philippi. For many years the name P mucronulatum was applied to plants from both North and South America, and P. subbulbosum and P. vaginatum were relegated to synonymy under that name. Some recent botanists have held that only P. pappiferum and perhaps P. subbulbosum are amphitropic, whereas P. vaginatum is restricted to North America, and P mucronulatum and P. subbulbosum, both distinct species, occur only in South America. Authors of the present study recognize only eight species for the genus. Pappophorum mucronulatum is treated as a South American species, which is restricted to Brazil, Colombia, and Venezuela. Pappophorum vaginatum, with P. subbulbosum as a synonym, occurs in the southwestern United States and Mexico, and also in Argentina and Uruguay. A key to the species along with the important synonymy is provided.
10.2307/2418926|The pollen of all 16 species of Trichostema (including Isanthus) was examined, using both light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy, to understand better its relationship to other genera and to evaluate Lewis's sectional classification on the basis of a new set of characters. The monotypic genera Amethystea and Cardioteucris were included in the survey because their floral morphology suggests a close relationship to Trichostema. Pollen of all three genera is 3-zonocolpate and tectate-perforate, with conical supratectal projections of varying size. Variation in pollen morphology is generally consistent with Lewis's sectional classification of Trichostema. The distinctive exine sculpturing in sect. Trichostema is apparently unique within the Labiatae and Verbenaceae and thus convincing evidence for the monophyly of this section. Pollen morphology provides weaker support for sect. Orthopodium and neither supports nor conflicts with Lewis's other two sections. Pollen data support Lewis's view that there is no basis for the segregation of Isanthus as a monotypic genus. The pollen of Trichostema is more similar to that of Amethystea, Cardioteucris, and Caryopteris sect. Pseudocaryopteris (Verbenaceae) than to that of Teucrium, the latter thought by Lewis to be the closest relative of Trichostema.
10.2307/2418927|Psidium (Myrtaceae: Myrtinae) has long been one of the most difficult genera of American Myrtaceae to define. We here describe and illustrate, with SEM photographs, four characteristics of seed coats that help to distinguish Psidium from its American relatives: 1) seed coat surface dull or rough with an external layer of pulpy tissue; 2) hard portion of outer seed coat usually 8-30 cells thick at narrowest point; 3) prevalent shape of cells in the outer seed coat elongate; and 4) lumen of cells in the outer seed coat tending to be less than 1/2 as wide as the cell. Recognition of these characters allows extraction of certain anomalous groups from Psidium.
10.2307/2418928|Mikania macdanielii, a new species from Huanuco, Peru, is described, illustrated, and compared with closely related species. A key to the Mikania of Peru with glomerate capitulescences is also included.
10.2307/2418929|Three species are recognized in the formerly monotypic Panamanian genus Dresslerothamnus. Dresslerothamnus gentryi of Colombia and D. peperomioides of western Panama are described as new. Overall form of the inflorescence and variation in structure of the multistoried T-shaped hairs are of special interest for the distinction of species.
10.2307/2418930|Antennaria is a genus of dioecious, perennial herbs, which are distributed over much of North America and Eurasia. The A. rosea polyploid agamic complex occurs throughout western North America and is perhaps the most complicated, with respect to morphology and taxonomy, of all the Antennaria species complexes. The complex is composed of gametophytic apomicts and consequently the populations contain only pistillate clones. Morphological studies have demonstrated that the A. rosea complex is a compilospecies derived through hybridization from perhaps as many as eight, sexually reproducing species of Antennaria, with which it has a partially sympatric distribution. Enzyme electrophoresis was used both to assess the degree of divergence among 33 populations of A. rosea, as well as to determine the amount of divergence between A. rosea and its sexual progenitors. Gene statistics demonstrate that A. rosea contains more gene diversity than its amphimictic relatives. The electrophoretic data provide evidence, independent, yet supportive, of morphology, that A. corymbosa, A. microphylla, and A. umbrinella are among the sexual progenitors of some of the A. rosea segregates. Morphology also implicates A. aromatica, A. densifolia, A. marginata, A. media, A. racemosa, and A. rosulata in the parentage of A. rosea, although the electrophoretic data neither support nor contradict this hypothesis independent of morphology. The A. rosea complex is probably of recent origin because it has diverged only moderately from its sexual progenitors, having only one novel allele that does not occur in the amphimicts.
10.2307/2418931|Glycine tomentella, a perennial wild relative of the soybean, is a species complex consisting of several reproductively isolated diploid (2n = 38, 40) and polyploid (2n = 78, 80) races. Variation in the repeat lengths of the nuclear multigene family encoding 5S ribosomal RNA was assayed for 20 diploid and 30 polyploid accessions from Australia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, and Taiwan. These accessions represent all of the reproductively isolated and isozymically differentiated groups known to occur in the complex, including the recently described segregate, G. arenaria. Diploid G. tomentella accessions were found to have one of three size classes of 5S repeat, with good correlation between size class and isozyme group; G. arenaria possessed a repeat different in length from all G. tomentella accessions. Of the six classes of polyploids known from the complex, four had two major size classes of 5S repeats in each individual, three of them combining sizes found in the diploids. Two other polyploid isozyme races had only a single major repeat class. Hypothetical parents for hybrid origins of polyploids are suggested, and the consistency of these hypotheses with previously published evidence from isozyme and hybrid meiotic analysis is discussed.
10.2307/2418932|Dinemandra and Dinemagonum, the only two genera of Malpighiaceae in Chile, have calyx glands borne on stalks rather than appressed to the surfaces of the calyx lobes as is typical of malpighs. It is proposed that this positioning of the glandular secretory surfaces (elaiophores) on the ends of stalks provides an intergland distance and surface area needed for the robust Centris bees that serve as pollinators. The structure of the stalked calyx glands and similarities in pollen provide evidence for the close relationships of the two genera despite their traditional placement in different tribes. However, the sister group of the two genera is impossible to determine at the present time. Extensive collections of both genera in the desertic regions of northern Chile where they are endemic has shown that each is monotypic. The previous recognition of several species in each genus resulted from few available specimens and a tendency, particularly in the case of Dinemandra, for plants from small isolated populations to have rather distinctive morphologies.
10.2307/2418933|The genus Yeatesia, previously monotypic, has been expanded to include two additional species: Yeatesia platystegia, based on Tetramerium platystegium, and a new species, Y. mabryi, from Tamaulipas in northeastern Mexico. Data from herbarium studies, pollen morphology, chromosome counts, and comparative flavonoid chemistry support the congeneric relationship of these species. The generic and tribal affinities of Yeatesia are examined with the suggestion that Yeatesia should be placed in the subtribe Odontoneminae (Justicieae) near Dicliptera, Tetramerium, and Ecbolium, an Old World genus.
10.2307/2418989|Genetic evidence from enzyme electrophoresis and restriction site analyses of cpDNA was employed to explore the origin of the tetraploid Hemionitis pinnatifida by determining the role of diploid species of Hemionitis in contributing to the tetraploid genome. The results clearly supported the hypothesis that H. pinnatifida is an allotetraploid with H. palmata as one of its diploid progenitors. The other diploid parent was not identified among the existing species of Hemionitis and is either extinct or exceedingly rare. Genetic identity analyses compared the extant diploid genomes with the divergent diploid genomes combined in tetraploids. One of these divergent genomes was shown to be a good approximation of that of H. palmata, and the other is a reconstruction of that of the missing diploid parent. These analyses demonstrated that the missing ancestor was genetically more similar to H. palmata than either of these species is to the other diploid species surveyed. Such greater genetic similarity may have been important in allowing hybridization between the two diploid progenitors of H. pinnatifida. The data also suggest that tetraploid individuals may have been synthesized de novo at least five times among the three populations surveyed.
10.2307/2418990|A biosystematic and morphological study and a revision of the genus Coreocarpus is presented. Chromosome numbers for all recognized taxa are reported, with n = 12, 11, and 9 represented; all taxa are diploid. The most common and probably original base chromosome number for the genus is n = 12, with n = 11 and 9 presumed to be descending aneuploid derivatives. Attempted artificial crosses between taxa of Coreocarpus and Coreopsis, representing seven sections of that genus, and Heterosperma pinnatum all failed. Artificial crosses among Coreocarpus taxa were partly successful and demonstrated genetic affinity among taxa of the C. sonoranus complex and between C. hintonii and C. cronquistii. Morphological and biosystematic considerations indicate that there are three basic units within the genus: the C. sonoranus unit (most of the species), the C. hintonii/C. cronquistii species pair, and C. congregatus. A key to the taxa (including C. parthenioides var. involutus comb. nov.), descriptions, typification, geographic distribution, and representative specimens are presented.
10.2307/2418991|Matisia exalata (Bombacaceae), a new arborescent species from wet cloud forests along the continental divide of Prov. Cocle, Panama, is described and illustrated. It can be distinguished from other members of the Matisia bracteolosa alliance by its wingless calyces and short pedicels.
10.2307/2418992|The present paper provides a reexamination of an often cited example of hybridization and introgression in plants, that involving two introduced thistle species, Carduus nutans (2n = 16) and C. acanthoides (2n = 22), which occur sympatrically in Grey Co., Ontario, Canada. Evidence gathered from a range of characters (morphology, allozymes, flavonoids, molecular data, chromosome numbers, and artificial hybridization and backcrossing experiments) revealed that both hybridization and backcrossing occur in this region. The two species were well separated morphologically, while the hybrid swarms exhibited the complete range of morphological variation evident for both species as well as intermediate types. There was a very close correlation with reduced fruit set and intermediacy in morphology. In contrast, a putative introgressed population, I1, exhibited a distinct shift towards C. acanthoides, with almost all individuals corresponding to an acanthoides or intermediate phenotype. Chromosome data from hybrid swarms and the introgressed population indicated a range of numbers from n = 8 to 11. Genetic identities based on allozyme frequencies was 0.68 between the two species and was 0.81 and 0.87 among the C. acanthoides and C. nutans populations, respectively. The three hybrid swarms showed equal similarity to both parental types, i.e., identity values of 0.82-0.83, while I1 was very similar to C. acanthoides. Allozyme data also confirmed the hybrid nature of the swarms with either additive or intermediate patterns. Flavonoid profiles were very similar in the two species. All individuals of C. acanthoides have the same four compounds, while populations of C. nutans were more variable and distinguished from C. acanthoides by the presence of up to three additional flavonoids. The hybrid swarms exhibited the complete range of flavonoid profiles, including characteristic acanthoides profiles, nutans profiles, and mixtures of the two. In artificial hybridization studies, C. nutans was the most frequent maternal parent, although both species served equally well as backcross parents. The F<sub>1</sub> hybrids have 2n = 19 chromosomes and were almost completely sterile. Analyses based on 17 restriction enzymes, showed that the chloroplast genome and the transcribed region of the nuclear ribosomal genome of the two Carduus species are highly conserved; although some variation was detected in the ribosomal DNA spacer region. Although there was evidence of introgression in populations within the hybrid zone, patterns revealed by different characters were not always congruent. The results suggested that introgression may well be bidirectional. The Grey Co. region appears to represent a stable zone of hybridization in which the nature of the Carduus populations has changed little in the past 30 years.
10.2307/2418993|Seeds of 37 species of Calochortus were examined using scanning electron microscopy. Two major seed forms were observed. "Calochortoid" seeds are irregular in shape with roughly tetragonal to irregular testa cells lacking secondary thickenings in the outer cell walls. "Mariposoid" seeds are flattened and lenticular in outline with roughly hexagonal to irregular testa cells with secondary thickenings in the outer cell walls. Calochortoid seeds are characteristic of sect. Calochortus and of one species of sect. Cyclobothra (C. barbatus). Mariposoid seeds are characteristic of sect. Mariposa and of subsect. Weediani of sect. Cyclobothra. Both gross morphological evidence and SEM data indicate that sect. Cyclobothra may be polyphyletic. Subsection Weediani appears to have greater affinity to sect. Mariposa than to other members of sect. Cyclobothra. The remaining species in sect. Cyclobothra need further study to determine their affinities.
10.2307/2418994|Salzmann's specimens of Stigmaphyllon (Malpighiaceae) from Bahia, Brazil, are reexamined, and the application of the names S. rotundifolium and S. salzmannii, based on two of these collections, is clarified. Three new species are recognized among Bahian collections commonly assigned these names and are here described: S. bahiense, S. blanchetii, and S. cavernulosum. Stigmaphyllon irregulare Adr. Juss., misconstrued by Niedenzu, is considered a synonym of S. rotundifolium.
10.2307/2418995|The diploid annual plants Stephanomeria exigua subsp. coronaria (COR) and S. malheurensis (MAL) are related as progenitor and derivative, respectively, and grow sympatrically at the only known locality for MAL in southeastern Oregon. MAL is thought to have recently evolved from the COR population with which it now grows. The species are closely similar in morphology and exhibit a high genetic identity on the basis of enzymes assayed by electrophoresis. However, when the two species are grown under the same conditions, MAL bolts (initiates stem elongation) later than COR. The difference is important because the number of days from germination to bolting is significantly correlated with adult morphology. As part of our analysis of the origin of MAL, we attempted to select a late-bolting MAL-like phenotype from COR. Early and late strains were readily selected, but the late-bolting plants did not resemble MAL in other aspects of their architecture. Selection response for bolting time was associated with changes in final rosette size, but not with the partitioning of nodes between the rosette and the stem characteristic of MAL. Thus late bolting in the selection experiment was achieved by a different genetic/developmental pathway than evolved naturally during the origin of MAL.
10.2307/2418996|Sporobolus temomairemensis Judziewicz and Peterson, sp. nov., is described and illustrated. This new species is an annual that occurs on granite inselbergs in northwestern Amapa, Brazil and southwestern Surinam. It resembles the weedy pantropical species, S. tenuissimus, but differs in its larger, oblong-elliptical caryopses; longer, yellowish-brown spikelets; shorter height and inflorescence length; and shorter, involute leaf blades.
10.2307/2418997|Tuxtla and Tuxtla pittieri are based on the type (Costa Rica, 1895) and recent collections (southern Veracruz, 1984-1985) of Zexmenia pittieri Greenman in W. W. Jones. Numerical phenetic analyses reinforce intuitive taxonomic opinion and demonstrate the isolated position of Tuxtla among selected genera of Ecliptinae.
10.2307/2418998|Oblivia and Oblivia mikanioides are based on the type of Salmea [Zexmenia] mikanioides. Oblivia stands isolated within Ecliptinae and is apparently most nearly related to members of Otopappus, from which it has been excluded by recent authors.
10.2307/2418999|Transfers of Lasianthaea belizeana, Lasianthaea breedlovei, Otopappus jaliscensis, Oyedaea steyermarkii, Zexmenia guatemalensis, Zexmenia kingii, and Zexmenia salvinii require new combinations: Lundellianthus belizeanus, L. breedlovei, L. jaliscensis, L. guatemalensis, L. kingii, L. salvinii, and L. steyermarkii. Addition of L. harrimanii, known only from Nicaragua, brings the number of species in the genus to eight.
10.2307/2419000|Vegetative features and fruit of Acacia farnesiana and related species from Mexico, the southwestern U.S., and the Caribbean were scored and analyzed by principal components analysis (PCA) and stepwise discriminant analysis (SDA). The results of these analyses substantiate the treatment of Acacia smallii as being conspecific with Acacia farnesiana var. farnesiana. Acacia farnesiana var. guanacastensis is a variety newly described on the basis of a number of characters and its disjunct grouping in PCA and SDA analyses. Acacia schaffneri var. schaffneri and Acacia schaffneri var. hravoensis were found to constitute closely related but discrete varieties. The Caribbean species Acacia tortuosa is distinct from mainland taxa including Acacia schaffneri var. bravoensis and apparently is not found in the southwestern U.S. or Mexico.
10.2307/2419001|Based on a cladistic study employing outgroup comparison and parsimony analysis of 34 genera within Ranunculales, we infer that Berberidaceae, Lardizabalaceae, Menispermaceae, and Ranunculaceae are monophyletic groups. Berberidaceae and Lardizabalaceae are sister groups with the synapomorphies of compound leaves and flowers with a biseriate androecium. The sister group of (Berberidaceae-Lardizabalaceae) remains unresolved, as we find equally parsimonious positions for Menispermaceae and Ranunculaceae. Earlier proposals to associate Berberidaceae with Ranunculaceae, and Lardizabalaceae with Menispermaceae appear to be based on plesiomorphies and convergence. The subordinated hierarchy for Lardizabalaceae is summarized as: (Decaisneoideae-(Sinofranchetieae-Lardizabaleae)), with Decaisneoideae and Sinofranchetieae recognized as a new subfamily and tribe, respectively. Sargentodoxa is the sister taxon of Boquila within Lardizabaleae. The classification for Berberidaceae is summarized as: (Nandinoideae-(Leonticeae-(Berberidinae-Epimediinae))). The subtribe Epimediinae, characterized by striate pollen exine and a chromosome base number of x = 6, comprises the Epimedium group, the Podophyllum group, and Bongardia. The resemblance of Bongardia and Leontice is the result of convergent evolution.
10.2307/2419002|Aldama mesoamericana, known only from two roadside collections in northwestern Nicaragua, is distinguished from Aldama dentata by its fistulose, ribbed peduncles, larger and eradiate heads, 5-nerved disk corollas, ciliate (but non-strigose) phyllaries, and leathery, indurated, beaked paleae enclosing the achenes.
10.2307/2419003|Porophyllum pygmaeum is a new species from coarse calcareous soils of the Desert National Wildlife Range in Clark Co., Nevada. It has subterete leaves that contain a continuous double layer of palisade mesophyll surrounding a central area of larger, achlorophyllous, polyhedral parenchyma cells and veins. The hollow foliar oil glands lie just below the abaxial epidermis and are deeply invaginated within the parenchyma layers. Porophyllum pygmaeum is a tetraploid (n = 24) perennial herb that apparently is most closely related to P. greggii, a hexaploid herbaceous species of western Texas with much longer and narrower leaves. In its fleshy subterete leaves P. pygmaeum resembles the subshrubby P. tridentatum of Baja California from which it differs by its chromosome number (n = 15 in P. tridentatum), by its dwarf herbaceous habit, by leaves that are always entire and that bear several pairs of submarginal glands, and by much longer achenes. The new species apparently is not closely related to P. gracile, the only other species of Porophyllum that occurs in southern Nevada and adjacent regions of Arizona and California.
10.2307/2419004|Recent collections from Puerto Rico have included a heretofore undiscovered species in the large, predominantly tropical genus Vernonia. The new species, V. proctorii in sect. Lepidaploa, subsect. Arborescentes, is a rare element in the shrub forest of the Cerro Mariquita. It is similar to V. albicaulis of Puerto Rico and the Lesser Antilles in capitulescence and involucral features and to V. orbicularis of Cuba in leaf shape. The new species is readily distinguished from the former by its orbicular, sericeous leaves and from the latter by its condensed, cymose capitulescence.
10.2307/2419005|Evidence from morphology, distribution patterns, allozyme variation, and meiotic irregularities associated with decreased pollen germinability confirms the existence of a broad hybrid zone involving three parapatric species of Aesculus in the southeastern United States. The overall hybrid zone involving the three species is at least 200 km in width and probably represents the overlap of two hybrid zones: one between A. pavia and A. sylvatica and the other between A. flava and A. sylvatica. Both zones are highly asymmetrical, with hybrid populations occurring primarily in the Piedmont, where A. sylvatica is native. Detailed analyses of the hybrid zone involving A. pavia and A. sylvatica showed that hybrid populations consistently lack one or both of the putative parental species. Morphology and allozyme variation provide similar estimates of the position of the hybrid zone, but allozymes allow the detection of a larger zone than apparent on the basis of morphology. All available evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that extensive introgression has occurred among these species. Nevertheless, allozymic differentiation between these species is insufficient to reject hypotheses other than introgression that could generate the genetic structure observed in hybrid populations. Observations of pollinator activity in populations of A. pavia, A. sylvatica, A. flava, and their hybrids showed that these species share a number of important pollinators, including several species of bumblebees (Bombus) and the ruby-throated hummingbird (Archilochus colubris). Spring migration patterns of the ruby-throated hummingbird coincide closely with the flowering phenology of each of the Aesculus species, suggesting that hummingbirds could be vectors of long-distance pollen dispersal. The lifespan of pollen under field conditions is sufficient to permit transport of pollen in this fashion over distances of tens or hundreds of kilometers. Directional migration and arrival of hummingbirds after peak flowering would enforce a directional pattern of gene flow and could generate an asymmetrical hybrid zone of unusually great width.
10.2307/2419006|The systematic relevance of contrasting morphological and molecular data sets was examined by comparative analysis of 76 Cucurbita samples. The samples, mostly domesticated and free-living populations from Mexico, included material that is reasonably well defined with regard to diagnostic morphological characters or geographical position, and a subset of ambiguous, "unknown" samples. Principal component analysis of seed interval areas provided a gross morphological perspective in that free-living populations are phenetically distinguished from domesticates. The approach fails, however, to discriminate among entities within the two groups, although some trends are evident. The pattern of allozyme variation reflected a pattern of genetic differentiation that both supports and contradicts traditional taxonomic treatments. There is a high level of congruence to variation in fruit/seed/peduncle characters that define domesticated taxa. All three (Cucurbita pepo, C. mixta, C. moschata) are well differentiated and internally homogeneous. This level of resolution extends to infraspecific differentiation (subspp. pepo and ovifera) of C. pepo. Molecular data, however, do not reflect the more extreme morphological distinction between free-living and domesticated populations. Genetic identities of free-living populations range from autonomy (C. galeottii), through partial association to a domesticate (C. fraterna/C. pepo), to full identity with a domesticate (C. sororia/C. mixta). The presence of a single sample that appears to be the result of crop-weed hybridization, in addition to prior comparative analyses of morphometric and molecular data in Cucurbita, indicates that the pattern of molecular variation provides a relatively accurate perspective on biological relationships. Thus, high levels of crop-weed genetic affinity expressed by comparative analyses of molecular variation in other genera are also present in Cucurbita. In addition, the high level of resolution provided by allozyme variation could provide a foundation for characterization of Cucurbita germplasm accessions.
10.2307/2419010|Disjoint principal component analysis is a statistical method useful for identifying unknown plant specimens. The method uses measurements on a number of quantitative or qualitative characters to construct a set of disjoint principal component models, one for each of several known taxa. Using linear regression, measurements of the same characters made on unknown specimens are fit to each model in turn, and F-statistics are used to determine to which taxa the unknowns should be assigned. A step by step procedure for carrying out disjoint principal component analysis is described, and an example is presented in which the method is used to identify a type specimen of Aster. Disjoint principal component analysis has five desirable attributes, not all of which are possessed by any other statistical identification method. Disjoint principal component analysis: 1) supplies a model for each known taxon based not only on a mean vector but also on a hyperplane representing the variability typically found in the taxon, 2) provides an objective statistical criterion (a statistical hypothesis test) for assigning a specimen to a taxon, 3) inherently allows for the possibility that a specimen may not belong to any of the known taxa, 4) indicates explicitly, by means of hypothesis tests, when the data are inadequate for unambiguous identification, and 5) supplies a method for double-checking the identification of known specimens. Although the most obvious use of disjoint principal component analysis is in systematics, the method is actually completely general and can be utilized in any situation where an unclassified object (e.g., anatomical structure, specimen, species, habitat, community) is to be identified as belonging to one of a number of different classes or categories based on a set of measured characteristics.
10.2307/2419011|A total of 72 meiotic chromosome numbers were determined for 58 taxa representing 23 genera of Acanthaceae from the United States, Mexico, Panama, and Peru. Chromosome numbers of 41 of these taxa are reported for the first time. Chromosome numbers obtained in Aphanosperma (n = 18), Chalarothyrsus (n = 18), Gypsacanthus (n = 18), Ixtlania (n = 14), Razisea (n = 18), and Teliostachya (n = 9) are the first for these genera. Our counts for Dicliptera resupinata (n = 40), Elytraria imbricata (n = 12), Justicia pectoralis (n = 11), and Yeatesia mabryi (n = 18) differ from previously published numbers for these species. Constancy of chromosome number appears to be characteristic of certain genera of Acanthaceae whereas variation due to polyploidy and aneuploidy occurs in others. Various generic relationships are discussed with respect to the chromosome numbers now known for neotropical Acanthaceae.
10.2307/2419013|A new species of Rosaceae subfamily Maloideae discovered in Arkansas is described as Mespilus canescens. This represents a new generic record for the North American flora. An assessment of its ecological and conservation status is provided.
10.2307/2419014|The taxonomy of the North American basswoods is problematical. Recently, the choice has been to recognize either four poorly defined species (one in Mexico and three in the United States), based mainly on vestiture, or alternatively, two species (one in Mexico and only one in the U.S.) based mainly on geography. Given the inconstancy of most vegetative and reproductive characters, the ecophenic, ecotypic, and seasonal variation in vestiture, and also the probability of introgression, the morphology of trichomes, described by SEM, emerges as the character set that provides the best evidence for four taxa. These four, each with definable geographical ranges but with broad zones of intergradation, are treated as varieties of T. americana: vars. americana, heterophylla, caroliniana, and mexicana (comb. nov.).
10.2307/2419015|The present study treats a group of species of Abutilon, characterized by red reflexed petals, that occurs in northwestern South America. A key to the four recognized species is presented, and typifications of the names involved are made where appropriate. A distribution map and illustrations are included.
10.2307/2419016|The cladistic relationships of the tribe Rhodoreae (Ericaceae; Rhododendroideae) are investigated. The tribe is likely monophyletic, and may be diagnosed by the perulae found with the inflorescence. The genus Rhododendron, as currently recognized, is shown to be paraphyletic. However, if Ledum is included (as a subsection of sect. Rhododendron, within subg. Rhododendron), and Therorhodion is excluded, then the genus is probably monophyletic. Ledum likely is related most closely to Rhododendron subsect. Edgeworthia. The cladistic relationships within Rhododendron are consistent with the recognition of eight subgenera: Anthodendron, Azaleastrum, Candidastrum, Choniastrum, Hymenanthes, Mumeazalea, Rhododendron, and Tsutsusi. The monophyly of Copeland's segregate genera is thus, in large part, supported, although these groups are placed here at subgeneric rank. Among these subgenera, Anthodendron is possibly cladistically basal. This subgenus and the phenetically similar subgenera Tsutsusi, Azaleastrum, Choniastrum, Candidastrum, and Mumeazalea have been recognized traditionally as the "azalea complex" or chorus subgenerum Nomazalea, but this group is paraphyletic and should not be given formal taxonomic recognition. The circumscription and phylogenetic relationships of some subgenera, e.g., Azaleastrum (as broadly defined, i.e., including Choniastrum, Mumeazalea, and Canadidastrum) need further study. Menziesia and Tsusiophyllum are recognizable at the generic level, and may be related due to the shared possession of slit-like anther dehiscence. Thus, the pattern of character variation within the tribe may be expressed by the recognition of four genera: Therorhodion, Menziesia, Tsusiophyllum, and Rhododendron. The following new combinations are made: Rhododendron subsect. Ledum, R. palustre, R. groenlandicum.
10.2307/2419017|Recent findings on the effects of polyploidy on morphology in filaments of the common green alga Spirogyra invalidate the reliance on several characters used to erect the 386 species described for this genus. Spontaneous ploidal changes have been observed that induce significant morphological changes in filaments, such that members of a series of ploidal variants would be identified as different species according to conventional taxonomy. Grouping filaments into species based on morphology (qualitative and quantitative differences between character states), breeding groups (sexual compatibility or lack thereof), or monophyly (lineages of filaments established through laboratory culture work) results in groups, or "species," that differ in membership. Strains of identical morphology are not always more closely related to each other than to morphologically distinct ploidal variants descended from them. Nor are such ploidal variants sexually compatible with their parental strains except to a limited degree. Thus, a single monophyletic group of filaments (descended from and including an ancestral strain) may contain sexually incompatible filaments that differ greatly in morphology. This noncorrespondence of morphology, breeding groups, and monophyly suggests that conventional taxonomic monographs that distinguish species on the basis of morphology alone describe only part of the species picture, although they are still valuable as sources of information on phenotypic variability. Additional study of these three grouping criteria in Spirogyra is needed to develop a satisfactory species concept for this genus and others in the family Zygnemataceae.
10.2307/2419019|The prevailing biological species concept, which gives primacy to the role of interbreeding in causing the coherence of distinct species, predicts that "species" in asexual groups should be less discrete than those in sexual groups. Under this view, sexual groups should be more variable than asexual groups within populations (because of recombination), but less variable among populations (because of gene flow). This prediction is tested using 23 sympatric species in the moss genus Tortula in Mexico. Reproduction in this group ranges from frequently sexual to completely asexual, as measured by frequency of sporophyte production. Species "distinctness" is compared using two approaches. In the first, distinctness is measured cladistically as the number of autapomorphies present. In the second, distinctness is measured phenetically through morphometric studies. The result is the same under either approach: there is no particular correlation between mode of reproduction and species distinctness. It is concluded that processes other than interbreeding may be responsible for species formation and maintenance even in sexual groups.
10.2307/2419020|Vegetative reproduction by the gametophyte generation has allowed a number of fern species to persist beyond their normal geographic range. In at least two of these, Trichomanes and Vittaria in the eastern United States, the sporophyte stage of the life cycle has been eliminated completely, perhaps for ten million years or more. Despite this long period of reliance on vegetative reproduction, genetic diversity in the Appalachian Vittaria gametophytes, as measured by starch gel enzyme electrophoresis, remains comparable to that of sexual plants, although it is largely partitioned into monomorphic populations. Widely separated populations are not particularly divergent; the taxon as a whole appears equally as cohesive as sexual species, suggesting that factors other than gene flow are responsible for long term maintenance of species integrity. The Appalachian Vittaria gametophytes and similarly derived taxa merit recognition as distinct species.
10.2307/2419021|Agamospermy in the grasses is well-documented and is generally facultative. Hybridization among morphological clones or groups of clones is common, forming geographically widespread agamospermous complexes. These are morphologically variable, but all variation is continuous; all members are potentially interfertile, and studies of cytology indicate a history of extensive hybridization and allopolyploidy. Thus microspecies do not occur. Whether morphology, interbreeding, strict monophyly, or other cohesive mechanisms are used as criteria of conspecificity, the taxonomic conclusion is the same: an entire complex must be treated as a single species.
10.2307/2419022|Asexuality and self-fertilization weaken the correlation between morphological, reproductive, and genetic units. The pattern and tempo of evolution may thus differ fundamentally between uniparentally reproducing groups and outbreeders. Apomixis, which is widespread in angiosperms, is reported from about 90 species from five of the largest genera of the Maloideae. A range of breeding systems occurs in these genera including varying degrees of sexuality, self-incompatibility and self-compatibility, and pseudogamy as well as different ploidy levels and interspecific hybridization. Some apomictic members of the subfamily display greater morphological variation between populations than they do between individuals within a population, a pattern often attributed to uniparental reproduction. Because maloid apomicts are generally self-compatible, self-fertilization may also contribute to low intrapopulation morphological variability, although selfing appears to be less important than apomixis. In the two genera for which there are the most data concerning apomixis and patterns of morphological variation, Amelanchier and Crataegus, apomixis is in some but not all cases associated with the occurrence of more or less local and homogeneous units differing from other such units in minor ways. Intrapopulation variability is greater in sexual than in apomictic taxa in these two genera. Variability within apomictic populations, even largely sterile triploids of the Maloideae, may develop through the persistence of some sexuality, increased mutation rates, hemigamy, autosegregation, immigration, and repeated hybrid origin of apomixis. Hybridization and polyploidy are prevalent in apomictic groups of the Maloideae and contribute to their evolutionary complexity. Pollen production, which may be necessary for pseudogamy in apomicts, potentially maintains gene flow between them and sexuals or other apomictic taxa, thus retarding or preventing divergence. Neither reproductive nor monophyletic units necessarily align with phenetic units in apomicts in the Maloideae. Morphology and geography have consequently been the primary basis for species concepts in maloid apomictic groups.
10.2307/2419023|Challenges to the biological species concept, arising primarily from studies of plants, continue to prompt discussion on the nature of species and on appropriate criteria for their definition. A review of techniques used to define species limits in scleractinian corals indicates that a phenetic species concept is generally adhered to, but that there is also a tacit acceptance of the biological species concept. The available information on asexual reproduction, breeding systems, and dispersal, relevant to discussions of interbreeding barriers and gene flow, is discussed to assess the applicability of the biological species concept for extant scleractinian corals. It is concluded from preliminary data that, although corals utilize many of the varied breeding strategies and modes of asexual reproduction described for plants, they differ in their lack of exclusively asexual species, their inability to hybridize successfully, and in the requirement of broadcast spawning corals for a minimum developmental period during the dispersive larval phase. At present, there is no evidence to discount gene flow as a cohesive force in maintaining scleractinian species nor to reject the biological species or recognition concepts as inappropriate for this group. However, presently described coral species are equally compatible with the evolutionary and phylogenetic species concepts. It will not be possible to resolve questions concerning the cohesive force(s) that bind species within the Scleractinia until further studies on the breeding systems, fertilization biology, hybridization, and genotypic population structures of extant corals, and on species persistence in the fossil record are undertaken.
10.2307/2419024|Patterns of morphological variation were compared among clades of scleractinian reef-corals, which differ in degree of sexuality, to determine if species discreteness and cohesiveness differ between predominantly biparental and predominantly uniparental reproducers. First, canonical discriminant analysis and sheared principal component analyses were used to analyze morphological variation within and among local populations of species of Porites, Siderastrea, and Montastraea from environmentally distinct habitats near Discovery Bay, Jamaica. The results show that variation is reduced within populations of Montastraea annularis and Porites astreoides, two species which frequently reproduce uniparentally. No clear relationship was found between degree of outcrossing and differentiation among populations. Next, to compare discreteness of species, similar analyses were made among living species within these clades. The results suggest that species are more discrete in the biparental genus Siderastrea and less discrete in eastern Pacific Pocillopora, a genus in which reproduction is largely uniparental. Analyses of fossils of these genera from the Neogene of the Dominican Republic confirm that species are more discrete in Siderastrea. Multivariate analyses of temporal variation within each species through the five million year Dominican Republic sequence, as well as over the past 30 million years throughout the Caribbean, further show that stasis appears to be the rule regardless of degree of outcrossing. Thus, despite clonal population structures, coral species do form discrete evolutionary units over geologic time. Lastly, clade diversity within any one time interval was found to be roughly comparable in biparental and uniparental reproducers, although speciation and extinction rates appear slightly higher in uniparental clades in association with extinction events. In conclusion, other than possible reduced divergence during speciation, uniparental reproduction appears to have little longterm influence on the phylogenies of these corals.
10.2307/2419171|Glycine tabacina, a perennial relative of soybean, forms a polyploid complex wide-spread in eastern Australia and the islands of the western Pacific. The species comprises at least two morphological groups that have been shown to be reproductively isolated from one another. Two major chloroplast DNA classes (plastomes) exist within the species, differing by numerous restriction endonuclease recognition sites. A survey of 91 polyploid accessions was made for marker restriction sites that distinguish these two plastome types. The A plastome group was found to be most common in the tropical and subtropical zones of eastern Australia, and the B plastome in temperate and subtropical zones of this same region. Both races were found on islands of the west central Pacific, but samples from the southern Pacific revealed only the B plastome. Classification of accessions used in intraspecific crossing studies revealed that literature reports of fertile hybrids were from crosses within plastome groups, while crosses between groups resulted in sterile hybrids. Plastome classification and morphological variation also were congruent, with plants of the A plastome class having linear adult leaflets and lacking adventitious roots, in contrast to the ovate mature leaflets and stoloniferous habit of B plastome plants.
10.2307/2419172|Starch gel electrophoresis was utilized to test previous conclusions regarding the origins of the stabilized diploid hybrid species, Carex salina and C. recta, on the Lower St. Lawrence River and Gaspe Peninsula, Quebec. The enzymes PGI, 6PGD, and SkDH were examined for these hybrids and their four potential parental species, Carex aquatilis, C. nigra, C. paleacea, and C. subspathacea, utilizing plants collected from 42 natural populations and seedling progeny samples. The number of alleles per locus ranged from four to five, and marker alleles were observed for each of the putative parental species. Both Carex paleacea and C. subspathacea consist of a single genotype throughout the area sampled, while C. aquatilis and C. nigra are genetically more variable. Results confirm that Carex salina, which consists of a single genotype in natural populations, originated as a hybrid of C. paleacea and C. subspathacea. Carex recta is a complex of genotypes, which appears to be derived from hybridization and backcrossing between C. aquatilis and C. paleacea. However, no introgression among parental species was detected.
10.2307/2419173|Spores from herbarium specimens of Braunia secunda, Hedwigia ciliata, Hedwigidium integrifolium, Pseudobraunia californica, and Rhacocarpus purpurascens were cultured on nutrient agar to observe germination and protonemal development. Germination in the five species was exosporic, and two protonemal types were observed. The protonema in Rhacocarpus consists of branched filaments composed of short oblong, or rectangular cells, and is, therefore, of the generalized Macromitrium-type. The protonema in Braunia, Hedwigia, Hedwigidium, and Pseudobraunia is globular, a type not known elsewhere in mosses. Two different developmental modes result in the globular protonema. Hedwigia and Hedwigidium illustrate one mode, in which the earliest cell divisions directly produce a spherical group of cells. The second mode is found in Braunia and Pseudobraunia, in which an early short filamentous germ tube later becomes globular. Differences in sporeling developmental patterns, as well as in other characters of the mature gametophytes and sporophytes, suggest that Rhacocarpus should be excluded from the Hedwigiaceae. The globular protonema is interpreted as a synapomorphy that helps to define the Hedwigiaceae as a monophyletic group, including only Hedwigia, Hedwigidium, Braunia, and Pseudobraunia.
10.2307/2419174|Allozymic comparisons of 69 populations of the six North American diploid species of Polystichum resulted in new hypotheses of interspecific relationships in this poorly understood species complex. Polystichum lonchitis, circumboreal in distribution, is highly divergent allozymically from the other five species; genetic identities between P. lonchitis and the other species range from 0.187 with P. acrostichoides to 0.378 with P. munitum. Among the strictly North American species, two groups emerged from the analyses, one consisting of P. acrostichoides, P. dudleyi, and P. lemmonii and the other comprising P. imbricans and P. munitum. Genetic identities among these five species range from 0.524 between P. acrostichoides and P. imbricans to 0.924 between P. acrostichoides and P. lemmonii, with a mean of 0.666. This mean value is much higher than those obtained in other analyses of genetic divergence among congeneric fern species and suggests relatively recent radiation in North American Polystichum. Because genetically similar species of Polystichum are allopatric or at least allotopic, a model of geographic speciation, perhaps with an edaphic component, is proposed for North American Polystichum.
10.2307/2419175|Villarsia marchantii, known from a single population growing in a shaded woodland of the Porongurup Range in southwestern Western Australia, is newly described. It is closely related to V. calthifolia, another endemic of this group of mountains, which occurs in exposed situations at or above timberline. In addition to differences in habitat, vegetative, floral, and fruit characters, seed size, flowering time, duration of seed maturation, and susceptibility to Septoria infection, V. marchantii has strongly distylous flowers and is self-incompatible, whereas V. calthifolia has weakly distylous flowers, is fully self-compatible, and shows some degree of autogamy. Artificial interspecific hybrids exhibited reduced pollen stainabilities.
10.2307/2419176|Myrtus elegans cannot be accomodated realistically in any existing genus of the Myrtaceae. A new genus, Accara, is described to contain it; a new combination is made, Accara elegans. The relationship of Accara to its apparent closest relatives in the subtribe Myrtinae is discussed.
10.2307/2419177|Zapoteca ravenii, a new species from the Selva Lacandona, Chiapas, Mexico and Cayo, Belize, is described and illustrated. Zapoteca tehuana is transferred from subg. Zapoteca to constitute, together with the new species, the new subg. Ravenia. A subgeneric key is provided.
10.2307/2419178|The 19 species and 8 subspecies of Bidens endemic to the Hawaiian Islands are morphologically and ecologically diverse, yet all are the result of adaptive radiation from a single ancestral immigrant species. They accumulate a rich array of flavonoids, with chalcone (butein and okanin) and aurone (sulfuretin and maritimetin) derivatives, including mono-, di-, and triacetylated glucosides, making up the bulk of the profile. A flavanone (eriodictyol), three flavones (apigenin, luteolin and diosmetin), and two flavonols (kaempferol and quercetin), in various glycosylated forms, were also found. Butein 4-methyl ether and di-, tri-, and tetra-O-methyl derivatives of okanin occurred in a few taxa. This flavonoid chemistry is typical of other non-Hawaiian species of Bidens that have been investigated. In general, variation within single populations was as great as differentiation among taxa. Colonization and adaptive radiation on the Hawaiian Islands have not resulted in significant differentiation from continental species of Bidens in flavonoid chemistry. Despite considerable genetic variability for flavonoids in Hawaiian Bidens, adaptive radiation and speciation on the Islands have not resulted in differentiation among species for flavonoids.
10.2307/2419179|Levels and patterns of allozyme diversity were investigated in 21 populations of Quercus macrocarpa and four populations of Q. gambelii. Levels of genetic diversity were high for both species, averaging 0.187 in populations of Q. macrocarpa and 0.204 in populations of Q. gambelii. Variation among populations was low for Q. macrocarpa (G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.076), and no geographic patterning was observed. A similar level of differentiation was observed among populations of Q. gambelii (G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.119). The degree of genetic similarity between species (I = 0.915) was greater than expected, and suggests that these species may have hybridized during periods of sympatry in the Black Hills of South Dakota and Wyoming prior to the end of the Pliocene and again following the last glacial retreat. Results of a discriminant analysis and the presence of Q. gambelii alleles in Black Hills populations support this hypothesis. Present-day populations in the Black Hills, however, are no more different from other Q. macrocarpa populations than would be expected for conspecific populations on the edge of a species' range.
10.2307/2419180|Perityle vigilans is described from the Sierra Madre Occidental of southwestern Chihuahua. It differs from other Perityle by the combination of its white ligules, sparsely setosehispid achenes, finely grayish-villosulous tomentum, and absence of pappus bristles. The new species is believed to be most closely related to P. rosei and P. trichodonta, which occur about 800 km to the south. A key is presented that distinguishes the 12 known taxa of Perityle occurring in the northern Sierra Madre Occidental, an area of high diversity in the genus.
10.2307/2419181|An electrophoretic study of the nine species of Coreopsis sect. Coreopsis (C. auriculata, C. basalis, C. grandiflora, C. intermedia, C. lanceolata, C. nuecensis, C. nuecensoides, C. pubescens, and C. wrightii) revealed high genetic identities (above 0.90 for most comparisons) for all species. Uniformly high identities among all taxa made it difficult to discern patterns of relationships among the species in sect. Coreopsis. Similar levels of gene diversity were found in perennial and annual species in the section, and between geographically widespread vs. more restricted species. It is suggested that the high identities result from the recent divergence among the species in sect. Coreopsis, which is viewed as a highly evolved section within North American Coreopsis.
10.2307/2419182|Breeding systems in Schiedea and Alsinidendron (Caryophyllaceae: Alsinoideae) were characterized in order to determine whether the dioecy that occurs in Schiedea evolved in situ in the Hawaiian Islands. The occurrence of hermaphroditism in 14 of the 22 species of Schiedea, as well as outgroup comparison, indicate that dioecy is a derived breeding system. Species diversity and endemism are greatest on the older Hawaiian Islands, suggesting that these islands were colonized first. Diclinous breeding systems are more common on the older islands, probably because of the greater length of time available for the evolutionary transition from hermaphroditism to dicliny. Dicliny appears to reduce the probability of inter-island colonizations; among extant species those with hermaphroditic breeding systems are more likely to occur on more than a single island. Based on distributional patterns, it appears likely that dicliny has evolved at least three and possibly six times in Schiedea. Species occurring in dry areas are likely to have evolved from wet or diverse mesic forest ancestors. As species of Schiedea shifted to dry habitats, the evolution of dicliny appears to have been favored, perhaps by loss of pollinators and subsequent increased selfing rates. Under such conditions, the expression of inbreeding depression may have favored unisexual individuals and the evolution of dioecy.
10.2307/2419183|A remarkable new species of Bignoniaceae from the Paraguayan Chaco, which has tetramerous actinomorphic flowers, sessile anthers, mostly simple leaves, and nodal thorns, is described as the new genus Sphingiphila with the single species S. tetramera A. Gentry.
10.2307/2419184|Restriction site maps of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA), maternally inherited in Clarkia, were obtained in representative species of all seven diploid sections, the allotetraploid sect. Clarkia, and the outgroup Epilobium brachycarpum. CpDNA restriction site variation was analyzed by Wagner and Dollo parsimony, bootstrapping, and genetic distance methods. Four shortest Wagner trees, one of which was also the shortest Dollo and Bootstrap majority-rule tree, were examined along with 21 one-step longer trees. Section Myxocarpa was placed as basal in Clarkia followed by a trichotomy of the Rhodanthos lineage, the Eucharidium/Clarkia lineage, and the lineage including sects. Sympherica, Phaeostoma, Fibula, and Godetia. However, when trees only one step longer are considered, many of these sectional alignments are lost. Early and rapid divergence of most sectional lineages, coupled with higher rates of cpDNA restriction site homoplasy, is proposed to account for the lack of many synapomorphic restriction site characters at the sectional level in Clarkia. A comparison of the cpDNA results to morphology, cytology, and biogeography with respect to intersectional relationships is presented. Diploid sect. Fibula, previously believed to have originated through intersectional crossing between sects. Phaeostoma and Sympherica, has a chloroplast genome similar to one species of sect. Phaeostoma. Monophyletic lineages as previously described on the basis of the distribution of duplicated PGI genes are supported, but not fully so. The origin of the allotetraploid C. pulchella involved sect. Eucharidium as the maternal diploid parent and sect. Myxocarpa as the paternal diploid parent. The origin of C. pulchella was ancient, predating the divergence of the two extant species of sect. Eucharidium.
10.2307/2419185|Historically, the genus Heterotoma has been delimited from the large, cosmopolitan genus Lobelia by a single character, the presence of a nectar spur. Comparative studies between Heterotoma and selected members of Lobelia utilizing macro- and micromorphology of pollen and seed testa, anatomy, and field studies support a hypothesis of three independent derivations of nectar spurs in two sections of Lobelia. The present treatment recognizes 12 species (14 taxa). Heterotoma lobelioides, including two varieties, is retained as a monotypic genus. The remaining species are transferred to Lobelia sect. Hemipogon. The revision includes keys, descriptions, distribution maps, and illustrations (or references to such) for each species. One new variety (H. lobelioides var. glabra) is described, four new combinations are made (L. aurita, L. endlichii, L. flexuosa var. intermedia, and L. goldmannii), and one new name is proposed (L. volcanica).
10.2307/2419186|Although the original chromosome number for angiosperms is thought to have been low, many primitive angiosperms actually have high chromosome numbers. Two hypotheses have been offered to explain this paradox: 1) the original basic chromosome number for angiosperms was actually high (x = 12-14) and other numbers were derived via descending aneuploidy; 2) the original basic chromosome number for angiosperms was low (x = 6 or 7) and high basic chromosome numbers were derived via ancient polyploidy. Using enzyme electrophoresis, we determined that species from families with high basic chromosome numbers exhibit increases in isozyme number compared to the numbers of isozymes typical of diploid seed plants. Although the possibility exists that isozyme increase occurred due to chromosomal rearrangement, the most parsimonious explanation appears to be ancient polyploidy. Genetic data therefore are in agreement with the hypothesis that these plants are ancient polyploids with diploid progenitors that are now extinct. Our data suggest that considerable speciation has occurred at the polyploid level in large families such as Magnoliaceae and Lauraceae. Lastly, isozyme data support the hypothesis that basic chromosome numbers near x = 11 or 12 may mark a convenient point for demarcating polyploids.
10.2307/2419187|The Juan Fernandez Islands consist of two major islands: Masatierra (ca. 4 million years old) and Masafuera (1-2 million years old). These volcanic islands lie 600 km west of continental Chile at 33<sup></sup>S latitude. Masafuera lies 150 km directly west of Masatierra. The endemic vascular flora of both islands numbers 123 species of which 99 are angiosperms and 24 are ferns. These species occur in 15 patterns of distribution on both islands. Three patterns of phylogeny are used to describe the origin of the endemic vascular flora: cladogenesis (a splitting event with extinction of the parental species), anagenesis (phyletic evolution), and anacladogenesis. The last pattern is a new term that describes a species arising from a progenitor that itself remains extant and undergoes little subsequent evolution. Analysis of patterns of phylogeny of all the endemic Juan Fernandez vascular flora reveals 71% anagenetic, 24% anacladogenetic, and 5% cladogenetic events. This strong evidence for phyletic change is consistent with small genetic alterations during speciation in rapidly changing environments with few vicariant events.
10.2307/2419348|The phylogenetic relationships of monotypic genera are often poorly understood. Monotypic genera abound in tribe Saxifrageae (Saxifragaceae), a feature attributed to recent radiation in the Cordillera of western North America. Genera in Saxifrageae are often distinguished by distinctive floral and/or fruit morphologies, reflecting different pollination and seed dispersal mechanisms. We examined restriction site variation in chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) using 23 restriction endonucleases in two monotypic genera of Saxifrageae, Bensoniella and Conimitella, and the closely related genus Mitella. Restriction site variation divided North American species of Mitella into two well-differentiated clades that differ from traditional sectional boundaries. These data also suggest that Conimitella williamsii and Mitella stauropetala share a more recent common ancestor than either species does with any other species of Mitella. The phylogenetic affinities of Bensoniella are not as clear. Although cpDNA data suggest that Bensoniella oregona was derived from within Mitella, this species apparently arose very near the major dichotomy that resulted in the two well-differentiated clades of Mitella. It seems likely that other morphologically distinct monotypic genera of Saxifrageae also originated from within related genera.
10.2307/2419349|Experimental crosses performed within nine populations of Arenaria from granite outcrops in the southeastern United States revealed that all populations are self-compatible. Cross-pollinations performed in all possible pairwise combinations of the nine populations showed a wide range of crossability from 0-100% fruit-set. There was a statistically significant negative correlation between geographical distance separating pairs of populations and their crossability (r = -0.405; P < 0.01). Crossability mapping revealed two major groups of populations: 1) sites 6-9 from northeastern Georgia and the Carolinas and 2) sites 2, 4, and 5 from Alabama, western Georgia, and the Atlanta area. These results, therefore, do not support the view that small-flowered populations in Alabama and the Carolinas, previously distinguished as A. alabamensis, are distinct from large-flowered A. uniflora. Instead, it appears that small-flowered populations originated independently at least twice at the margins of the range and that these plants are more interfertile with their geographical neighbors, regardless of floral morphology.
10.2307/2419350|A biosystematic study of Portulaca in Hawaii determined the following chromosome numbers: P. lutea and P. molokiniensis, 2n = 40; P. oleracea, 2n = 54; P. pilosa, 2n = 16; and P. sclerocarpa, P. villosa, two imperfectly known species (P. "olowalu" and P. "ulupalakua"), a P. grandiflora cultivar, and a second unidentified commercial cultivar, all 2n = 18. One plant from the field with 2n = 94 was morphologically intermediate to P. lutea and P. oleracea and apparently represents the stabilized allopolyploid derivative of these species. Additional observations suggest the occurrence of other episodes of natural hybridization involving these species and also P. lutea and P. molokiniensis. Artificial interspecific pollinations yielded the following hybrid combinations: P. lutea x P. oleracea, P. lutea x P. molokiniensis, P. molokiniensis x P. oleracea, P. sclerocarpa x P. villosa, and P. villosa x P. "olowalu." Pollen stainability of hybrids was consistently high in some instances but was low or variable in others. The results suggest that the species of Portulaca in Hawaii comprise two well defined groups: P. lutea, P. molokiniensis, and P. oleracea (polyploids); and P. pilosa, P. sclerocarpa, P. villosa, P. "olowalu," and P. "ulupalakua" (diploids).
10.2307/2419351|A 78 kb DNA inversion encompassing most of the large single copy region of the chloroplast genome marks a monophyletic group that comprises most genera in the subtribe Phaseolinae of the legume tribe Phaseoleae. The inversion, whose endpoints map next to and which includes the infA and psbA genes, originally was characterized from the chloroplast genomes of Phaseolus and Vigna (subtribe Phaseolinae), but was known to be absent from that of Glycine (subtribe Glycininae). We report here a survey of 50 genera of Phaseoleae and related tribes screened using small chloroplast DNA probes, whose hybridization patterns are diagnostic for the presence or absence of the inversion. The taxonomic distribution of the inversion is consistent with morphological and other data, and supports recent subtribal classifications. The disputed inclusion of Macrotyloma in the Phaseolinae is supported by the presence of the inversion in the genus. In contrast, other genera whose placement in the Phaseolinae recently has been questioned, lack the inversion (Pachyrhizus, Clitoria, Centrosema, Psophocarpus). Although still possibly related to Phaseolinae, the lack of the 78 kb chloroplast DNA inversion in these genera supports taxonomic hypotheses that place them elsewhere.
10.2307/2419352|Three species are recognized in the Andean genus Aschersoniodoxa. Aschersoniodoxa pilosa, a new species from Peru, is described and illustrated, and A. cachensis, a new combination, is proposed. A key to the species is given, and scanning electron micrographs of seed, pollen, and leaf surfaces are presented.
10.2307/2419353|The coneflowers include the genera Dracopis, Echinacea, Ratibida, and Rudbeckia, with Rudbeckia being divided into sects. Rudbeckia, Macrocline and Laciniata. As part of a monographic study of Rudbeckia sects. Macrocline and Laciniata, relationships to other nearby Heliantheae needed to be assessed. Stuessy grouped the four coneflower genera together within the subtribe Helianthinae. Later, Robinson erected the subtribe Rudbeckiinae to include Dracopis, Ratibida, and Rudbeckia. He removed Echinacea to the subtribe Ecliptinae on the bases of chromosome number and anatomical features and suggested a probable relationship to the genera Balsamorhiza, Helianthella, and Wyethia. In the current work, twenty-eight qualitative characters were chosen for cladistic analysis performed by the Branch and Bound algorithm in PAUP, which guarantees discovery of the most parsimonious tree. This analysis supports the historical placement of Echinacea with the coneflowers. The resulting cladogram presents the Rudbeckiinae as a monophyletic taxon with the genera of the Ecliptinae forming a group distinct from the coneflowers. The clade of the sister taxa, Dracopis and Ratibida, is related to a clade containing two distinct groups, one of Echinacea and Rudbeckia sect. Macrocline and the other of Rudbeckia sect. Rudbeckia and sect. Laciniata.
10.2307/2419354|A phenetic analysis based on morphological features of Marshallia revealed four major clusters of OTU's. These clusters only roughly correspond to the previously recognized species complexes. The most distinct species is M. trinervia, segregated from the remaining species by ovate leaf shape. It is in the same cluster as M. grandiflora, a diploid species closely related to tetraploid M. mohrii. However, M. mohrii also clusters with the Graminifolia-complex, which is composed of M. graminifolia and M. tenuifolia. These latter two species are diploid, morphologically indistinguishable, and occupy the same bog-like habitat along the Atlantic and Gulf Coastal Plains; consequently M. tenuifolia is treated as M. graminifolia subsp. tenuifolia (Raf.) Watson, comb. et stat. nov. A third cluster is composed of M. obovata and M. caespitosa. The fourth cluster, adjacent to the Graminifolia-complex, includes only M. ramosa. This species was previously thought to be more closely related to M. caespitosa. Morphological variation is continuous among the species, with few abrupt boundaries. They all occupy specific habitats. In addition, the Graminifolia-complex has diverged in seasonal flowering phenology from the others. All species were cross-compatible at approximately equivalent levels (averaging 15% crossability) with the exception of M. ramosa, a diploid species that possesses a number of chromosomal translocations. Little morphological differentiation has occurred, with ecological divergence and chromosomal evolution more apparent among these species in Marshallia. The extensive intergradation of morphological features among the species may be a result of either: 1) recent isolation with accumulation of few genetic barriers to crossing; or 2) a more ancient divergence with low genetic variation present when the species were initially evolving, followed by little morphological divergence.
10.2307/2419355|The new South American species Sacciolepis otachyrioides is described and illustrated; it is related to S. myuros, but differs in smaller inflorescences and broader, more indurate, and obscurely-nerved spikelets. A key and summary of all six New World species of Sacciolepis is presented.
10.2307/2419356|A new species, Aristida correlliae (Poaceae: Aristida sect. Chaetaria) is described and illustrated from South Caicos Island and Long Cay in the Bahama Archipelago, where it grows on stony open ground as an uncommon member of a diverse, arid, scrub community. The new species is similar to A. refracta and A. calcicola in certain habit and leaf features, but differs from these taxa in culm, spikelet, and leaf blade and sheath apex pubescence characters. Aristida correlliae is like A. lanosa and A. stricta in certain pubescence features but exhibits a different habit and a smaller inflorescence. A key is provided for all species of the Bahama Archipelago.
10.2307/2419357|Restriction-site analyses of the chloroplast genomes of members of the Bromeliaceae were conducted to explore subfamilial phylogenetic relationships. Eighteen restriction-site mutations and one large (1.8-kb) length mutation were found to be variable at the family and subfamily levels. Cladistic analyses of these data supported the following hypotheses: 1) Bromelioideae and Pitcairnioideae are sister taxa and the latter may be paraphyletic; 2) Tillandsioideae s. str. and Bromelioideae are each monophyletic; 3) Tillandsioideae s. str. is the sister taxon of the remainder of the family; and 4) Glomeropitcairnia is phylogenetically distinct from the remainder of Tillandsioideae. These analyses suggest that the primarily terrestrial Pitcairnioideae are not basal in the family even though the terrestrial habit apparently is ancestral in Bromeliaceae. Chloroplast DNA data also support the contention that some morphological characters have evolved independently several times in this large, ecologically complex family.
10.2307/2419358|Two new taxa of Mimosa from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mexico are described and illustrated. Mimosa torresiae is assigned to sect. Habbasia Benth. series Rubicaules Benth. and is closely related to M. leucaenoides Benth. The new variety, Mimosa antioquensis var. isthmensis is disjunct from var. antioquensis, which occurs in Colombia.
10.2307/2419359|Phylogenetic relationships and generic delimitation of neotropical species traditionally treated in Hemionitis, Gymnopteris, and Bommeria were examined through the application of cladistic analyses and outgroup comparison. Data from morphology, allozymes, and flavonoids were employed in separate and combined studies. Although none of the results from single-data-set analyses could completely resolve species relationships, cladistic analysis of the combination of all three data sets produced one, dichotomously resolved, hypothetical phylogeny. Two putatively monophyletic groups were formed, allowing the recognition of two natural genera: Hemionitis, with four diploid species, one allotetraploid, and one apparent hybrid of unknown ploidy; and Bommeria, with four diploid species and one triploid. The proposed phylogeny also provided a framework for examining patterns and processes of organismal diversification and character evolution.
10.2307/2419360|Gaura, a genus of 21 species in North America, forms a monophyletic group within tribe Onagreae. Compared to the outgroup (Calylophus), it is clearly defined by three synapomorphies: indehiscent fruits, four-lobed stigmas, and fruits with fewer than 10 seeds. A cladistic analysis of the genus was performed using 20 characters from floral morphology, fruit morphology, and plant habit and growth characteristics. Polarity of the characters was based on the outgroup comparison method. Two most parsimonious cladograms, with only a single minor topological difference, were generated, with 29 steps and a consistency index of 0.72. A Nelson consensus tree was constructed, which has the same length as the two cladograms, and an identical topology to one of them. The consensus cladogram defines 12 monophyletic groups. This cladogram supports most of the current infrageneric classification of Gaura, except that sects. Xerogaura and Gaura appear to be paraphyletic groups. The placement of G. lindheimeri within sect. Gaura in keeping with the current classification depends on interpreting two habit characters in this species as being secondarily derived.
10.2307/2419361|A new species, Agoseris lackschewitzii, is described and illustrated. Morphologically it is similar to both A. aurantiaca and A. glauca but differs notably from both in having pink flowers. It further differs from A. aurantiaca in characters of the fruit and outer phyllaries, and from A. glauca in characters of the anthers and outer phyllaries. Additionally, A. lackschewitzii is restricted to perennially wet montane meadows of southwestern Montana and adjacent Idaho, habitats where other species of this genus are not encountered within this region.
10.2307/2419362|Chloroplast DNA variation was used as a simple and rapid means to produce phylogenetic hypotheses for three newly described species of Glycine subg. Glycine. The presence or absence of 43 restriction site characters previously described in a cpDNA survey of the entire subgenus, and five new characters reported here, was determined for seven accessions representing G. albicans, G. hirticaulis, and G. lactovirens, and two accessions of G. falcata, a species to which two of these new species are thought to be related. All of the new species are shown to belong to the A chloroplast genome (plastome) group, one of three major clades in the subgenus, among whose species are G. falcata. However, within this major clade none of the new species shared their closest affinities with chloroplast DNAs of G. falcata, but rather with plastomes of a group of five species forming a separate clade within the A genome. These results, if indicative of organismal phylogenies, suggest that habitual amphicarpy has developed independently in G. falcata and G. alhicans. Chloroplast DNA polymorphism, common elsewhere in the subgenus, was observed in G. hirticaulis, G. lactovirens, and G. falcata.
10.2307/2419363|Restriction site variation was analyzed in the chloroplast (cp) DNA's of six species of Sorghum and one species each of Cleistachne and Zea. Each cpDNA was separately digested with 14 restriction enzymes and hybridized with six maize or sorghum cpDNA probes that together comprise approximately 75% of the plastid genome. Eighty-four restriction site mutations and two deletion mutations were observed among the cpDNA's of these species. These variable character mutations were used in phylogenetic analyses to construct rooted, most-parsimonious, phylogenetic trees on which confidence limits were placed by bootstrap analysis. The estimated number of nucleotide substitutions per site between each of the cpDNA's was also calculated. These analyses 1) reveal a relatively high level of sequence divergence within the genus Sorghum relative to that of other genera; 2) confirm that Sorghum sect. Sorghum is a monophyletic group; 3) cast doubt on the monophyly of sect. Parasorghum; and 4) suggest that the genus Sorghum may be either paraphyletic or polyphyletic. The fact that restriction site presence/absence in the plastid genome could be easily studied between genera as divergent as Zea and Sorghum suggests that analysis of variation in cpDNA could be used to construct a phylogeny for the entire tribe Andropogoneae.
10.2307/2419364|The analysis of nearly 2000 plants belonging to 85 populations of the Mimulus glabratus complex for eight enzymes revealed the presence of 11 loci and 30 alleles. There is a pervasive, underlying genetic similarity of the members of this Western Hemisphere complex. At the same time, there are clear differences between almost all 17 of the races, allozymically, as well as morphologically, geographically, and cytogenetically. The allozyme results are consistent with the tentative phylogeny of the complex developed from the cytological and biogeographic data, which starts from the putative origin of the group in eastern California and the adaptive radiation of the diploid races (n = 15) throughout inland North America, of the tetraploid race (n = 30) in west Texas, of the aneuploid tetraploid races (n = 31) in western and southern Mexico, Guatemala, and Colombia, and of the hexaploid races (n = 46) in Ecuador and south almost to Tierra del Fuego. The groups delimited by the allozymes correspond remarkably well with the geographic races. The results reveal apparent convergence between the cold desert diploid race of the Great Basin, U.S.A. and the cold desert hexaploid races of the eastern Andes of Bolivia and Argentina.
10.2307/2419365|A phylogenetic analysis of the New World members of Sisyrinchieae, most primitive of the four tribes of Iridaceae subfamily Iridoideae, using leaf anatomical and chromosomal data in conjunction with traditional morphological criteria suggests substantial realignments in the current taxonomy. The New World Sisyrinchieae constitute the majority of the taxa in the tribe; the remaining Bobartia and Diplarrhena, African and Australian, are not considered in the study. Phaiophleps, Chamelum, and Ona appear to be more closely related to Sisyrinchium sect. Eriphilema than the last does to sects. Sisyrinchium and Echthronema, although all these taxa appear to comprise a monophyletic assemblage based on the characters used in our study. Solenomelus, Tapeinia, and Orthrosanthus are more distantly related to Sisyrinchium and its satellite taxa, but the three genera share some features with the Sisyrinchium clade. We treat sects. Sisyrinchium and Echthronema as subgenera of Sisyrinchium and unite sect. Eriphilema and the genera Phaiophleps, Chamelum, and Ona in a single genus, Olsynium (1837). Appropriate changes to the taxonomy of Sisyrinchium are presented and necessary new combinations in Olsynium are made: O. acaulis, O. biflorum, O. lyckholmi, O. bodenbenderi, O. frigidum, O. luteum, O. filifolium, O. junceum, O. philippii, O. scirpoideum, and O. obscura. Additional anatomical observations are presented for Tapeinia, Ona, and Sisyrinchium spicatum, which complement extensive anatomical observations already published.
10.2307/2419151|Blepharoneuron is a North American genus of higher elevations that ranges from Colorado to southern Mexico. It is characterized by spikelets with a single floret, a hairy lemma and palea, and a base chromosome number of x = 8. As revised, it includes two species, B. shepherdii, an annual with lemmas 1.3-1.9 mm long and B. tricholepis, a perennial with lemmas 2-3.8 mm long. Blepharoneuron shepherdii represents a transfer from Muhlenbergia.
10.2307/2419152|Fossil legume fruits from two localities in the Middle Eocene Claiborne Formation of western Tennessee and Kentucky are described and assigned to the extant tropical American genus Diplotropis (Papilionoideae, Sophoreae). Morphological and anatomical details of the fossil fruits occur only in extant Diplotropis and in particular indicate a relationship with sect. Racemosa. These fossils represent the only known occurrence of Diplotropis in the paleobotanical record and confirm the existence of this extant tropical South American genus in southeastern North America by the Middle Eocene (approx. 45 million years B.P.). A new fossil species, Diplotropis claibornensis, is described.
10.2307/2419153|The Pyrrhopappus multicaulis complex includes three species of diploid (n = 6) weedy annuals of the southcentral U.S.A. and northern and central Mexico; P. multicaulis, P. geiseri, and P. carolinianus. In the most recent revision, the first two were recognized as partially sympatric varieties of P. multicaulis. To assess genetic variation within and among populations of P. multicaulis s.l. and P. carolinianus, 19 populations have been examined for allozyme divergence at 13 loci. Average pairwise comparisons of genetic identities within P. multicaulis s.l. are 0.914, reflecting an allozyme pattern characterized by minor frequency differences among shared alleles. Morphological and electrophoretic data indicate gene flow among populations in the P. multicaulis complex and do not support recognition of infraspecific taxa. Species rank for P. carolinianus is supported by marked differences in presence and frequency of allozymes compared to P. multicaulis (mean I value of 0.650). The data are not consistent with purported natural hybridization and introgression between these species. Allozyme data are concordant with previous breeding system studies and indicate a mixed mating system in P. multicaulis s.l. and predominant selfing in P. carolinianus.
10.2307/2419154|The systematic position of the monotypic genus Sphinctospermum has been confused, being placed in either of two tribes, Robinieae or Millettieae, of the Leguminosae subfam. Papilionoideae. Originally allied with Tephrosia (Millettieae), subsequent studies revealed that Sphinctospermum has a base chromosome number of x = 8 and seeds that accumulate the non-protein amino acid canavanine. Such evidence was used to support its inclusion in Robinieae. A cladistic analysis of primarily morphological data is presented that incorporates new or newly interpreted characters, including anatomical and developmental features. These data do not support a sister group relationship of Sphinctospermum and Coursetia, as previously proposed by some workers. Furthermore, the results of this analysis of traditional data are equivocal and suggest that the probable affinities of Sphinctospermum are just as likely to be with genera of Millettieae than with those of Robinieae.
10.2307/2419155|A defining character for Tranzschelia has been the presence of fascicled teliospores, but not all species produce them as previously reported. Fascicled and non-fascicled teliospores differ in their mode of development. A group of fascicled teliospores arises from a single sporogenous cell that buds-off several secondary sporogenous cells slightly asynchronously. Each secondary sporogenous cell then develops a single two-celled teliospore and pedicel. The pedicels tend to adhere and remain together. The pedicels are free at the upper part of the pedicel column and the teliospores usually break-off in this free portion. Non-fascicled teliospores arise from a sporogenous cell that buds-off a spore initial that forms the pedicel and an apical two-celled teliospore, but no secondary sporogenous cell is formed. In this case, a sporogenous cell does not begin a new spore until the previous one reaches a certain degree of maturation. The pedicel of the younger, much smaller spore does not adhere to the older one. Utilizing the fascicled and non-fascicled teliospore characteristic for grouping species, a revised description for the genus Tranzschelia and its species in the Americas is presented. Species with fascicled teliospores are: T. arthurii-macrocyclic, heteroecious, spermogonia and aecia on Hepatica spp., uredinia and telia mostly on Prunus serotina subg. Padus; T. cohaesa-macrocyclic, autoecious, on Anemone spp.; T. discolor-macrocyclic, heteroecious, spermogonia and aecia on Anemone spp., uredinia and telia on Prunus spp., mostly subg. Amygdaliae; T. pulsatillae-microcyclic, on Anemone spp. subg. Pulsatillae; and T. thalictri-microcyclic, on Thalictrum spp. Species with non-fascicled teliospores are: T. fusca-microcylic, on Anemone spp.; T. ornata sp. nov., described herein-macrocyclic, spermogonia and aecia unknown, presumably on Anemone spp., uredinia and talia on Prunus spp.; T. pruni-spinosae var. americana var. nov., described herein-macrocyclic, heteroecious, spermogonia and aecia unknown, presumably on Anemone spp., uredinia and telia on Prunus americana subg. Prunophora, and T. viornae-presumably macrocyclic, autoecious, spermogonia and aecia unknown, uredinia and telia on Clematis sp. subg. Viorna.
10.2307/2419156|Levels of electrophoretically detectable genetic variation were examined at 12 enzyme loci in 21 populations of the common hair-cap moss. Mean genetic diversity within populations was comparable to other moss species (H<sub>S</sub> = 0.069  0.028; mean  standard error), but differences among populations were greater than expected for a dioecious species that regularly produces sporophytes (G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.392  0.078). Differentiation among populations is lower in mountainous regions than at lower elevations, possibly due to historical disturbances by man at lower elevations. Despite large overall differences among populations, mean genetic identities for P. commune were high (I = 0.933  0.004), due to the widespread occurrence of several common alleles. Of 38 multilocus genotypes, 69% were distributed evenly across the range of P. commune. Mean genotypic diversity was 0.546  0.042. This low value, coupled with the fact that P. commune can reproduce asexually, suggests that spore-mediated gene dispersal is limited. Furthermore, indirect estimates of the number of migrants per generation (Nm = 0.71, calculated from G<sub>ST</sub>; Nm = 0.42, calculated from the frequency of rare alleles) indicate that gene flow among populations is restricted. Polytrichum commune var. perigoniale, distinguished by some taxonomists, is not genetically distinct from var. commune.
10.2307/2419157|Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was examined for all 16 species of Microseris, using 22 restriction endonucleases, filter hybridization experiments, and comparative mapping procedures. Mutations were scored relative to other genera of the subtribe Microseridinae, and related genera of the tribe Lactuceae. A total of 115 restriction site mutations was detected, 78 of which were phylogenetically informative. A single most parsimonious cladogram was constructed which indicates three major lines of evolution within the genus. The morphologically distinct annual M. lindleyi was found to be the most divergent and forms the basal lineage within the genus. Forty-three mutations separate annual and perennial species of the genus, whose average sequence divergence is 0.7%. The parentage of the allotetraploid species M. heterocarpa was confirmed, utilizing cpDNA and nuclear ribosomal DNA variation. Evaluation of relative rates of cpDNA evolution indicates that generation time is not responsible for unequal rates of cpDNA in different lineages. The results also suggest that a taxonomic reevaluation of Microseris at the subgeneric level is warranted.
10.2307/2419158|Chusquea sect. Longiprophyllae, a group of six species of the Andean montane forests, is described as new based on the vinelike clambering habit, infravaginal branching, abaxially scabrous culm leaves, tightly circular array of subsidiary buds, central bud with an elongated prophyll, dimorphic subsidiary branches, and well developed glume II. Four new species, C. exasperata, C. londoniae, C. maculata, and C. longiprophylla, are described, illustrated, and their ranges mapped. Chusquea sneidernii and C. ligulata, two previously described species, are transferred to this section, and are also treated. Two keys to species are provided, one based solely on vegetative characters and the other on vegetative and flowering characters. The foliar epidermal micromorphology of this section is described and illustrated based on a scanning electron microscopy survey of the six species. Species-specific differences were observed, and the bifurcate or branched papillae on the subsidiary cells of the stomatal apparatus and small papillae on the bulliform cells characterize the section.
10.2307/2419159|The chromosome number of Lacandonia schismatica is n = 9 with 4 large and 5 small pairs in the complement. Microsporogenesis is of the successive type and tapetal cells are mostly 2-nucleate. These results are compared to those known in Triuridaceae.
10.2307/2419160|Recent collections of Aster blepharophyllus A. Gray, the first since its discovery in 1851, prompted a reevaluation of its identity. It is properly placed in the genus Machaeranthera as M. gypsitherma Nesom, Vorobik, & Hartman. Within that genus, it shares characters with species of sect. Blepharodon as well as those of sect. Arida (both groups sensu Hartman), but we place it tentatively in the latter group. Of particular significance is its chromosome number of n = 5 pairs, reported for the first time, which is shared with species of sect. Arida.
10.2307/2419161|Three similar species of Carex sect. Atratae subsect. Atropictae (subsect. nov.) occur in South America, which together may be known as the Carex atropicta complex. All three, similar in habit, grow south of the Tropic of Capricorn, with C. atropicta occurring primarily in Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego, C. malmei in west-central Argentina and adjacent parts of Chile, and C. monodynama (comb. et stat. nov.) in central Argentina. The new subsection is distinguished by: stigmas 2 (infrequently 3); plants commonly with a solitary spike (except in C. atropicta where they are occasional); and margins of the perigynia ciliate-scabrous (but in C. monodynama sparingly so), more or less winged, and generally with a light- colored strip of varying length that extends from the beak toward the base. Habitats for the three species include moist to wet meadows, swamps, marshes and marshy pasturelands, depressions in moist grassland, grassy hillsides, ravines, banks of streams, and coastal flats bordering the sea.
10.2307/2419162|Restriction site mutations analysis using 18 restriction endonucleases for chloroplast DNA's from North American Gutierrezia has led to a generic circumscription which is somewhat different from those previously proposed. Molecular data agree with a recent taxonomic treatment of Lane (1982, 1985), which transferred the x = 4 species from Xanthocephalum and submerged Greenella into Gutierrezia, but they do not support the submersion of the monotypic genus Thurovia. Thurovia is closely related as a sister group to Amphiachyris and should be resegregated from Gutierrezia. The study indicated that Xanthocephalum with x = 6 is very distantly related to Gutierrezia, even though Xanthocephalum has often been treated as part of the Xanthocephalum-Gutierrezia complex. Xanthocephalum is, in contrast, very closely related to Grindelia, which also has a base chromosome number of x = 6. Traditional species of Gutierrezia, G. californica, G. grandis, G. microcephala, G. sarothrae, G. serotina, and G. texana, constitute a closely related cluster and are well-separated from other purported members of the genus. Gutierrezia californica s. str. and G. bracteata should be separated again as distinct species. The herbaceous species, G. sericocarpa and G. sphaerocephala, appear to be the most primitive in the genus.
10.2307/2419163|Klaprothieae includes two monotypic genera from Central and South America, Klaprothia and Sclerothrix. These are the only two neotropical Loasaceae with 4-merous flowers, reduced floral scales, staminodial structures, and chromosome numbers that suggest a polyploid relationship. Merger of the two genera is proposed and Sclerothrix fasciculata becomes Klaprothia fasciculata, comb. nov.
10.2307/2419164|Vaccinium sect. Herpothamnus is revised based on an investigation of the morphology, anatomy, reproductive biology, artificial hybridization, ecology, and phytosociology. It is treated as monotypic, consisting of V. crassifolium with two polymorphic subspecies, subsp. crassifolium and subsp. sempervirens comb. nov. (V. sempervirens). Comparison with other vacciniums indicates possible ancestral relationships with South American species from the Guayana Highland.
10.2307/2419165|The career of E. O. Wooton as New Mexico's first resident plant taxonomist spanned 20 years. It began in 1890 with his appointment at the New Mexico College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts in Las Cruces and ended in 1911 when he was employed by the Bureau of Plant Industry in Washington, D.C. During this time, he taught classes in bacteriology, biology, botany, chemistry, geology, mineralogy, physics, physiology, and zoology, and served as State Chemist and Botanist for the Agricultural Experiment Station. He was the intellectual mentor of O. B. Metcalfe, who collected numerous novelties from the region, and P. C. Standley, who went on to a distinguished career with the Smithsonian Institution and the Chicago Natural History Museum. Wooton's collection trips took him throughout the territory as he built the herbarium from nothing to more than 35,000 specimens, incorporating not only his collections but also exchanges from nearly all the prominent botanists and collectors of the time, and yielding 231 plant species and one genus new to science. His botanical activities embraced not only the floristics and taxonomy of New Mexico plants, but also the reclamation and conservation of the territory's range lands. His work is reflected in his 30 publications from this era, culminating in the first floristic treatment for the state. Wooton was born 19 September 1865 in Kokomo, Indiana, and died 20 November 1945 in Arlington, Virginia. Appendices record eponymy, publications, taxa named by Wooton, and taxa named from Wooton's collections.
10.2307/2419166|Four species are recognized in the Andean genus Heppiella: H. ulmifolia that ranges from Colombia to Peru, H. viscida from northwestern Venezuela, H. verticillata from the Eastern Cordillera of Ecuador and adjacent Colombia, and H. repens from Ecuador and southern Colombia. The former three species have allopatric distributions, occur in disturbed habitats, and are terrestrial. Heppiella repens is sympatric with H. ulmifolia and H. verticillata, occurs in mist forests, and is usually climbing and epiphytic. Heppiella has apparently developed from ancestors close to Gloxinia, and this latter genus was used as an outgroup in a cladistic analysis. The only derived features that the widespread and variable H. ulmifolia possesses are those that distinguish Heppiella from Gloxinia. The three more restricted species have no derived features in common, and have apparently evolved independently from geographically isolated populations of H. ulmifolia.
10.2307/2419167|Microliabum, recognized for its reduced habit and noted for its broadened inner pappus segments, is expanded to include Austroliabum, which has larger plants and capillary pappus segments. Liabum mulgediifolium, resurrected from synonymy, shows characters intermediate between typical Microliabum and Austroliabum. Six species are recognized in Microliabum with five new combinations: M. mulgediifolium, M. polymnioides, M. candidum, M. eremophilum, M. glanduliferum. Austroliabum is treated as a new subgenus.
10.2307/2419168|Gonocalyx amplexicaulis (Ericaceae), a new epiphytic blueberry from the cloud forest along the Continental Divide of Prov. Bocas del Toro, Panama, is described and illustrated. A key to the nine species in the genus is also included.
10.2307/2418969|The genus Fremontodendron (Sterculiaceae) is endemic to California and Arizona in the United States and to Baja California of Mexico. Fremontodendron is considered to consist of two distinct and geographically localized species, F. decumbens and F. mexicanum, and a widespread, highly polymorphic species, F. californicum. Studies of morphological variation, including principal components analysis, did not support the recognition of infraspecific taxa in F. californicum.
10.2307/2418970|Three Mesoamerican species, most recently assigned to Psidium, are not species of that genus, nor can they be accommodated realistically in any existing genus of the Myrtaceae. Chamguava is described to contain them. This new genus is a member of the Campomanesia complex of genera, probably most closely related to Pimenta and Blepharocalyx. It is distinguished from them by a subpeltate placenta and by shortly peduncled, uniflorous inflorescences that are grouped together in umbel-like clusters. The following new combinations are made: C. gentlei, C. gentlei var. apodantha, C. musarum, and C. schippii.
10.2307/2418971|The extent to which allozyme comparisons are possible at and above the generic level was evaluated for eight species representing six genera and both subtribes of the tribe Benincaseae (Cucurbitaceae). We employed various starch gel electrophoretic conditions to investigate and combat the problem of comigration of enzymes between taxa. Fifteen enzyme systems were resolved on an average of four gel/electrode buffer systems each. We detected comigration at approximately two-thirds of the 30 resolved loci. Comparison of our results to those we might have obtained using single and two-condition electrophoresis revealed that a substantial proportion of intergeneric differentiation would have gone undetected with single-condition electrophoresis. Two testing conditions per enzyme would have been sufficient in most cases, however. Comparison of single versus multiple-condition electrophoresis also indicated that undetected comigration generally increases with increasing genetic differentiation of taxa. Deviations from this trend suggest additional unknown influences. All taxa were allozymically connected, either directly or via other taxa in the study. Evaluation of taxon relationships was based on the percentage of loci at which two taxa shared an allele. Results from this analysis are in concordance with geographical, biochemical, and cytological data suggesting three major evolutionary lineages within the tribe Benincaseae. This, in turn, validates the utility of allozyme analysis for systematic work at and above the generic level where divergence is not too great.
10.2307/2418972|Recent systematic treatments evaluating variation in the Carex flava species complex have divided the West European representatives into two species, C. flava and C. viridula. These treatments contrast with previous reports that have recognized as many as nine species based upon morphological variation. To assess the systematic relationship of C. flava and C. viridula, allozyme analyses were conducted on 34 West European populations distributed from the Alps to the Arctic Circle. Data were obtained from electrophoresis of soluble enzymatic proteins extracted from leaf tissue. Fifteen of the 20 presumptive loci examined for this study were found to be polymorphic; variation was distributed between the two species and within 25 populations. These data support recognition of C. flava as a species distinct from C. viridula at a genetic identity of 0.69. The two species are discriminated by diagnostic alleles at two loci and highly disparate allele frequencies at an additional five loci. There is little genetic differentiation among populations of C. flava in West Europe. Genetic identities exceeding 0.95, which were obtained from infraspecific pairwise comparisons of C. flava, do not support recognition of subspecies. In contrast, C. viridula was highly differentiated with a G<sub>ST</sub> of 0.806 strongly supporting recognition of subspecies.
10.2307/2418973|Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) and isozyme data were used to reconstruct the evolutionary history of the 21 taxa comprising Helianthus sect Helianthus. Low levels of cpDNA and isozyme divergence suggest a recent origin, perhaps within the last 1-2 million years, with subsequent rapid evolution and diversification throughout North America. This, combined with evolutionary phenomena such as phylogenetic sorting and introgression, makes phylogenetic reconstruction difficult. A strict consensus tree derived from Wagner parsimony analysis of the isozyme data set showed almost complete lack of resolution. The three clades resolved were, however, largely consistent with previous phylogenetic hypotheses. The most parsimonious cpDNA-based Wagner tree was poorly resolved, but showed that sect. Helianthus as presently circumscribed is monophyletic. Surprisingly, the cpDNA-based phylogeny does not resemble any of the previous phylogenetic hypotheses for this group based on evidence from morphology, crossability, sesquiterpene lactone chemistry, and inferred chromosomal end arrangements. In general, species geographically most proximal are most closely related in terms of cpDNA, maternal inheritance of which is demonstrated herein. All four polytypic species in sect. Helianthus are polyphyletic in terms of cpDNA. Morphological classification and cpDNA genotype were discordant for populations or species of H. annuus, H. debilis subsp. cucumerifolius, H. neglectus, H. petiolaris subsp. fallax, H. petiolaris subsp. petiolaris, and H. anomalus. Cytoplasmic introgression appears to be the most parsimonius explanation for these discrepancies. The edaphic differentiation and generally allopatric distribution of most taxa in sect. Helianthus are consistent with an allopatric mode of speciation. Molecular and chromosomal evidence, however, suggest that allopatric, parapatric, and quantum speciation all operate. In addition, at least one geographic race may have been derived through introgression and three species appear to be derived via selection or random fixation of recombinant genotypes following interspecific hybridization. We also tested the hypothesis that levels of genetic polymorphism will be lower in geographically restricted species than in more widespread species. Eight of the 11 narrow endemics analyzed had lower levels of genetic diversity than any of their more widespread congeners.
10.2307/2418974|The taxonomic revision of the genus Crinodendron utilizes several lines of evidence including herbarium and field studies, cytotaxonomy, and wood anatomy. Crinodendron comprises four species: C. patagua, C. tucumanum (including C. boliviensis), C. brasiliense, and C. hookerianum. Crinodendron hookerianum and its close relationship to Dubouzetia of the South Pacific is discussed. Dubouzetia is retained as an independent genus until the specific limits of that genus can be studied in full. Tricuspidaria is a synonym of Crinodendron.
10.2307/2418975|Mitotic and meiotic chromosome numbers are reported for 22 species representing eight genera of Argentinean Acanthaceae. Counts for 18 of these species are published for the first time (including the first count for the genus Chaetothylax, 2n = 28). In Siphonoglossa, 2n = 36 is a newly reported chromosome number and n = 13 is a new number for Stenandrium. Polyploidy and aneuploidy have been important in chromosomal evolution of Acanthaceae and diploids are apparently not very common. The basic number x = 7 seems to be primitive for the family, from which the widespread x = 14 would have been derived.
10.2307/2418976|Phylogenetic relationships among species representing 57 genera from 15 currently recognized tribes of Asteraceae were assessed by chloroplast DNA restriction site mapping. Phylogenetic analyses of 328 informative restriction site mutations were performed using both Dollo and Wagner parsimony and the bootstrap method. The results provide strong support for the monophyly of the subfam. Asteroideae, which includes the nine tribes Astereae, Anthemideae, Inuleae, Senecioneae, Calenduleae, Eupatorieae, Heliantheae, Coreopsideae, and Tageteae. The monophyly of the Lactucoideae (excluding the Barnadesiinae) is less strongly supported and this subfamily consists of the six tribes Mutisieae, Cardueae, Vernonieae, Liabeae, Lactuceae, and Arctoteae. The molecular phylogeny indicates that 13 of 15 tribes are monophyletic, with the Heliantheae and Tageteae being paraphyletic. Several groups of tribes are shown to be closely related, including the Liabeae and Vernonieae, and the Tageteae, Coreopsideae, Heliantheae, and Eupatorieae, but relationships among the other tribes remain unclear. Tribal placement of five morphologically anomalous genera (Blennosperma, Cotula, Echinops, Stokesia, and Ursinia) is also clarified. The chloroplast DNA phylogeny shows almost complete congruence with the less explicit phyletic scheme proposed by Thorne but differs markedly from the cladistically-based phylogeny of Bremer. The availability of a molecular phylogeny for the Asteraceae allows for an independent assessment of the patterns of morphological, chemical, and chromosomal evolution in the family. A much higher incidence of parallelism occurs in secondary chemistry than in morphological characters. The subfam. Asteroideae has a number of evolutionarily derived floral features and it exhibits a much more diverse and biosynthetically complex secondary chemistry.
10.2307/2418977|Morphological studies of the short-beaked members of Carex sect. Vesicariae have indicated that three species can be recognized: C. saxatilis (incl. C. miliaris and C. physocarpa), C. membranacea, and C. rotundata. To assess genetic relationships among species and gene diversity within species, 44 populations from throughout North America were surveyed electrophoretically for 12 enzymes encoded by 17 putative loci. Populations of the same species exhibited high genetic identities, with average values exceeding 0.950. Interspecific genetic identities ranged from 0.636 (between C. saxatilis and C. rotundata) to 0.880 (C. membranacea and C. rotundata). Alleles for the isozymes AAT-1, AAT-2, 6-PGD, PGI-2, PGM-2, and SKDH were useful in distinguishing C. saxatilis from C. membranacea and C. rotundata. Carex membranacea and C. rotundata were best distinguished by alleles of 6-PGD. There was little allozyme differentiation within the C. saxatilis complex; however, a weak east/west cline was evident. Within populations, observed heterozygosity closely matched expected levels of heterozygosity: F values averaged 0.039, indicating outcrossing is prevalent. Genetic variation was found to be largely apportioned within populations as Nei's gene diversity statistic (G<sub>ST</sub>) was close to 0.19 in each species. Past electrophoretic studies of Carex have disclosed low levels of intrapopulation genetic variation and high levels of interpopulation differentiation indicating high levels of inbreeding. Large population sizes, dichogamy, a rhizomatous habit, and self-incompatibility are discussed as possible mechanisms for maintaining genetic diversity within populations of the short-beaked species.
10.2307/2418978|Flavonoids were isolated from leaf extracts of three putative hybrid milkweeds and the four presumed parental species of Asclepias. A total of 16 flavonoids, all of which are glycosides of the flavonols quercetin and kaempferol, was identified. The hybrid A. exaltata x A. quadrifolia contained both of the marker compounds characteristic of A. quadrifolia and three of the four compounds usually produced by A. exaltata. In addition, two novel flavonoids were detected. Naturally occurring A. exaltata x A. syriaca produced three of four compounds diagnostic for A. exaltata and all but one of the common constituents of A. exaltata, yielding a profile similar to that of known hybrids produced by experimental crosses. Four novel compounds occurred in field-collected hybrids but were present only in trace amounts. Detailed analyses of a larger population of milkweeds in West Virginia suggested that F<sub>1</sub> interspecific hybrids of A. exaltata and A. syriaca had backcrossed to the parents, yielding a complex hybrid swarm. The putative hybrid A. purpurascens x A. syriaca contained two of the four compounds characteristic of A. syriaca and four of the six variably present in A. purpurascens. Two novel flavonoids were observed. Analyses of flower extracts indicated that the novel compounds detected in leaves of hybrid milkweeds usually result from a breakdown in tissue-specific regulation. Chemical data therefore lend strong support to morphological evidence of hybridization between these species of Asclepias.
10.2307/2418979|A cladistic analysis indicates that the Ipomopsis spicata complex is monophyletic, related as a sister group to I. congesta in sect. Microgilia, and is characterized by regional differentiation most likely associated with climatic and topographic changes that occurred during the late Pliocene and Pleistocene. The cladogram provides evidence for the independent evolution of alpine, subalpine, and lowland races in the Rocky Mountains and the eastern perimeter of the Great Basin, correlated with a progressive change in inflorescence architecture, trichome distribution, and floral morphology. Based on morphological studies and examination of all type specimens, a taxonomic revision is proposed that summarizes morphological, geographical, and cladistic patterns within the complex. We recognize I. spicata as composed of five principal geographic races treated as: subsp. spicata, subsp. capitata, subsp. orchidacea (comb. nov.), subsp. robruthii (subsp. nov.), and subsp. tridactyla (comb. nov.). Subspecies orchidacea includes var. orchidacea and var. cephaloidea (comb. nov.), which differ in ecological distribution and inflorescence architecture but intergrade in parts of their sympatry. Subspecies robruthii is described from the Absaroka Range of northwestern Wyoming.
10.2307/2418980|By using both consensus and combination approaches, new chloroplast DNA data are integrated into a primarily morphological data set that bears on the tribal affinities of Sphinctospermum. Both approaches are useful in testing hypotheses of homology among traditional characters but the combination approach is more useful than the consensus approach in testing hypotheses of reticulate evolution. This is because discrete chloroplast DNA markers can be tracked on the topology of alternative cladograms. Such discrete DNA markers are derived from a chloroplast DNA phylogeny using the bootstrap resampling procedure; a chloroplast DNA lineage with a 95-100% confidence level is scored as a discrete character in an integrated data set. The results suggest that Sphinctospermum is related to genera of Robinieae by common descent and that introgressive hybridization has not been involved in the evolution of this morphologically distinctive genus.
10.2307/2418981|The genera Pluchea, Brachylaena, and Tarchonanthus were originally placed in the Vernonieae by Cassini, but have since been assigned to other tribes. Pluchea has most often been assigned to the Inuleae (subfam. Asteroideae). Brachylaena and Tarchonanthus have been assigned to six different tribes, including the Inuleae, in both the subfam. Lactucoideae and Asteroideae. The primary reason for this diversity of tribal assignments has been the anomalous morphology of these latter two genera. Both are unisexual, dioecious, woody shrubs or trees with filiform florets. In addition, distribution is restricted to Africa, Madagascar and associated islands. Chloroplast DNA variation was examined for these three problematical genera and compared to 64 genera in 15 tribes. Complete restriction site maps were constructed for 11 enzymes; a total of 944 mutations were found, 339 of which were phylogenetically informative. The data were used to construct phylogenetic trees using both Wagner and Dollo parsimony and the resulting monophyletic groups were evaluated using the bootstrap method. Pluchea placed within the Inuleae s.l. (subfam. Asteroideae) in all equally parsimonious trees. Brachylaena and Tarchonanthus formed a distinct monophyletic lineage at or near the base of the subfam. Lactucoideae. These two genera did not group consistently with any currently accepted tribe and are thus recognized as a new tribe, the Tarchonantheae (Cassini) Keeley & Jansen.
10.2307/2418982|Patterns of morphological variation within the Tolumnia variegata complex of Puerto Rico, Hispaniola, and Cuba are described. Univariate and multivariate analyses of population data obtained from fresh material collected in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic indicated that three a priori groups (Puerto Rican spring- and fall-flowering populations, and Hispaniolan spring-flowering) are slightly different but considerable univariate overlap occurs in all characteristics measured, especially between the two phenological types in Puerto Rico. Among the flowering types, sympatric populations are either not different or are similar morphologically than pairs of allopatric populations. Similar analyses of herbaruim specimens, including type material, revealed that T. leiboldii, a species often confused with T. variegata, is restricted to Cuba, and is distinguished by having obovate instead of pandurate petals. Furthermore, spring- and fall-flowering T. variegata are more similar to each other within islands than among islands. Phenological and geographical groups are slightly different but the similarities among them are outstanding. Thus the Cuban, Hispaniolan, Puerto Rican, and Virgin Island populations of both phenological types represent a single species, T. variegata. Although some characteristics are plastic, especially vegetative features, the origin and maintenance of extraordinary levels of variation in T. variegata may involve hybridization, founder effects, and frequency dependent selection.
10.2307/2418983|The classic coal-swamp lycopsid genus Lepidodendron (Lepidodendrales) is transformed from apparent paraphyly to monophyly by segregating 'L.' serratum as a new genus, Hizemodendron, currently containing only H. serratum. All potential organs of H. serratum have been correlated, with varying degrees of confidence, to yield a conceptual whole-plant. Secondary tissues were probably confined to the rhizomorph and putatively short stem, which generated a repeatedly branched leaf- and cone-bearing crown. This pseudoherbaceous habit resulted in a scrambling, recumbent growth form that allowed the development of dense ground-cover in some Carboniferous coal-swamp forests of Euramerica. Truly prostrate growth (and accompanying bilateral symmetry of axes) was precluded by ontogenetic constraints, notably determinate growth and the centralized rhizomorphic rootstock. Hizemodendron and Lepidodendron are very similar in reproductive characters but differ in several vegetative characters. Hizemodendron serratum is the only recorded non-tree in the apomorphic (monosporangiate-coned) portion of the lepidodendralean clade, implying that it originated from an arboreous, Lepidodendron-like ancestor. If so, Hizemodendron retained the ancestral reproductive organs and bauplan, but decreased in body size and acquired a new, pseudoherbaceous growth habit that prompted other vegetative modifications. The pseudoherbaceous habit is iterative within the arborescent lycopsids, also occurring in Oxroadia and Paurodendron; it probably reflects precocious apical dichotomy. This in turn may be caused by mutation of genes regulating early development, which offers a range of heterochronic mechanisms for repeated saltational macroevolution within the lycopsids.
10.2307/2419274|Restriction enzyme cleavage site variation in the chloroplast DNA's (cpDNA's) of 25 of the 44 recognized species representing all 11 sections of North American Coreopsis was employed to assess phylogenetic relationships among the sections. Cladistic analysis of the data produced a phylogeny that is similar to, yet distinct in several aspects from, other hypotheses generated from morphological characters. The phylogeny based on cpDNA consists of two primary lineages within North American Coreopsis. One lineage includes sects. Calliopsis, Coreopsis, Eublepharis, Palmatae, and Silphidium from the eastern and southeastern United States. The other evolutionary line comprises sects. Anathysana, Electra, Leptosyne, Pseudoagarista, Pugiopappus, and Tuckermannia from California and Mexico. These two basic lineages have been recognized in other phylogenies except the relationship of the monotypic sect. Silphidium has been problematical; the cpDNA data are conclusive in showing that sect. Silphidium belongs to the eastern lineage. Only the two sections of annual species from California, Pugiopappus and Leptosyne, are not monophyletic based on cpDNA data. Sects. Electra and Anathysana, which consist of woody species from Mexico, form a monophyletic assemblage based on cpDNA whereas this was not the case for the cladistic analysis of morphological data. Data from flavonoid chemistry and number of isozymes of phosphoglucose isomerase are more supportive of relationships between sects. Electra and Anathysana as inferred from cpDNA as compared to morphological data. A paucity of restriction site mutations precludes resolving relationships among the eastern U.S. sections; however, the available cpDNA data are in agreement with the phylogeny generated from morphological features.
10.2307/2419275|Thirty-eight flavonoids were isolated from leaves of 15 species of Acer sect. Palmata series Palmata. The flavonoid data indicated the presence of three distinct chemical groups: the "palmatum" type producing flavonols, flavones, and C-glycosylflavones, the "robustum" type producing flavones and flavonols, and the "japonicum" type producing only flavonols. On the basis of available flavonoid biogenetic information, the "japonicum" type appears to be the most primitive, the "robustum" type the most advanced, and the "palmatum" type intermediate, but highly specialized. The correlation of these chemical types with morphology suggests that the presence or absence of pubescence on the ovary is the most reliable diagnostic morphological character for the delimitation of the series. Flavonoid data also assisted in clarifying the taxonomic status of several previously confusing taxa (A. duplicatoserratum complex, A. takesimense, and A. amoenum var. matsumurae). The chemical and morphological data also support a putative migratory route of these taxa from southeastern China to North America via Japan, which is consistent with modern theories of phytogeography. Additionally, a more plausible hypothesis of the phylogenetic history of these taxa can be postulated using these combined data.
10.2307/2419276|In earlier chromosomal studies, hexaploid (n = 24) and decaploid (n = 40) strains were reported within the species that has been called Ludwigia uruguayensis. Field observations and morphological studies of extensive living collections for which chromosome numbers are available have confirmed that these entities are best treated as two discrete species. The hexaploid species, L. grandiflora, comb. nov., has villous pubescence, sublance???? leaves with a glandular mucronate apex, smaller flowers, and smaller pollen grains. The decaploid species, L. hexapetala, comb. nov., is usually glabrous, with oblanceolate leaves, larger flowers, and larger pollen grains. Octoploid (2n = 64) hybrids between them have been found in southern Brazil and are to be expected wherever they occur together.
10.2307/2419277|Allopolyploidy is common in the homosporous fern Polystichum and may account in large part for the taxonomic complexity of the genus. Six polyploid species of Polystichum occur in North America. We addressed the origins of two tetraploids (2n = 164), P. californicum and P. scopulinum, using allozymic data for 12 loci and restriction fragment analyses of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA). Two hypotheses have been advanced for the origin of P. californicum: 1) the diploid progenitors are P. dudleyi and P. munitum; and 2) P. californicum is polyphyletic, with populations from California and southern Oregon derived from P. dudleyi and P. munitum and those populations from northern Oregon and Washington derived from P. dudleyi and P. imbricans. Allozymic data confirm the allotetraploid nature of P. californicum; fixed heterozygosity was observed at six loci, although only two or three loci were fixed in most populations. Polystichum californicum contains the genome of P. dudleyi, and allozymic data suggest that P. imbricans contributed the second diploid genome. CpDNA data confirm the role of P. imbricans in the origin of P. californicum; all populations of P. californicum examined, from throughout its range, possessed the chloroplast genome of P. imbricans. Polystichum scopulinum, distributed at high elevations throughout much of western North America, was also confirmed to be an allotetraploid, displaying fixed heterozygosity at six loci, although no more than five loci were fixed in any one population. Allozymic data indicate that P. lemmonii was one of the diploid parents of P. scopulinum. The chloroplast genome of all populations of P. scopulinum examined was also contributed by P. lemmonii. Allozymic data also implicate P. imbricans as the other diploid parent, rather than P. munitum as some have proposed.
10.2307/2419278|Fuchsia sect. Skinnera, the only Old World group in the genus, comprises three species in New Zealand and one in Tahiti. These species include a tree, a large shrub, a climbing-scandent shrub, and a creeping, barely woody plant. The section is extremely distinct from the New World species of Fuchsia, and several sharply contrasting models depicting the evolutionary history of these species and the character state changes associated with habit, breeding systems, and chemistry have been proposed. A chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis of sect Skinnera and two outgroup sections was performed, generating a single tree depicting maternal relationships. This tree is congruent with one previously proposed model and demonstrates that the rare F. procumbens of New Zealand is the sister group to all other species in the section, while F. cyrtandroides of Tahiti is the sister taxon of the two remaining New Zealand species. Based on the chloroplast DNA analysis, a critical reevaluation was made of character state changes in the section relating to morphology, breeding systems, and flavonoid compounds.
10.2307/2419279|Isidrogalvia, which has been included in Tofieldia s.l. since 1805, is indigenous to South America. Cladistic analyses suggest that its closest relatives are Pleea and Harperocallis rather than Tofieldia s. str. or Triantha. Isidrogalvia differs substantively from its Northern Hemisphere relatives in having styles that are united to their apices or nearly so, tomentose leaf margins, and a seed appendage that is decurrent along the seed body. In addition, it differs from Tofieldia and Triantha in having scapes that bear many bracts, most of which are above the middle, racemes of erect flowers that are subtended by a calyculus of free bracts, and large, multi-veined tepals that are longer than the stamens and enclose the capsules. The five species of Isidrogalvia fall into three groups, which are readily separated using capsule and bract characters: I. falcata has 3-ribbed capsules and calycular bracts that are longer than wide; I. sessiliflora (comb. nov.) and I. robustior (comb. nov.) have incompletely 9-ribbed capsules and calycular bracts that are longer than wide; and I. schomburgkiana (comb. nov.) and I. duidae (comb. nov.) have 9-ribbed capsules and calycular bracts that are wider than long.
10.2307/2419280|Inflorescence structure is analyzed in three small-flowered species previously assigned to Phthirusa, viz., P. micrantha, P. sandwithii, and P. myrsinites. The first two are characterized by determinate inflorescences, the terminal flower being followed by one or two pairs of (e)bracteolate monads and, at least in P. micrantha, one or more pairs of bracteolate triads; occasionally in P. micrantha, plants have bracteolate monads only, but a terminal flower is always present. The result of this analysis is exclusion of the first two species from Phthirusa and their assignment to Cladocolea as C. micrantha comb. nov. and C. sandwithii comb. nov. In P. myrsinites, in contrast, the inflorescence is an extremely condensed, indeterminate spike of bracteolate monads. The question of appropriate generic assignment of this species leads to a reconsideration of the status of the genus Maracanthus, which is synonymized to Oryctina. In consequence, I suggest that Oryctina be reconstituted to consist of O. scabrida, O. subaphylla, O. chlamydata comb. nov., O. pedunculata comb. nov., O. badilloi comb. nov., and O. myrsinites comb. nov. Phthirusa savannarum is synonymized under the latter species.
10.2307/2419281|Two new species of Colombian mistletoes are described and illustrated that provide transitions between the previously isolated, monotypic genus Ixocactus and the genus Cladocolea. This linkage necessitates a reformulation of generic boundaries. Of the several options, the one that is preferable involves the placement of both new species in the former genus as I. gracilis sp. nov., and I. rhynchophyllus sp. nov., and the transfer of three Cladocolea species to Ixocactus as I. clandestinus comb. nov., I. inconspicuus comb. nov., and I. inornus comb. nov. This redefinition of the genus is based most conspicuously on the absence of inflorescences, unique in small-flowered neotropical Loranthaceae. An amended generic diagnosis and key to the six species are provided for Ixocactus.
10.2307/2419283|Subfam. Maloideae (x = 17) has been held to be tetraploid since 1931 while later, Sax elaborated by Stebbins, specifically implicated subfam. Spiraeoideae (x = 9) and Amygdaloideae (x = 8) in an allotetraploid ancestry. The allotetraploid theory has gained considerable credibility with many workers on Rosaceae but, although support for it is not unanimous, and it is sometimes ignored, there has never been any attempt at refutation. To date, the theory has depended mainly on chromosome constitution, and, in a rather general way, on the morphological characteristics of the respective taxa. In this paper we review the allotetraploid hypothesis and generally verify it by an extensive character analysis of the Maloideae, Amygdaloideae, and Spiraeoideae. Since no specifically rosoid or quillajoid characters exist in the Maloideae, no candidate near-ancestral genera in subfam. Rosoideae or tribe Quillajeae can be pinpointed. The autapomorphic fruit of the Maloideae-the pome-is derivable from spiraeoid or proto-amygdaloid characters. In a parsimony analysis of a 96 taxa x 36 variable data matrix the phenetic genera were, for the most part, returned as clades, but their placement was to a significant extent, peculiar. The consistency index was extremely low. Furthermore, the addition of only three OTUs resulted in major relocations of some of the genera. We concluded that, in this type of situation, parsimony analysis is not robust, and sought other explanations for the relationships suggested. We favour the idea that several clades of Maloideae originated independently in a highly reticulate system existing shortly after the original allotetraploid cross. This notion of polychotomous early evolution alone, we feel, makes sense of the general correspondence of phenetic genera to cladistic genera, remarkably low consistency index, great instability of the cladogram with respect to changing only a few OTU's, and the manifestly great ability of most maloidean genera to hybridize. Thus, the precise phylogeny of the Maloideae must remain quite unknown until a very different kind of investigation has been successfully conducted.
10.2307/2419284|Maloids are versatile in reproductive mode-vegetative spreading, self-incompatibility, self-compatibility, and apomixis all occur-and they engage in extensive hybridization and polyploidy. Naturally occurring gametophytic apomixis has been reported from almost 100 taxa in six genera-Aronia, Amelanchier, Cotoneaster, Crataegus, Malus, and Sorbus s.l. Generally in maloids apomixis is facultative, aposporous, pseudogamous, and characterized by a distinctive multiplicity of megagametophytes per ovule. Unlike their sexual relatives apomicts are almost always triploid or tetraploid and self-compatible. Maloid polyploids that have been studied express some apomixis. Reported evidence for apomixis includes ploidy level and mode of development of megagametophytes, presence of multiple megagametophytes in one ovule, polyembryony, progeny of maternal phenotype, complete pollen sterility, and seed set in the absence of pollination. Crosses between apomictic and sexual taxa yield apomictic offspring in most cases, indicating, along with other studies, that apomixis is genetically dominant over sexuality in the Maloideae. Hybridization at generic and specific levels is remarkably frequent. Smaller genera tend to be diploid; larger genera also contain triploids and tetraploids; and higher ploidy levels and aneuploidy are rare. Hybridization, often coupled with polyploidy and uniparental reproduction, leads to new, more or less reproductively isolated forms in the Maloideae.
10.2307/2419285|The available data suggest that the population structure of maloid species may be affected dramatically by features of their breeding system, and by their reproductive ecology in general. Morphometric data from Amelanchier, Crataegus, and Sorbus demonstrate associations between the occurrence of uniparental reproduction (apomixis and selfing) and polyploidy with topodeme phenotypic variability. These associations appear to be modified by factors such as fecundity, propagule size, and differences in shade tolerance between and within genera. Uniparental reproduction, abundant seed production, and the short time available in which to colonize recently disturbed sites decrease the number of genotypes in maloid topodemes. At present, however, genetic data with which to test this assertion are lacking. Rigorous evaluation is necessary in view of the possibility that much of the taxonomic complexity of genera such as Amelanchier, Crataegus, and Sorbus is due at least in part to naive assumptions about population structure in these genera on the part of earlier taxonomists. Their ignorance of the roles played by hybridization, uniparental reproduction, and polyploidy may have led them to recognize as species individual genotypes.
10.2307/2419286|Isozyme phenotypes of Malus fusca, a native of western North America, differ strikingly from those of eastern North American sect. Chloromeles. Isozyme phenotypes vary little between the three taxa recognized within sect. Chloromeles: M. angustifolia, M. coronaria, and M. ioensis. Phenotypes of seedlings from native taxa did not share diagnostic allozymes with the cultivated apple, M. x domestica, indicating little gene flow from the latter into native Malus. Isozyme patterns do, however, support earlier conclusions based on morphology that M. platycarpa and the flowering cultivar 'Kola' are hybrids of sect. Chloromeles and the domesticated apple, and that M. dawsoniana is a hybrid of the domesticated apple and M. fusca.
10.2307/2419287|The number of genera recognized in subfam. Maloideae by different authors has varied greatly; a historical summary is presented here. We have evaluated generic limits based on our own observations of a suite of morphological characters for about 200 species chosen to represent the taxonomic and geographic diversity of the approximately 940 species of Maloideae. A narrow circumscription of genera is generally adopted, with 28 genera recognized. Hesperomeles is considered distinct from Osteomeles; Eriolobus and Docyniopsis from Malus; and Aria, Chamaemespilus, Cormus, and Torminalis from Sorbus. Micromeles is included within Aria and Stranvaesia and Aronia within Photinia. The genera are either relatively small or relatively large: 19 genera have 11 or fewer species, seven between 26 and 97 species, and only two contain more than 100 species. The traditional division of Maloideae into two tribes is unwarranted and does not reflect relationships of the genera. The extensive hybridization between genera and subgeneric groups seems to reflect weak overall barriers to hybridization in the subfamily rather than indicate evolutionary relationships. Diagnoses are presented for each genus as well as a table comparing morphological characters for all genera. The following new combinations are made: Chamaemespilus alpina, Photinia floribunda, P. melanocarpa, P. pyrifolia, Malus subg. Sorbomalus, Torminalis clusii, and T. orientalis.
10.2307/2419332|The degree of genetic similarity between closely related species may reveal past evolutionary processes, such as modes and mechanisms of speciation. To investigate patterns of speciation in a chromosomally diverse species complex, we analyzed allozymic variation in Clarkia nitens, C. speciosa, and Polyantha-North, a race that combines features of both species. Eight enzymes encoded by 17 loci were examined. Populations of all three taxa maintain high levels of genetic variation. Although frequencies of common alleles were generally consistent among the three taxa, several relatively rare alleles exhibited clinal variation throughout the complex. Nei's genetic identities indicate very high genetic similarity among populations of each taxon: 0.98 for C. speciosa, 0.96 for Polyantha-North, and 0.95 for C. nitens. Genetic identities among taxa were also high: 0.94 between C. speciosa and C. nitens, 0.95 between Polyantha-North and C. nitens, and 0.97 between Polyantha-North and C. speciosa. The chromosomal distinctness and genetic similarity of Clarkia nitens and C. speciosa support a model of rapid speciation.
10.2307/2419333|Tragopogon mirus is one of only a few polyploids whose time of origin is known with a high degree of certainty. Previous studies of morphological, karyotypic, and electrophoretic variation suggested multiple origins of allotetraploidy in T. mirus from the Palouse region of eastern Washington and adjacent Idaho. Restriction site analysis of the 17S-25S ribosomal RNA genes (rDNA) was used to test for multiple origins of T. mirus. The rDNA restriction profiles of six populations of T. mirus were compared with those of eight populations of T. dubius and six of T. porrifolius, the diploid progenitors. Populations of T. mirus combine the rDNAs of T. dubius and T. porrifolius, confirming the proposed origin of the tetraploid. Furthermore, the incorporation of restriction site polymorphisms of T. porrifolius into different populations of T. mirus demonstrates at least two independent origins of T. mirus. Although T. mirus often occurs with its diploid progenitors, these mixed populations do not necessarily reflect sites of origin of the tetraploid. In the three mixed populations examined, the diploids could not have produced the tetraploid plants found at the same site. Extensive dispersal of the tetraploid and fluctuating population sizes coupled with local extinctions and subsequent recolonization could explain the discordance between rDNA genotypes and their distributions. Thus, population dynamics in Tragopogon may obscure the sites of independent origin of T. mirus. Finally, although multiple origins of polyploid species have been reported frequently, few studies have demonstrated multiple polyploidization events on a geographic scale of a few kilometers.
10.2307/2419334|A cladistic analysis of 113 species and varieties of North American Astragalus is presented to develop hypotheses of phylogenetic relationship among sections and major clades. A set of 57 binary and unordered multistate characters derived from morphology, biochemistry, and cytology was analyzed using Wagner parsimony. Two large sets of equally parsimonious trees were found at 597 steps. Consensus and tree similarity methods were used to characterize each set and to compare them to each other. Features shared by both sets include a paraphyletic assemblage of sections at the base (Barneby's sects. Strigulosi, Micranthi, Miselli, Leptocarpi, Reventi-arrecti in part, and others), which gives rise to three large groups. The best supported clade is composed of sections having predominantly deciduous fruits, including sects. Inflati, Humistrati, Humillimi, Desperati, Drabellae, and Chaetodontes. Another large clade includes the bulk of Barneby's "Homalobi," a group of taxa characterized by persistent, often laterally compressed fruits. The third group includes many sections with large flowers, such as sects. Argophylli, Sarcocarpi, Preussiani, and Trichopodi). In the first set of trees each of these groups is monophyletic; in the second set the "Homalobi" clade is derived from within the large-flowered clade, making the latter paraphyletic. Although uncertainty about the basal relationships of these three groups persists, other relationships are well supported. The impact of certain limitations in the analysis is discussed, including character/taxon ratio, sampling of taxa, method of rooting, and the exclusion of South American species from the study. The monophyly of sections and higher level relationships proposed by Rydberg, Jones, and Barneby is briefly evaluated in light of these results.
10.2307/2419335|The grass Puccinellia includes many taxa of indeterminate status. One area of controversy is a complex that includes the widespread P. nuttalliana and several questionably distinct variants. We analyzed isozyme variation in 32 local populations, interpreted as 36 biological populations (groups of individuals that constitute a local reproductive community), to determine whether distinct entities exist within this complex. We used inferred biological populations as the basic analytical units, and generated population profiles that reflect each allele as absent, present and fixed, or present but not fixed. Populations were interpreted as conspecific if they could not be distinguished on the basis of the fixed presence of at least one allele in one, and absence of the allele in the other, and species profiles that represent this multi-population variation were generated. We detected six isozyme species, entities that are distinct on the basis of isozyme profiles; whether they are morphologically distinct is not known at present. Two of these are geographically allopatric polymorphic entities, each consisting of multiple populations; one of these two is geographically widespread in western North America, the other is confined to southeastern Oregon and adjacent areas of California and Nevada. The other four isozyme species are known from one population each, and all occur within the geographic range of one or the other of the two multi-population species. Cladistic analysis based on the isozyme profiles, using the diploid species P. lemmonii as the outgroup, supports the association of each of the multi-population species with one or more of the geographically localized species that occur within its range.
10.2307/2419336|Most of the species in the genus Dryopteris of eastern North America, as well as several European species, are implicated in an intricate hybrid/polyploid complex referred to here as the D. "spinulosa" complex. Conflicting hypotheses have been proposed to account for the ancestry of the allopolyploid species of this complex: 1) the "semicristata" scheme invokes a hypothetical diploid, putatatively extinct, as an ancestor of certain alloploids; 2) the reinterpretation scheme interprets all all alloploids as derived from extant diploids. To test these hypotheses, a comparative study of isozymes among the species comprising the D. "spinulosa" complex has been undertaken. The present paper reports evidence relative to the origin of the allotetraploid D. celsa, a widespread but locally occurring wetland species. The parentage of D. celsa has been alternatively hypothesized as either D. ludoviciana x goldiana ("semicristata" scheme) or D. ludoviciana x marginalis (reinterpretation scheme). Isozyme patterns were compared for 12 enzymes coded by 19 loci resolved and interpreted across the four relevant species. The inferred isozyme genotype of all D. celsa individuals examined was identical, with rare exceptions, and was homozygous for 13 loci and fixed heterozygous for seven loci. Under the assumption that D. ludoviciana is one ancestor of D. celsa (as both hypotheses agree), all loci were consistent with the hypothesis that D. goldiana was the other ancestor, whereas only 12 were in any way consistent with ancestry by D. marginalis. The assumption of ancestry by D. ludoviciana was supported by all loci except Pgi-2, where D. celsa is fixed for an allele not detected in any of the putative parents. While the origin of this orphan allele is uncertain, its fixation in D. celsa suggests that this allopolyploid species has had a unique origin, in contrast to the multiple origins inferred for other allopolyploid species. This study has provided unequivocal evidence that the ancestry of D. celsa is D. goldiana x ludoviciana, a result that substantially strengthens the plausibility of the "semicristata" scheme.
10.2307/2419337|The genus Salmea as treated here consists of 10 species, divided among three sections. In sect. Salmea, S. scandens is found from Mexico through Central America to Argentina and Brazil and on the islands of the Caribbean. It is closely related to S. orthocephala of Central America and slightly more distantly related to the species pair, S. oligocephala and S. palmeri of central and western Mexico. Section Pseudocalea has five closely related species (S. glaberrima, S. caleoides, S. montana, S. insipida, and S. pauciceps) that are endemic to Cuba. The monotypic sect. Sterrhanthemum (S. petrobioides) is found in the Bahamas and on the coast of Cuba. Salmeopsis is no longer recognized and its single species is placed under S. scandens.
10.2307/2419338|Phylogenetic study in the Callitrichaceae is hampered by reduced floral structure and environmentally mediated phenotypic variation of both vegetative and reproductive (fruit) characters. Yet a phylogenetic perspective is requisite to an understanding of ecological, morphological, and reproductive system evolution in the family. Cladistic analysis of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction fragment variation, combined with several morphological characters, was conducted on 11 taxa of Callitriche (nine indigenous to North America and two European). These studies provide the first explicit phylogenetic hypotheses for the Callitrichaceae and support the monophyly of several groups. Callitriche hermaphroditica, the single obligately submerged species examined, aligned basal to all other North American taxa. The remaining indigenous North American taxa formed two opposing clades: 1) the terrestrial C. nuttallii, C. peploides, C. terrestris grouped with the amphibious C. marginata, and 2) the amphibious C. heterophylla var. heterophylla and var. bolanderi, C. trochlearis, and C. verna. Relationships among the taxa within these clades are unresolved. These analyses indicate that the internal geitonogamous breeding system is synapomorphic for the latter clade, and suggest that the terrestrial growth habit may be derived from the amphibious growth habit in the family. This study demonstrates the utility of using cpDNA restriction fragment variation to gain phylogenetic perspectives in aquatic angiosperms.
10.2307/2419339|Twenty-five populations of Antennaria from the low arctic of northwestern North America, including individuals that have traditionally been referred to as A. alaskana, A. angustata, A. compacta, A. densifolia, A. friesiana, A. monocephala, A. neoalaskana, and A. philonipha, were analyzed to determine the degree of divergence among populations. Sixteen putative isozyme loci were assayed to assess the amount of allozyme divergence. Morphological variation among the populations was evaluated using 30 characters. Principal components and cluster analyses were used to quantify the morphological and allozymic differences among the populations. Results indicate that four distinct groups exist among the taxa including A. densifolia, A. friesiana, s.l., A. monocephala s.l., and A. neoalaskana. Both morphological and isozyme data were concordant in indicating that the taxa have diverged from each other to the extent that they can be recognized at the rank of species. Genetic structure of the populations is comparable to other previously studied species of Antennaria and is typical of perennial herbs in general. Asexual populations of A. friesiana and A. monocephala contain an average of 3.2 clones per population, which is generally characteristic of asexual populations of Antennaria. Comparisons of diploid vs. polyploid and sexual vs. asexual populations yielded no significant differences for genetic statistics such as A, P, and H<sub>obs</sub> between the groups. Antennaria friesiana s.l. may contain a mixture of diploids, autopolyploids, and segmental allopolyploids.
10.2307/2419340|The taxonomy of the western North American "Epiles" group of Poa is revised in the light of new information on morphology, anatomy, breeding systems, and chloroplast DNA restriction sites. The artificial group, "Epiles" s.l., of A. S. Hitchcock is divided into three homogeneous parts: sect. Madropoa subsect. Epiles, sect. Secundae subsect. Halophytae (all formalized here), and sect. Abbreviatae. These three sections belong to three larger chloroplast groups in Poa. A new subspecies, P. cusickii subsp. pallida, is proposed, and hybrids between this and P. fendleriana are distinguished as P. x nematophylla. From the Sierra Nevada, P. stebbinsii is proposed as a new name for P. hansenii sensu auct., and a new species, P. keckii, is segregated from P. suksdorfii. A descriptive key to western North American "Epiles" group s.l., distributional maps, and illustrations of species of the subsect. Epiles s. str., and species newly referred to sect. Abbreviatae are provided. New and additional chromosome counts are reported for: P. cusickii subsp. pallida, 2n = 56+II; P. secunda (P. juncifolia form, previous citation as P. cusickii), 2n = 42; P. napensis, 2n = 42; P. strictiramea, 2n = 28+I; and P. unilateralis, 2n = 84.
10.2307/2419341|Leiophyllum buxifolium occurs in a series of disjunct population systems in three areas: the New Jersey Pine Barrens, the Coastal Plain of North and South Carolina, and the southeastern Blue Ridge Province. Twelve populations from six regions within this range were examined for divergence in morphology and allozyme frequencies. There is significant variation at the level of region for seven of the 15 morphological characters examined and significant variation at the level of population within region for 12 characters. Allozyme variation in L. buxifolium is lower than in other long-lived, woody species, with H<sub>T</sub> = 0.118  0.022 (mean  standard deviation) and H<sub>S</sub> = 0.108  0.062. On the other hand, the percentage of loci polymorphic is high (64.6  21.8). More of the total variation in gene frequencies occurs among regions (G<sub>RT</sub> = 0.075  0.059) than among populations within regions (G<sub>PR</sub> = 0.036  0.035). Multivariate analyses indicate that the Hanging Rock region in the Piedmont of North Carolina is distinct based on morphology, but not based on isozyme markers. No other region appeared to be distinct from the others either morphologically or genetically. Leiophyllum should, therefore, be treated as a monotypic genus that, despite its high degree of morphological variability within and among disjunct areas, cannot be easily split into well-defined infraspecific taxa.
10.2307/2419342|Isozyme phenotypes for 13 enzyme systems were obtained for both species of Mespilus, as well as for a number of species in related genera of subfam. Maloideae. Comparison of these phenotypes revealed that the two Mespilus species grouped together with isozyme analysis, an interesting observation in view of their wide geographic separation. Similarly, each of the other genera examined displayed its own characteristic isozyme phenotype. These results support the inclusion of M. canescens within Mespilus.
10.2307/2419343|The step in cladistic analysis that has received least attention is delimitation of character states, there usually being little justification for their delimitation. It is generally assumed that states of cladistic characters are discrete, even when variation is quantitative. I show here that a majority of the character states of obviously quantitative characters used in lower-level cladistic studies in botany over the last generation are ambiguous even when ingroup variation alone is analyzed. Consideration of variation in the outgroup may compromize either the states recognized in the ingroup and/or the polarity that they are subsequently assigned. Furthermore, many so-called qualitative characters are based on a quantitative phenomenological base filtered through the reified semantic discontinuities of botanical terminology; such characters face the problems of their more obviously quantitative relatives. Methods for delimiting states within quantitative characters are examined. Some produce gaps in the variation by redefining the character, scoring the intermediates in a distinctive fashion, performing phylogenetic analyses within the terminal taxa, or changing the hierarchical level at which the variation is evaluated. Others produce states by manipulation of the statistical properties of the variation of the ensemble of taxa being studied. These latter methods often allow greater resolution of the phylogeny, but at the cost of lowering the significance of the most parsimonious tree. The underlying assumptions of the two sets of methods are briefly analyzed. Problems manifest in the division of continuous variation into character states suggest a reappraisal of the early steps of cladistic analysis; in practice, character states often seem to be delimited in conjunction with developing ideas of the phylogeny, rather than in a step prior to a phylogenetic analysis. It is recommended that character states be delimited by carefully analyzed discontinuities (not necessarily absolute gaps) in the variation, attention having been paid to variation in the outgroup, and that "morphological" characters in general are assumed to be quantitative unless demonstrated otherwise. Explicit justification for the delimitation of character states should be given as a matter of course in all phylogenetic studies.
10.2307/2418863|A synopsis of Didonica, a genus of neotropical Ericaceae endemic to Panama and Costa Rica, is presented. Didonica crassiflora and D. subsessilis are described as new, joining the previously described D. pendula and D. panamensis. Taxonomic history, general morphology, generic and specific relationships, and a cladistic analysis are provided. The two new species are illustrated, and a key to the four known species is given.
10.2307/2418864|Similarities among taxa of glucosinolate-producing plants and putative relatives were evaluated using numerical methods applied to a dataset of 93 characters. These include anatomical and morphological (vegetative and reproductive), chromosomal, palynological, phytochemical, and ultrastructural features. Principal components and coordinates analyses reveal considerable complexity, hence little redundancy in this dataset. Cluster analyses show that glucosinolate taxa as a whole are not phenetically coherent. With or without glucosinolate characters included in the analyses, a core capparalean group comprises Brassicaceae, Capparaceae, Resedaceae, and Tovariaceae, to which are linked the non-glucosinolate Koeberlinia and the families Bataceae, Gyrostemonaceae, and Salvadoraceae but not Moringaceae. Based on a sparser dataset, Drypetes clusters with Euphorbiaceae; Akania and Bretschneidera cluster together but not close to Sapindaceae; Pentadiplandru is too poorly known to be placed with confidence. Caricaceae, Limnanthaceae, Moringaceae, and Tropaeolaceae remain problematic.
10.2307/2418865|A dataset of 90 putatively homologous characters was assembled to analyze phylogenetic relationships among the 15 taxa of glucosinolate-producing plants and 11 potential outgroups. The characters sample a broad range of anatomical, morphological, physiological, and phytochemical aspects of these plants. With or without glucosinolate characters included in the cladistic analysis, a lineage emerges consisting of core Capparales (Brassicaceae, Capparaceae, and Resedaceae) allied with Gyrostemonaceae and Tovariaceae and affiliated with Bataceae, Salvadoraceae, and the non-glucosinolate Koeberlinia. This clade is marked by vestured pitting, curved embryo in seed, vacuolar or utricular cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum, myrosin cells, and a fundamentally tetramerous floral construction. Drypetes affiliates with Euphorbiaceae, and Limnanthaceae with Balsaminaceae, affirming the convergent nature of glucosinolate biosynthesis. Caricaceae, Moringaceae, and Tropaeolaceae remain problematic as do the poorly known genera Akania, Bretschneidera, and Pentadiplandra. Earlier serological comparisons corroborate some of these alignments, including displacement of Moringaceae from core Capparales.
10.2307/2418866|Guadua sarcocarpa, a new species with two subspecies from Amazonian Peru, Brazil, and Bolivia is described and illustrated. It is the first species of Guadua known to have fleshy fruits and the first report of an edible bamboo fruit in the New World. The new species shares 10 distinctive morphological traits with Guadua weberbaueri, an apparent close relative. Guadua sarcocarpa subsp. sarcocarpa and G. sarcocarpa subsp. purpuracea differ primarily in the color and length of the pseudospikelets (stramineous, 3-7 cm long in the former and purplish, 1-3 cm long in the latter), and shape and length of the caryopsis (oblong, apex obtuse to ovate, 4-6 cm long vs. ovate, apex abruptly apiculate, 1.5-2.5 cm long).
10.2307/2418867|A key is provided to four recognized species of Macvaughiella including one restored to specific status and two, M. chiapensis and M. oaxacensis, newly described.
10.2307/2418868|The taxonomy of subtribe Castillejinae, comprising approximately 250 hemiparasitic species principally of western North and South America, is re-evaluated on the generic and subgeneric levels. Based on studies of chromosome number, seed and seed coat morphology, intergeneric hybridizations, and floral morphology, six genera are recognized. The circumscription of three genera remains the same: Clevelandia (one species); Cordylanthus (18 species); Ophiocephalus (one species). The species of Orthocarpus, a highly heterogeneous and probably polyphyletic genus as constituted, are distributed to three genera: 1) Orthocarpus (with affinities to Cordylanthus) is restricted to the type section and subgenus; 2) sects. Castillejoides and Cordylanthoides of subg. Orthocarpus (closely allied to the Castilleja pilosa group) are placed in Castilleja; 3) subg. Triphysaria is raised to generic status. The genus Gentrya is given subgeneric status in Castilleja. The large and expanded genus Castilleja is subdivided into three subgenera: Colacus (with three sections); Gentrya; and Castilleja, which includes the majority of species in the genus. A phylogenetic chart depicts our view of evolutionary relationships within the subtribe. Keys to genera of subtribe Castillejinae and keys to subgenera and sections (excluding sections of subg. Castilleja) of genus Castilleja are provided. New combinations are proposed in Castilleja (two subgenera: Colacus and Gentrya, one section: Oncorhynchus, 11 species and 8 subspecies: C. ambigua subspp. humboldtiensis and insalutata, C. attenuata, C. brevistyla, C. campestris and subsp. succulenta, C. densiflora and subspp. gracilis and obispoensis, C. exserta and subspp. latifolia and venusta, C. lacera, C. lasiorhyncha, C. lineariloba, C. rubicundula and subsp. lithospermoides, C. tenuis, C. racemosa) and in Triphysaria (four species and two subspecies: T. eriantha and subsp. rosea, T. floribunda, T. micrantha, T. pusilla, T. versicolor subsp. faucibarbata).
10.2307/2418869|Forty-seven populations from seven species of Hosta in Korea and on Tsushima Island, Japan, were analyzed by starch gel electrophoresis to measure variation at six enzyme systems. High levels of isozyme diversity existed within and among populations of all species. It is suggested that Hosta venusta is a recent derivative of H. minor based on high Jaccard's Similarity Indices (SI) and possession of electrophoretic bands that represent an exact subset of those of H. minor with the exception of only one novel band (DIA 17) found in H. venusta. Hosta jonesii and H. tsushimensis may have developed from elements of H. minor separated by the last Ice Age. This hypothesis is supported by the evidence that: 1) the former two species had only one unique band, and a relatively high mean interspecific SI value with H. minor (range 0.402-0.479) and 2) similar morphological features. On the other hand, the uniformly low interspecific SI, high number of species-specific unique bands observed, and high morphological divergence suggest that H. minor, H. clausa, H. capitata, and H. yingeri have been isolated for a moderately long period of time. This indicates a probable geographic mode of speciation for these four species. In general, there is relatively good agreement of the phenetic relationships between the isozyme bands and the treatment by M. Chung based on morphometric analysis. Based on this information, four species groups could be recognized: 1) H. minor, H. venusta, H. jonesii, and H. tsushimensis; 2) H. yingeri; 3) H. capitata; and 4) H. clausa. This conclusion conflicts with previous taxonomic treatments of this genus. Finally, regression analysis revealed significant (P < 0.05) relationships between phenetic distance for presence/absence of each band and geographic distance for five species.
10.2307/2418870|A key is provided for the six known species of Stifftia including two newly described, S. hatschbachii and S. racemosa. Homogamous heads with actinomorphic corollas in Stifftia are considered as ultimately derived from members of the subtribe Mutisiinae having zygomorphic corollas, and the genus is not considered directly related to other genera with actinomorphic corollas such as Gochnatia of the subtribe Gochnatiinae. For purposes of the study the subtribe Gochnatiinae is not distinguished from the Mutisiinae.
10.2307/2418871|An analysis was made of morphological variation in the taxonomically complex Hawaiian genus Wikstroemia. Previous authors had recognized 12 or 26 species. Multivariate analyses indicate that variation is continuous and that natural groups are not distinguishable on the basis of macromorphology. Two micromorphological characters, pollen exine sculpturing and seed coat morphology, were examined for their potential taxonomic utility; however, neither of these characters contributed any useful taxonomic information at the species level. The polyforate, crotonoid pollen grains from populations on the six major islands of Hawaii and from five extra-Hawaiian species are morphologically uniform. In contrast, seed coats showed intra- and interpopulation variability, but the variation patterns are not consistent at the population level or above.
10.2307/2418872|The degree of gametophytic selfing in natural populations was examined for the annual polyploid fern Ceratopteris thalictroides in several ways. Examination of sexual ontogeny of the gametophytes showed that two types of gametophytes were usually observed: large, cordate hermaphrodites with mature antheridia and archegonia and small, spatulate or amorphous males with numerous antheridia. The occurrence of the former may be correlated with gametophytic selfing, while that of the latter is indicative of the presence of antheridiogen, which can promote gametophytic crossing. Selfing potential was tested by growing isolated gametophytes. In this test, only 3 of 26 spore sources exhibited the presence of genetic load, and even the highest frequency of self-sterile gametophytes in these three was only 3.8%. These gametophytic results predicted a predominantly selfing mating system for this species. This prediction was tested using electrophoretic analysis of allozymes. Polymorphic band patterns were detected for IDH and PGI, and the genetic constitution of these variations was verified through progeny tests. Based on the frequencies of these allelically segregating variants, the rates of gametophytic selfing and F statistics were estimated for a population composed of five subpopulations. The estimated rates of gametophytic selfing were remarkably high, ranging from 0.600 to 1.000 with the mean F<sub>IS</sub> of 0.886. The estimated F<sub>ST</sub> was 0.109 in IDH and 0.203 in PGI, values suggesting the occurrence of intrapopulational substructuring. The high level of gametophytic selfing in C. thalictroides is probably related to its polyploid nature and annually colonizing habit. An antheridiogen system may operate to compensate for the loss of genetic variability through predominant inbreeding.
10.2307/2418873|Propeller-like samaras from the Eocene and Oligocene of Oregon and from the Eocene of Washington and Wyoming have characters of internal nutlet morphology, sepal and bract configuration diagnostic of the Juglandaceae. These fruits, given the new generic name Cruciptera, consist of a globose unilocular nutlet with incomplete primary and secondary septa, four free epigynous sepals, and four elongate wings that radiate from the equatorial plane of the nutlet in the shape of a cross. The wings have subparallel, dichotomizing venation. The genus is also recognized from the middle Eocene of southern England and western Germany. Although the associated foliage and pollen have not been recognized, available fruit characters support placement of Cruciptera in the tribe Juglandeae, near extant Cyclocarya and extinct Polyptera. The appearance of Cruciptera in the fossil record post-dates the earliest appearances of Cyclocarya and Polyptera and predates the first confirmed records of Pterocarya. The new combination, C. simpsonii, is also described.
10.2307/2418874|The effect of latitude on the morphology of Meesia triquetra was investigated. One hundred nine herbarium specimens of M. triquetra were examined to quantify variation in 11 plant, leaf, and leaf cell characters. Linear combinations of characters and most individual characters vary significantly with latitude, although the amount of variation accounted for by this gradient is low (2 to 17%). Variances in character means decrease with increasing latitude. Discriminant analysis and multivariate analysis of variance indicate that specimens originating from the high arctic, low arctic, and boreal forest ecoclimatic regions have characteristic morphologies. Annual growth increment length, leaf length, and leaf shape are particularly important characters in discriminating among specimens from the three ecoclimatic regions examined.
10.2307/2418875|Portulaca biloba, previously known only from Cuba, is reported new to the United States. It is presently known from five sites in three Georgia counties. Its taxonomy, distribution, habitat, morphological description, chromosome number, and theory of introduction are presented and discussed.
10.2307/2418876|The epidermal microcharacters of 20 genera in the Ranunculaceae and 10 outgroup genera from the families Glaucidiaceae, Circaeasteraceae, Berberidaceae, Menispermaceae, and Lardizabalaceae were studied employing scanning electron and light microscopy. Characters such as type of trichome and stomatal length are valuable tools in assessing phylogeny in the Ranunculaceae. Using cladistic analyses, the basic division of the family into two major groups according to chromosome size (R- and T-types) was confirmed. By outgroup polarization, the T-type chromosome group is considered most primitive. Two major clades are recognized in the T-type taxa: the Aquilegia and Thalictrum group including closely related genera and a group consisting of Coptis and Xanthorhiza. Hydrastis is not considered a member of the Ranunculaceae. Further cladistic analyses of the R-type taxa using macrocharacters derived mainly from floral and fruit morphology resulted in the following subdivisions: the Anemone and Ranunculus group including Pulsatilla, Hepatica, and Clematis; the Cimicifuga and Actaea group; and the Helleborus group including Eranthis, Trollius, and Caltha.
10.2307/2419059|In the long-standing controversy over the Centrospermae (i.e., Caryophyllales) and putatively related orders, comparative sequencing of the chloroplast gene, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase, large subunit (rbcL), shows that the Polygonales and Plumbaginales are not closely related to the Caryophyllales as has been hypothesized, nor are they related to members of the Dilleniidae. The sequence data supports the assignment of independent superorder status to the Caryophyllales and the Polygonales and Plumbaginales. These sequence data further suggest early and independent paths of evolution for the Polygonales and Plumbaginales, and the Caryophyllales.
10.2307/2419060|The Carex pachystachya complex represents seven species noted for their extensive morphological variation. A study of allozyme variation was initiated to determine levels of genetic variation within and among populations, and to determine the level of genetic divergence among species. Progeny from 65 populations representing six species were scored for 14 enzyme systems presumably encoded by 21 loci. Oberved heterozygosity is zero in most populations and lower than the expected equilibrium values. Total genetic diversity is low, ranging from 0.019 to 0.170 within species. Average within population diversity is also low, ranging from zero to 0.097. The majority of genetic variation exists among populations as seen by the coefficient of gene differentiation, which ranges from 0.426 to 1.0. Although notable differences exists, the species are similar genetically with the standard genetic identity ranging from 0.745 up to 0.946. Low levels of genetic variation along with high amounts of differentiation agree with the pattern observed in predominately self-pollinated species, as well as possible cryptic differentiation. Low amounts of diversity within each species as well as high identities among species suggest a recent origin for the group.
10.2307/2419061|Olyra davidseana, a new species from eastern Amazonian Brazil in the O. glaberrima group, is described, illustrated, and compared to related species in a key. The new species is distinctive in its combination of female spikelets with attenuate glumes; smooth, shiny, female lemmas pubescent with flattened macrohairs only along the basal adaxial margins; obtuse to subcordate leaf blades; and small, congested inflorescences.
10.2307/2419062|Stellaria porsildii is described as a new species. It is diploid and presently known only from isolated populations on Signal Peak in the Pinos Altos Range, Grant Co., New Mexico, and Chiricahua Mountains, Cochise Co., Arizona. The new species differs from S. longipes in having large solitary flowers in the axils of normal green leaves. The leaves are linear to linear-lanceolate, 27-35 mm long.
10.2307/2419063|We investigated the distribution of genetic variation in cedar elm, Ulmus crassifolia. This species has an unusual geographic distribution with a primary range in the south central United States (central Texas east to Mississippi) and a few isolated populations located in central Florida. Cedar elm was polymorphic at 86% of the 15 loci examined and maintained high levels of genetic diversity within populations (H<sub>e</sub> = 0.22). Over 94% of the total genetic variation was partitioned within populations (G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.062), even though significant levels of variation at individual loci were detected among populations. Genetic identity between populations located in the primary population was high (I = 0.990), while populations located in central Florida were more divergent from each other (I = 0.923) than from populations found within the primary range (I = 0.952). The Florida populations had reduced allelic variation per locus (\overline{A} = 2.07) in comparison to the primary populations (A = 2.32), even though both sets of populations had equivalent levels of genetic diversity (H<sub>e</sub> = 0.20 and 0.19, respectively). This reduction in alleles suggests that the Florida populations of U. crassifolia may have experienced a mild genetic bottleneck during their evolutionary history.
10.2307/2419064|Discrete qualitative and continuous quantitative characters ("gap-coded") are used in a parsimony analysis of the phylogenetic relationships of the pinyon pines. Cladograms constructed using all the data (both discrete and continuous characters) are congruent with those constructed with the continuous characters deleted from the data set. The continuous characters add resolution to clades not resolved by discrete qualitative characters. The resulting phylogeny is then used to examine Axelrod's hypothesis that a Late Tertiary shift in regional climate-the elimination of summer rains in the far western United States-affected the evolution of the regional flora. The cladograms produced by this study are in agreement with the inferred climate changes, with the most recently derived pinyon taxa being those from regions of summer drought. The phylogeny is also used to examine other biogeographic trends, such as a shift towards wider substrate tolerance, and patterns in character evolution, such as the evolution of fewer needles per fascicle in the taxa endemic to areas of summer drought.
10.2307/2419065|A new species, Rigodium adpressum (Musci: Rigodiaceae), is described and illustrated from the Andean Cordillera of Chile and Argentina where it grows in mountainous areas most commonly forested by southern beech (Nothofagus spp.). The new species has an arborescent habit similar to that of R. toxarion and R. brachypodium, but differs from them in several features of the stem and stipe leaves-most notably in their appressed position and the well-differentiated basal decurrencies and intramarginal band of cells. A chart comparing the distinctive characters of these three taxa is provided.
10.2307/2419066|Paradrypetes, a small genus known only from Brazil, has been placed near Drypetes in subfam. Phyllanthoideae, in subfam. Oldfieldioideae, and even excluded from the Euphorbiaceae altogether. In light of recent studies of the Oldfieldioideae, the morphology of Paradrypetes, particularly of its leaves and pollen, suggests that this genus is a primitive member of that subfamily. Its closest relative appears to be Podocalyx, in the tribe Podocalyceae, but numerous differences between these genera justify placing Paradrypetes in its own subtribe, the Paradrypetinae, G. Levin newly described herein. Two species of Paradrypetes are recognized, including a new species, Paradrypetes subintegrifolia.
10.2307/2419067|There are four species in Boisduvalia sect. Boisduvalia, a South American tetraploid, and three North American diploids with two different chromosome numbers. Experimental hybridizations and analyses of chromosome homologies were performed in an attempt to determine patterns of species relationships and reveal the chromosomal history of this group. Experimental hybridizations were possible in all combinations among the four species. Among the diploids, B. stricta (n = 9) and B. densiflora (n = 10) are the most readily hybridized, yielding 41% fruit set. Crosses involving B. macrantha (n = 10) with these two species yielded only one successful fruit in each combination, and in each case only one successful F<sub>1</sub> individual was obtained. All diploid hybrids had greatly reduced pollen stainability. The chromosomes of the two n = 10 species were differentiated by three reciprocal translocations involving four different chromosomes; metaphase pairing in the six other bivalents was normal. Chromosome pairing in interspecific hybrids is consistent with the hypothesis that B. stricta is an aneuploid derivative of B. macrantha or a similar ancestor. Intraspecific hybrids of B. densiflora and B. macrantha were chromosomally homomorphic; one population of B. stricta was differentiated from three others by two translocations. Hybrids involving the tetraploid B. subulata (n = 19) were easily obtained with B. macrantha (75% fruit set, many progeny easily obtained) but with difficulty with B. stricta and B. densiflora (one fruit and only one successful F<sub>1</sub> individual for each combination). Based on metaphase chromosome associations, the progenitors of B. subulata are inferred to be B. stricta and B. densiflora-like ancestors.
10.2307/2419068|Gossypium sect. Grandicalyx occurs in tropical Australia, with all of the 11 species being found in the Kimberley region of northwestern Australia except G. cunninghamii, which is found on the Cobourg Peninsula. Six new species, G. enthyle, G. exiguum, G. londonderriense, G. marchantii, G. nobile, and G. rotundifolium are described and illustrated. Chromosome counts, all 2n = 26, are presented for seven species. The Kimberley region is characterized by a monsoon rainfall pattern and regular fires. The adaptation of these plants to this regime is discussed.
10.2307/2419069|Total genomic DNAs from 61 accessions of 40 species of Gossypium were surveyed for restriction site variation in the maternally inherited plastid genome using 25 endonucleases. One hundred thirty-five of the 202 restriction site variants detected were potentially synapomorphous and served as binary characters for phylogeny estimation. Two cladistic methods were employed: Wagner parsimony analysis, which resulted in four equally most-parsimonious topologies requiring 161 steps (CI = 0.84), and a novel character-state weighting approach that models the relative probabilities of restriction site losses versus gains. This latter technique, which is theoretically preferable to both Dollo and Wagner parsimony analysis in that it optimizes against parallel site gains, resulted in two optimal phylogenetic estimates (a subset of the Wagner topologies) that differ only in the placement of G. longicalyx. In general, maternal cladistic relationships are congruent with both cytogenetic groupings and geographic clustering. Three major monophyletic clades among diploid species correspond to three continents: Australia (C-, G-genome), the Americas (D-genome), and Africa (A-, E-, and F-genome). African B-genome diploids are placed as sister to the New World D-genome species, albeit by a single homoplasious character state. Substantial agreement is also evident between the cpDNA phylogeny and traditional taxonomic treatments, although there is considerable disagreement at lower infrageneric ranks, particularly among the American and Australian cottons. These discrepancies are discussed, as is the possibility that inconsistency may reflect, at least in part, reticulation events among diploids, which may have occurred in at least three cases. An area cladogram suggests that Gossypium originated in either Africa or Australia. Because paleocontinental reconstructions, palynological evidence and cpDNA sequence divergence estimates concur in suggesting that the two primary clades diverged during the mid to upper Oligocene, the initial cladogenetic event most likely involved long-distance, intercontinental dispersal. Two colonizations of the New World are indicated, a relatively early long-distance dispersal from Africa leading to the evolution of the D-genome diploids, and a second, later dispersal of the maternal, A-genome ancestor of the allopolyploids. American diploid species are hypothesized to have originated in northwestern Mexico, with later radiations into other regions. The radiation of Gossypium in Australia is suggested to have proceeded from the westernmost portion of the continent. The maternal phylogenetic hypothesis and area cladogram suggest the possibility that New World allopolyploids originated following a trans-Pacific transfer of an ancestral A-genome taxon to the Pacific coast of Mesoamerica or South America.
10.2307/2419070|Reconstruction of phylogenies from molecular data has become an important and increasingly common approach in systematics. The product of such studies is a gene tree, hypothesizing relationships among genes or genomes. This gene tree may be fundamentally incongruent with the true species phylogeny, due to various biological phenomena such as introgression, lineage sorting, or mistaken orthology. In such circumstances all of the gene tree characters defining the relationships of molecular taxa (haplotypes) may be necessarily correlated, and the gene or genome may behave as a single species tree character. In these circumstances robustness of the gene hypothesis is meaningless as a measure of confidence in the species phylogenetic hypothesis. Incongruence between a phylogenetic hypothesis based on numerous, presumably independent, non-molecular characters and a single gene tree should not be assumed to be due to noise in non-molecular data. As with other characters, a character phylogeny, in this case a gene tree, can be tested best by a parsimony analysis in which other characters are included. If independence of molecular characters is assumed, then each is an equivalent phylogenetic hypothesis, as is each non-molecular character, leading to the suggestion that direct combination is appropriate. Swamping becomes an issue when a large molecular data set may be behaving as a single character. To alleviate this problem, a gene tree may be treated as a single multistate character, either ordered or unordered, and included with non-molecular data to obtain a globally parsimonious result. An example is given using published molecular and non-molecular data from the Asteraceae.
10.2307/2419071|Sida sect. Oligandrae, a group endemic to the South American Andes, is reviewed and found to comprise only four species. These are well delineated by their morphology, ecology and distribution. A key, species descriptions, distribution map, and ecological characterizations are included. Lectotypes are designated for several names.
10.2307/2419516|We present a cladistic analysis of genera of Cunoniaceae based on 44 structural characters using Wagner parsimony. A synthetic outgroup based on the attributes of Hamamelidaceae, Rosaceae and Fagaceae was used to polarize character states and root resulting cladograms. In all of the resulting cladograms, a clade consisting of Gillbeea, Brunellia, Spiraeanthemum, and Aistopetalum formed the sister group of the rest of the Cunoniaceae. The continued recognition of Brunellia in a monogeneric family separate from Cunoniaceae was not supported by our results. The hypothesis that apocarpy was secondarily derived within the Cunoniaceae in Brunellia and Spiraeanthemum was supported. The sister group of the above set of taxa shared the derived possession of interpetiolar stipules (although they originated in parallel in the Spiraeanthemum-Aistopetalum group). The group defined by interpetiolar stipules, consisting of the bulk of the Cunoniaceae, includes Eucryphia and Bauera, which have been placed often in monotypic families. Eucryphia is the sister group of a clade defined by bicarpellate gynoecia, which are derived within Cunoniaceae. Bauera is a member of a clade of subshrubs that includes Acrophyllum and Anodopetalum.
10.2307/2419517|Horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis was used to measure variability at 14 enzyme loci from eight populations of the granite outcrop endemic Arenaria uniflora. Overall levels of genetic variation were low, as expected for a facultatively autogamous species. On average, 17.9  3.32% (mean  standard deviation) of the loci were polymorphic; there were 1.09  0.11 alleles per locus; and gene diversity within populations was 0.048  0.012. Cross-pollinating populations from central Georgia showed significantly higher mean values for polymorphism, allele numbers, and gene diversity (42.9%, 1.72, and 0.134) than did self-pollinating populations (9.5%, 1.12, and 0.124). G<sub>ST</sub>, the ratio of among-population to total variation, was high (0.5721), probably reflecting both the breeding system and restriction of these plants to discrete, isolated islands of granite. This was also reflected in an exceptionally low estimate of Nm, the number of migrants per population per generation (0.187). Moreover, genetic distances between populations were high, ranging up to 0.43. Cluster analyses based on overall genetic similarity, together with distribution patterns of single alleles, suggested that marginal populations of selfers in Alabama and the Carolinas originated independently from populations of outcrossers from central Georgia. Taxonomically, the genetic evidence presented here argues strongly against recognition of these self-pollinating populations as A. alabamensis. Rather, they should all be treated as members of a single, morphologically and genetically polymorphic species, A. uniflora.
10.2307/2419518|The pollen morphology of Phryma and some of its putative relatives was investigated with the hope that it might clarify the phylogenetic relationships of the genus, which has been placed in the Verbenaceae by some authors and segregated as the Phrymaceae (in the Lamiales or Scrophulariales) by others. The pollen of Phryma is tricolpate (contrary to some previous reports), tectate-perforate to microreticulate, and has simple columellae. These features are equally consistent with a position in the Verbenaceae or Scrophulariales but argue against a close relationship to four taxa that have been thought by some workers to be close to Phryma: Myoporaceae, Verbena, tribe Lantaneae (Verbenaceae), and Avicennia. When gynoecial morphology, inflorescence structure, and leaf epidermal anatomy are considered as well, a position close to (but not within) subfam. Verbenoideae appears to be best supported. Assignment to a family (Phrymaceae versus Verbenaceae) must await a revision of family limits in the Lamiales.
10.2307/2419519|Cistanthe tweedyi (Portulacaceae) is a rare perennial herb endemic to the Cascade Mountains of northern Washington and adjacent British Columbia. It has heretofore been classified in Lewisia, probably because of the persistent, yet erroneous, characterization of its fruit dehiscence as circumscissile, as in Lewisia, rather than valvate, as in most other Portulacaceae. Cladistic affinity of C. tweedyi to Cistanthe is evidenced by its unequal inflorescence bracts (a synapomorphy of the genus) and by the presence of several characters that show homoplasy in Portulacaceae but do not occur in combination outside of Cistanthe, including wide-petiolate leaves, festooned brochidodromous venation, an apically diminished primary vein, predominantly brachyparacytic and similar stomata, and strophiolate seeds with colliculate sculpture and micropylar hooks. Cistanthe tweedyi lacks sinuous and ribbon-like veins, which are otherwise rarely absent in Cistanthe. Cistanthe tweedyi lacks other characteristics plausibly synapomorphic for all or part of Lewisia, including glandulardentate sepals and bracts, cladodromous leaf venation, and laterocytic stomata. The chromosome base number of Cistanthe tweedyi, n = 46, is possibly based on n = 11-a number common in Cistanthe, but rare in Lewisia. Cistanthe tweedyi constitutes a monotypic sect. Strophiolum within Cistanthe. Its precise phylogenetic position and biogeographic origin remain uncertain.
10.2307/2419520|Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site analysis was used to explore evolutionary relationships within a taxonomically difficult group of diploid willows comprising seven taxa (Salix sect. Longifoliae). Forty-five population samples from throughout North America were analyzed with up to 23 restriction endonucleases. Clades revealed by cpDNA data are generally congruent with groups delineated by enzyme electrophoresis. Both sets of molecular data disagree with traditional taxonomic concepts. Morphological characters such as stigma length and pubescence, traditionally viewed as taxonomically important, are not correlated with major genetic divisions in the section. High levels of intraspecific cpDNA variability were detected, mostly representing geographic patterns of divergence. Salix interior, for example, contains six distinct chloroplast genomes, and has a mean sequence divergence of 0.09%. Conversely, S. sessilifolia, S. fluviatilis, and populations of S. exigua from the Pacific Northwest all possess identical chloroplast genomes. Hybridization appears to be an important process in the section. Five cases of hybridization and subsequent cytoplasmic capture were documented. Chloroplast DNA data suggest a southern origin for the section and a northward radiation into geographically isolated montane and arid lowland habitats. The high incidence of cytoplasmic capture and intraspecific cpDNA variability detected in this study underscores the importance of analyzing multiple cpDNA samples of a taxon in combination with nuclear markers in molecular systematic studies.
10.2307/2419521|Phenotypic differences in morphology, growth rates, and metal tolerance were investigated in proximate populations of Funaria hygrometrica growing on metal-contaminated tailings of an abandoned copper mine. Most of the mine site populations have a peristome structure and spore size that is intermediate between typical F. hygrometrica and F. flavicans and these populations are highly variable in 12 out of 13 morphological characters that were measured. However, the results of an experiment including 36 families of gametophytic plants from four of the mine populations grown on a series of soil types suggested very low levels of genetic variability. Morphological characters were relatively stable on potting soil and intermediate mixtures, but were strongly modified on metal-contaminated soil from the mine. This pattern suggests inherent homeostatic mechanisms that maintain morphological stability until a threshold is surpassed. Unlike morphological characters, biomass formation was strongly affected even by the intermediate soil types. There was little evidence of genetically based variation in growth rates or tolerance of the contaminated mine soils either within or between populations. Moreover, in spite of tremendous morphological plasticity induced by different soil types, the patterns and amounts of phenotypic plasticity exhibited by different populations, and families within populations, were experimentally indistinguishable. These results suggest very low levels of genetic variability within and among these proximate populations of F. hygrometrica. The lack of genetically based variability among mine site plants does not support a recent hybrid origin for plants of intermediate morphology.
10.2307/2419522|The leaf surface flavonoid profiles of all three species of Greyia, the sole genus in Greyiaceae, have been shown to consist of a mixture of flavones, flavanones, dihydroflavonols and flavonols, several of which lack B-ring substitution. Several of these compounds were reported as components of Escallonia, a genus thought by some to be related to Greyiaceae. The vacuolar flavonoid profile consists of kaempferol and quercetin 3-O-mono- and diglycosides. Whereas the vacuolar flavonoids are not significant taxonomically, the identification of B-ring deoxyflavonoids as major components of leaf surface exudates of Greyia adds to the list of characters by which Greyiaceae and Melianthaceae can be distinguished. The widespread occurrence of B-ring deoxyflavonoids in dicot families reduces their usefulness for assessing relationships at higher taxonomic levels.
10.2307/2419523|Callitriche is the only genus in which aerial, water surface, and subsurface pollination systems are all reported. Studies of morphology, flowering phenology, patterns of seed production, and pollen tube growth suggest, however, that geitonogamy is the primary mode of pollination. Typical geitonogamy occurs between the aerial flowers of C. marginata, C. nuttallii, C. peploides, and C. stagnalis, and between the submersed flowers of C. hermaphroditica. Internal geitonogamy, involving pollen tube growth from within anthers of staminate flowers, through vegetative tissues, into the base of pistillate flowers, occurs in C. heterophylla, C. trochlearis, and C. verna. The submersed flowering C. hermaphroditica exhibits several characters that suggest underwater outcrossing (hypohydrophily), but the data are yet inconclusive.
10.2307/2419524|Hesperevax comprises three species and three additional varieties endemic to the Californian floristic province of western North America. Separation of this genus from Evax, in which it has been included since 1901, is warranted on morphologic and biogeographic evidence. Ancistrocarphus and Cymbolaena are suggested as possible sister genera. Hesperevax acaulis var. ambusticola and H. acaulis var. robustior are newly described to accommodate extremes of geographic variation in that species. The new combination H. sparsiflora var. brevifolia is also made. The morphologic taxa of Hesperevax are ecologically distinct and divergent. Hesperevax caulescens appears to be restricted to shrink-swell clays of vernally moist areas, H. sparsiflora var. sparsiflora mostly to serpentine, H. sparsiflora var. brevifolia to sandy coastal bluffs, and H. acaulis var. ambusticola to recent burns.
10.2307/2419525|Astrocasia, a neotropical genus belonging to the Euphorbiaceae, tribe Phyllantheae, occupies an isolated position in the tribe; a new subtribe, subtribe Astrocasiinae, is described to accommodate it. The genus is interpreted as including five species, of which two require new combinations: Astrocasia jacobinensis and A. austinii. A key, descriptions, distribution maps, and citations of representative specimens are provided. Astrocasia tremula is shown to have a remarkable disjunct distribution, with populations recorded from the Greater Antilles, Yucatan peninsula, western Mexico, Panama, and Venezuela.
10.2307/2419526|Androdioecy is a rare reproductive system in plants, which has traditionally been viewed as an intermediate step in the formation of dioecy from hermaphroditism. However, in the Datiscaceae, which comprises three dioecious and one androdioecious species, we have proposed that androdioecy rather than dioecy represents the derived condition. To test this hypothesis, the evolutionary history of Datiscaceae was reconstructed by comparative restriction site mapping of PCR-amplified chloroplast DNA fragments and subsequent cladistic and phenetic analyses. Thirty-eight shortest Wagner trees, 32 shortest Dollo trees, majority-rule consensus trees for each parsimony option, and one shortest genetic distance tree were examined. The androdioecious Datisca glomerata was placed in a derived position relative to the dioecious members of this family in all of these trees. This was also the case for all Dollo and Wagner trees that are one- and two-steps longer than the shortest trees, although not necessarily for Wagner and Dollo trees that are three-steps longer. These data not only support our contention that androdioecy is derived from dioecy in Datiscaceae, they also demonstrate the potential of PCR-mediated restriction site mapping comparisons for reducing the time, expense, and quantity of DNA required for comparative chloroplast DNA analyses.
10.2307/2419476|The largely Neotropical fern genus Enterosora is enlarged and redefined to include nine species of rather spongy-textured, often pendent epiphytes. The genus, when recognized, has usually been called Glyphotaenium, a name based on an unrecognizable illustration. One African species is admitted to the genus, and a few more may belong. Hybridization is suspected among the American species, but the hybrids have well-formed spores. The affinities of Enterosora may be with other anhydathodous New World genera of Grammitidaceae, possibly Ceradeniu, or with certain still ill-defined Old World groups. The following new combinations are made: E. campbellii subsp. spongiosa, E. ecostata, E. gilpinae, E. insidiosa, E. parietina, E. percrassa, E. trichosora, and E. trifurcata. The following new name is also proposed: E. asplenioides.
10.2307/2419477|Jatropha martinezii, a new species from Michoacan, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished by its ovate leaves, which are usually densely pubescent abaxially and lack basal stipitate glands; long exstipulate petioles on the mature leaves; and trilocular fruits. Its relationships are with the J. standleyi complex sect. Loureira, subsect. Loureira, which occurs from western Jalisco, Colima, and Michoacan to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in Oaxaca.
10.2307/2419478|Crossing studies and enzyme electrophoresis were utilized to examine the genetic structure and relationships of populations of seven cismontane taxa of Astragalus sect. Leptocarpi subsect. Californici and five related species. The examined species were all self-compatible and no interspecific crosses were successful, demonstrating strong reproductive barriers. Forty populations were surveyed electrophoretically for 11 enzymes encoded by 17 putative loci. All conspecific populations exhibited high genetic identity values above 0.961. The mean genetic identity among all species was 0.69. Cluster analysis of genetic distance data indicates that the cismontane annuals (including A. gambelianus) are well-differentiated from the three desert species and the perennial outgroup A. nothoxys. Intraspecific genetic divergence and variation were low for both morphologically uniform and variable species, as well as for species with disjunct populations. Recent speciation is considered to be the most likely explanation for this pattern. Perhaps the ease with which reproductive isolation originates in the group has facilitated speciation and the ability of recently diverged species to become secondarily sympatric without genetic homogenization.
10.2307/2419479|Thirty-seven populations representing Aphanostephus riddellii (n = 5), A. ramosissimus (n = 4), and all three varieties of A. skirrhobasis (n = 3), were examined for allozyme differentiation at 17 loci to test hypotheses of hybridization between A. skirrhobasis and A. ramosissimus, and to assess genetic divergence within A. skirrhobasis and among congeneric species with different chromosome base numbers. Thirteen populations of A. skirrhobasis were examined also for variation in achene and pappus characters. The species are differentiated easily using isozymes, chromosome numbers, and achene hair types. In contrast to relationships suggested by a hypothesized aneuploid reduction series, A. riddellii is more similar genetically to A. skirrhobasis than to A. ramosissimus. Within A. skirrhobasis, populations of vars. skirrhobasis, thalassius, and kidderi are intermixed in analyses based on allozyme variation, but var. kidderi is differentiated readily using achene length, awn/achene length ratio, and awn number. Average genetic identities within and among varieties are similar, reflecting an isozyme pattern characterized by minor frequency differences among shared alleles. Varieties of A. skirrhobasis apparently have incomplete reproductive barriers in areas of sympatry, and may be in the early stages of regional differentiation initiated during the Pleistocene. Isozyme data do not support purported hybridization between A. skirrhobasis and A. ramosissimus. Varieties of A. skirrhobasis are partially autogamous, but diversity levels suggest a mixed to outcrossing mating system.
10.2307/2419480|Sechiopsis is a group of unusual cucurbits distinguished by pouched nectaries and winged fruits. The genus consists of five species; two newly described (S. diptera and S. distincta) and one transferred from the monotypic Pterosicyos (S. laciniatus).
10.2307/2419481|Patulophycus eclipes gen. et sp. nov. (Delesseriaceae, Ceramiales) is a monotypic genus known from the New South Wales mainland on the east coast of Australia and from Lord Howe Island in the Tasman Sea (South Pacific). Plants are decumbent on various sublittoral substrata and consist of serrate-margined, paddle-shaped, polystromatic blades. Features that ally Patulophycus with the Delesseria group include the presence of intercalary cell divisions within the secondary rows and their absence in primary rows, the fact that not all tertiary initials reach the thallus margins, production of a single carpogonial branch per supporting cell, and restriction of procarps to the midribs. A distinction of Patulophycus within the Delesseria group is the restriction of carpogonial branches to the dorsal surface of the blade. A dichotomous key to the 10 genera now recognized within the Delesseria group is provided.
10.2307/2419482|A systematic revision of the South American members of Castilleja subg. Colacus based on evidence from floral morphology, SEM of seeds, chromosome numbers, and geographic distribution is presented, recognizing seven species. Four annual species, Castilleja alpicola, C. peruviana, C. profunda, and C. vadosa, all in the annual sect. Oncorhynchus, are described as new with a discussion on their systematic relationships. A key to species is provided and each species is illustrated with line drawings; distribution maps and citations of all known collections indicate sites of known populations. The five known chromosome counts, four of n = 36 (hexaploid) and one of n = 48 (octoploid), suggest that polyploidy has played a major role in the evolution of South American Castilleja subg. Colacus. The introduction of self-compatible C. attenuata into central Chile is postulated to have taken place relatively recently from the western United States.
10.2307/2419483|Chloroplast DNA restriction analysis has been used to test the series classifications of the Mexican and Central American representatives of Solanum sect. Petota of Rydberg, Bukasov, Hawkes, and Correll. Three clades are supported: 1. all species in series Morelliformia, Pinnatisecta, and Polyadenia exclusive of S. bulbocastanum and S. cardiophyllum. Subclades within clade 1 include S. trifidum and S. tarnii; S. x michoacanum and S. pinnatisectum; S. brachistotrichum and S. stenophyllidium; S. clarum and S. morelliforme; and series Polyadenia; 2. S. bulbocastanum and S. cardiophyllum; 3. S. verrucosum (a Mexican diploid), the Mexican polyploid species, and the South American species. Within clade 3, series Conicibaccata forms a well-defined subclade, whereas S. verrucosum, series Longipedicellata, series Demissa, and the South American species form another. In reference to the latest classification of Hawkes, series Conicibaccata and Polyadenia are supported as monophyletic; the Mexican diploids are paraphyletic; and series Demissa, Longipedicellata, and S. verrucosum (series Tuberosa) form one monophyletic assemblage. Species within series Longipedicellata and Demissa are polyploid, possibly of hybrid origin, and may need less conservative markers or biparentally-inherited probes to distinguish them. These molecular results are compared to the diverse data sets that have led to this classification.
10.2307/2419484|Chloroplast DNA restriction site and length variation was examined among 12 taxa of Krigia, using 34 restriction endonucleases, filter hybridization experiments, and comparative mapping procedures. A total of 252 restriction site mutations was detected, 159 of which were phylogenetically informative. The resulting phylogenetic trees correlated well with cytological and morphological data. The two sects. Krigia and Cymbia differed by at least 73 restriction site mutations. Most species within each section were characterized by many restriction site changes. Interspecific sequence divergence in Krigia was much higher than in any other previously studied genus of the Asteraceae and was comparable to the high levels of divergence found in genera of other angiosperm families. Relative rates of chloroplast DNA evolution in Krigia were significantly different among the various chromosome number groups, resulting in the rejection of a molecular clock. However, a molecular clock could not be rejected within each chromosome number group. Different regions of the chloroplast genome also showed extremely different frequencies of mutations and four hotspot areas were identified. The areas occurred in long spacer regions between gene coding sequences. Furthermore, most of the homoplasy and length variation also occurred within these hotspots. Chloroplast DNA trees were consistent with the hypothesis that an ancient allopolyploid event between species with low chromosome base numbers, followed by subsequent aneuploid reduction, resulted in K. wrightii with n = 9. The results also suggest that x = 5 is the probable ancestral base number for the genus and that aneuploid reduction is the major mode of chromosome number change in Krigia and related genera.
10.2307/2419485|Six endemic species of Erigeron occur in the Juan Fernandez Islands: E. fernandezianus, E. ingae, E. luteoviridis, E. rupicola, E. stuessyi, and E. turricola. The last five are restricted to the younger and more distant island, Masafuera (1-2 million years old), and E. fernandezianus occurs on Masafuera and Masatierra (ca. 4 million years old). All species have n = 27. Phenetic analysis suggests that all six species have come from a single introduction from southern South America, perhaps coastal southern Peru or central Chile. Cladistic analysis reveals two major clades: one involving E. rupicola and E. stuessyi, and the other containing the other four species. In the latter line, E. ingae and E. turricola form a closely related paraphyletic species pair, and E. luteoviridis and E. fernandezianus represent a closely allied holophyletic unit. Phytogeographically, the genus apparently became established first on Masafuera, with subsequent (and more recent) colonization of Masatierra. Speciation appears to have followed a pattern of adaptive radiation with discernible geographic and ecological isolation. Flavonoid compounds from 56 populations of endemic species in the archipelago and from 10 populations of five species on the continent exhibit interpopulational variation, which compromises the value of flavonoids for systematic purposes. Erigeron rupicola and E. stuessyi have similar profiles that differ from the other species.
10.2307/2419486|Ludwigia anastomosans has been previously considered to be an isolated member of L. sect. Myrtocarpus because of its unique tree habit, black water streams habitat, and leaf venation. Recent additional information adds to its distinctiveness and includes flowers lacking a style, whereas all the other species of Ludwigia have one; capsules dehiscing along one of the lines of union between each of the four carpels, whereas in the other species of Ludwigia the capsules are irregularly dehiscent or, if regularly dehiscent, in a very different way; and seeds possessing an enlarged wing-shaped raphe. Ludwigia anastomosans is self-compatible and outcrossing but tardily autogamous when not cross-pollinated, and tetraploid. We have thus concluded that the species is best treated in a section of its own in keeping with the usage of this taxon elsewhere in the family. Section Arborescentes is here newly described.
10.2307/2419487|Analysis of isozyme variation revealed the common occurrence of inbreeding in the homosporous fern genus Sceptridium. To examine the genetic consequences of frequent intragametophytic selfing, the population genetic structure of S. ternatum was analyzed with special reference to multilocus organization within and among populations. The presence of multiple clones in populations was suggested by high levels of gametic phase linkage disequilibrium within populations. Each population contained 13-14 multilocus gamete genotypes, and 30 genotypes were counted in three populations examined. The universal genotype was rare and 73% of the genotypes were restricted to a single population. This pattern of genotype variation is concordant with the general pattern in agamospermous or vegetatively reproducing plants. This study also indicated that the local endemic S. triangularifolium has no genetic variation and suggested that this species is a monoclonal lineage derived from hybridization between S. nipponicum and S. ternatum.
10.2307/2419488|Exarata is proposed as a new genus for a new species of Bignoniaceae from the Choco region of western Colombia and northwestern Ecuador, here described as E. chocoensis. Exarata is morphologically similar to Schlegelia by its globose indehiscent fruit, but is a large canopy tree. This taxon may be near the basal complex from which tribes Schlegelieae and Tecomeae diverged.
10.2307/2419724|Chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis was carried out on 55 taxa of tribe Astereae, including 21 species of Machaeranthera and many additional putatively related taxa. Phylogenetic analysis delineates a well supported, monophyletic Machaeranthera alliance within Astereae that includes several segregate genera of Haplopappus and all taxa historically associated with Machaeranthera except sect. Psilactis, which is allied with Aster. The Machaeranthera alliance includes a large proportion of the taxa of tribe Astereae with x = 4, 5, and 6, and contains no taxa with base chromosome numbers greater than x = 6. Chloroplast DNA data indicate five well supported monophyletic groups within the Machaeranthera alliance. One of these groups includes Xanthocephalum, Isocoma, Prionopsis, and Grindelia (all with x = 6), but does not include the x = 6 genera Xylorhiza and Pyrrocoma. A second group includes M. sect. Sideranthus and the monotypic M. sect. Stenoloba. A third group consists of M. sect. Blepharodon and two species not normally associated with the section, M. viscida and M. gypsitherma. Comparison of cpDNA evidence with one rDNA site mutation suggests that chloroplast and nuclear genomes in M. viscida, M. gypsitherma, and M. heterophylla have different origins. A fourth group includes Pyrrocoma and M. sect. Arida. In the fifth group, cpDNA data suggest a close alliance between Oonopsis and M. sects. Machaeranthera and Hesperastrum. Molecular evidence, when considered with other data, is consistent with an hypothesis of aneuploid reduction in base chromosome number from x = 6, or ascending and descending aneuploidy from x = 5 in the Machaeranthera alliance.
10.2307/2419725|Electrophoretic data from 44 natural populations show that Plagiomnium medium is an allopolyploid, whose genome can be reconstructed by merely combining present-day variation of its extant haploid progenitors, P. ellipticum and P. insigne. Because the progenitor species are well-differentiated genetically, P. medium shows fixed heterozygosity in about 1/3 of the 23 loci assayed. High levels of polymorphism in P. ellipticum provide the opportunity to detect multiple origins of P. medium, which evidence shows must have originated from at least four separate hybridization events. We detected only one allele unique to P. medium and only one possible instance of gene silencing. This suggests a relatively recent origin of the allopolyploid. It may also suggest that natural selection does not favor silencing back to a haploid condition. Apparently, cross-fertilization is frequent in P. medium and generates a large number of genetic recombinants across loci. Thus, P. medium enjoys a favorable genetic situation in which there is fixed, intralocus heterozygosity combined with the potential for extensive interlocus recombination. We speculate that P. medium may have been launched as a species during the Pleistocene, when the ranges of the circumboreal, continental P. ellipticum and the coastal, Pacific Northwest endemic P. insigne may have overlapped broadly. Their present-day ranges include few sympatric populations and would not permit hybridization along a broad front. Contrary to conventional views, it appears that reticulate evolution occurs in bryophytes, just as it does in other land plants.
10.2307/2419726|Genetic diversity in three species of Rhus was investigated using starch gel electrophoresis. Rhus michauxii is a rare species endemic to North Carolina, whereas R. glabra and R. copallina are widespread. All three species are clonal, typically dioecious, woody shrubs. Forty-seven percent of the loci examined for R. michauxii were polymorphic, compared to 88% of the loci examined for both R. glabra and R. copallina. Mean genetic diversity (H<sub>c</sub>) within populations of R. michauxii (0.05) was lower than the genetic diversity within populations of R. glabra and R. copallina (0.15 for both species). Mean number of multilocus genotypes per population was lower for R. michauxii, 4.1, versus the other two species, R. glabra, 27.5 and R. copallina, 26.6. Genotypic diversity indices (D<sub>G</sub>) were 0.41, 0.95 and 0.95 for R. michauxii, R. glabra and R. copallina, respectively. The proportion of genetic diversity among populations (G<sub>ST</sub>) was higher in R. michauxii (0.335) and R. copallina (0.301) than in R. glabra (0.198). Genetic identity values among the species ranged from 0.52-0.96, and grouped R. michauxii closely with R. glabra. Rhus glabra and R. copallina have levels of genetic diversity similar to wide ranging plant species with the same suite of life history characteristics. The lower level of genetic diversity in R. michauxii is characteristic of species with limited geographic distributions. The relatively high levels of genetic diversity seen among populations indicates that clonal reproduction may play an important role in the genetic structuring of these species.
10.2307/2419727|This taxonomic revision of the recently reconstituted genus Orthocarpus is based on herbarium and field studies, evidence from floral morphology, SEM studies of seed and seed-coat morphology, chromosome numbers, habitat, and geographical distribution. Nine species and five subspecies are recognized. Keys to species and subspecies and a complete synonymy of taxa are provided. Each species and subspecies is illustrated with line drawings showing habit and floral morphology; distribution maps indicate sites of known populations for each taxon. One new subspecies, Orthocarpus tolmiei subsp. holmgreniorum, is described and two new combinations, Orthocarpus cuspidatus subsp. copelandii and subsp. cryptanthus, are proposed.
10.2307/2419728|Original meiotic chromosome counts are reported for 35 species and one natural interspecific hybrid in 11 genera of Mexican Melastomataceae. These include first counts for 24 species in three of the nine recognized New World tribes in the family. Counts of n = 18 for Arthrostemma parvifolium and n = 36 for Topobea calycularis represent new numbers for these genera. Other counts for species of Arthrostemma (n = 30), Centradenia (n = 18), Clidemia (n = 17, 23), Conostegia (n = 17), Heterocentron (n = 18), Leandra (n = 17), Miconia (n = 17), Monochaetum (n = 18), Pterolepis (n = 7), and Tibouchina (n = 9, 18) corroborate previously reported numbers for these genera. Centradenia, Heterocentron, and Monochaetum with n = 18 and Conostegia with n = 17 appear to have remarkably constant chromosome numbers, whereas Tibouchina exhibits a polyploid series based on x = 9. Clidemia, Leandra, and Miconia, the largest genera of Miconieae, show greatest variation in chromosome numbers. The widespread occurrence of n = 17 suggests that this is the base number in the Miconieae. Two hypotheses are presented to explain the origin of x = 17 in the Miconieae. One suggests straight autotetraploidization of x = 9 followed by chromosome loss (2x - 1). The allotetraploid hypothesis proposes that x = 17 is of dibasic origin and may have formed by ancient hybridization of species with 7 and 10 or 8 and 9 haploid chromosomes.
10.2307/2419729|Digitaria neesiana is a polymorphic neotropical grass native to the cerrado vegetation in the Brazilian states of Goias, Mato Grosso do Sul, and Sao Paulo. A related taxon, Digitaria dioica (here described) is found in Mato Grosso, eastern Bolivia, and as a transamazonian disjunct in the Llanos of southeastern Colombia. Plants of D. neesiana are hermaphroditic, whereas D. dioica is dioecious. Collections from two localities in western Goias consist of both unisexual and hermaphroditic plants and are postulated to represent polygamodioecious populations in a zone of hybridization. This is the first report of dioecy for Digitaria. Both species have high, but variable, levels of dysfunctional pollen development that is unrelated to dioecy. Morphological and phenological evidence indicates that these two species belong to Digitaria sect. Calvulae.
10.2307/2419730|Restriction site variation of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) and nuclear rDNA was used to assess phylogenetic relationships among the nine species of the taxonomically complex genus Lithophragma. Chloroplast DNA restriction site data indicate the presence of two well-marked lineages: L. bolanderi, L. heterophyllum, and L. cymbalaria; and L. affine, L. parvifiorum, and L. trifoliatum. A clear alliance between L. glabrum and the latter group is only weakly supported. A tetrachotomy leaves the relationships among the two major lineages and L. campanulatum and L. tenellum unresolved. Nuclear rDNA data further support a close relationship among L. bolanderi, L. heterophytlum, and L. cymbalaria. Relationships based on DNA data agree in part with those based on morphological data, although several important discrepancies also emerged. In contrast, relationships suggested by cpDNA and flavonoid data are in particularly close agreement. Comparison of the DNA-based phylogeny with evidence from morphology suggests that fusion of the hypanthium to the ovary wall has occurred independently several times in the genus or that hypanthium fusion occurred early in the radiation of the genus and was subsequently lost. Similarly, the DNA-based phylogeny suggests that some flavonoid constituents exhibit multiple gains or losses. In addition, a reduction in the total number of flavonoid compounds present has apparently occurred twice within the genus.
10.2307/2419731|Within the short-beaked taxa of Carex sect. Vesicariae, C. membranacea and C. rotundata were found to form a close species pair with anatomical data providing the most convincing evidence for the separation of these two species. Carex membranacea has V-shaped leaves, a median vascular bundle keel, a prominent bulliform cell layer, and triangular stems with a discontinuous layer of sclerenchyma. In contrast, C. rotundata has crescentiform leaves, which lack a median vascular keel and bulliform cell layer, and circular stems with an almost continuous layer of sclerenchyma adjacent to the epidermis. Numerical analyses of macromorphological characters indicate that, within the C. saxatilis complex, plants from western North America (C. physocarpa) tend to be robust individuals with long peduncles on the pistillate spikes, wide leaves, and large perigynia. These characters, and others, decrease in size eastward across the North American continent with intermediate plants usually referred to as C. saxatilis and small plants referred to as C. miliaris. This east/west cline is confounded by large amounts of variation within small geographic areas and phenotypic plasticity. Eurasian material is less variable than that from North America and is included within the range of variation found in North America. It is concluded that a single distigmatic species, C. saxatilis, should be recognized. Anatomically, C. saxatilis is indistinguishable from C. membranacea. Evidence is presented to suggest that this similarity is the result of homoplasy or stasis in anatomical characters rather than an indication of a close evolutionary relationship.
10.2307/2419732|We sampled 100 adult milkweeds along a 3 km transect through the Dolly Sods Wilderness Area in northeastern West Virginia. These plants were measured for 13 flower and 17 leaf characters. We also used horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis to score variation in 11 enzyme loci. A composite character index was constructed that yielded negative scores for species-specific alleles of A. syriaca and positive scores for species-specific alleles of A. exaltata. The 30 plants from the middle portion of the transect were highly variable, with many plants achieving scores near zero. These plants presumably represent a complex hybrid swarm, consisting of F~ interspecific hybrids and backcrosses. Plants with intermediate character-index scores were significantly more likely not to flower than were plants with higher (A. exaltata-like) or, especially, lower (A. syriacalike) scores. On the basis of a study of reproductive characters alone, one might conclude that there is no evidence of hybridization, as there appear to be no intermediates among the 54 flowering plants. Vegetative characters, however, reveal a more complex pattern of variation that agrees better with the isozyme analysis of all 100 plants. It does appear that hybridization and localized introgression are occurring between A. exaltata and A. syriaca in the Dolly Sods region. Several unique features of milkweed reproduction appear to promote interspecific hybridization and to magnify its effects.
10.2307/2419733|The phylogeny of the tribe Coreopsideae was investigated by cladistic analysis of generic interrelationships using a set of 37 morphological characters. The cladograms display three main groups: 1) a rather vaguely characterized assemblage of mainly American genera, viz. Coreopsis, Cosmos, Heterosperma, Henricksonia, Dahlia, Thelesperma, Coreocarpus, Cyathomone, Ericentrodea, and Narvalina, 2) a strongly supported monophyletic group consisting of Glossocardia, Isostigma, Guerreroia, Glossogyne, Chrysanthellum, Eryngiophyllum, and Neuractis, and 3) another presumably monophyletic, albeit less well supported group of Hidalgoa, Moonia, Petrobium, Oparanthus, and Fitchia. The position of Bidens is uncertain, either within the first group or as sister group to the third. The three groups are formally recognized as the subtribes Coreopsidinae, Chrysanthellinae subtribe nov., and Petrobiinae. The Chrysanthellinae and the Petrobiinae exhibit mainly Pacific distribution patterns, although Petrobium occurs on St. Helena. Oparanthus and Fitchia, both from Polynesia, are sister genera. Fitchia is well nested within the Coreopsideae, and the analysis strongly supports its inclusion in the tribe.
10.2307/2419734|The relationships of the Ericales have been investigated for a corroborated hypothesis of the circumscription of the order. A Wagner parsimony analysis of 48 families of flowering plants from the Cronquistian subclasses Rosidae, Dilleniidae, and Asteridae, and 49 characters from morphology, anatomy, palynology, embryology, and phytochemistry, resulted in 106 equally parsimonious cladograms (ci = 0.30, ri = 0.67). From the results of the cladistic analysis, it is hypothesized that the Actinidiaceae, Clethraceae, Cyrillaceae, Diapensiaceae, Empetraceae, Epacridaceae, Grubbiaceae, and Roridulaceae, belong in the same clade as Ericaceae, Pyrolaceae, and Monotropaceae, and these families form the newly circumscribed Ericales. A nested set of synapomorphies are involved in diagnosing various nodes of Ericales, such as inverted anthers, presence of ellagic acid, diplostemony, racemose inflorescence, hollow fluted styles, and basally poricidal anthers.
10.2307/2419735|Restriction site mutations in chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) and ribosomal DNA (rDNA) were used to study variation within and phylogenetic relationships among seven of the 11 species of the genus Dendroseris, which is endemic to the Juan Fernandez Islands. Variation within a species was detected in only one instance. The monophyly of the genus is supported by three shared derived restriction site mutations in cpDNA. The molecular data indicate that subgenera Dendroseris and Phoenicoseris are holophyletic but the results are inconclusive with regard to the holophyly of subg. Rea. Restriction site mutations for cpDNA and rDNA do not resolve relationships among the subgenera because all mutations in Dendroseris either occur in single species or are common to species of the same subgenus. This suggests a rapid radiation of the subgenera following colonization of the island by their ancestor. Estimated divergence times calculated from cpDNA are less than 2.6 million years for all species of Dendroseris, which suggests that the genus was not an early colonizer on Masatierra.
10.2307/2419784|Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was examined in several species of Phaseolus, Vigna, and Ramirezella, and in four potential outgroups (Dipogon, Macroptilium, Oxyrhynchus and Strophostyles) of the Phaseolus-Vigna complex. Cladistic analyses of restriction site characters yielded 22 equally parsimonious trees with a consistency index of 0.60. Results of the chloroplast DNA analysis are consistent with current hypotheses from morphological studies in suggesting that Phaseolus is monophyletic, but that Vigna is polyphyletic. The Vigna plastomes are divided into two clades. One consists of all the Old World subgenera surveyed and the New World subg. Lasiospron, supporting morphological evidence that this distinct New World subgenus may be more closely related to the Old World groups than to other New World subgenera. The second clade is strictly New World and comprises Vigna subg. Sigmoidotropis, V. populnea, Ramirezella and Oxyrhynchus. The close relationship of Ramirezella chloroplast DNA's with New World Vigna and Oxyrhynchus plastomes follows recent cladistic analyses of morphological characters. Relationships of plastomes of the New World clade to the mostly Old World Vigna clade depends on rooting of the tree. Within Phaseolus, species from three small and distinct Mexican endemic sections have monophyletic chloroplast DNA's. Plastomes of the larger sect. Phaseolus are not monophyletic, but subgroups within the section follow relationships proposed by non-molecular studies. If rooted with Dipogon, the chloroplast DNA gene tree places Phaseolus, along with Macroptilium and Strophostyles, as sister group to the New World Vigna clade. Otherwise, if rooted with the Macroptilium and Strophostyles plastomes, Phaseolus chloroplast DNA's are sister group to plastomes of both Vigna clades and of Dipogon.
10.2307/2419785|We investigated levels of genetic diversity, genetic population structure, and gene flow in poke milkweed, Asclepias exaltata. Horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis was performed on leaves collected from 846 plants in 18 populations from the southern Appalachians. Enzyme polymorphisms were observed at 16 of the 18 loci examined and averaged 2.36  0.32 (mean  standard deviation) alleles per polymorphic locus. Mean population heterozygosity (H<sub>o</sub> = 0.202  0.036), expected heterozygosity (H<sub>e</sub> = 0.182  0.023), and total gene diversity (H<sub>T</sub> = 0.235) were substantially higher than average values reported for other insect-pollinated, outcrossing herbs. Of this total genetic variation, less than 10% was partitioned among populations (G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.093). Indirect estimates of the number of migrants per generation (Nm = 2.43, calculated from G<sub>ST</sub>; Nm = 3.46, calculated from the frequency of 11 alleles unique to single populations) suggest that gene flow is extensive in A. exaltata. These data are consistent with the view that the comose, wind-dispersed seeds and the durable, insect-dispersed pollinia of milkweeds promote high levels of gene flow, resulting in low levels of genetic differentiation between populations.
10.2307/2419786|A cladistic analysis of Onagraceae was performed using 17 characters from morphology, anatomy, palynology, embryology, and cytology, with its 16 genera as the terminal taxa, and with several possible outgroups within Myrtales. In the main analysis (all Myrtales as outgroup), seven equally parsimonious cladograms were produced, each with 29 steps and a consistency index of 0.82. A successive weighting procedure was applied, resulting in six cladograms with a consistency index of 0.93. All cladograms share the following nine monophyletic groups: 1) all taxa except Ludwigia; 2) Circaea (Fuchsia-Lopezia); 3) Fuchsia-Lopezia; 4) Gayophytum (Epilobium-Boisduvalia) (Gongylocarpus-Xylonagra-Camissonia (Clarkia (Hauya-Calylophus-Gaura)) (Oenothera-Stenosiphon)); 5) Epilobium-Boisduvalia; 6) Gongylocarpus-Xylonagra-Camissonia(Clarkia (Hauya-Calylophus-Gaura))(Oenothera-Stenosiphon); 7) Clarkia (Hauya-Calylophus-Gaura); 8) Hauya-Calylophus-Gaura; and 9) Oenothera-Stenosiphon. One additional monophyletic group appears after applying the successive weighting procedure: Gayophytum (Epilobium-Boisduvalia). Results of the cladistic analysis support a sister group relationship of Ludwigia to the rest of the genera. The clade of Circaea, Fuchsia, and Lopezia is the sister group of the remaining genera (except Ludwigia), but there is relatively less resolution of the relationships among those genera (the tribes Onagreae, Epilobieae, and Hauyeae). The other main conclusions are that the positions of Hauya and Gayophytum are problematic and not well resolved, and that the tribe Onagreae may be paraphyletic.
10.2307/2419787|Relationships among tribes within the evening-primrose family, Onagraceae, were inferred from 18S and 26S ribosomal RNA sequences. Of 1819 nucleotide positions sequenced, 17 were phylogenetically informative. With Lythrum (Lythraceae) as the outgroup, one most parsimonious cladogram was derived (length = 28; consistency index = 0.75) using computer-assisted phylogeny inference software. The cladogram supported Ludwigia as the sister group to Onagraceae and provided strong evidence for the monophyly of Oenothera-Epilobium and Circaea-Fuchsia. The placements of Hauya and Lopezia were not well supported by the data as indicated by examining trees which were one step longer than the most parsimonious tree.
10.2307/2419788|A new genus and species of Podostemaceae, Vanroyenella plumosa, is described from Jalisco, Mexico. This new species is unique in the family in both leaf and fruit characters. The filamentous divisions of the leaf arise distichously from the swollen midrib, the valves of the capsule are persistent, and the stamen filaments become indurate after anthesis and remain attached to the pedicel and ribs of the fruit.
10.2307/2419789|A cladistic analysis of living Nyssa (Cornaceae) using 18 morphological characters suggests that: 1) the eastern Asian N. shweliensis and N. sinensis are closely related to the eastern North American N. sylvatica; 2) the newly described species from Costa Rica (N. talamancana) is closely related to the southeastern and eastern Asian N. javanica and N. shangszeensis, demonstrating another intercontinental disjunct distribution; and 3) no intercontinental species pair relationship has been revealed. The phylogenetic position of the eastern North American N. aquatica remains unresolved. Fossil evidence and geological data suggest that the intercontinental disjuncts in Nyssa are ancient. The migration of Nyssa between Eurasia and North America was probably via the North Atlantic land bridges. Its journey into Asia was probably through two pathways: 1) across Europe and western Siberia after the disappearance of the Turgai Strait at the end of the Eocene; and 2) via the shores of the Tethys Seaway. Nyssa became widely distributed in the Northern Hemisphere in the Tertiary, but suffered from wide extinctions probably during climatical changes in the late Tertiary and Quaternary. Species of Nyssa have survived in refugia of eastern and southeastern Asia and North and Central America. A new nomenclatural combination is made: Nyssa sylvatica var. ursina.
10.2307/2419790|A summary of the 11 species of Arthrostylidium occurring in South America is presented, including descriptions and illustrations of four new species. Two montane species from Colombia and Ecuador, A. ecuadorense and A. youngianum, appear to be related to A. venezuelae and A. pubescens respectively, but differ in details of culm leaf, foliage leaf, inflorescence, and spikelet morphology. Two new taxa from lowland Amazonian Brazil are somewhat atypical of the genus but appear to be best referred to it for now: A. fimbrinodum, with an unusual branching pattern, fimbriate culm nodes, short, few-flowered inflorescences, and small spikelets; and A. grandifolium, with stout, nearly solid culms, very large foliage leaves with elongate inner ligules, and numerous, elongate inflorescences.
10.2307/2419791|A palynological survey of tribe Ajugeae (Labiatae) reveals an exceptional amount of variation in an otherwise rather stenopalynous family. Five pollen types are distinguished based on differences in colpal structure (operculate vs. inoperculate), supratectal sculpturing, and the structure of the columellate stratum. Only one of these pollen types occurs elsewhere in the Labiatae, but four of them can be found in the Verbenaceae. Particularly close resemblances in pollen morphology were noted among the members of the following sets of taxa (in Ajugeae unless otherwise noted: SC, Scutellarieae; VE, Verbenaceae): Amethystea, Rubiteucris, Schnabelia, Tetraclea, Trichostema, and many Verbenaceae (mostly Clerodendreae); Kinostemon, Teucrium, Teucridium (VE), Spartothamnella (VE), Oncinocalyx (VE), and Monochilus (VE); Holocheila, Renschia, Tinnea, and Scutellaria (SC). The distribution of derived pollen features (hypothesized to be synapomorphies) suggests that tribe Ajugeae and the family Labiatae are polyphyletic. The segregation of Rubiteucris and Holocheila from Teucrium is supported by pollen morphology, but Kinostemon should be retained within Teucrium.
10.2307/2419792|Genotypes of a sample of field-collected heterokaryon isolates of Agaricus bisporus from California were compared with those of a comprehensive sample of cultivar isolates that are likely to be of European ancestry. Isolate genotypes were determined for 14 nuclear DNA restriction fragment length polymorphism markers and seven allozyme markers, and were compared in a pairwise fashion to produce a matrix of genotypic dissimilarities between all isolates. This matrix was evaluated with regard to the affinities of individual California isolates, both among themselves and with a reconstructed population ancestral to the cultivars. Most isolates from California fell into one of two apparent groups; these either: 1) had high affinity with the cultivars or 2) differed substantially from the cultivars and aggregated in a distinct, cypress-associated "Californian" group. A few isolates had an intermediate character. This result, supported by habitat correlations and the distribution of characteristic mitochondrial DNA types, indicates that the California population presently comprises introduced cultivars, indigenous cypress-associated strains, and a less distinct group that could include spontaneous hybrids between these two ancestral elements, or strains with other affinities. If hybridization is indeed occurring, the two major ancestral elements have introgressed only slightly.
10.2307/2419793|The Horkelia bolanderi complex is re-evaluated, based on morphological and field studies. A new species, Horkelia yadonii, is recognized from the South Coast Ranges of California. It is a potentially threatened species growing in dry streambeds and meadows in chaparral and foothill pine woodlands. Horkelia tenuiloba is restricted to Marin, Sonoma, and adjacent Mendocino counties, where it is also a rare species occurring in moist openings in the chaparral. Horkelia clevelandii is treated as a distinct species, which occurs in open forests in the mountains of San Diego County and Baja California. Horkelia bolanderi subsp. parryi becomes H. rydbergii, a relatively common species growing at the edge of meadows and drainages in the Transverse Ranges of southern California. Horkelia bolanderi is limited to Lake and adjacent Colusa counties, where it is a rare plant at the margins of vernal wet areas. Collections previously identified as members of the H. bolanderi complex from Santa Cruz and San Mateo counties are assigned to H. marinensis, a possible allopolyploid with H. cuneata subsp. sericea as the other parent. A key and map are included.
10.2307/2419794|The comparison of electrophoretic isozyme patterns of multimeric enzymes in leaf and pollen extracts from the same individual has been used to distinguish allozymes and isozymes. This is possible because in genetic heterozygotes leaf tissue exhibits both homomers and heteromers whereas pollen shows only homomers. I show that pollen of nearly sterile interspecific plant hybrids contains isozymes that can be examined in the same way. This permits a test to determine whether genes encoding particular isozymes in the parental species have remained allelic; i.e., located at corresponding positions on homologous chromosomes. Such a test is illustrated by examining cytosolic PGI in two classic hybrid combinations in Clarkia. The evidence shows that the coding PGI genes of the parental species are located on different chromosomes (or at different sites on the same chromosome), possibly resulting from reciprocal translocation as proposed by Lewis and Raven. The ability to determine whether genes in different species segregate as alleles or not will likely be useful in studying the extent of gene linkage conservation and as a supplement to RFLP and other DNA-directed maps.
10.2307/2419795|A critical examination of isozyme, chromosomal, and morphological characters in subspecies formerly included in Gymnocarpium dryopteris demonstrated that three sexual taxa can be distinguished. We recognize these taxa as distinct species: the widespread, fertile allotetraploid G. dryopteris, with one genome derived from the western diploid G. disjunctum and the other from G. appalachianum sp. nov., a previously undetected eastern North American diploid, which is described and illustrated here and for which we report a chromosome number of 2n = 80. Population comparisons of allele frequencies between G. disjunctum and G. appalachianum yielded an average Nei's genetic identity value (I) of 0.274. A wide-ranging assemblage of putatively triploid plants with both sterile, malformed spores and large, round spores capable of germination is believed to represent the backcrosses G. disjunctum x dryopteris and G. appalachianum x dryopteris. The name G. x brittonianum comb. nov. is applied here to G. disjunctum x dryopteris. A key to fertile species, species descriptions and illustrations, distribution maps, and habitat notes are included.
10.2307/2419395|Analysis of numerical data on morphology, phenology, and isozymes for several population samples was used to assess the taxonomic and systematic relationships among Cucurbita okeechobeensis, C. martinezii, and C. lundelliana. All analyses indicated that C. lundelliana is a distinct species that is closely related to the other taxa. Of the 46 morphological characters we investigated, only one, ovary pubescence, exhibited nonoverlapping ranges between C. martinezii and C. okeechobeensis. However, 23 other morphological characters and both phenological characters exhibited distinct means between these two taxa. Our isozyme survey of 40 alleles at 20 putative loci revealed one fixed difference, at Gpi-2, between C. martinezii and C. okeechobeensis. Most of the alleles detected in C. okeechobeensis were a subset of those found in C. martinezii, and the two taxa had a mean genetic identity value of I = 0.91. We conclude that C. okeechobeensis and C. martinezii are best considered as subspecies of C. okeechobeensis and validate the name C. okeechobeensis subsp. martinezii comb. nov.
10.2307/2419396|Phylogenetic stability is the tendency for monophyletic groups that are resolved by an analysis to continue to be resolved when either the data or the analytical method is altered. Bootstrapping and similar procedures assess the stability of monophyletic groups, but provide little information to indicate which characters are crucial in the support of particular groups. We present a method that does so. Sequential Character Removal consists of a series of cladistic analyses, each conducted with a different subset of a complete data set; the subsets are obtained by the sequential and exhaustive removal of characters, individually and in all combinations of two or more. A character or combination of characters is critical to the resolution of a monophyletic group when the removal of that character or set of characters results in the loss of resolution of the group. Thus, for any monophyletic group, Sequential Character Removal generates a list of characters and character combinations that are critical to the resolution of the group, in the context of an otherwise complete data set. An analysis of a real data set, representing chloroplast DNA restriction site variation among 27 species of Poaceae, demonstrates that characters critical to the recognition of a monophyletic group need not be synapomorphies of that group, and that a clade that is resolved by a complete data set, and fails to be resolved when a particular set of characters is removed, may reappear when additional characters are removed.
10.2307/2419397|The concept that species may arise through the gradual divergence of races has been and remains widely accepted by plant evolutionists. Evidence in its favor is circumstantial. It is unlikely that species evolve through the gradual transformation of races, because there is no simple mechanism that can produce the collective transformation of a race and because some aspects of speciation involve stochastic processes. It is much more likely that species evolve in local populations or metapopulations, mechanism of speciation notwithstanding. Dispersal and colonization from the locus of speciation bind populations of the neospecies through common descent. All populations share the unique features that distinguish the neospecies from its progenitor. There is no ecological or genetic relationship among species or patterns within species that cannot be explained by the theory of local speciation.
10.2307/2419398|This study reduces five names to synonymy of Solanum andreanum, a variable taxon distributed from southern Colombia to central Ecuador. Two of the five names here united are recognized in Hawkes's latest taxonomic treatment in 1990, and one name was published after that treatment. The species have been distributed among five separate taxonomic series. We believe that this synonymy is only one example of a much larger problem of synonymy in sect. Petota.
10.2307/2419399|A comparison of the morphology, cytology, and fertility of artificial and natural interspecific hybrids reveals that Epilobium treleasianum, E. pulchrum, and E. luteum var. lilacinum are natural hybrids involving Epilobium luteum as one parent. Greenhouse and field observations establish the second parent of E. treleasianum as E. ciliatum subsp. glandulosum. Pollen stainability of herbarium specimens of hybrids is comparable to interspecific F<sub>1</sub>'s, F<sub>2</sub>'s and backcrosses involving E. luteum. Further, of the 41 herbarium specimens analyzed, seven are inferred to have been structural heterozygotes based on the frequency of aborted pollen tetrads. In the case of E. treleasianum, these hybrids would have possessed a C structural end arrangement from E. luteum and an A end arrangement from E. ciliatum. Structurally homozygous specimens of E. treleasianum represent subsequent generations that possessed either AA or CC chromosomes. Type specimens of E. treleasianum and E. luteum var. lilacinum are interpreted to be hybrids of this nature. The identity of the second parent for E. pulchrum is not known, but it clearly is not E. ciliatum subsp. glandulosum. The name E. x treleasianum should be retained for the specific hybrid combination of E. luteum x E. ciliatum subsp. glandulosum.
10.2307/2419400|Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was examined in 60 species of Erythrina (Leguminosae: Phaseoleae). This sample represents four of the five subgenera and most sections of this pantropical, woody, and ornithophilous genus of 112 species. Cladistic analysis of restriction site characters resulted in numerous most parsimonious trees, but the strict consensus tree was highly resolved. Low levels of resolution because of absence of characters were confined to a single clade representing plastomes sampled from a large group of closely related species. The groupings obtained from the chloroplast DNA characters were generally consistent with the traditional infrageneric classification scheme for the genus. Plastome lineages of only one of the four subgenera surveyed was monophyletic, but those of most sections or of groups of closely related sections were monophyletic. The gene tree suggests that members of the African subg. Chirocalyx and of the Paleotropical subg. Erythraster are closely related and sister to African and Asian members of subg. Erythrina. Chloroplast DNA relationships indicate that hummingbird pollination, considered derived relative to passerine pollination, evolved convergently in at least three distinct lineages and that reversals to passerine pollination also may have occurred.
10.2307/2419401|Hybridization of fern species has rarely led to the formation of swarms of fertile, segregating, homoploid variants. However, we found mixed populations of Polystichum munitum and P. imbricans that included readily identifiable sterile hybrids and individuals with varying blends of the characteristics of the two species. An investigation was undertaken to test the hypothesis that hybridization between P. munitum and P. imbricans is followed by backcrossing at the diploid level, leading to the formation of hybrid swarms. Fronds collected from plants of 14 mixed populations of the two species were identified on the basis of spore morphology as one of the two species or as a hybrid. Pure populations of the two species were also sampled to provide morphological standards for the analyses. Each specimen was then scored for 11 micro- and macromorphological characteristics, and the data were analyzed using univariate and multivariate techniques. Results from analyses of morphology, spore germination, and allozyme electrophoresis support the hypothesis that hybridization between P. munitum and P. imbricans can lead to the formation of homoploid hybrid swarms. The species come into contact in habitat that is transitional between the mesic and xeric sites typical for P. munitum and P. imbricans, respectively. Disturbance appears to aid in the establishment of hybrid swarms, and selection may favor recombinant individuals in this intermediate habitat; this could account for the abundance of hybrids in the Klamath Mts. of northwestern California. These conclusions are remarkable for they propose the only known example of diploid level hybrid swarms in temperate zone pteridophytes.
10.2307/2419402|Diploid chromosome numbers are presented for 31 species of Passiflora in subg. Plectostemma (sect. Cieca, Pseudodysosmia, Xerogona, Decaloba), Passiflora, Distephana, Tacsonia, and a few species of uncertain alliance. All but one of the counts are of neotropical taxa and the majority are the first reported for each. We remove P. sanguinolenta from subg. Psilanthus and transfer it to subg. Plectostemma, sect. Xerogona, based on morphological and karyotypic evidence. There are two basic numbers that are widespread in Passiflora: the relatively symmetrical and large karyotype of x = 9, which is reported for subg. Passiflora, Distephana, and Tacsonia; and the more asymmetrical and smaller karyotype of x = 6, counted here for subg. Plectostemma.
10.2307/2419403|Character choice in the delimitation of Cyrtostylis oblonga, C. reniformis, and C. robusta, orchid species in the Acianthinae, was evaluated using morphometric methods, specifically canonical variates analysis of several traditional measurements, thin plate spline analysis of leaf perimeter landmarks, and eigenshape analysis of leaf outlines. We measured five linear parameters and characterized leaf shape using thin plate spline and eigenshapes to determine morphological distance between the three species. Our work indicates that C. oblonga and C. reniformis are well delimited, but that C. robusta is morphologically indistinguishable from C. reniformis.
10.2307/2419404|Meiotic chromosome numbers were determined for 36 species representing 15 genera of Acanthaceae from Jamaica, Mexico, and Panama. Chromosome numbers of 21 species are reported for the first time including the initial reports for two genera, Oplonia (n = 21) and Streblacanthus (n = 18). Based on chromosome numbers and morphological characters, three distinctive groups of New World Justicieae: Odontoneminae are delimited. A primitive basic number of x = 7 is probable for the family.
10.2307/2419405|Intergeneric and interspecific relationships of Psilactis were studied using data from restriction site analysis of chloroplast DNA and nuclear rDNA. Molecular evidence supports the removal of Psilactis from Machaeranthera and its alliance with Aster. Within the Aster lineage, chloroplast DNA data support an alliance composed of members of Psilactis that have n = 4 (P. tenuis, P. boltoniae) and those of Aster subg. Oxytripolium that are based on x = 5 (A. subulatus, A. tenuifolius), separating them from the n = 9 species of both Aster and Psilactis. Evidence from nuclear rDNA, in contrast, supports different alignments by combining n = 4 and n = 9 species of Psilactis and by allying the n = 5 and n = 10 species of Aster subg. Oxytripolium with other species of Aster. Comparison of cpDNA results with evidence from morphology, rDNA, and isozymes suggests that hybridization may account for some relationships supported by chloroplast DNA. Psilactis is re-established as a distinct genus of six species, with P. mexicana placed in synonymy under P. gentryi. The following new taxonomic combinations are made: Psilactis gentryi, Psilactis odysseus, and Psilactis heterocarpa.
10.2307/2419406|Restriction map variation has been assayed in the slowly evolving chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) inverted repeat regions of 43 genera of the large and economically important legume tribe Phaseoleae and representatives of several allied tribes. Cladistic analyses of these data indicate that several plastome groups correspond well to subtribes recognized largely on the basis of morphological variation. Based on these cpDNA data, the tribe as a whole does not appear to be monophyletic, a result in accordance with current, morphologically-based hypotheses. Plastomes of several genera belonging to subtribes considered basal within Phaseoleae have as their sister groups plastomes of non-Phaseoleae tribes, notably Millettieae, the tribe considered to represent the ancestral stock from which diverse elements of Phaseoleae were derived. More unexpectedly, plastomes of the tribe Desmodieae fall within the clade that includes the most derived chloroplast genomes of Phaseoleae.
10.2307/2419407|The earliest fossil platanoid reproductive structures so far recorded are from the "bank near Brooke" locality in the Patapsco Formation (Potomac Group) of northern Virginia. Pistillate inflorescences and infructescences (Platanocarpus brookensis, sp. nov.) consist of flowers in globose aggregations that are borne directly on the inflorescence axis. Individual flowers are sessile and each consists of five free carpels, surrounded by a prominent perianth. Staminate inflorescences (Aquia brookensis, gen. et sp. nov.) consist of globose aggregations of flowers containing stamens with long filaments, and anthers with valvate dehiscence and a massive connective. Anthers contain tricolpate foveo-reticulate pollen. Association evidence, similarities in cuticular structure, and the occurrence of Aquia-type pollen on carpels of Platanocarpus brookensis, suggest that these reproductive structures and the co-occurring Sapindopsis leaves were produced by the same plant species. The "Aquia plant" provides further evidence that Sapindopsis leaves are part of the mid-Cretaceous platanoid complex, documents that not all platanoid stamens are characterized by a prominent apical expansion of the connective, and demonstrates for the first time that the pollen produced by the platanoid complex was more diverse than the distinctive reticulate grains previously reported in situ from other Cretaceous and Tertiary platanoid flowers. Based on outgroup comparison and stratigraphic position, many of the features exhibited by the "Aquia plant" may be plesiomorphic for the platanoid clade as a whole.
10.2307/2419408|We used horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis to assess the degree of genetic divergence between four populations each of Gelsemium sempervirens and G. rankinii from the southeastern United States and to test the hypothesis that G. sempervirens is an autotetraploid derivative of G. rankinii. Levels of genetic variation in both taxa are somewhat higher than the mean for long-lived, woody perennials. There was no indication that the alleles of one species represent a subset of the variation present in the other nor was there any indication of tetrasomic expression in G. sempervirens. Moreover, chromosome counts from root tip squashes confirm that both species are diploid, with 2n = 16. There is, however, unusual mitotic behavior that may explain apparently erroneous counts of lower numbers by some previous workers, who also reported larger and fewer stomates in the presumably autotetraploid G. sempervirens. Sharp genetic differences between the two species (mean genetic identity, I = 0.48) parallel their morphological discontinuities in many characters, and there was no evidence of hybridization or introgression in regions of sympatry. A cladistic analysis using eight morphological characters supports the view that G. sempervirens and C. rankinii are sister species, more closely related to each other than either is to the third species in the genus, G. elegans from southeast Asia. Genetic evidence suggests that the lineage leading to G. rankinii and G. semperoirens split in the late Tertiary, about 3-3.5 million years ago. It is possible that G. rankinii adjusted to life in Coastal Plain swamps by loss of winged seeds, becoming adapted for dispersal by water, rather than wind.
10.2307/2419409|Four new distylous species of Waltheria endemic to Mexico are described and illustrated: W. bicolor from Colima, W. fryxellii from Mexico, Guerrero, Michoacan, and Jalisco, W. lundelliana from Nayarit, and W. tridentata from Guerrero, Puebla, and Oaxaca. Stigmatic and pollen dimorphisms between pin and thrum flowers are described for the new species and placed within the context of those dimorphisms found in other Mexican and Central American Waltheria species. Three species groups, based partially on stigma types (pin-clavate, fan-plumose, and elongate-plumose), are newly described and all Mexican and Central American species delineated to them. All four new species belong to the newly designated crest-flowered waltherias, characterized by possession of crest-like inflorescences, clavate pin stigmas, ovoid chartaceous capsules with partially loculicidal dehiscence, and bracteal trichomes that are exclusively stellate. A key to the 15 Mexican and Central American species is provided and their geographical distributions are illustrated.
10.2307/2419414|Lophostigma, previously known only from a single species (L. plumosum), is revised with the addition of a second species (L. schunkei comb. nov.). A number of morphological and palynological features are described for the first time. Particularly significant among these, are the discovery of fruiting material and the stigmas of pistillate flowers, and the reexamination of pollen grains using SEM. Lophostigma, although similar to Serjania, is distinguished from it and from any other genus of the tribe Paullinicae by its flowers with relatively large sepals and inconspicuous petals, and by the cylindrical-ellipsoid pollen grains, with 4 endoapertures and 2 or 3 colpi.
10.2307/2419415|Enzyme electrophoresis was employed to measure genetic diversity among clones of the three species of Spirodela, and to estimate allozyme divergence among the species. A total of 131 clones was examined at 16 presumptive loci. Total diversity within S. polyrrhiza is low (0.034) compared to reports for most species of flowering plants. Diversity in S. punctata is over twice as high (0.072) as in S. polyrrhiza, and S. intermedia has considerably higher diversity (0.144) than its congeners. The low diversity in S. polyrrhiza is correlated with a lower frequency of reproduction by seed compared to S. intermedia and S. punctata. Four multilocus genotypes were found among the 67 clones of S. polyrrhiza, with each largely restricted to particular geographic areas. The 21 clones of S. intermedia represented 15 multilocus arrays and 14 genotypes were found in the 43 clones of S. punctata examined. The three species are highly divergent at allozyme loci. The genetic identity between S. intermedia and S. polyrrhiza is 0.404 despite the fact that the two species are not easily separable in the basis of morphology. Spirodela punctata shares no alleles with the other two species at the 16 loci examined. This is concordant with the current taxonomic treatment for Spirodela in which the former two species are placed in one section and the latter in another.
10.2307/2419416|Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was surveyed in 58 accessions of aneuploid (n = 11-15) North American Astragalus plus outgroup taxa consisting of Oxytropis lambertii, and two species from euploid (n = 8, 16 ...), predominantly Old World, sections of Astragalus. A set of 52 site mutations was analyzed using Wagner parsimony. The resulting strict consensus tree revealed that the North American aneuploid series forms a monophyletic ingroup relative to the Old World euploid outgroups. In addition, a diverse assemblage of taxa comprising some 20% of the North American species is monophyletic. A method for characterizing large sets of equally parsimonious trees in terms of the diversity of distinct component clades is described and applied to these data.
10.2307/2419417|Phylogenetic relationships of the basidiomycete Lentinus were investigated using 20 morphological and 133 nucleic acid sequence characters from three regions in the 5' half of the nuclear-encoded large subunit rRNA. Molecular data were obtained from 34 individuals that represent 11 species in Lentinus, nine in the Polyporaceae, eight in the Tricholomataceae, and one in the Corticiaceae. Thanetephorus cucumeris (Tulasnellales) was used as an outgroup for rooting purposes. Most of the sequence variation was in regions that correspond to eukaryote-specific divergent domains D1 and D2. Molecular data alone yielded a well-resolved cladogram but morphological data alone were insufficient to resolve phylogenetic relationships. The most resolved cladograms were obtained with a combined analysis of molecular and morphological characters. Bootstrap and decay index measures of branch robustness had a significant positive correlation, but some branches with high bootstrap values were contradicted by near-minimal trees. Monophyly of Lentinus sensu Pegler was not supported. Rather, three monophyletic groups of Lentinus species were resolved. These largely correspond to Neolentinus, Panus, and Lentinus s. str. The latter appears to be derived from the Polyporaceae, suggesting that lamellae are products of convergent evolution.
10.2307/2419418|A taxonomic revision of Anthaenantiopsis (Poaceae) is presented. Four species and a new variety, A. perforata var. camporum, are recognized in this treatment. This neotropical panicoid genus, present in Brazil, Bolivia, Paraguay and Argentina, includes perennial, Kranz species, of the MS anatomical type, with a basic chromosome number of x = 10. Generic deliminations and tribal affinities are also discussed: Anthaenantiopsis is distinguished from other genera of the Paniceae by its pilose spikelets in spiciform or racemose panicles, the spikelets with a scale-like lower glume, lower flower staminate, and upper lemma with membranous margins, the upper palea gaping after anthesis.
10.2307/2419419|To compare hypothesized species boundaries in Gambelia to patterns of differentiation inferred from morphology and isozymes, we examined nine populations for divergence at 22 isozyme loci and 29 OTU's/populations for morphological divergence using 20 characters. Thirteen quantitative and seven qualitative characters were analyzed using clustering (UPGMA) and ordination (PCA, CVA) methods. Placement of North American shrub snapdragons in Gambelia separate from southern hemisphere species (Galvezia s. str.) was supported by numerous qualitative morphological and genetic differences. Within Gambelia, the pattern of morphological and isozyme variation is most concordant with recognition of two species, G. speciosa and G. juncea, based on the phylogenetic species concept. Each species can be defined by several invariant and unique morphological and isozyme characters. Delimitation of infraspecific taxa in G. speciosa is unwarranted, because no consistent interpopulation differentiation was observed. Recognition of segregate species within the G. juncea complex of Baja California and Sonora also was not supported. No constant morphological differences were observed for either G. glabrata or G. rupicola. Biogeographic and systematic data support hypotheses that the California Island endemic G. speciosa is relictual, that disjunct Sonoran populations of G. juncea were established recently, and that populations of G. juncea from the Cape Region of Baja California have been isolated since the Holocene.
10.2307/2419420|Cornus and potential outgroups were surveyed for morphological characters in order to evaluate relationships within the genus. Examination of bract placement and inflorescence development led to a revised interpretation of inflorescence structure. Contrary to previously published reports, all members of subg. Kraniopsis and Mesomora were found to possess inflorescence bracts, albeit small and often caducous prior to anthesis. Nine monophyletic taxa, here treated as subgenera, were initially recognized in Cornus; however, because of character variability within subg. Cornus, Cynoxylon, and Syncarpea, three species were segregated from these original OTU's and treated as additional OTU's in a subsequent analysis. Various characters previously used to support putative relationships of Nyssa, Davidia, and Camptotheca with Cornus (transeptal vascular bundles, germination valves, chromosome number, and iridoids) were found to be suspect. The presence of two-armed single-celled trichomes does support the recognition of Cornus, Mastixia, and Diplopanax as a monophyletic group. Previous phylogenetic hypotheses for Cornus were tested in a cladistic analysis of 28 morphological, anatomical, chemical, and cytological characters. Using Mastixia and Diplopanax as outgroups in a simultaneous analysis of ingroup and outgroup relationships, a new hypothesis of phylogeny was generated that is in conflict with previously published works. In this analysis the "cornelian cherries" (subg. Cornus and Afrocrania) and the "big bracted dogwoods" (subg. Discocrania, Cynoxylon, and Syncarpea) are sister groups. The "dwarf dogwoods" (subg. Arctocrania) are sister to them. This phylogeny implies that bract expansion into a showy non-chlorophyllous structure evolved twice in the genus. Three characters unite Cornus as a monophyletic group: dorsal raphe, two or more locules per fruit, and calcium carbonate ornamentation of the trichomes. Two species, C. sessilis and C. nuttallii, were not clearly placed into subgenera and should receive careful scrutiny in future analyses. Cornus subg. Yinquania (comb. et stat. nov.) is recognized here at a new rank, its two species having previously been considered either as members of subg. Kraniopsis, or as the segregate genus Yinquania. It is placed in the proposed phylogenetic scheme as the basal clade in Cornus.
10.2307/2419421|Carex juniperorum, a distinctive new species of sect. Phyllostachys, is described. Carex juniperorum occurs in shallow, calcareous soil in open red-cedar woodland and associated glades in Ontario, Ohio, and Kentucky. Section Phyllostachys is lectotypified and a key is provided for the six known species. Carex juniperorum is most closely related to C. jamesii and C. willdenowii but differs from both of these species by its shorter culms 2-6.5 cm tall, shorter perigynium beaks 1.4-2.1 mm long, and pistillate scales lacking hyaline margins.
10.2307/2419422|Caryopteris, an Asian genus of 16 species, has greater pollen diversity than has been reported in any other genus of Labiatae. The pollen morphology of 15 species is documented here. Three pollen types are distinguished on the basis of exine structure and sculpturing: spinulose to spinose with slender, finely divided columellae (alternatively interpretable as an expanded tectum); verrucate with a well defined tectum and thick, sparsely branched columellae; and suprareticulate to microreticulate with moderately thick, sparsely branched columellae. Thirteen species are tricolpate, Caryopteris divaricata is triporate, and C. nepalensis is 6-pantocolpate. Pollen morphology and correlated variation in floral and fruit morphology suggest that Caryopteris comprises three primary phenetic groups. However, two recent cladistic analyses (one based in part on the pollen features documented here) indicate that the genus is para- or polyphyletic and that only one of the three phenetic subgroups is clearly monophyletic. Recircumscription of the genus is recommended, but this should await completion of current studies that will facilitate its subdivision into monophyletic taxa.
10.2307/2419423|Models of homoplastic evolution were constructed to test the accuracy of the parsimony criterion in estimating true tree length when homoplasy is relatively high. Models differed with respect to the following variables: 1) average steps per character-state change, 2) number of terminal taxa, 3) topology of trees, i.e., pectinate versus symmetric branching, 4) distribution of homoplasy among characters, i.e., all characters with equal versus unequal amounts, 5) number of characters, and 6) distribution of homoplasy within characters, i.e., close homoplasy versus widely separated homoplasy. Variables 3 and 4 did not notably influence the accuracy of the parsimony criterion, whereas variables 1, 2, 5, and 6 did. A method of estimating true tree length is proposed that utilizes the following protocol: 1) discovery of a most parsimonious tree (P1) with length L1, 2) calculation of level of homoplasy, 3) random redistribution of characters with that collective level of homoplasy on to the topology of P1 or a similar topology, 4) deduction of the character-states of the terminal taxa, 5) calculation of the length (L2) of the most parsimonious tree (P2) for a new data set, and 6) estimation (E) of the true tree length with the formula E = L1 x L1/L2.
10.2307/2419424|Eight morphological characters of the gametophyte generation and three of the sporophyte generation were measured in 15 plants from each of 76 populations of the rare and geographically disjunctive moss, Scopelophila cataractae, in order to assess whether subtle differences exist between plants from widely separated populations. Plants were variable in all morphological traits, but most of the variation occurred among individual stems within populations and among populations within broad geographic regions. In spite of statistically significant differences between plants from widely disjunct regions (including different continents) for eight of the 11 morphological traits, the percentage of the total variation attributable to regional differences was minimal. Little regional variation in individual traits was corroborated by multivariate analyses including UPGMA clustering and principal component analysis. Furthermore, the degree and pattern of correlations among morphological traits were remarkably similar in populations of plants separated by thousands of miles. The general rarity and habitat specificity of S. cataractae throughout its range suggest that widely disjunct populations have been continuously separated. This, combined with the present analysis of morphology, suggests that morphological diversification may occur slowly in this moss.
10.2307/2419532|Levels of allozyme diversity and patterns of genetic structure within and among populations of Haplopappus gracilis were assessed using data from starch gel electrophoresis. Several indices of genetic diversity were used to compare H. gracilis with other species possessing similar life form and distributional attributes. F statistics using allozyme data indicated only a small degree of differentiation among populations, and an Nm value of 3.60 suggested a relatively high level of gene flow among populations. Uniformly high genetic identities (mean 0.989) between populations are in the range of other conspecific populations. Genetic diversity values at the species (H<sub>es</sub>) and population (H<sub>ep</sub>) levels were in general agreement with those of similar species, with little reduction of diversity in marginal populations. Unlike previously reported differentiation of H. gracilis populations into distinct ecological races based on life history and morphological traits, there was no apparent correlation of ecological or geographical patterns to allozyme variational patterns.
10.2307/2419533|A cladistic analysis was conducted on restriction site variation in the inverted repeat region of the chloroplast DNA of 34 taxa, including 22 genera of Hamamelididae, nine genera of Rosidae, and one genus of Magnoliidae (sensu Cronquist). Parsimony analysis of 45 informative characters resulted in four equally parsimonious cladograms. In all trees, Hamamelididae were polyphyletic, with the rosid taxa nested within "lower" hamamelids and "higher" hamamelids in turn nested within this rosid group. The "higher" Hamamelididae (excluding Leitneria but including Betulaceae, Casuarinaceae, Fagaceae, Juglandaceae, Myricaceae, Nothofagaceae) were monophyletic in all of the most-parsimonious trees, and were always a sister group of Malus (Rosaceae). Within the "higher" hamamelid group, Nothofagus was found to be the sister taxon of the remainder of the taxa, supporting recognition of the family Nothofagaceae. The genera of Fagaceae s. str. formed a monophyletic group and were a sister group of the remainder of the "higher" hamamelids excluding Nothofugus. The sister group of the rosid-"higher" hamamelid clade in all trees was a clade that included Liquidambar, Cercidiphyllum, and representative genera of Hamamelidaceae s. str. The analysis showed Euptelea to be the basal taxon of "lower" hamamelids, whereas Trochodendron was identified as sister taxon to a larger clade comprised of Hamamelidaceae, Cercidiphyllum, rosids, and "higher" hamamelids. Cercidiphyllum was shown to be closely related to Hamamelidaceae s.l., whereas Platanus was placed several nodes away from this clade. This analysis supports recent contentions that Hamamelididae sensu Cronquist is not monophyletic. Our results contradict recent suggestions based on fossil leaves that Fagaceae are derived directly from a platanoid ancestor.
10.2307/2419534|A palynological survey of Tribe Prostanthereae (Labiatae) reveals that the pollen is tricolpate or 6- (8) colpate, tectate-perforate to reticulate, with or without spinulose sculpturing; the columellae are simple and the colpal membranes bear sexine elements. Three sculpturing variants are distinguishable. None of the pollen types in the Prostanthereae have been observed elsewhere in the Labiatae s. str., but the one hypothesized to be ancestral in the tribe (tricolpate, microreticulate, lacking spinules) is widespread in the Labiatae s.l. (i.e., including many genera traditionally assigned to Verbenaceae). The two sections of Prostanthera differ in pollen size and number of colpi, providing a probable synapomorphy for sect. Klanderia (6-colpate pollen) and phenetic support for its segregation as a distinct genus (Cryphia). Conn's placement of Eichlerago in synonymy with Prostanthera is supported by their similar pollen morphology. The distribution of spinulose sculpturing (a derived state) suggests that Prostanthera, Wrixonia, and perhaps Hemiandra form a clade within the tribe, but the inclusion of Hemiandra conflicts with floral characters. The hypothesis that tribe Prostanthereae is closely related to subfam. Chloanthoideae sensu Briquet (the latter variably assigned to Verbenaceae s.l., Labiatae s.l., or its own family) is more consistent with pollen morphology than the traditional placement of the tribe within the Labiatae s. str.
10.2307/2419535|A synopsis of the eleven neotropical species of Plukenetia (Euphorbiaceae) is given. The genus Plukenetia is redefined to include the neotropical monotypic genera Eleutherostigma and Vigia (previously known as Fragariopsis). As treated here Plukenetia may be distinguished from all other members of the tribe Plukenetieae by its four-carpellate ovary. Two new species, P. supraglandulosa from French Guiana and the Brazilian state of Amapa and P. stipellata from Mexico and Central America, are described and illustrated. Plukenetia supraglandulosa is closely allied with P. penninervia and P. multiglandulosa and differs in the presence of scattered laminar glands on the upper leaf surface and longer inflorescences. The three species share a very similar androecium of dimorphic stamens, which is correctly described for the first time. Plukenetia stipellata differs from the closely related South American and West Indian species, P. volubilis, by its stipellate leaf blade base, shorter styles and longer slender stamens. Two new combinations, P. serrata and P. lehmanniana, are proposed. A key to the 11 species in the Neotropics is provided.
10.2307/2419536|Septal nectary anatomy of members of the Haemodoraceae is described, with emphasis on nectary number and relative position within the ovary. Three types of septal nectaries are defined: infralocular, interlocular, and supralocular. The phylogenetic and possible adaptive significance of these features are assessed by adding the data to a previous cladistic analysis of the Haemodoraceae and considering cladistic patterns in terms of functional floral morphology. I hypothesize that: 1) three interlocular septal nectaries are ancestral for the Haemodoraceae, but were secondarily acquired in the genus Anigozanthos (Conostylideae) in response to selective pressure for increased nectar production for bird pollination; 2) three supralocular nectaries constitute a synapomorphy for all or most of the tribe Conostylideae, but evolved independently in the genus Dilatris of the Haemodoreae; 3) two infralocular nectaries evolved concomitantly with unique "perianth apertures" and arose via the evolution of zygomorphy and basal displacement of nectaries into the receptacular tissue; and 4) septal nectaries were independently lost in the genera Xiphidium and Phlebocarya, perhaps in response to a shift in pollination mechanism.
10.2307/2419537|Morphological and developmental evidence is utilized in a phylogenetic analysis of Piperales. Best resolution of trees was obtained by combining ontogenetic data with conventional morphological data. Floral ontogeny provides a means to determine homology among character states as well as to provide additional characters not observable in mature flowers. Both Lundberg and outgroup rooting were performed using a hypothetical ancestor defined by general ontogenetic states in the former and by five taxa presumably related to the ingroup in the latter. Polarization of character states via ontogenetic generality principles is congruent with outgroup polarization. Saururaceae and Piperaceae are each monophyletic. Saururaceae are supported by three synapomorphies, with Saururus as the basal taxon. The other three saururaceous genera (Anemopsis, Houttuynia, Gymnotheca) share the derived character states of syncarpy, stamen-carpel adnation, and an inferior or half-inferior ovary. Piperaceae are supported by seven synapomorphies with Zippelia as the basal taxon. Six other synapomorphies unite the remaining Piperaceae suggesting that Macropiper and Pothomorphe are specialized offshoots of the morphologically variable Piper. Numerous autapomorphies support Peperomia as a distinct and specialized offshoot within Piperaceae. Within the sister clades Saururaceae and Piperaceae, there are parallel reduction trends in floral organ number and in the sequence of floral organ initiation.
10.2307/2419538|As presently circumscribed, the genus Vigna contains approximately 150 species distributed in both the New World and Old World. The objective of our work was to test Old World Vigna for monophyly and to study infrageneric relationships. A total of 72 chloroplast DNA mutations was scored among 27 Vigna species, representing six of the seven subgenera and 11 of the 13 Old World sections. Cladistic analysis of these data supports the monophyly of Old World Vigna, the only exception being V. frutescens of subg. Vigna, which fell within the New World Vigna clade. Subgenus Haydonia occupies a basal position in the Old World Vigna clade and is paraphyletic. Subgenus Vigna is polyphyletic. Four Old World cpDNA clades are well resolved: 1) sects. Catiang (the cowpea section) and Reticulatae of subg. Vigna together with subg. Plectotropis; 2) subg. Ceratotropis (the Asian beans); 3) sect. Vigna of subg. Vigna; and 4) sect. Macrodontae of subg. Vigna. The cpDNA phylogeny of Old World Vigna is generally consistent with previous studies. CpDNA results suggest that sects. Catiang and Reticulatae could be split from subg. Vigna and placed with subg. Plectotropis.
10.2307/2419539|The Ipomopsis aggregata complex comprises diploid, perennial, montane herbs, distributed across western North America. We used chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site variation to examine phylogenetic relationships among the three species in the complex, I. aggregata, I. arizonica and I. tenuituba, and several related species. Twenty-one restriction site mutations and four length mutations were used to reconstruct a phylogenetic tree by cladistic methods. With a few exceptions, patterns of cpDNA variation within I. aggregata were consistent with current taxonomy and reflected the geographic distributions of subspecies and populations. However, cpDNA-based relationships among species were not congruent with a pre-1992 taxonomy of the group. Ipomopsis tenuituba did not form a distinct clade; two populations of this species had the same "primitive" cpDNA as I. arizonica and I. rubra, whereas two other populations emerged on branches within I. aggregata, and one population (of I. tenuituba subsp. macrosiphon) shared mutations with I. thurberi. It is not clear whether this pattern is the result of cpDNA transfer during periods of hybridization or the "tenuituba" morphology has arisen independently more than once. Ipomopsis tenuituba subsp. macrosiphon has subsequently been segregated as a species. The level of sequence divergence among species was similar in magnitude to that among populations within each species, consistent with patterns of recent divergence and subsequent hybridization among the three species in the complex. In addition, relationships based on cpDNA variation reflected taxonomy and geographic distribution more congruently than did allozymes. The results from this study suggest that evolution of the I. aggregata complex has involved cases of chloroplast DNA transfer between taxa, convergent evolution for certain floral characters, or both.
10.2307/2419540|An electrophoretic analysis of 12 isozyme loci was completed to determine the level of genetic variation within and degree of genetic divergence among populations of Cypripedium calceolus var. pubescens, C. calceolus var. parviflorum, and C. calceolus var. planipetalum. In addition, the genetic relationship between mixed and pure populations of vars. pubescens and parviflorum was determined. Differences were found among pure populations of these taxa in the level of heterozygosity and distribution of genetic variation. Variety-level heterozygosity over all loci ranged from 0.180 in var. pubescens to 0.274 in var. parviflorum, whereas the proportion of variation distributed among populations ranged from 5.3% in var. planipetalum to 17% in var. parviflorum. Only slight levels of genetic divergence were found among these taxa, which resulted from allele frequency differences among the varieties rather than the presence of high frequency taxon-specific alleles. Unweighted pair-group method analysis of Nei's genetic identities and a principal components analysis of allele frequencies both revealed a tendency of var. pubescens and var. planipetalum populations to cluster with their respective varieties. However, var. parviflorum displayed a large variance in population differentiation relative to the above taxa. Intravarietal Nei's identity values, which ranged from 0.84 to 1.0, were not consistently higher than intervarietal values (0.75-0.98). These results are comparable to other reports of genetic divergence among sympatric infraspecific taxa and suggest that vars. parviflorum, pubescens, and planipetalum be considered members of a single species.
10.2307/2419708|Uncertainty concerning the correct name for the only species of Koeleria widely distributed in the northern hemisphere is heightened by the recent introduction into American literature of the name K. pyramidata. Population samples of European K. pyramidata were compared with population samples and herbarium specimens of North American material here referred to K. macrantha. Nineteen characters were evaluated for plants from each of seven populations of K. pyramidata and from each of five populations and 96 herbarium specimens of North American K. macrantha. Morphologically, K. pyramidata differs from K. macrantha in having larger spikelets (plants among the North American population samples of K. macrantha bearing atypically large spikelets were infected with Claviceps purpurea); a distinctive pattern of pubescence; a difference in response of sheath bases to weathering; and, in terms of populations, a more robust habit. The two species are also distinct cytologically, geographically, and ecologically. No evidence was found to suggest that plants with the morphological or cytological characters of K. pyramidata exist in North America. In view of these findings, K. pyramidata is deemed to be a distinct species, and the correct name for all North American material is K. macrantha.
10.2307/2419709|Restriction site variation was surveyed in the chloroplast genome (cpDNA) of 14 species of Tripsacum, two species of Zea, and an outgroup, Elionurus tripsacoides. A total of 783 cpDNA restriction sites was surveyed using 22 restriction endonucleases, revealing 110 polymorphic restriction sites among or within the species. We observed a relatively low level of cpDNA sequence divergence among Tripsacum species (0.0 to 0.0036 substitutions per site) as compared to other genera of flowering plants. The level of cpDNA sequence divergence between Zea and Tripsacum is also low (0.007 substitutions per site), suggesting that these genera are closely related. Variable restriction sites were used to construct parsimony phylogenetic trees. These trees failed to show close agreement with taxonomic relationships within Tripsacum. The trees do not show a division of Tripsacum into sects. Tripsacum and Fasciculata. Chloroplast DNA also indicates that T. dactyloides is not monophyletic. Comparison of cpDNA and rDNA restriction site variation suggests that interspecific introgressive hybridization could explain the low level of congruence between taxonomy and cpDNA. Tests of the molecular clock hypothesis indicate that cpDNA evolves more rapidly in Zea than in Tripsacum.
10.2307/2419710|The Empetraceae have been subject to cladistic analysis to evaluate their phylogenetic interrelationships, and to investigate character evolution in the genus Empetrum. The results indicate that all genera are monophyletic as presently circumscribed, and that red-fruited diploid Empetrum, today found in the Southern Hemisphere, are the sister-group of the black-fruited crowberries. Black-fruited, as well as purple-fruited, tetraploid crowberries are hypothesized to have evolved from diploid black-fruited ancestors in the Northern Hemisphere. The present investigation casts new light on the evolution and biogeography of the family and shows the fallacy of assuming that small disjunct populations must be derived from larger, more widespread ones.
10.2307/2419711|A combination of morphologic, phenolic and terpenoid variables were used in phenetic analyses to determine the patterns of similarity among Picea engelmannii var. mexicana (P. mexicana Martinez); an undescribed population from Cerro Mohinora, Chihuahua; P. chihuahuana; the recently described P. martinezii (all from Mexico); and P. engelmannii, P. pungens and P. sitchensis from the United States. The Mohinora population loosely grouped with the var. mexicana population, suggesting inclusion in that taxon; both of these populations showed close affinities with U.S. populations of P. engelmannii, supporting retention of varietal status in P. engelmannii. Picea martinezii was similar to P. chihuahuana, but all analyses showed the two taxa to be clearly distinct, justifying the retention of P. martinezii as a separate species. Interestingly, P. engelmannii var. mexicana overlapped in morphologic and phenolic variation with P. sitchensis.
10.2307/2419712|Restriction site maps of the chloroplast DNA of four tree ferns (Alsophila bryophila, Cyathea furfuracea, Sphaeropteris cooperi, and Lophosoria quadripinnata) have been constructed using four enzymes. Genome sizes were estimated as ranging from 161.8 kilobases for L. quadripinnata to 179.2 kilobases for C. furfuracea, the largest sizes thus far reported for ferns. Evolutionary relationships of 23 species of Cyatheaceae were assessed by comparative chloroplast DNA restriction site mapping. A total of 67 restriction site mutations, 58 of which were phylogenetically informative, was detected using 20 restriction enzymes. Phylogenetic analyses of restriction site mutations were carried out using both Wagner and Dollo parsimony and the resulting monophyletic groups were evaluated by bootstrapping. The data show strong support for three major evolutionary lineages within the family: the "Alsophila clade," the "Cyathea clade," and the "Sphaeropteris clade." The "Alsophila clade" appears to be the most basal group in the family whereas the "Cyathea" and "Sphaeropteris clades" are derived sister groups. Comparison of these results to the three modern classification systems for the family demonstrates that our findings are most consistent with the system of Lellinger.
10.2307/2419713|The classification of the genus Thlaspi s.l. is difficult and controversial. All hypotheses have been based on morphological and anatomical data and no cladistic analyses have been performed. In the current study restriction site variation of chloroplast DNA among 45 populations of 22 taxa was employed to assess phylogenetic relationships in the genus Thlaspi. Although only 22 taxa have been analyzed herein (ca. 30% worldwide) these species represent all sections. One length mutation and 114 restriction site mutations were detected. Cladistic analysis of the chloroplast DNA data supported four groups that are congruent with four segregate genera (Thlaspi s. str., Microthlaspi, Noccaea, and Raparia), previously recognized by Meyer on the basis of seed anatomy. Sequence divergence between these groups was higher than usually found in intrageneric analyses and comparable to levels of divergence between related genera of other angiosperm families. The chloroplast DNA phylogeny suggests that the perennial taxa are not ancestral to the annual taxa and that the annual habit originated more than once in Thlaspi s.l. A paucity of restriction site mutations precludes resolving relationships among species of Noccaea, whereas the two intraspecific taxa of the T. perfoliatum polyploid complex (Microthlaspi) were separated by at least 17 restriction site mutations. Consideration of chloroplast DNA divergence within the clades Noccaea and Microthlaspi indicates that the rate of plastome evolution is uncoupled from rates of morphological/anatomical diversification. Chloroplast DNA polymorphisms were detected among eight populations of T. perfoliatum subsp. perfoliatum with different ploidy levels. There seems to be geographic partitioning of the two plastome types found, possibly warranting taxonomic recognition.
10.2307/2419714|Solanum megistacrolobum and S. toralapanum are two phenetically similar wild potato (Solanum sect. Petota) species, classified in series Megistacroloba, that together are distributed from southern Peru to northwestern Argentina. They have variously been synonymized, recognized as varieties of S. megistacrolobum, or recognized as distinct species. This study examines 26 morphological characters of 115 living accessions of these two species, plus six accessions of two related species in series Megistacroloba, S. boliviense and S. sogarandinum. All measurements were taken from living accessions planted in a common garden plot. Solanum megistacrolobum and S. toralapanum could be distinguished phenetically only by a combination of the 21 characters that showed statistically significant differences between the two taxa. No individual characters provided consistent discrimination, and there was frequent overlap of "species-specific" characters between taxa. Our results most closely fit the contemporary treatment of S. megistacrolobum and S. toralapanum at the varietal level.
10.2307/2419715|Solanum megistacrolobum and S. toralapanum are two phenetically similar wild potato (Solanum sect. Petota) species, classified in series Megistacroloba, that together are distributed from southern Peru to northwestern Argentina. They have variously been synonymized, recognized as varieties of S. megistacrolobum, or recognized as distinct species. We used 22 single- to low-copy random genomic DNA probes from potato, hybridized to total DNA digested with DraI, EcoRI, EcoRV, and HindIII, to investigate their taxonomic status. We also investigated the hybrid origin of S. raphanifolium and the hybrid origin of S. acaule subsp. aemulans. Our results are concordant with a separate morphological study, showing weak differentiation between S. megistacrolobum and S. toralapanum, but possible only with multivariate methods. These combined morphological and molecular results most closely fit the contemporary treatment of S. megistacrolobum and S. toralapanum at the varietal level. We propose the new combination S. megistacrolobum subsp. toralapanum in order to bring consistency to taxa within sect. Petota, where different authors recognize identical taxa as varieties or subspecies. Our results also show possible hybridization between S. megistacrolobum and S. acaule subsp. aemulans in Argentina, discount the hybridization hypothesis of S. raphanifolium, and show that the species-specific bands of S. albicans relative to S. acaule are shared with many other species in sect. Petota.
10.2307/2419716|Astragalus tortipes is a new species from the southern flank of Sleeping Ute Mountain in southwestern Colorado that grows with mixed desert scrub on Mancos Shale badlands overlain by pediment gravel. Based on phylogenetic estimations using parsimony, the new species is placed as a member of Barneby's sect. Lonchocarpi subsect. Lonchocarpi and is compared morphologically to other astragali. Astragalus tortipes is characterized by its hyper-reflexed pod, a character unique in North American Astragalus.
10.2307/2419717|Nucleotide sequences of the plastid encoded gene matK were examined for their potential utility in phylogenetic analyses within angiosperm families. Sequences 661 bases in length were obtained from twenty species of Polemoniaceae. Phylogenetic analyses resulted in four equally parsimonious trees with a consistency index of 0.70. Several well supported groups allowed us to test hypotheses of relationship within Polemoniaceae. The segregation of Ipomopsis and Allophyllum from Gilia was supported by the placement of each in distinct groups separate from a group of four species of Gilia. Several strongly supported groups include genera now placed in different tribes. There was no support for the current separation of temperate Polemoniaceae into two tribes. The tropical genera were resolved as basal and paraphyletic within the family. The family as a whole was monophyletic with no support for the segregate family Cobaeaceae. Sequences of matK, a gene that had not been used previously for phylogenetic analyses, provided a sufficient number of reliable characters for phylogenetic analysis within Polemoniaceae. Pairwise comparisons of matK and rbcL sequences of the same taxa were performed. Sequences of matK varied at an overall rate twice that of rbcL sequences. Substitutions at the third codon position predominated in rbcL sequences, while in matK substitutions were more evenly distributed across codon positions.
10.2307/2419718|Comparative DNA sequencing of matK, a maturase coding gene located within the intron of the chloroplast gene trnK, was evaluated for phylogenetic utility using genera of Saxifragaceae s. str. The entire matK gene was sequenced for two members of the family, Sullivantia sullivantii and Saxifraga integrifolia. Comparison of base substitution rates between these two species indicated that matK evolves approximately three-fold faster than rbcL. Comparative sequencing of 754 base pairs within matK was subsequently conducted using 25 genera in Saxifragaceae s. str. and two outgroup taxa. Summed over the 31 taxa sequenced for this 754 base pair region, 40% of the base positions were variable and 15.6% were potentially informative. Five insertion/deletion events of three or six base pairs were also detected. Skewness and randomization tests both suggest that significant non-random structure is present in the matK data set. Parsimony analyses provided 72 most parsimonious trees of 223 steps (excluding autapomorphies) with a consistency index of 0.565. Several well-supported groups of genera are highly concordant with relationships suggested by two other chloroplast DNA data sets: chloroplast DNA restriction sites and rbcL sequences.
10.2307/2419719|Nucleotide sequence data from the large subunit of plastid ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase gene (rbcL) were used to infer the phylogenetic affinities of Datiscaceae relative to other dicotyledonous angiosperms and to assess whether the family is monophyletic. New rbcL sequence data from members of Datiscaceae and Cucurbitaceae were generated and analyzed with other previously available rbcL sequences. Phylogenetic reconstructions based on parsimony place Datisca closer to representatives of Cucurbitaceae and Begoniaceae than to the other two genera within Datiscaceae. Our results do not support the monophyly of Datiscaceae and suggest that a previous separation of the group at the family level may be warranted. The relationships of the Datiscaceae-Curcurbitaceae-Begoniaceae clade to other groups included in the analysis are unresolved, but analyses with smaller data sets suggest affinities with higher Hamamelidae, among which are several actinorhizal groups. Actinorhizal plants, as a group, may thus be more closely related than has been indicated by recent classification schemes.
10.2307/2419720|Phylogenetic relationships of 36 species of Anemone (Ranunculaceae) and seven related genera were explored with three independent data sets: chloroplast DNA restriction sites, nuclear ribosomal DNA restriction fragments, and morphological/cytological variation. In the chloroplast DNA work, 245 phylogenetically informative restriction sites were identified using ten restriction enzymes. The phylogeny based on conventional data was derived from 27 characters for the same taxa used in the molecular work. A subset of species complexes was examined with additional chloroplast and nuclear ribosomal DNA data. Molecular and morphological characters established Clematis as the most suitable outgroup for the phylogenetic analyses. Many of the terminal groups of the cladograms resulting from the molecular and morphological data sets were similar, but basal branching patterns were substantially different. Because the molecular tree was substantially less homoplastic and had higher bootstrap and decay values than the morphological tree, it was accepted as the more reliable in determining basal relationships. Both morphological and chloroplast DNA phylogenies demonstrate that few of the sections of Anemone as established by previous classifications are monophyletic. The phylogenies based on chloroplast DNA restriction sites and the combined data sets indicate that Pulsatilla, Hepatica, and Knowltonia should be subsumed within Anemone. Various morphological characters indicate that Barneoudia and Oreithales should also be included within the genus Anemone. Independent data sets provide phylogenetic hypotheses useful in interpretations of character evolution. A preliminary, revised classification is proposed. Several hypotheses are offered to explain the unusual geographic distributions found in Anemone.
10.2307/2419596|Two new species, Passiflora amoena and Passiflora callistemma, were discovered during a taxonomic revision of subgenus Astrophea. The first is placed in section Botryastrophea, the second in section Astrophea. A key is provided for all the species of Passiflora subgenus Astrophea.
10.2307/2419597|A monograph of Hasteola and its two species is presented: H. suaveolens, which has often been treated as a species of Cacalia, and a new species from Florida, H. robertiorum. Treatments of both species include habit, micromorphology, chromosome numbers, ecological setting, and range. The genus has senecionoid affinity rather than cacalioid.
10.2307/2419598|A cladistic analysis was performed on morphological data from seven of the nine species of Columnea section Pentadenia and sixteen of the eighteen species of section Stygnanthe (Gesneriaceae). A nested, global outgroup analysis was performed by including representatives of three other sections of Columnea and two species each of the closely related genera Alloplectus and Drymonia. Twenty characters were scored as binary, and thirteen were scored as multi-state. All characters scored were qualitative. Because of the high levels of homoplasy in the Gesneriaceae, simple characters were not found to be useful and more complex characters comprising several simple characters were necessary to provide resolution. The data were analyzed using Wagner parsimony, resulting in eight most parsimonious trees. In general, the phylogeny was congruent with current classification schemes and phylogenies derived from molecular data and combined molecular and morphological data. However, several phylogenetic relationships that result from the analysis of morphological data are suspect based on other data. The monophyly of Alloplectus is not supported solely with morphological data, although other data support its monophyly. Inferences regarding the biogeographic history and evolution of Columnea sections Pentadenia and Stygnanthe indicate a southern Andean origin for the genus Columnea with a subsequent migration and radiation northward.
10.2307/2419599|Phylogenetic relationships among 25 representatives of the Caryophyllales and three outgroup taxa from Polygonaceae and Plumbaginaceae were assessed using structural variation in the chloroplast genome and restriction site variation in the highly conserved inverted repeat region of the chloroplast genome. In addition to the previously reported loss of the chloroplast rpl2 intron in the common ancestor of the Caryophyllales, observed structural mutations include: 1) the loss of the rpl16 intron in the chloroplast genome of Limonium (Plumbaginaceae); 2) three large, phylogenetically informative deletions within the gene ORF2280, and 3) parallel, 6-kb inversions in the large single-copy region of the chloroplast genomes in Pereskia (Cactaceae) and in Atriplex and Chenopodium (Chenopodiaceae). Sixty-two of the 161 restriction sites scored were phylogenetically informative. Parsimony analyses of the structural and restriction site characters indicate that: 1) the Caryophyllales consist of two major clades, one comprising Amaranthaceae and Chenopodiaceae, and the other all remaining families; 2) two families, Phytolaccaceae and Portulacaceae (Portulaca and Claytonia), are polyphyletic, with elements of the former (Phytolacca and Rivina) strongly linked with Nyctaginaceae; 3) Pereskia (the only examined representative of Cactaceae) is, surprisingly, strongly linked to Portulaca, and 4) Caryophyllaceae and Molluginaceae, the only anthocyanin-producing taxa in the order, occur in the same portion of the trees and are not basal to the group. Relationships among several families are poorly resolved.
10.2307/2419600|DNA sequences from the plastid gene rbcL were used to assess relationships among genera of the conifer families Taxodiaceae and Cupressaceae s. str. Phylogenetic analyses produced four most parsimonious trees that differ only in the positions of three genera (Athrotaxis, Taxodium, and Tuiwania) and the degree of resolution of a trichotomy within Cupressaceae s. str. Taxodiaceae and Cupressaceae form a monophyletic group. The major lineages of Taxodiaceae diverged first, and a monophyletic Cupressaceae s. str. are derived from within Taxodiaceae. These results are consistent with recent suggestions that the two families be treated as a single family, Cupressaceae s.l. Sciadopitys, often classified in Taxodiaceae, is not closely related to Cupressaceae s.l. and should be excluded from the family. Sequence evolution of rbcL is extremely slow in this group of long-lived trees. The rate of silent nucleotide substitutions is 2.5 x 10<sup>-11</sup> per site per year, approximately 13 times slower than rates estimated in short-lived monocots.
10.2307/2419601|Three species of the moss genus Climacium are recorded from North America, but their systematic relationships have been unclear because of reports of morphological intergradation between them. Allopatric populations of C. americanum and C. dendroides appear to be morphologically distinct, but the two species intergrade in a broad region of sympatry extending from Wisconsin to Massachusetts. We measured variation in two morphological traits and isozyme genotypes at 19 loci in 253 plants from six sites in New York state. The two species exhibited fixed allelic differences at three loci (Aco-1, Hex-1, and Me-1). Moreover, Nei's genetic identities between conspecific populations of the two species were substantially higher (mean = 0.980 and 0.988 for C. americanum and C. dendroides, respectively) than the mean genetic identity between the species (0.814). Levels of variation within populations were very low. The two species differed significantly in leaf cell length-width ratios and leaf auricle size, but there was substantial overlap between them. Our results indicate that C. americanum and C. dendroides are evolutionarily distinct, reproductively isolated species despite a lack of complete morphological discontinuity. We found no evidence that morphological intergradation is caused by interspecific hybridization.
10.2307/2419602|The Phylogenetic Species Concept (PSC) defines minimal phylogenetic units. Although its full application requires sampling within populations, the principles of the PSC can be applied even in cases where intrapopulational sampling has not been conducted, albeit with less resolution. One or more accessions from each of thirty-five populations of Corallorhiza maculata, as well as from C. mertensiana and C. sp. nov., were sampled for plastid DNA and morphological features, and the patterns of variation were interpreted in the light of the PSC. These three species have unique morphological character combinations that allow their recognition as phylogenetic species; previously detected morphological-phenological groups within C. maculata are distinct in parts of the species' range, but morphological intermediates are present in some areas, preventing their recognition as phylogenetic species. Nine plastome types, based upon restriction site and length mutations, were found among the populations, eight of them within C. maculata. The plastomes of C. sp. nov. and C. mertensiana were found to be most closely related to those within C. maculata. Although there was no evidence that plastome types are fixed in populations (due to insufficient sampling), particular restriction sites are hypothesized to be fixed in population groups and are recognized as phylogenetic characters for these groups. The phylogenetic pattern suggests that C. mertensiana and C. sp. nov. were derived from ancestors much like C. maculata, or from C. maculata itself. In addition, the strong correlation between related plastome types and morphology suggests that there may be phylogenetic significance to the pattern within C. maculata.
10.2307/2419603|We investigated the levels and distribution of genetic diversity in two presumed sister species of milkweeds: the widespread Asclepias perennis and the narrowly distributed A. texana. Horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis was performed on leaf tissue from 942 individuals from 18 populations of A. perennis and 357 individuals representing 11 populations of A. texana from throughout their respective ranges. All 16 loci were polymorphic in A. perennis, with a mean of 3.63 alleles per locus at the species level, and 1.57  0.29 (mean  standard error) alleles per locus at the population level. In A. texana 15 loci were polymorphic, with a species average of 3.00 alleles per locus and 1.51  0.17 alleles per locus at the population level. Overall species-level mean heterozygosity was slightly higher in A. perennis (H<sub>es</sub> = 0.076  0.035) than A. texana (H<sub>es</sub> = 0.064  0.020). Mean expected heterozygosity within populations was the same for both species (H<sub>e</sub> = 0.061  0.009). Total gene diversity was low (A. perennis, H<sub>T</sub> = 0.076; A. texana, H<sub>T</sub> = 0.069), with most of this variation found within populations (A. perennis, H<sub>s</sub> = 0.058; A. texana, H<sub>s</sub> = 0.060). Among-population diversity relative to total diversity was very low (A. perennis, G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.082; A. texana, G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.068). Genetic identities within species averaged 0.95 for A. perennis and 0.98 for A. texana, but these taxa were quite distinct from each other (I = 0.79). These species were even more distinct from another milkweed, A. exaltata (for A. perennis, I = 0.63; for A. texanu, I = 0.39). Using several lines of evidence, we estimate that A. perennis and A. texana diverged 1-2 x 10<sup>6</sup> years B.P.
10.2307/2419604|We investigated the patterns of genetic divergence in three Liquidambar species, L. styraciflua from the eastern United States and Mexico and L. acalycina and L. formosana from China. Estimates of genetic diversity for each species were similar to averages for plants as a whole but lower than expected for wind-pollinated, outcrossing woody plants. For L. styraciflua, almost all of the genetic variation was partitioned within populations (G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.106) and genetic identity among populations was high (I = 0.981). On a regional basis, the Mexican populations were more differentiated than the United States populations (G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.23 and I = 0.94 for the Mexican vs. G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.027 and I = 0.99 for the U.S.). High genetic identities between the Mexican and United States populations indicate recent contact between the two distribution centers. Genetic variation in both L. formosana and L. acalycina was found mainly within populations (G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.098 and 0.118 respectively). Estimates of intraspecific genetic identity were 0.976 for L. formosana and 0.939 for L. acalycina. The genetic identity between L. formosana and L. acalycina was 0.82. The divergence patterns in each of the three species have been influenced by past climatic events.
10.2307/2419605|A cladistic analysis of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site variation was performed on Columnea (Gesneriaceae) sections Pentadenia and Stygnanthe. Two species of Alloplectus were included in the analyses and one of Drymonia was used as the outgroup. Restriction site variation was analyzed using Wagner parsimony and character state weighting that favors convergent losses over convergent gains. The large numbers of equally most parsimonious trees prevented examination of each tree independently. Thus, examination of phylogenetic relationships was based on a strict consensus of all most parsimonious trees. The resulting phylogeny is largely congruent with recent classification schemes, although the positions of several species are not in accordance with traditional relationships. As a result of the cladistic analysis of the cpDNA restriction site variation, section Pentadenia is at least paraphyletic, and possibly polyphyletic with section Stygnanthe. The lack of resolution among the several clades within section Stygnanthe does not provide evidence for or against monophyly of this section. Several clades are strongly supported with cpDNA data and provide insight into biogeography and origin of morphological adaptations.
10.2307/2419760|The most dissected taxonomic treatment of Vaccinium section Cyanococcus, generated by Camp in 1945, recognized nine diploid (2n = 24) taxa. More recently, Vander Kloet recognized six taxa nesting the two hillside blueberries and the three highbush blueberries, respectively. Whereas previous taxonomic treatments have been based primarily upon morphological data, field studies, chromosome counts, and crossability, the present study employs allozyme data to assess genetic relationships of representative diploid blueberry populations. Starch gel electrophoresis was conducted on population samples obtained from 25 sites identified in an extensive field survey of this endemic North American section. Data were collected at 11 polymorphic loci previously observed to have high taxonomic information content. Data were analyzed to obtain similarity, as well as standard measures of population genetic structure. Five genetic lineages were discriminated; these were supported by highly disparate allelic frequencies. Conspecific populations were undifferentiated, with distribution of genetic variation similar to that described for other predominantly outcrossing species. In conjunction with patterns of morphological variation, this study supports the recognition of seven species: two highbush species, V. corymbosum and V. elliottii, and five lowbush species, V. boreale, V. darrowii, V. myrtilloides, V. pallidum, and V. tenellum.
10.2307/2419761|Genetic diversity in three rare and/or endemic species of Coreopsis was studied using enzyme electrophoresis. Tetraploid C. integrifolia has considerably higher genetic diversity than the two diploid species C. pulchra and C. rosea. Genetic differentiation among populations of C. integrifolia and C. rosea is greater than for populations of C. pulchra. Coreopsis integrifolia has higher genetic diversity, C. rosen has about average, and C. pulchra has lower diversity than reported for many rare species studied allozymically. Differences among species of Coreopsis in total diversities and levels of population differentiation indicate that the genetic structure of populations of rare plants, even for congeneric species, may vary considerably.
10.2307/2419762|The opposite-leaved Idiopappus quitensis of Ecuador is a new genus and species related to the alternate-leaved Monactis H.B.K. and Kingianthus H. Robinson that have 0 or 1 pappus scales. Characteristically, the ray achenes of Idiopappus bear 3 short awns and the disk achenes bear 2 squamae.
10.2307/2419763|The internal transcribed spacers and 5.8S cistron of nuclear ribosomal DNA were sequenced from 22 species of Epilobium and two outgroups. Phylogenies were inferred from the sequences using parsimony, neighbor-joining, maximum-likelihood, and compatibility analysis. With parsimony we explored the effect of different weights for insertions/deletions (indels) vs. substitutions, coding vs. non-coding regions, transitions vs. transversions, and a posteriori character reweighting. Section Chamaenerion was found to be sister to the rest of the genus. The remainder of Epilobium fell into two main clades: 1) sect. Epilobium, and 2) the "xerophytic" clade, which comprises the remaining six sections. The unusual species E. rigidum (sect. Epilobium) had an uncertain position, appearing either at the base of sect. Epilobium, the base of the "xerophytic" clade, or as sister to the entire genus except sect. Chamaenerion. Within the "xerophytic" clade, relationships were incompletely resolved but a monophyletic group consisting of the annual sects. Boisduvalia and Currania (both formerly constituting the genus Boisduvalia) and the perennial, hummingbird-pollinated sect. Zauschneria was supported. The molecular phylogeny is compatible with some important independent characters and is useful for interpreting morphological and cytological evolution in Epilobium.
10.2307/2419764|Sphenostylis and Nesphostylis (Leguminosae: Phaseoleae) together include about ten species in tropical Africa, India, and Burma. The two are considered sister genera based on the presence, in all species, of a cuneate dorsiventrally flattened style. Cladistic analysis of morphological characters for species of Sphenostylis and Nesphostylis and two outgroup taxa generated eleven equally parsimonious trees, which differed in hypotheses of relationship between Sphenostylis and related genera and among species of Sphenostylis. Cladistic analysis of restriction site data for the chloroplast DNA of a subset of these taxa produced two trees, which differed from one another only in hypotheses of relationship among plastomes of subspecies of S. erecta. Both of the chloroplast DNA-based trees, some of the morphology-based trees, and trees from cladistic analysis of combined data supported the traditionally recognized sister relationship between Sphenostylis and Nesphostylis and revealed two major clades within Sphenostylis: one including the purple-flowered taxa except S. briartii and one including the yellow-flowered taxa. The divergence between these clades was greater for chloroplast DNA data than for morphological data. In view of the results obtained, the following taxonomic changes are made: transfer of S. bracteata to Nesphostylis, as Nesphostylis bracteata, restoration of S. erecta to specific status, and transfer of S. marginata subsp. obtusifolia to S. erecta, as Sphenostylis erecta subsp. obtusifolia. With these changes, Sphenostylis now includes seven species in tropical and southern Africa and Nesphostylis comprises three species: one each in tropical Africa, India, and Burma.
10.2307/2419765|Starch gel electrophoresis was used to examine genetic variation in the two subspecies of Menziesia ferruginea from western North America and M. pilosa from the Appalachians. Genetic variation within and among populations of both species was less than expected for widespread long-lived woody perennials but was comparable to levels reported for outcrossed animal-pollinated species and species with gravity dispersed seeds. The total heterozygosity, mean H<sub>T</sub> = 0.146, is lower than observed in most plant species. The partitioning of genetic diversity was largely within rather than among populations, with G<sub>ST</sub> ranging from 0.147 to 0.300. Menziesia ferruginea exhibited geographic variation, with differences in allozyme frequencies in Gpi-2, 6Pgd-1, 6Pgd-2, and Idh-1 being noted between eastern and western populations of the species. Reduced genetic variation was observed in populations at both northern and southern distributional extremes, especially in M. ferruginea, indicative of bottleneck events. These patterns may be related to geological and glacial history events. The genetic identity between the western subspecies is high (I = 0.98), indicating that they have been in contact as recently as 60,000-80,000 years before present. Despite their widespread disjunction, M. pilosa and M. ferruginea s.l. are remarkably similar (I = 0.92), pointing to contact between them during the Pleistocene, some 400,000 to 800,000 years before present, much later than previously thought.
10.2307/2419766|Multivariate methods using morphological characteristics were applied to the study of 23 western European allogamous Epipactis populations belonging to five taxa in the E. helleborine group and two taxa in the E. atrorubens group. The study concentrated on four recently described, not yet widely accepted, taxonomic entities of the former group and on the identification of discriminant characters. Several vegetative and floral differences allow proper discrimination of E. helleborine s. str., E. distans, E. neerlandica, and a subgroup composed of E. tremolsii and E. lusitanica. A more detailed analysis was needed for the latter two, for which the differences are chiefly vegetative. The five taxa also possess distinctive ecological characteristics and, considering the respective geographical ranges and sympatries, can be regarded as independent species.
10.2307/2419767|Phylogenetic relationships of 27 taxa of extant and extinct lignophytes were assessed in a numerical cladistic analysis using 65 characters. The analysis yielded 12 most parsimonious trees, where fossil taxa were found to play a crucial role in the reconstruction of spermatophyte phylogeny. The results supported hypotheses of monophylesis for spermatophytes, archaeopteridalean progymnosperms, medullosan seed ferns, cordaiteans, anthophytes, and gnetophytes. Progymnosperms, seed ferns s.l., and hydrasperman seed ferns were found to be paraphyletic. A large clade that previously has been referred to as "platysperms" or "saccate platysperms" occurs in our results, but it is not characterized by either of these features. The results reflect a hypothesized trend from large dissected leaves (the "cycadophytic" growth habit) to small leaves and aggregated sporophylls (the "coniferophytic" growth habit) in several groups, and coniferophytes (including cordaites, conifers plus taxads, and ginkgos) were found to be polyphyletic. Surprisingly, inclusion of the Late Pennsylvanian voltzialean conifer Emporia renders monophylesis for conifers (including taxads) less parsimonious than polyphylesis under most sets of assumptions. Extinct taxa provided data to clarify the order of character originations in the evolution of spermatophytes. Their inclusion in the analysis also helped clarify homologies among ovule enclosing structures that have been termed "cupules."
10.2307/2419773|The accuracy of maximum parsimony for phylogeny reconstruction using morphological data has never been adequately tested. In this study 128,000 known phylogenies of eight species and their associated discrete unordered character state data sets were generated by computer simulation. In order to mimic morphological data, values of the following seven simulation parameters were varied: 1) number of characters: 2) maximum number of character states per character: 3) number of character state changes per speciation event, and 4) the probabilities of parallelisms, reversals, phyletic changes, and extinctions. Character state data for the known simulated phylogenies were input into the program Hennig86, which found all equally parsimonious trees. The accuracy of maximum parsimony was judged primarily by the percent of time the strict consensus tree was found to be identical to the true tree. Parallelisms, reversals, phyletic changes, and extinctions all significantly decrease maximum parsimony's ability to find the true phylogenetic tree. In addition, maximum parsimony is less accurate when there are fewer characters, more character states per character, and more character state changes per speciation event. For the parameter values considered, maximum parsimony did not do particularly well at finding the true phylogenetic tree. For 24.2% of the simulations, the chance that maximum parsimony found the true tree was less 25%; for 60.2% of the simulations, it was less than 50%; and for 85.2% of the simulations, it was less than 75%. In order to determine the relevance of these results to real data sets, values of the consistency index from the simulated phylogenies were compared to values reported in published plant morphological studies. For simulated data sets having values of the consistency index in the range reported in the literature, maximum parsimony found the true phylogenetic tree only from 0.7% to 27.8% of the time (mean = 10.3%). I advise caution, therefore, in using phylogenies reconstructed from morphological data to make inferences about biological processes or patterns that rely on knowledge of the true phylogeny. Additionally, I raise the question whether the great emphasis in systematics on phylogeny reconstruction using maximum parsimony and other cladistic methods is misplaced.
10.2307/2419774|Difficulties in obtaining convincing angiosperm phylogenies are often attributed to widespread homoplasy among angiosperms. Direct evidence about homoplasy in individual characters can be obtained by character compatibility analysis. If two characters are incompatible, then at least one involves homoplasy. The probability of compatibility at random for two characters can be calculated or estimated by simulation. The number of compatibilities actually found for a given character can be compared with the number of compatibilities expected at random. The frequency with which a random character would receive as many or more compatibilities with other characters in the data set as the actual character is called the Frequency of Compatibility Attainment. This measure was calculated for the characters of primitive angiosperms scored by Donoghue and Doyle (1989a). Parsimony analysis of sets of characters with different frequency of compatibility attainment values show corresponding levels of homoplasy as determined by homoplasy indices. A parsimony analysis of the characters in the Donoghue and Doyle data set that have a low frequency of compatibility attainment alters some of the conclusions reached by Donoghue and Doyle regarding placement of taxa and significance of characters. The less homoplastic characters suggest that the genus Nelumbo is placed at a position near Nymphaeales rather than near Ranunculidae. Other realignments are suggested. Maximum parsimony trees based on the less homoplastic characters tend to suggest a single evolutionary origin for the chloranthoid tooth, thus suggesting that the chloranthoid tooth is homologous in all taxa that possess it. The evolutionary homology of the chloranthoid tooth is significant in that this character is preserved in the megafossil record of angiosperms and has been used to adduce relationships of ancient angiosperm lineages.
10.2307/2419775|Because most taxonomists merge the Appalachian endemic Viola appalachiensis with the southeastern V. walteri, distinctions between the two taxa and the morphologically related V. conspersa were reexamined. Herbarium studies, morphometric analyses, and scanning electron microscopy of leaf vestiture and style morphology clearly distinguish V. appalachiensis from V. walteri. Most features of V. appalachiensis occur in V. conspersa or V. walteri, but its combination of character states is unique and not intermediate. Flowering specimens of V. appalachiensis produce variably stainable pollen, but herbarium specimens in fruit usually bear well-formed cleistogamous and chasmogamous seeds. Several locations for putative hybrids with V. conspersa and V. striata provide further, indirect evidence of the fertility of V. appalachiensis for outcrossing and sexual reproduction. Ecological and distributional information, coupled with morphological patterns, suggest that V. appalachiensis may have arisen from hybridization of V. conspersa and V. walteri during or after the Pleistocene glacial epoch, with subsequent genetic segregation of a population with a non-intermediate morphology and comparatively high fertility. Because it behaves like other well-defined sexual species in section Viola and is isolated ecologically or geographically from them, V. appalachiensis warrants recognition as a species distinct from V. walteri.
10.2307/2419776|Dwarf dogwoods (Cornus subg. Arctocrania) comprise a species complex that exhibits considerable intermediacy between two morphological extremes. To investigate whether distinct species can be recognized and whether intermediacy represents incomplete divergence from an existing ancestor, or secondary hybridization from separate ancestors, 4,000 herbarium specimens, mostly from North America, were initially divided into five groups on the basis of petal color and the presence or absence of non-chlorophyllous scale leaves at the second and third nodes below the inflorescence. From these, 302 specimens were selected, by stratified haphazard sampling, and measured for 12 morphometric characters. Canonical discriminant analysis indicated that the Mahalanobis distances among all five groups were significant. Discriminant function analysis identified four of the five groups at least 91% of the time, and identified the fifth group 66.8% of the time. In an attempt to reduce the effects of plant size in the analysis, nine ratios were created from the original data set and included in a principal components analysis. Univariate statistics were examined and compared for the 12 variables and nine ratios. The distributions of autapomorphies were compared with the distribution of the morphometric variables. This combination of morphometric and phylogenetic analyses supported the recognition of the morphological extremes as C. canadensis and C. suecica, of C. unalaschkensis as a tetraploid product of hybridization between C. canadensis and C. suecica, and of two intermediate groups, one produced by introgression toward C. canadensis and the other produced by introgression toward C. suecica. Distributions of the groups were mapped and explained in terms of hybridization during the breakup of the Late Wisconsinan and Weischelian Ice Shields in the Late Pleistocene.
10.2307/2419777|The Streptanthus glandulosus complex constitutes an ideal group for the study of evolution and edaphic endemism. The complex comprises both narrowly and widely distributed taxa, most of which are restricted to serpentine soils in the central Coast Ranges of California. Populations are typically highly disjunct, occurring on isolated outcrops of serpentine substrate. To investigate evolutionary patterns and infer processes of diversification in these edaphic endemics, we assessed chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) diversity among 55 populations within the complex and 11 additional species of Streptanthus and the closely related Caulanthus. Variation at 948 restriction sites yielded 12 most parsimonious trees. The strict consensus of cpDNA relationships suggests that the complex is monophyletic and consists of four major clades, each of which corresponds to a discrete geographic region. The levels and geographic patterns of cpDNA variation are consistent with the hypothesis that S. glandulosus subsp. glandulosus is a paleoendemic taxon that may be the progenitor of the entire complex. Some clades are not well resolved and include taxa that comprise only two or three populations; these taxa may have arisen relatively recently and could be considered neoendemics. These results complement and corroborate those from allozyme analyses and interpopulational crossing experiments. The evolutionary processes revealed in the S. glandulosus complex are likely to be common to many other endemics of the California Floristic Province, given the similar biogeographic histories of many species of the region.
10.2307/2419778|Eleven species of Tetragonia are recognized. They are endemic to the arid Pacific side of South America from about 8<sup></sup>S latitude in Peru to 31<sup></sup>S in central Chile, except for the widespread species T. tetragonoides, which ranges to about 43<sup></sup>S in Chile and Argentina. Nine species are known from Chile, three from Peru, and one from Argentina. Two perennial species are dioecious; the rest are annuals with hermaphroditic flowers. Characters of the mature fruit are the most reliable for separating species. The relationship of the endemic South American species to Tetragonia species of other continents is unclear.
10.2307/2419779|The approximately 45 woody species of Ulmus (Ulmaceae) have been placed in five to nine sections on the basis of morphological characters. Cladistic analyses of chloroplast DNA restriction site variation were employed to examine phylogenetic relationships among 29 Ulmus accessions, including representatives from all proposed sections and subsections, and Zelkova serrata. Sufficient variation was detected to construct cladograms with branches both well-resolved and supported. The cpDNA results are largely congruent with those based on nuclear ribosomal DNA. Inclusion of 18 morphological/chemical characters further resolved relationships within the genus. Intrageneric relationships implied by the molecular and combined cladograms differ from previous classifications in a number of respects. Three species, U. crassifolia, U. serotina, and U. thomasii, which have been placed in two or three sections, were found to form a well differentiated monophyletic group (sect. Trichoptelea). The maintenance of sections Anisoptelea and Trichocarpus and the recognition of subsections Foliaceae and Glabrae within section Ulmus are not supported. The inclusion of U. mexicana, sometimes treated as the distinct genus Chaetoptelea, within Ulmus is supported. The molecular evidence supports the distinctiveness of U. rubra and the recognition of two subgenera: Oreoptelea (sects. Blepharocarpus, Chaetoptelea, and Trichoptelea s. 1.) and Ulmus (sects. Lanceifolia, Microptelea, and Ulmus).
10.2307/2419780|New World Digitaria sect. Pennatae is represented by two species: D. arenicola and D. cognata. Reproductive, cytological, and morphological studies were conducted with four accessions of D. arenicola and 25 accessions of D. cognata. Based on these studies, D. arenicola and D. cognata are treated as separate species, the latter with two subspecies. A key to the New World species in sect. Pennatae, with descriptions and nomenclature is given. All observed mature embryo sacs were not aposporous and were tentatively classified as sexual. They were typical Polygonum-type megagametophytes. Chromosome numbers were determined from root tip cells. The chromosome number for D. arenicola is 2n = 4x = 36, the first record for this taxon. For D. cognata subsp. cognata, 2n = 4x = 36, and for D. cognata subsp. pubiflora counts are primarily 2n = 8x = 72, but 2n = 4x = 36 is occasionally found.
10.2307/2419628|Pinus hartwegii and P. rudis have been recognized as distinct species within the P. montezumae complex of Mexico and Central America. Recognition and circumscription of these two species has, however, not been consistent. Twenty-five morphological characters from 121 individuals collected along two elevational transects on Iztaccihuatl/Popocatepetl and Nevado de Toluca near Mexico City have been analyzed to determine whether two morphologically distinct sets of individuals could be identified; no analysis or combination of analyses could separate two morphological entities. Additionally, characters that have been described as diagnostic are not consistent within individuals. The data indicate that a single variable species, P. hartwegii (including P. rudis), occurs on Iztaccihuatl/Popocatepetl and Nevado de Toluca.
10.2307/2419629|The flavonoid profiles of some species of the following genera of the Barnadesioideae (Asteraceae) consist of mono- and diglycosides of kaempferol and quercetin: Arnaldoa, Barnadesia, Chuquiraga, Dasyphyllum, Doniophyton, Fulcaldea, and Schlechtendalia. These South American genera previously comprised part of the subtribe Barnadesiinae of Mutisieae. Very simple flavonoid profiles were also noted for the Chilean monotypic Gypothamnium and the Hawaiian endemic Hesperomannia arborescens of subtribe Mutisiinae. The simple flavonoid profiles of the barnadesioid genera are taken as further evidence for the primitive status of this subfamily as suggested by the absence of a 22kb cpDNA inversion in this group of genera. Preliminary studies of the flavonoids of the Calyceraceae have shown that the pigment profile of species of Acicarpha and Gamocarpha are very similar to the profile seen in the barnadesioid genera. A brief discussion of relationships between Barnadesioideae and Acicarpha as a possible representative of the prototypical Calyceraceae, indicated by floral development, diploid chromosome number, geography, and flavonoid chemistry, is included.
10.2307/2419630|For most of their taxonomic history the genera Dracopis, Echinacea, Ratibida, and Rudbeckia have been closely allied with one another. More recently an alternative classification scheme was proposed by Harold Robinson in which he established the subtribe Rudbeckiinae to accommodate three of the genera, Dracopis, Ratibida, and Rudbeckia. He placed Echinacea in subtribe Ecliptinae. To understand better the possible relationships among these and other genera, restriction site analysis of the chloroplast genome was undertaken. Employment of 22 enzymes resulted in detection of 643 restriction site mutations of which 249 were phylogenetically informative. Wagner parsimony generated 84 equally parsimonious trees. Bootstrap and decay analyses were used to explore the robustness of the resulting clades. Weighted parsimony analyses of the data set using weights ranging from 1.1:1.0 to 1.5:1.0 in favor of site gains generated very similar tree topologies. Chloroplast DNA data support Robinson's subtribal disposition of the coneflower genera. Among the genera of Ecliptinae investigated, two evolutionary lineages were supported. The lineage containing Echinacea includes Heliopsis, Helianthella, Eclipta, and Acmella. Wyethia, Balsamorhiza, Engelmannia, Berlandiera, and Silphium are in the sister lineage. Most species of Echinacea and Rudbeckia were included in the restriction site analyses. Within these genera, some species groups were strongly supported. Low levels of variation at the species level, however, precluded detailed phylogenetic inferences. Multiple samples within species in most cases show little chloroplast DNA variation.
10.2307/2419631|The interrelationships within the Heliantheae-Ambrosiinae are investigated using cladistic analysis of morphological and cytological data. Twenty-eight species sampled from all genera of the Ambrosiinae are used as terminal taxa. The result reveals that Iva s.l. is polyphyletic. In order to make the different parts of Iva s.l. monophyletic, the following taxa should be recognized: Iva s. str. comprising Iva section Linearbractea and Iva section Iva, Chorisiva, Leuciva, Oxytenia, and Cyclachaena s. str. The two genera Hymenoclea and Xanthium are monophyletic ingroups in a paraphyletic Ambrosia. Therefore, both these genera might be reduced to synonyms under Ambrosia if further investigations using more species as terminal taxa come to the same result.
10.2307/2419632|Sequences from the internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA were used to produce a hypothesis of phylogenetic relationships of six of the seven known species of Robinsonia, the second largest genus endemic to the Juan Fernandez Islands. Sequence divergence between species ranges from 0.00 to 6.77% [mean (3.65  2.15)%], and all sequences are the same length. One most parsimonious tree was produced from the 70 variable nucleotide sites, including the species of Senecio as outgroups; this had a consistency index of 0.92 excluding uninformative sites. The cladogram is fully concordant with one generated from morphology, with R. berteroi, the only species of subg. Rhetinodendron, as the sister taxon to the remaining species in subg. Robinsonia. Within subg. Robinsonia, sects. Eleutherolepis and Robinsonia are monophyletic. Within the former section, R. masafuerae, the only species of Robinsonia on the younger island of Masafuera, is the sister species to R. evenia, as it is in the phylogeny based on morphology. ITS sequences also provide strong support for the monophyly of Robinsonia. The average rate of ITS sequence divergence within the genus was estimated to be at least (7.83  0.74) x 10<sup>-9</sup> per site per year. Relative rate tests indicate that the molecular clock cannot be rejected for ITS sequence evolution in Robinsonia. The mode and tempo of ITS and cpDNA evolution were compared in Robinsonia and Dendroseris, the two largest endemic genera on the Juan Fernandez Islands. In both genera, mean sequence divergence between species was higher in ITS than in cpDNA. The distribution of mutations in ITS and cpDNA differ between the two genera. In Dendroseris, ITS sequences produced the same phylogeny as cpDNA, whereas in Robinsonia, cpDNA restriction site mutations did not resolve phylogenetic relationships among the studied species while ITS sequences generated a highly resolved phylogeny.
10.2307/2419633|This study examined variation in morphology and isozymes for 36 populations of Lasthenia californica representing the entire range of the species. These and previous results suggest the formation of two geographical races based on pappus shape, isozymes, and flavonoid chemistry. The races appear to coexist in a population examined in more detail (Jasper Ridge). Genetic parameters indicating differentiation within and among populations suggest reduction in pollen and seed movement within the Jasper Ridge population (G<sub>st</sub> = 0.417; Nm = 0.350) and among populations (G<sub>st</sub> = 0.36; Nm = 0.439) of L. californica. In spite of the considerable differentiation among the populations for pappus shape, flavonoid chemistry, and isozymes, there is no indication that the populations could be recognized as taxonomic groups as suggested in earlier taxonomic treatments. The patterns of variation observed in this study are further complicated by the presence of three cytotypes, none of which could be distinguished by the data sets examined. The isozyme study suggests that tetraploid populations are of autopolyploid origin. The only hexaploid population sampled was not analysed for isozyme variation. We believe that the patterns of variation observed in L. californica best fit the model of geographical speciation. The pattern of variation observed at Jasper Ridge suggests that this population might have been established by two colonists-one a northern type and the other a southern type-representing the two geographical races.
10.2307/2419442|Members of the Polypodium vulgare complex are so similar morphologically and chromosomally that delimiting diploid species and determining the origin of allopolyploid derivatives has been difficult. Isozyme analyses supported published hypotheses of two major diploid lineages within the complex but rejected all but two hypotheses for allopolyploid origins. New hypotheses were erected and the original complex of five diploid species, three polyploid species, and two polyploid cytotypes swelled to seven diploid and seven polyploid species. Subsequent isozyme analyses supported the new hypotheses for allopolyploid origins and continued to affirm earlier hypothesis of two diploid lineages within the complex. At the populational level, isozyme analyses demonstrated that most diploids conformed to Hardy-Weinberg expectations, but there was some indication of inbreeding. A synthesis of the data suggested that glaciation drove allopatric diploids into sympatry and initiated allopolyploid speciation. Two of the allopolyploids had features that suggested a more complex ancestry. Some populations of P. hesperium contained isozyme and morphological features suggesting an earlier origin than the remainder of the populations. Apparent gene silencing in P. vulgare suggested that this largely European species had an earlier origin than others in the complex. Revised phylogenetic hypotheses were used to extrapolate patterns of character evolution with greater precision. The phylogenetic distribution of "sporangiasters" confirmed earlier hypotheses concerning the development of these novel structures from sporangial initials.
10.2307/2419443|Analysis of chloroplast DNA restriction site data was applied to members of the taxonomically troublesome Polypodium vulgare complex. In this group, chromosomal and isozyme analyses had clarified reticulate patterns of speciation, but had failed to generate robust hypotheses of diploid phylogeny. DNA's of five diploid and five tetraploid species, plus two outgroup species, were digested with 11 endonucleases and hybridized to fern chloroplast DNA probes, yielding 60 informative site changes. Restriction site mapping revealed that the general size and structure of the chloroplast genome in Polypodium species corresponds closely to those of other ferns. The mean sequence divergence among diploid Polypodium species (0.017) was high compared to results for congeneric species of seed plants. Using P. plesiosorum and Pleopeltis ungusta as outgroups, the monophyly of the P. vulgare complex was supported by at least 17 synapomorphies. Within the complex, two distinct diploid species groups (P. glycyrrhiza + P. californicum and P. amorphum + P. appalachianum + P. sibiricum) were separated by a minimum of 28 restriction site mutations. Molecular data also revealed multiple and, in three cases, reciprocal origins of the tetraploids.
10.2307/2419444|To determine whether Helenium virginicum is distinct from H. autumnale, we compared morphological and ecological characters of more than 450 seed-grown plants from six populations of H. virginicum and nine populations of H. autumnale in common and transplant gardens. Populations compared were selected after we surveyed more than 1,000 herbarium sheets from eight herbaria in search of populations of H. autumnale most similar to H. virginicum, as well as populations representing the range of morphological variation of H. autumnale in the eastern U.S. Six narrow-leaved H. autumnale populations from New Jersey, Missouri, and Ontario, Canada, were chosen because of similarity to H. virginicum, while three populations of H. autumnale from Vermont and Virginia represented the broad-leaved form. Transplant gardens were H. autumnale habitats and H. virginicum habitats. We found H. virginicum to be distinct from both New Jersey narrow-leaved and broad-leaved H. autumnale in 14 of 15 morphological characters as well as in survival in transplant gardens. Twelve of 15 morphological characters, plus survival in transplant gardens, distinguished H. virginicum from Canadian narrow-leaved H. autumnale. Future genetic and evolutionary studies are needed to clarify the relationship between H. virginicum and the Missouri population, which differed from H. virginicum in only three of 15 morphological characters and survived better in H. virginicum habitats than in H. autumnale habitats. Common-garden grown hybrids between H. virginicum and H. autumnale were easily recognizable by morphology and had reduced pollen fertility. Similar hybrids have not been observed in the field.
10.2307/2419445|Erigeron compositus is an agamospermous species complex comprising sexual and agamospermous elements. Five subspecies were informally proposed by Beaman for sexual E. compositus: "anticus," "compositus," "pectinipetiolatus," "penicillatus," and "posticus." Chromosome counts reported herein show that sexual E. compositus is predominantly diploid, 2n = 18. Sexual tetraploids, 2n = 36, and an aneuploid, 2n = 35, were also observed. Genetic variation was examined in all of the proposed subspecies, with the exception of E. compositus "anticus," and in closely related E. vagus. The four proposed subspecies investigated are allozymically very similar with a mean genetic identity value (I) of 0.847. Likewise, comparisons between populations of E. vagus and E. compositus yield an I value of 0.889. Fixation indices derived from allozyme data also show that sexual E. compositus and E. vagus are strongly outcrossing. Allozyme markers, genetic similarity values, and patterns of morphological variation suggest that sexual tetraploid E. compositus is derived from a cross between diploid E. compositus "compositus" and one or more other sexual "subspecies" of E. compositus. These results represent the first phase in the chromosomal and genetic analysis of the E. compositus agamospermous complex.
10.2307/2419446|The nucleotide sequences of the duplicate PgiC genes that encode the cytosolic isozymes of phosphoglucose isomerase (EC 5.3.1.9) in Clarkia xantiana are described and compared to the previously sequenced duplicate PgiC1 and PgiC2 genes of C. lewisii, a species assigned to a different section. The genes of C. xantiana have the same structure of 23 exons and 22 introns in positions exactly corresponding to those in C. lewisii. The exons of the two genes in C. xantiana are highly similar with 96.3% nucleotide identity; the introns show 88.9% identity. However, each of the genes in C. xantiana is even more similar to one of the PgiC genes in C. lewisii with between-species comparisons of corresponding genes showing about half as many nucleotide and amino acid substitutions as the within-species comparisons. The two genes of C. xantiana are therefore designated PgiC1 and PgiC2 according to their resemblance to the genes of C. lewisii. All pairwise comparisons of nucleotides, amino acids, and insertions/deletions, as well as DNA parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Fitch-Margoliash analyses, group the PgiC1 genes, one from each species, separately from the PgiC2 genes. Thus, the same gene duplication accounts for the presence of two isozymes in each of the species and, by inference, in all the species of the two sections of Clarkia they represent.
10.2307/2419447|Anomatheca and Freesia, African genera of Iridaceae subfamily Ixioideae, are currently thought to be closely related, but until now the exact nature of their alliance has been difficult to determine. Cladistic analysis has provided one means of assessing their relationship. Using 25 characters found to be useful for phylogenetic analysis, including traditional morphological features as well as original data from pollen morphology, leaf anatomy, embryology, and seed development, Freesia appears to be monophyletic but nested in Anomatheca sect. Anomatheca, one of two sections of the genus. A second section, Xenoscapa, which includes one named species and a second one described here, comprises a well-supported clade that is probably only distantly related to Freesia plus sect. Anomatheca. We herein unite Anomatheca and Freesia, but under the later name Freesia. Because Freesia is already a conserved name and because it is a well-known and horticulturally important genus, Anomatheca has been formally rejected in favor of Freesia. We raise sect. Xenoscapa to generic rank and transfer A. fistulosa to it, describe the new species, X. uliginosa, and provide new combinations in Freesia for the species until now included in Anomatheca.
10.2307/2419448|Genetic variation was estimated by starch gel electrophoretic resolution of 17 putative isozyme loci in eight populations of the Athabasca sand dune endemic Salix silicicola from northern Saskatchewan, Canada, and five populations of its putative progenitor species, Salix alaxensis, from northern British Columbia, Canada. Thirty-seven alleles were detected at 10 polymorphic loci. Six loci were polymorphic in the endemic species and 10 loci were polymorphic in the presumed progenitor species. Salix silicicola had one unique allele, whereas Salix alaxensis had 17 alleles not found in the former species. Populations of the endemic contained fewer alleles per locus (1.30 vs. 1.85), fewer alleles per polymorphic locus (2.05 vs. 2.85), lower percent polymorphic loci (28.7 vs. 45.9) and lower genetic diversity (0.073 vs. 0.195) than did populations of the putative progenitor species. Genetic identities within species averaged 0.981 for Salix silicicola and 0.973 for Salix alaxensis and between species identities ranged from 0.902 to 0.963 with a mean of 0.932. At polymorphic loci, total gene diversity was relatively high in Salix silicicola (H<sub>T</sub> = 0.305) and Salix alaxensis (H<sub>T</sub> = 0.384). Population differentiation was relatively low in both species (Salix silicicola, G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.159; Salix alaxensis, G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.097) whereas estimates of gene flow based on G<sub>ST</sub> values were moderate (Salix silicicola, Nm<sub>W</sub> = 1.32; Salix alaxensis, Nm<sub>W</sub> = 2.33), consistent with these trees' dioecious breeding system and wind-dispersed seeds.
10.2307/2419449|A chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis of 40 taxa in the Agavaceae s.l. was undertaken to test the accuracy of several current systems of classification. In Cronquist's system, the Agavaceae contain 18 genera of fibrous-leaved, more or less woody plants such as Yucca, Hesperaloe, Agave, Manfreda, Polianthes, Dracaena, Sansevieria, Nolina, Beaucarnea, Dasylirion, and Cordyline. In Dahlgren's system, the Agavaceae are restricted to Yucca, Hesperaloe, Agave, Manfreda, Polianthes, Beschorneria, and Furcraea, while the other genera are placed in different families. These contrasting phylogenetic schemes were investigated by a chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis of these genera plus Xanthorrhoea, Hosta, Hypoxis, Hemerocallis, Asparagus, Liriope, Aspidistra, Maianthemum, and Convallaria. Phylogenetic analysis of 110 restriction site mutations, 90 of which were phylogenetically informative, strongly supports the conclusion that there are two major lineages in this group of taxa. One well supported clade contains, sensu Dahlgren, the Nolinaceae, Dracaenaceae, and Convallariaceae. It appears that Nolina and Dasylirion are more closely related to genera such as Liriope, Maianthemum, and Dracaena than to Yucca and Agave. The other major lineage contains Yucca, Hesperaloe, Agave, Manfreda, Polianthes, Beschorneria, and Furcraea, with Hosta and perhaps Xanthorrhoea at the base. Asparagus appears to be intermediate between the two lineages. The cpDNA suggests that Cordyline, Hypoxis, and Hemcrocallis are not closely related to the Agavaceae.
10.2307/2419493|Apoclada, a genus of woody bamboos endemic to the southern half of Brazil, includes three species, A. arenicola, A. cannavieira, and A. simplex. A fourth species, A. diversa, was found to be based on a teratological specimen of A. simplex and is, therefore, included within it. Cladistic analysis based primarily on morphological and anatomical characters was conducted within the genus. The presence of multiple primary branch buds in the midculm branch nodes constitutes an autapomorphy for the genus. Lack of fusoid cells may also be an autapomorphy for the genus. The two cerrado endemics, A. arenicola and A. cannavieira, are hypothesized to share a more recent common ancestor with each other than either shares with A. simplex. Synapomorphies supporting the clade of the two cerrado species include fire adaptation and unforked stomatal papillae. All three species each have at least one autapomorphy and are considered to be monophyletic. Mapped distributions, descriptions, and illustrations of each species are provided.
10.2307/2419494|A review of the North American taxa within the Ionaspis-Hymenelia complex and a cladistic analysis of morphological-anatomical data and enzyme electrophoresis data have revealed delimitations at the generic level that differ from those currently in use. For the first time, Ionaspis is defined here on characters other than the nature of the photobiont; it now encompasses the suaveolens group (including the type species of Ionaspis, I. chrysophana), the odora group, the lacustris group, and the alba group. Under this new classification, Hymenelia includes the epulotica group (which includes the type species of Hymenelia, H. prevostii), the haematina group, and the melanocarpa group. The status of Aspicilia was not changed in this study, because of the lack of appropriate data; therefore, it is still classified within the Hymeneliaceae. The genus Eiglera and the monotypic family Eigleraceae were established previously only on the basis of the presence of an amyloid ascus tip structure and shape of paraphyses. Eiglera is subsumed here as part of the Hymeneliaceae because both morphology and allozyme data strongly support a close phylogenetic relationship with Hymenelia. This result also questions the principle that families and genera of Ascomycotina must contain elements having the same ascus type. A new method for coding continuous characters is described and applied to the anatomical and morphological data to help solve the phylogenetic relationships within the Ionaspis-Hymenelia complex.
10.2307/2419495|The classification and phylogenetic relationships of the genera within the Malvaceae have received little recent attention despite the widespread distribution of the family and the economic importance of some of its members. Traditional classifications have utilized morphological, biogeographical, and chromosomal data. We have mapped the chloroplast genome from 23 of the approximately 110 genera of Malvaceae, representing four of the five tribes. Six equally most parsimonious phylogenetic reconstructions resulted from parsimony analysis of 236 variable restriction sites. Members of the Hibisceae and Malvavisceae did not form monophyletic groups, while members of the Gossypieae and Malveae did form monophyletic groups. The Abutilon alliance formed a sister group to the remainder of the Malveae. Members of other alliances within the Malveae did not form the monophyletic groups proposed in the classical literature.
10.2307/2419496|The losses of genes or introns from the chloroplast genome are of potential utility as phylogenetic characters. Previous broad surveys of angiosperms, along with sequencing studies in Pisum sativum, uncovered several instances of variation for such characters within the Leguminosae. Using a slot blot hybridization method that did not require high molecular weight DNA, probes for six genes and three introns typically found in angiosperm chloroplast genomes were used to screen 392 legume genera, representing all three subfamilies and 50 out of 51 tribes, and 48 genera from 26 other families of dicots. Few cases of chloroplast gene or intron loss from chloroplast genomes were observed among nonlegumes or within the legume subfamilies Mimosoideae and Caesalpinioideae, but numerous apparent losses were observed in the large subfamily Papilionoideae. Certain cases of suspected losses were tested by polymerase chain reaction. The genes rpl2 and rbcL appear to be present in all taxa surveyed, and virtually all possess accD. In contrast, ORF184 and rps16 each appear to have been lost multiple, independent times within Leguminosae, while all members of the family appear to lack rpl22. The intron of rpl2 has likely been lost at least four times within the family, and its absence is a synapomorphy for a core group of the papilionoid tribe Desmodieae. No convincing evidence of loss was observed among legumes for the introns of trnI and rpl16. These results indicate that gene or intron loss characters may often be homoplastic. Intron losses are a more reliable and valuable class of phylogenetic characters than are gene losses.
10.2307/2419497|Species boundaries were assessed by phenetic analyses of morphological data for Solanum sect. Petota series Demissa: S. brachycarpum, S. demissum, S. guerreroense, S. hougasii, S. iopetalum, and S. schenckii. These six hexaploid (2n=6x=72) wild potato species grow in Mexico and Guatemala and constitute all the taxa of series Demissa except three pentaploid hybrids involving crosses with species from other series. We also analyzed two species, S. albicans (series Acaulia) and S. verrucosum (series Tuberosa), that are morphologically very similar to some members of series Demissa. We chose these species because S. verrucosum has been hypothesized to be a progenitor in the hybrid origin of all species in series Demissa, and because S. albicans is very similar to S. demissum. The results show that S. albicans, S. brachycarpum, S. demissum, S. schenckii, and S. verrucosum are supported by multivariate analyses, but are inconclusive regarding species boundaries of the rare taxa S. hougasii, S. guerreroense, and S. iopetalum, and more collections are needed to resolve their taxonomic status. Extensive overlap of species-specific character states shows the difficulty of the preparation of keys, diagnosis of taxa, and cladistic analyses in this group. The results also show that S. demissum is phenetically more similar to S. albicans than to other species in series Demissa and that S. verrucosum is similar to S. schenckii, and they question the assignment of these species into series.
10.2307/2419498|Phylogenetic analysis of Schiedea and Alsinidendron (Caryophyllaceae), a monophyletic lineage endemic to the Hawaiian Islands, produced six equally most parsimonious trees with 132 steps using morphological characters. Four major clades were found in all trees. Breeding system characters were excluded from the analysis because of the likelihood that dimorphism (gynodioecy, subdioecy, dioecy) has evolved in parallel in Schiedea, although subsequent inclusion of these characters had little effect on topology. Dimorphism is found in the two clades occurring primarily in dry habitats. Mapping of breeding systems on the phylogeny suggests that dimorphism has probably evolved on two or more occasions, depending on the number of character states and whether the character is treated as ordered or unordered. One to several reversals from dimorphism to hermaphroditism have also occurred. Dimorphic species occur only in dry habitats, but mapping of habitat on the phylogeny suggests that hermaphroditic species originally may have invaded dry habitats without evolving a dimorphic breeding system. Ecological shifts to very wet habitats/appear to have favored the evolution of autogamy, which has occurred independently in the two clades largely restricted to mesic or wet habitats. The striking variation in breeding systems found in Schiedea and Alsinidendron appears to result in large part from the invasion of diverse habitats in the Hawaiian Islands following colonization by the ancestor of this lineage.
10.2307/2419499|The Streptanthus morrisonii (Brassicaceae) complex is a group of six narrowly-distributed obligate serpentine endemic taxa whose habitat is threatened by geothermal development. Isozyme analysis of this little-studied complex supports the delineation of two species, S. morrisonii and S. brachiatus, but is at odds with the treatment of two subspecies based on morphology. These results may be influenced by small sample sizes but genetic studies of other Streptanthus taxa have shown patterns of relatedness that often transgress subspecies boundaries based on morphology. The present study further shows that members of the S. morrisonii complex share high genetic identity values (mean = 0.87) and are not genetically depauperate (mean value for percent of loci polymorphic = 37%, average number of alleles per locus = 1.48, and average heterozygosity per locus = 0.137). Preservation of their serpentine outcrop habitat is essential to the survival of these plants.
10.2307/2419500|The Hedwigiaceae are a group of plagiotropic mosses of uncertain relationships either with the Orthotrichales or the Isobryales. A total of 41 morphological characters was studied in nine species of six genera in the Hedwigiaceae, 12 species of five families in the Orthotrichales, and 12 species of five families in the Leucodontineae (Isobryales). Two aditional species represented the Hypnales, and Funaria hygrometrica (Funariales) was used as the outgroup. Based on cladistic analyses, Rhacocarpus and Bryowijkia are excluded from the family. The Hedwigiaceae are here circumscribed to include only the genera Braunia, Hedwigia, Hedwigidium, and Pseudobraunia. This monophyletic group is supported by two unique synapomorphies: papillose pseudo-paraphyllia and a globular protonemal development. Other synapomorphies for the Hedwigiaceae are: sinuous leaf cell walls, flagelliform branches, ecostate leaves, yellow paraphyses, and eperistomate capsules. The sister group of the Hedwigiaceae is a large clade that includes the cladocarpous representatives of the Orthotrichales, plus the Leucodontineae, and the Hypnales. This relationship is supported by three synapomorphies: plagiotropic shoots, presence of pseudoparaphyllia, and differentiated perichaetial leaves. The Orthotrichales appear to be paraphyletic: cladocarpous taxa (such as Erpodium and Groutiella) are more related to the Leucodontineae than to the acrocarpous taxa (such as Orthotrichum).
10.2307/2419501|Distinct isozyme profiles initially discovered among a small collection of Festuca plants from Bathurst Island, Canadian Arctic Archipelago, were further investigated. Isozyme and morphological data revealed a new tetraploid species Festuca edlundiae that is often associated with F. hyperborea. The species differ in having distinct isozyme profiles for at least five isozymes, and in the size and shape of the flag leaves, the size of spikelets, and the shape of the upper glumes. Plants with the isozyme profile of F. edlundiae were collected from eight sites on five of the Queen Elizabeth Islands in 1992, and from Ellesmere Island in 1993. All sites are highly calcareous, with fine grained, mineral soils. A herbarium study found specimens from thirty other locations, including sites in northern Greenland and three from the former U.S.S.R. Morphological and isozyme characteristics used to distinguish F. edlundiae from F. baffinensis, F. brachyphylla, and F. hyperborea in the Canadian High Arctic are assessed, difficulties in identifying small plants and early season collections are documented, and a key to the four taxa, descriptions, and distribution maps are included.
10.2307/2419800|Restriction-site variation of chloroplast DNA was used to assess hypotheses of diploid hybrid speciation in Penstemon sect. Peltanthera where P. spectabilis is a putative stabilized hybrid of P. centranthifolius and P. grinnellii, and P. clevelandii is a purported hybrid derivative of P. centranthifolius and P. spectabilis. Based on restriction-site mapping, cpDNA haplotypes were determined for hypothesized parental species and P. spectabilis and P. clevelandii. The distribution of nuclear and organellar DNA markers among populations of P. spectabilis and P. clevelandii were evaluated to determine whether the observed patterns result from diploid hybrid speciation, or from introgression. Nuclear markers of P. centranthifolius were found in several populations of P. grinnellii, P. spectabilis, and P. clevelandii; whereas chloroplast haplotypes of P. centranthifolius were found in only two populations of P. grinnellii. We suggest that the patterns of introgression observed for sect. Peltanthera result predominantly from pollen-mediated gene flow, with hummingbirds the most likely vector. A comparison of the phylogenetic trees based on cpDNA vs. nuclear restriction data reveals that at least one chloroplast-capture event has occurred in Penstemon sect. Peltanthera.
10.2307/2419801|Cladistic analysis of chloroplast DNA restriction site data derived from 13 enzymes supported the monophyly of the Chrysantheminae (Anthemideae). Two different lineages were detected in this subtribe. The first included only Argyranthemum, the largest endemic genus of the Macaronesian Islands. The second group comprised the three genera Chrysanthemum, Heteranthemis and Ismelia, which are restricted to southern Iberia, Morocco, and the Mediterranean region. The chloroplast DNA tree differed from the previously published morphological cladogram of Bremer and Humphries because it supported Ismelia and Chrysanthemum as congeneric. Complete congruence between the character state distribution of number of spores in the embryo sacs of each genus and the most parsimonious chloroplast DNA topology was detected. The generic relationships based on chloroplast DNA variation were concordant with those from isozyme data in supporting 1) the close phylogenetic relationship between Ismelia and Chrysanthemum and 2) Heteranthemis as the least divergent genus from Argyranthemum. Both of these macromolecular data sets also support the hypothesis that Argyranthemum might represent a relictual genus that found refuge in the Macaronesian Islands after the first northern hemisphere ice age led to massive extinction of plants in the Mediterranean basin.
10.2307/2419802|Sequence data from the plastid encoded gene rbcL are used to determine phylogenetic relationships between various lineages in the grasses, with particular emphasis on the subfamily Arundinoideae. Thirty four sequences, producing 155 phylogenetically informative sites, were analysed using both parsimony and distance methods. Cladistic analyses indicate that there are two main lineages: Pooideae (including the Stipeae) and a large clade comprising Panicoideae, Arundinoideae, Chloridoideae, and Centothecoideae. The Bambusoideae are unresolved and basal to these two lineages. Relationships within the panicoid, arundinoid, chloridoid, and centothecoid clade indicate that Arundinoideae as presently circumscribed are paraphyletic, as lineages within this subfamily show affinities with all three of the other subfamilies. Despite poor support for some relationships, rbcL appears to be well suited for systematic studies in the Poaceae.
10.2307/2419803|DNA sequences were generated for the chloroplast gene ndhF to address phylogenetic relationships among the major lineages of the Poaceae. Our primary objectives were: 1) to test the monophyly of the Bambusoideae s.l., which traditionally has been viewed as the ancestral lineage of the family, and 2) to resolve phylogenetic relationships between disparate elements of this subfamily and the other major grass clades. A total of 45 grass sequences and two outgroup sequences were analyzed using parsimony and distance-based phylogenetic reconstruction methods. Two tribes of neotropical herbaceous bamboos, the Streptochaeteae and Anomochloeae, are resolved as the most basal clade within the family, with a clade representing the pantropical Phareae, also regarded as herbaceous bamboos, as the next most basal lineage. These results confirm that certain elements within the Bambusoideae s.l. are basal within the family and contrast with previous hypotheses that the Pooideae represent a basal or near-basal branch. Exclusive of the basal lineages of herbaceous bamboos, the remainder of the family formed a monophyletic clade with two primary subdivisions, a weakly supported "BOP" clade (bambusoids, oryzoids, and pooids), and a strongly supported PACC clade (panicoids, arundinoids, chloridoids, and centothecoids). Each of the three lineages of the BOP clade is well supported. The Bambusoideae s.l. and Arundinoideae are polyphyletic, and the inclusion of Thysanolaeneae and Centotheceae in a more broadly defined Panicoideae is supported. The Pooideae s.l. and Chloridoideae are resolved as monophyletic. The ancient evolutionary divergence within the Poaceae and the other relationships suggested by the phylogenetic analyses indicate that reevaluation of intrafamilial classification is necessary.
10.2307/2419804|Cyperus esculentus (Yellow Nutsedge) is a troublesome weed with broad infraspecific variation. A growing experiment was performed in which diverse clones were raised under different environmental conditions. Sixty five characters were measured and evaluated based upon their sensitivity to environmental and clonal differences. Of these, 17 proved to be sufficiently reliable for taxonomic purposes. They concern size and shape of floral parts rather than dimensions of spikes, which were until now thought to be the diagnostic characters. Herbarium material from all continents where C. esculentus is present was studied, including type material of varieties; 70 plants were selected, the 17 parameters measured, and the data analysed by multivariate techniques. Four clusters were distinguished, which appeared to broadly represent four varieties described by Kukenthal in 1935; three of his seven varieties were rejected, var. cyclolepis, var. nervoso-striatus, and var. sprucei. The four remaining varieties are discussed and described, and a key is given for their identification. They are var. esculentus, var. leptostachyus, var. macrostachyus, and var. heermannii. All of these varieties occur in the Americas as well as in Europe. Variety esculentus dominates in Africa and southern Europe, var. leptostachyus is rather common in both the Old and the New World. Two varieties, var. macrostachyus and var. heermannii, have been recently introduced into the Netherlands; they probably originate from the Americas. The occurrence of var. leptostachyus in Europe is probably the result of an earlier introduction.
10.2307/2419805|Woodfordia is a genus of two species well known in many parts of Asia as a medicinal drug plant. New information accumulated since the original treatment of the genus in 1903 is summarized in descriptions of floral and vegetative morphology, wood and leaf anatomy, seed and pollen morphology, chromosome numbers, reproductive biology, chemistry, distributional data, and phylogenetic relationships. Woodfordia shares the apomorphic features of globose glandular trichomes and stipitate ovaries, suggesting a close relationship to the Madagascan genus Koehneria and three Latin American genera, Lourtella, Adenaria, and Pehria. The widely distributed Asian species W. fruticosa and the more restricted African W. uniflora differ in a few, primarily quantitative characters. Both have chromosome numbers of n = 8 and hybridize easily when artificially crossed. Origin of Woodfordia uniflora from W. fruticosa or from a common ancestor of the two is hypothesized to have occurred following long distance seed dispersal. Increasing aridity since 3,000 BP has restricted W. uniflora to isolated highland areas in northern Africa. A key to the species, descriptions, and a distribution map are provided.
10.2307/2419806|Phylogenetic relationships within the monocots were analyzed by cladistic analysis of restriction site and length variation in the inverted repeat region of the chloroplast genomes of 52 taxa. Nine equally most parsimonious trees were identified and 38 clades were resolved by the strict consensus tree. A clade consisting of Acorus and Gymnostachys (traditionally included in Araceae) was resolved as the sister group of all other monocots. Among the remaining monocots a dichotomy was resolved between a clade that includes Alismatanae and Aranae (i.e., Araceae sens. strict.), and another that includes all remaining monocots. Within the latter group, Lilianae, including Pandananae, Cyclanthanae, and Velloziales, constitute a paraphyletic group, within which is nested a clade in which Arecanae are resolved as the sister group of a Bromelianae-Commelinanae-Zingiberanae complex. Bootstrap analysis, Bremer support (i.e., "decay") analysis, and successive character removal were conducted to generate three measures of clade stability. Despite overall concordance between the three measures, several clades had relatively strong support as assessed by one method and weak support as assessed by another. Three procedures were employed for Bremer support analysis, including the "subparsimonious search procedure" that is employed most frequently. Each of the other two procedures involves a series of subanalyses, each targeting a single clade resolved in all equally most parsimonious trees. The "clade deresolution procedure" estimates Bremer Support for a target clade by determining lengths of cladograms that differ from equally most parsimonious cladograms only by the lack of resolution of that clade. The "constrained inconsistency search procedure" estimates Bremer Support for a target clade by a series of constrained cladistic analyses, each with monophyly forced for a clade that is inconsistent with the target clade. The subparsimonious search procedure was the most successful of the three by one measure, the number of clades for which it provided the most accurate (i.e., lowest) estimate of Bremer support. However, for some clades for which this procedure did not produce the most accurate estimate, its estimates were several steps higher than those of the other two methods.
10.2307/2419807|Subtle morphological differences between allotetraploid Cystopteris fragilis (2n = 84II) and allotetraploid C. tenuis lead some workers to maintain C. tenuis as C. fragilis var. mackayi. Recent electrophoretic evidence, however, suggests C. tenuis shares only one progenitor species with C. fragilis. Hybrids between the two allotetraploids encountered in Vermont yielded sporocytes with at least 42 bivalents and at least some univalents, further supporting the single common genome theory. Identification of hybrids and species as collected in the field in Vermont corresponded three times in four with identification based on isozyme markers. Multivariate analysis of variables generated by landmark analysis corroborated traditional field-identification characters, especially the sharper angle of pinna and pinnule departure in C. tenuis and the tendency of pinnae in C. tenuis to have a concave (vs. convex in C. fragilis) acroscopic side. Landmark analysis also indicated that 1) C. fragilis is generally smaller in both lamina and pinna size than C. tenuis and 2) although largest in both lamina and pinna size, C. fragilis x C. tenuis is intermediate in lamina and pinnashape characteristics. In Vermont C. tenuis generally inhabits lowland calcareous cliffs and talus below 2,000 ft, C. fragilis, upland cliffs above 2,000 ft, and the hybrid, cliffs of intermediate altitude (1,200-2,500 ft). Lowland C. fragilis and upland C. tenuis populations may occur where microclimate permits.
10.2307/2419808|The formerly monotypic Mexican genus Hemiphylacus, typified by H. latifolius, is reviewed. Hemiphylacus has characters intermediate between the families Hyacinthaceae and Funkiaceae. Four new species from central and southern Mexico are described: Hemiphylacus alatostylus (Guanajuato, Queretaro, and San Luis Potosi), H. hintoniorum (Nuevo Leon), H. mahindae (Oaxaca and Puebla), and H. novogalicianus (Aguascalientes). Species differ from each other in inflorescence, flowers, and fruits.
10.2307/2419810|Several different "phylogenetic" species concepts have been proposed, and we consider how to choose among them. There appear to be two main approaches. "Character-based" concepts define species on the possession of characters, whereas "history-based" concepts are based on historical relatedness. Under the latter view, characters may be used to discover species in practice but they are not viewed as defining attributes of species. To illustrate the distinction we discuss a character-based approach utilizing "diagnostic" characters and a history-based approach using genetic coalescence. We argue that the choice between character- and history-based concepts is primarily determined by one's understanding of systematics. If the goal of systematics is simply to describe the hierarchical distribution of characters ("pattern cladistics"), a character-based definition of species is required. In contrast, if systematics is concerned with inferring the evolutionary relationships of organisms ("evolutionary phylogenetics"), a history-based definition of species is needed. We hold the view that phylogenetic systematics is concerned with evolutionary history and therefore we maintain that a phylogenetic species concept should be history-based.
10.2307/2419811|Below the level of what is commonly accepted as the species in sexual organisms there may be no phylogeny, only reticulate relationships (tokogeny) among individuals. The conventional molecular systematics research program, which infers organismal relationships from the topologies of allele or haplotype trees, will be misled below this critical level, in part because allele trees are not expected to track tokogenetic relationships. Yet there appears to be little or no consensus about how to delimit taxa that are appropriate for phylogenetic analysis. Individual sexual organisms cannot be the terminal units of analyses that employ typical nuclear genes, for which heterozygosity is expected, because heterozygous individuals cannot be uniquely placed on allele trees. Methods using the topologies of multiple allele trees also are flawed, in part for the same reason but also because, for an unknown fraction of the nuclear genome, allele phylogenies are not expected to track organismal relationships. A non-topological approach, which does not assume "species" or "populations," is proposed here. This method identifies allele pools at individual loci by the distribution of alleles in overlapping sets of heterozygous individuals. Individuals possessing alleles at a given allele pool of a locus belong to the same group, called here a field for recombination. Allele pools at each locus are a representation of the overall gene pool, which in turn can be inferred from multilocus genotypes; individuals sharing a common gene pool belong to the same multilocus field for recombination (ml-FFR). Once such gene pools are defined, allele topologies at suitable loci can be used to infer phylogenies.
10.2307/2419812|The assumptions, methods, and applications of various species concepts prevalent in systematics are reviewed in order to clarify issues and terminology. Species concepts are classified as mechanistic-species as participants in the process of speciation, or historical-species as the end results of processes. Mechanistic concepts lack universality and testability because they rely on a knowledge of how speciation proceeded in any particular case. Historical species concepts are preferred because they can be consistently applied and provide a context in which processes of speciation can be investigated. Three historical species concepts are compared: the Genealogical Species Concept, the Species As Taxa Concept, and the Phylogenetic Species Concept. The Genealogical Species Concept supports the recognition of the smallest monophyletic lineages (those that occur at the boundary between reticulating and hierarchical systems of relationship), whereas under the Species As Taxa Concept, hierarchy is considered to occur below the level of species, and any monophyletic unit may be recognized as a species. The problems presented by applying the term monophyly to reticulating systems are discussed as they apply to each concept, as are several problems specific to the Genealogical Species Concept, such as metaspecies. An alternative to monophyletic species concepts is the Phylogenetic Species Concept, in which the smallest diagnosable unit is recognized as a species. Monophyly is not considered demonstrable at the species level because, in contrast to Species As Taxa, an assumption of the Phylogenetic Species Concept is that species are basal taxa, and thus mark the level at which hierarchic relationships begin. Finally, the application of species concepts is reviewed by surveying the literature in Systematic Botany and Systematic Zoology/Biology during the past five years. Papers in Systematic Zoology/Biology were generally more explicit about the species concept and the criteria being used to delimit species than were papers in Systematic Botany. Because it is clear that a number of different concepts are currently in use, and these are often distinguished only vaguely, botanists are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the various concepts, and to state explicitly which concepts and criteria are being employed in recognizing species.
10.2307/2419813|104 monographs from three journals treating 1,790 species were surveyed to develop an overview of 1) species and infraspecific concepts used by monographers and 2) problems in species delimitation due to variation, hybridization, and asexual reproduction. Most monographers did not discuss species or infraspecific concepts; the majority of those who did used a morphological or taxonomic concept. Infraspecific categories, whether subspecies or varieties, were used by most monographers to delimit morphologically and geographically differentiated entities within species. About 7% of the species monographed were sufficiently variable that species delimitation was difficult and 10% were subdivided infraspecifically. About 12% were involved in hybridization, but in only about 1% was there sufficient complexity to make species delimitation problematic. These data are compared to the incidence of hybridization reported for the flora of the British Isles. About 5% of the species surveyed were hypothesized to be of hybrid origin. Asexual reproduction was a significant problem in monographs treating only two groups. These biological phenomena, particularly hybridization and asexual reproduction, were distributed unevenly across the plant groups monographed, with most presenting few problems. Based on these results, it is argued that there are gaps between theoretical and practical work at the species level that should be bridged. It seems clear that monographers working with most groups need not be unduly concerned that the biological nature of the taxa they study makes them inappropriate for phylogenetic analyses or for the application of certain species concepts. On the other hand, difficult groups are equally important for understanding the patterns and processes of evolution and their special biological properties should be highlighted.
10.2307/2419814|Phylogenetic species concepts, in their many forms, represent an advance over previous species concepts because of their improved ability to relate species to historical patterns of evolution. A plea is made to recognize the importance of the distinction between species identifiable on the basis of uniquely derived characters (here termed apospecies) and those identifiable on the basis of a unique combination of characters, but absence of any uniquely derived character (plesiospecies). This distinction brings species concepts and phylogenetic studies more closely into accord. The ability to identify ever-finer patterns of relationship by molecular methods may result in impractical species delimitations if rigorous adherence to diagnosability or to monophyly of gene trees is the final arbiter of species. The study of gene trees and cryptic molecular characters should be used to examine processes within and among species and to clarify relationships when more readily observable characters are misleading. Operational definitions of species, based on either diagnosability or congruence among gene trees, should be viewed as hypotheses of species and as part of the process of discovering evolutionary patterns in nature that we call "species."
10.2307/2419559|Based on evidence from morphology, Giemsa C-banding and N-banding patterns of the chromosomes, and sequence variation of rbcL, Elymus erianthus is transferred to a new genus, Eremium. Neither the S genome, which is found in all taxa hitherto included in Elymus, nor the H genome characteristic of Hordeum and found in all previously investigated South American Elymus, are found in Eremium erianthum, and Eremium is not included in the Elymus clade on the rbcL tree. Problems of discrimination and phylogenetic treatment of the heterogenomic genera of the Triticeae are briefly discussed.
10.2307/2419560|The genus Kalmia is restricted to North America and Cuba and has been traditionally associated with the genera Rhodothamnus and Phyllodoce. The monophyly (or naturalness) of Kalmia has heretofore not been questioned because it possesses distinctive corolla pouches. However, cladistic analyses of nucleotide sequences from the chloroplast encoded rbcL gene and the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacers + 5.8s region indicate that some Kalmia species are more closely related to Loiseleuria and Leiophyllum than to other kalmias. Kalmia, as presently recognized, is paraphyletic and the lack of corolla pouches in Leiophyllum buxifolium and Loiseleuria procumbens is most parsimoniously inferred as a loss. Inclusion of Leiophyllum and Loiseleuria (each with only one recognized species) within Kalmia makes the latter monophyletic.
10.2307/2419561|Cladistic analyses of the genus Sarcostemma (sensu Holm) and the presumably closely related genus Karimbolea were performed, using Secamone, Tylophora, Cynanchum, Pergularia, and Blepharodon as outgroups. Some groups of taxa are recognizable in almost all analyses, but their positions vary. The positions of Sarcostemma (s. str.), Karimbolea, and a new taxon, Philibertia "wurdackii," vary depending on the outgroup. If all outgroups are included in the analysis, the ingroup cannot be kept monophyletic. These results are interpreted to reject the extended genus concept of Sarcostemma (sensu Holm) and to return to the older concept recognizing the certainly monophyletic genera Sarcostemma (s. str.), Funastrum, Philibertia, Oxystelma, Pentacyphus, and Platykeleba. The new combinations Funastrum arenarium, Philibertia vaileae, Pentacyphus andinum, and Pentacyphus lehmannii are proposed. The similar floral structures of Sarcostemma (Old World) and Funastrum (New World) on the one hand and Oxystelma and Platykeleba (Old World) and Philibertia (New World) on the other hand are interpreted as parallel evolution.
10.2307/2419562|Paralogous genes PgiC1 and PgiC2 resulting from a single duplication encode the cytosolic isozymes of phosphoglucose isomerase (EC 5.3.1.9) in Clarkia. The duplication is ancestral to all extant sections of Clarkia. Both genes are expressed in species with two active PGIC isozymes, but species that have a single PGIC isozyme have an expressed PgiC1 and a silenced PgiC2. Genomic nucleotide sequences have been obtained for eight PgiC1 and five PgiC2 genes from species representing six of the eight presently recognized diploid sections of Clarkia. The sequences include a nearly complete PgiC2 from C. mildrediae and a partial PgiC2 from C. rostrata. Parsimony analysis using the single PgiC of Oenothera mexicana as outgroup places the sequences of Clarkia into two groups corresponding to PgiC1 and PgiC2. The tree is strongly supported by bootstrapping and the modified Templeton's test. Fitch-Margoliash and neighbor-joining methods give the same tree. The results for the two genes are in perfect accord and establish the relationships among the sections. From the base of the genus, the sections branch in the following order: sect. Eucharidium, sect. Rhodanthos, sect. Myxocarpa, sect. Phaeostoma, sect. Godetia, and sect. Sympherica. The only ambiguity concerns whether the basal lineage is sect. Eucharidium alone or paired with sect. Rhodanthos. Data from PgiC1 alone provide 92.5% bootstrap support for the basal placement of sect. Eucharidium. The phylogenetic tree reveals that PgiC2 has been silenced at least four times independently. The results demonstrate the value of nuclear PgiC sequences to resolve difficult phylogenetic problems.
10.2307/2419563|Chromosome numbers are presented for five genera in the Hemimerideae. Mitotic counts were made for 69 species of Diascia, seven species of Nemesia, six species of Alonsoa, four species of Hemimeris, and two species of Diclis. At the species level, 80 of these counts are new reports. Counts for two genera (Diclis and Hemimeris) are also new. Diascia has a base number of x = 9 and most species are diploid. Four tetraploid and one hexaploid species were discovered among the perennials of section Racemosae, bringing the total number of polyploids for the section to seven of 26 species (ca. 27%). Two species in section Racemosae have more than one cytotype; D. patens has 2n and 4n populations, whereas D. capsularis has 2n, 4n and 6n populations. In section Diascia, consisting entirely of annuals, only five of 46 species (ca. 11%) are tetraploid, while the rest are diploid. Polyploidy has apparently had multiple origins in both sections of Diascia. The seven species of Nemesia counted were uniformly 2n = 18, but hypotheses of a close relationship between Nemesia and Diascia conflict with differences in corolla aestivation and preliminary molecular evidence. Hemimeris and Diclis are diploid with 2n = 14 and appear to be closely related. Alonsoa is also related to Hemimeris with South African species having 2n = 28 and South American species mostly 2n = 56. Chromosomal, pollination and morphological differences between South African and South American species suggest that Alonsoa originated in South Africa and dispersed to South America before or shortly after the breakup of Gondwanaland. If true, the Scrophulariaceae has had a more ancient presence in the Southern Hemisphere than previously suspected.
10.2307/2419564|Frikkiella, based on F. searlesii sp. nov., is recognized as a new genus in the red algal family Delesseriaceae. Frikkiella pseudoprostrata comb. nov. (= Branchioglossum pseudoprostratum) is also assigned to this genus. The former species occurs in deep water off Puerto Rico, the Bahamas, and Bermuda, and the latter species is also known from deep water off Puerto Rico, the Bahamas, and Guadeloupe (French West Indies). Frikkiella is separated from Branchioglossum by its branch initiation from random marginal cells and by production of third-order rows from only a few cells of the second-order rows. The two species differ in apical organization, shape of the tetrasporangiate sorus, and appearance of the cells of the alae. Male, female, and tetrasporangiate plants have been observed in F. searlesii; only tetrasporangiate plants are known in F. pseudoprostrata.
10.2307/2419565|A taxonomy of a small section of Mexican black oaks (Quercus, section Lobatae, subsection Racemiflorae) is presented. Four species are recognized; Q. conzattii, Q. radiata, Q. tarahumara, Q. urbanii. All are annual-fruited, the acorns in racemose inflorescences ranging from condensed or reduced to elongate, the species differing by characteristics of inflorescences and foliar pubescence. Quercus urbanii and Q. conzattii are bicentric, each occurring in the southern part of the Sierra Madre Occidental and again several hundred kilometers to the south. Both have leaves densely lanate and moderately glandular on the abaxial surface; Q. urbanii has robust inflorescences 4-17 cm long whereas Q. conzattii has more delicate inflorescences 0.5-6 cm long. Quercus tarahumara and Q. radiata are restricted to the northern and southern parts of the Sierra Madre, respectively. Both have leaves conspicuously glandular and sparsely lanate on the abaxial surface; inflorescences are rather robust, those in Q. radiata openly racemose and 5-19 cm long, those of Q. tarahumara dense, compact, and 0.5-4 cm long.
10.2307/2419566|Pseudogynoxys lobata is described as new from material collected in Santa Cruz, Bolivia and Rondonia, Brazil. A key to the 14 species of Pseudogynoxys is provided. Some material of Pseudogynoxys in cultivation in the United States under the name P. chenopodioides has pinnately veined, abaxially pubescent leaves, and is determined here as P. cummingii, which is newly reported to cultivation and to the United States.
10.2307/2419742|The nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region was PCR-amplified in 32 genera of non-flowering seed plants. Length of the ITS region was determined by restriction site mapping of PCR products and nucleotide sequences were obtained from the ITS-2 and 5.8S rDNA of selected genera. In contrast to the relatively narrow range of ITS region lengths reported from angiosperms [565-700 base pairs (bp)], substantial length variation (975-3125 bp) is observed in the ITS region of Coniferales, Cycadales, Ginkgoales, and Gnetales. Restriction site analyses indicate that the 5.8S rDNA + ITS-2 ranges from 375-450 bp, while the ITS-1 is responsible for most of the length variation found in gymnosperm ITS regions. The representatives of Pinaceae exhibit the greatest variation in ITS region length (1550-3125 bp), while those of sampled members of Cupressaceae, Taxodiaceae, Cephalotaxaceae, and Taxaceae are relatively stable (975-1125 bp). The observed ITS region lengths in Sciadopityaceae (1250 bp) and Araucariaceae (1325-1350 bp) are somewhat larger than those of Cupressaceae, Taxodiaceae, Cephalotaxaceae, and Taxaceae, while those of sampled Podocarpaceae (2000-2100 bp) fall into the range observed in the Pinaceae. Outside of the Coniferales, ITS region length is similar among Cycadales (1150-1450 bp), Ginkgoales (1200 bp), and two of the three members of Gnetales, Ephedra (1500 bp) and Gnetum (1200 bp). In contrast, the ITS region of Welwitschia is only 750 bp long, ca. 50 bp longer than the longest known angiosperm ITS region. Levels of nucleotide sequence variation as estimated by restriction site mapping suggest that phylogenetic analysis of the ITS region will be informative at the intrageneric level in most non-flowering seed plants. In Cupressaceae, intergeneric comparisons may also be feasible. Because the ITS region is relatively long, it may also permit population-level phylogenetic analysis in many non-flowering seed plants.
10.2307/2419743|Sarraceniaceae, a New World family of carnivorous plants, consist of Sarracenia, Heliamphora, and the monotypic Darlingtonia. Despite extensive interest in these plants, few explicit phylogenetic hypotheses are available for the family. We investigate phylogenetic relationships in the family using sequences of the internal transcribed spacer regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) and of the chloroplast gene rbcL. One representative of each genus was sequenced for rbcL, whereas representatives of all species in the family, except for H. heterodoxa and H. ionasii, were sequenced for ITS. Both the ITS- and rbcL-based phylogerues demonstrate that Sarracenia and Heliamphora form a monophyletic group that is the sister group of Darlingtonia. Sarracenia and Heliamphora are each well supported monophyletic genera. In our restricted sampling of Heliamphora, H. nutans is the sister of H. minor and H. tatei. Our results provide little resolution of relationships among species of Sarracenia, but identify one clade that consists of all species except S. alata. Within this clade are two smaller clades comprising:-1) S. purpurea and S. leucophylla,-and-2) S. flava, S. minor, and S. psittacina.
10.2307/2419744|Previous studies have shown that in Marchantia, black pine, and the vast majority of angiosperms examined to date, the chloroplast gene rpoC1 is interrupted by an intron (of about 750 base pairs), but that in the grasses and one of three subfamilies of cacti (Cactoideae) this intron has been lost. DNA's of the complete rpoC1 intron region and portions of the flanking exon regions from 107 species (representing 54 families) of angiosperms were amplified with the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in order to uncover other instances of intron loss. In addition to grass and Cactoideae chloroplast DNA's, we report that the rpoC1 intron is missing from the chloroplast genomes of Scaevola and Goodenia (the only two representatives of Goodeniaceae examined), four of ten species of Passiflora (Passifloraceae), two of four genera of Aizoaceae (Delosperma and Faucaria but not Monilaria or Tetragonia), and one of the eight taxa of Medicago examined (M. suffruticosa subsp. leiocarpa; Fabaceae). Mirroring other instances of intron loss from the chloroplast genome, sequence analysis reveals that, for these taxa, the rpoC1 gene has undergone a precise deletion of the intron. For those taxa with the intron, minimal size variation is apparent within the region and, in all taxa investigated, the intron lies in precisely the same position in the gene. Parsimony analyses of partial exon and intron rpoC1 nucleotide sequences reveal that the latter, owing to considerable conservation of secondary structure in that region of the intron sequenced, can supply useful characters for phylogenetic analysis at high taxonomic levels.
10.2307/2419745|The intrafamilial relationships of the Gentianaceae are investigated by means of a cladistic analysis based on morphological and to a lesser extent on chemical data. The 21 genera that are selected for the analysis represent all tribes and subtribes except Leiphaimeae, Rusbyantheae and Voyrieae. The large genus Gentiana is represented by three of its sections. The former loganuaceous genera Anthocleista and Fagraea are used as outgroups. Standard parsimony analyses and analyses using weights that are based on the cladistic reliability of the characters give congruent results as far as the global relationships are concerned. The best supported clade contains Eustoma (Tachiinae) and all included Gentianinae, Erythraeinae and Chironiinae. The basal division in this clade is between Ixanthus and the other genera. In this way Ixanthus, an endemic of the Canary Islands, connects the mostly woody tropical and the mostly herbaceous temperate taxa. Subtribe Gentianinae (excluding Ixanthus) is monophyletic, unlike Erythraeinae and Chironiinae. In most analyses, however, both subtribes together (and including Eustoma) are the sister-group of Gentianinae. Possibly Erythraeinae, Chironiinae and Eustoma should be merged. The basal parts of the cladograms, involving the woody tropical representatives and Exacum, are poorly resolved. More extensive sampling, especially among the tropical representatives, is necessary to elucidate these basal relationships. The tropical ancestry of the family, the switch from a woody to a herbaceous life form, and the position of critical taxa, such as Swertia and Halenia or Tripterospermum, are discussed.
10.2307/2419746|To assess whether discord exists between nuclear- and chloroplast-based phylogenetic trees within the Boykinia group (Saxifragaceae), we compared topologies obtained from analyses of ITS sequences with those acquired earlier via analyses of cpDNA restriction sites and matK sequences. We found manual alignment of sequences in the Boykinia group to be extremely difficult; we therefore explored different alignment strategies using CLUSTAL W and assessed the impact of different gap-open and gap-extension weights. To accomodate the multiple alignments possible with our ITS data set, we also employed the "elision" approach. Both cpDNA and matK sequences provide essentially identical topologies for the Boykinia group and differ from the ITS trees only in the placement of Suksdorfia ranunculifolia. The chloroplast trees place S. ranunculifolia as sister to Boykinia; in the ITS trees, S. ranunculifolia appears in a clade with S. violacea and Bolandra, a placement in agreement with morphology. The chloroplast-based and nuclear-based positions for S. ranunculifolia are each strongly supported, having high bootstrap values. This discordance could be the result of ancient hybridization and chloroplast capture between S. ranunculifolia and a species of Boykinia, resulting in chloroplast-based topologies that do not accurately reflect organismal relationships.
10.2307/2419747|The pollen of Basellaceae and Didiereaceae, two of the 12 traditional families comprising the Caryophyllales, was investigated using light microscopy, scanning and transmission electron microscopy to clarify relationships between these two families and three others, Portulacaceae, Cactaceae, and Hectorellaceae. These five families constitute the suborder Portulacineae. The pollen characteristic that unites the Caryophyllales is a spinulose tectum having annular perforations or punctae. Basellaceae, comprising four genera and 19 species, have pollen that is mostly pantocolpate with variable tecta. Pollen of Anredera has a spinulose and annular perforate or punctate tectum, an apertural endexine with a solid inner component, and foot layers subtended by threadlike non-apertural endexines. Basella alba has cube-shaped grains with one colpus in each of six large, thin-walled apertural fields, and a reticulate tectum. Pollen of the three species of Basella endemic to Madagascar, B. excavata, B. leandriana and B. madagascariensis, is subcuboidal with apertures similar to B. alba but has deeply punctate tecta notably lacking spinules. Pollen of Basella paniculata is 12-15 pantocolpate and has a spinulose and punctate tectum; it is the only species of Basella to have pollen more typical of the order. Tournonia is the only genus of Caryophyllales to have pollen with thickened foot layer around each small pore. Pollen of Didiereaceae, a family comprising four genera and 11 species endemic to Madagascar, is more uniform than that of Basellaceae. All members of Alluaudia, Alluaudiopsis, Decaryia, and Didierea have 5-7-zonocolpate pollen with echinate or spinulose aperture membranes, and spinulose and annular perforate tecta. The two species of Alluaudiopsis have pollen with a unique endexine of vertical strands and columellae that become fimbriolate near the tectum. Pollen of nine species of Portulacaceae, representing Calandrinia, Ceraria, Grahamia, Montiopsis, Naiocrene, Talinella and Talinum, was also examined and is illustrated in scanning and transmission electron micrographs. Some species of Portulacaceae have pollen with irregular and/or perforated foot layers and threadlike non-apertural endexines that are very similar to some Basellaceae (Anredera). Some members of Basellaceae, of Didiereaceae and of Portulacaceae, share exines with partially fused columellae, granular inner surfaces, and columellae narrowed near the middle or expanded near the base. However, all characteristics may not be present in pollen of one species, and there could be species of Portulacaceae with pollen having none of the above structural characteristics. Pollen of some members of Cactaceae, examined in an earlier study, has similar structural characteristics. These shared pollen characteristics provide support for the present concept of the suborder Portulacineae. The presence of the above structural characteristics in pollen of Portulacineae does not necessarily deny their existence in pollen of the remaining members of Caryophyllales.
10.2307/2419748|Three new species of Dalechampia are described. Two are placed in section Rhopalostylis and the third is placed in a new section Brevicolumnae. The phylogenetic relationships among the species of the two sections and the species' relationships to members of other sections are estimated. Section Rhopalostylis appears to be paraphyletic, but recognition of additional sections is unwarranted at this time. Descriptions and key to the 10 species in the two sections are provided. Pollination biology, ecology, phenology, and distribution, when known, are given for each species.
10.2307/2419658|Fifteen populations of the endemic Mexican Populus mexicana were scored for 72 vegetative and reproductive characters. These data were studied by principal coordinates analysis and cluster analysis. There was a significant latitudinal and longitudinal component to morphological variation among populations, corresponding to my earlier recognition of two geographical subspecies, the northwestern subsp. dimorpha and the eastern subsp. mexicana. This partition reflected the first principal coordinate and represented the strongest phenetic signal in the study, consistently appearing in phenograms of both interpopulational correlation and distance matrices for subsets of the data containing from 17 to 40 variables. These variables supplemented the two that I had originally used to distinguish the two subspecies. The signal from the second principal coordinate was almost as strong as the first, appearing in distance phenograms of more than 44 variables, but reflected leaf size rather than taxonomic structure. The two first eigenvalues accounted for only 1/3 of the interpopulational variation, leaving a large unexplained residue that might be evolutionarily, if not taxonomically, significant.
10.2307/2419659|Attempts to delimit South American Cornus species and place them into supraspecific taxa have resulted in considerable confusion. Morphological analyses support the recognition of a single species, Cornus peruviana. Two new locations for C. peruviana are reported from Costa Rica, 1,000 km WNW of the closest populations in Colombia, the first report for C. peruviana in Central America. Contrary to previous reports, trichome structure and distribution on the abaxial leaf surface does not change in a gradient from northern to southern populations. A diploid chromosome number, 2n = 22, is reported for the first time in the species. Based upon leaf and branch orientation, chromosome number, endocarp architecture, and inflorescence structure, C. peruviana appears to be intermediate between the traditionally recognized subgenera Kraniopsis and Mesomora. Based upon this reinterpretation of relationships, C. peruviana is placed in a new section, Umbellicrania, subgenera Kraniopsis and Mesomora are recognized as sections Thelycrania and Bothrocaryum, respectively, and all three sections are placed within the subgenus Kraniopsis.
10.2307/2419660|Nucleotide sequences for the chloroplast gene rbcL have been obtained for three species of Salvadoraceae and for the unispecific Pentadiplandraceae, thus completing a survey of all known mustard-oil families. Phylogenetic analyses of the sequences based on maximum parsimony reveal two separate lineages of plants that produce mustard oil glucosides. A major mustard-oil clade comprises the core capparalean families of Brassicaceae, Capparaceae, Gyrostemonaceae, Resedaceae, and Tovariaceae and includes Akaniaceae, Bataceae, Bretschneideraceae, Caricaceae, Koeberliniaceae, Limnanthaceae, Moringaceae, Pentadiplandraceae, Salvadoraceae, and Tropaeolaceae. A second unrelated lineage consists of the genus Drypetes, traditionally placed in Euphorbiaceae. The major mustard-oil clade recovered from the rbcL analysis is congruent in many topological aspects with that found in a recent cladistic study of morphological characters, and in turn the molecular and morphological results confirm Dahlgren's radically expanded Capparales. An approach combining molecular and morphological evidence yields robust support for several lineages within this major mustard-oil clade.
10.2307/2419661|A comparative study was conducted of the adequacy of phenetic and phylogenetic procedures, based on simulation experiments. Phenetic clustering methods examined included single linkage, complete linkage, average linkage, centroid sorting, median or Gower's method, Ward's method, Lance-Williams flexible BETA, and McQuitty's similarity analysis. Squared euclidean distance, product moment correlation, and cosine coefficient were used as (dis)similarity criteria, calculated both on standardized and non-standardized data. The Hennig86 and Wagner78 programs were used to calculate most parsimonious trees. The relative efficiency of these numerical procedures was evaluated using data matrices simulated under a large variety of evolutionary conditions. The efficiency was measured by the consensus of the true trees with the estimated ones, using Colless' consensus fork index (CFI). McQuitty's similarity analysis and the average linkage method based on cosine- or product moment correlation matrices for unstandardized characters were found to perform consistently better than the other phenetic clustering procedures and maximum parsimony. However, once again it was shown that none of these methods was very accurate. The majority of published phylogenies should therefore only be considered best approximations of the true tree.
10.2307/2419662|Gene trees are generally assumed to reflect the underlying phylogeny of the species, and they are, therefore, generally expected to be congruent with each other. Published gene trees from sequences of three nuclear genes-two 5S DNA arrays and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of the ribosomal RNA genes-are known to give somewhat different histories for diploid members of the Triticeae. A phylogeny based on cpDNA restriction sites gives yet another topology. Some discrepancies come from poorly supported nodes. Other differences, however, are statistically significant. The differences among the nuclear gene trees can be ascribed to particular taxa (notably Triticum monococcum and Aegilops lauschii), which have different histories for particular parts of their genomes. We have removed these two taxa, combined the three nuclear loci to produce a well-supported tree, and introduced the two species later as reticulations. The cpDNA tree has no groups in common with any of the nuclear gene trees, and is therefore not combined with them. Multiple reticulations must be introduced to reconcile the cpDNA and combined nuclear trees. Such dramatic differences among gene trees might be expected among populations in a species complex, but are surprising among intersterile genera.
10.2307/2419663|Herbarium specimens identified as Agropyron yukonense or one of its synonyms consistently differ from the holotype and protologue of that name and resemble each other in their stiff, involute leaves, narrow, dark cauline nodal bands, and pilose paleas. This suggests that the non-holotype plants represent a new species. Cytogenetic analysis of root tip chromosomes from non-holotype plants revealed that they were tetraploids with 2n = 28. Analysis of genome-specific DNA suggested that it contained the St and H genomes, resembling Elymus s. str. in this regard, rather than the morphologically similar genus Roegneria which contains the St and Y genomes. Presence of the H genome and absence of the Y genome were supported by analysis of 70 low copy DNA sequences detected using sequence-tagged-site PCR analysis. Thus, morphological, cytogenetic, and molecular results support inclusion of the new species in Elymus. The name Elymus calderi is proposed, in honor of J.A. Calder, a taxonomist who worked extensively in western Canada. A description, illustration, and distribution map are presented.
10.2307/2419664|Taxa traditionally referred to Vaccinium sect. Macropelma have a disjunct distribution; the V. cereum complex is restricted to southern Polynesia and the V. reticulatum complex to the Hawaiian Archipelago. Morphological differences in the anatomy of the calyx tube and structure of floriferous shoots between these two disjunct groups have raised the possibility that sect. Macropelma is polyphyletic. The intent of this study was to describe the anatomy and variation of floriferous shoots of V. cereum, then to compare the results with those obtained from Hawaiian plants using numerical analyses. All specimens were scored for 24 characters. Analysis involved 18 specimens from Tahiti, six herbarium specimens from southern Polynesia, 30 specimens from Hawaii, and one specimen from the closely related Vaccinium sect. Myrtillus. In spite of its pseudo-10-locular ovary and complex floriferous shoot, V. cereum is consistently linked to V. reticulatum and V. dentatum in the resulting phenograms. The deciduous V. calycinum is the most distinct taxon in sect. Macropelma in these phenograms. It is suggested that the complex floriferous shoot of V. cereum may be plesiomorphic in Vaccinium.
10.2307/2419665|Schiedea and Alsinidendron (Caryophyllaceae), which represent the fifth or sixth largest endemic radiation of species in the angiosperm flora of the Hawaiian Islands, exhibit striking diversity in morphology, breeding system, and habitat. To gain a historical perspective on this diversity, we conducted a phylogenetic analysis using restriction site variation in chloroplast DNA and nuclear ribosomal DNA. In addition, we compared, and ultimately combined, the molecular data with a recently published morphological data set. Within the Schiedea-Alsinidendron lineage, DNA variation is limited, and relationships are generally poorly resolved. These results raise the possibility that, following the initial colonization of the Hawaiian archipelago and the early diversification of the complex, much of the complex radiated rapidly and relatively recently. Phylogenetic analyses of DNA data revealed three clades within the complex (the S. membranacea, S. nuttallii, and S. adamantis clades), in agreement with results of a morphologically-based analysis. Molecular data do not, however, support the S. globosa clade, a weakly-supported clade based on morphology. A combined analysis of morphological and molecular data provided both greater resolution and stronger internal support than either data set did individually. The molecular and combined topologies suggest nearly identical patterns of the evolution of sexual dimorphism, habitat shifts, and biogeography within the complex. However, the greater resolution in trees derived from the combined analysis suggests simpler patterns of breeding-system evolution and habitat shifts. Sexual dimorphism may have evolved twice in the complex, with a single reversal to hermaphroditism in one species, or perhaps only once, with three reversals to hermaphroditism. Although the habitat occupied by the ancestor of the complex remains uncertain, it appears that a single shift to dry habitats more or less accompanied the evolution of dimorphic breeding systems, followed by a single shift back to a mesic environment in one species. Alternatively, two parallel shifts to dry habitats may have occurred. Molecular data are consistent with an origin on Kaua'i of the S. membranacea, S. adamantis, and S. nuttallii clades, as suggested by previous morphological analyses. However, both the molecular and combined trees suggest it is equally likely that the complex originated on O'ahu.
10.2307/2419666|In spite of the use of chromosome number, floral anatomy, pollen morphology, and serology, substantial disagreement remains regarding the systematics of the Berberidaceae. To test competing hypotheses about intergeneric relationships in the family, sequences of the chloroplast encoded rbcL gene and ITS regions of the nuclear ribosomal repeat were examined. Analysis of rbcL sequences does not support fragmentation of the Berberidaceae into smaller families, especially the separation of Nandina as a distinct family. The large woody genera, Berberis and Mahonia, are related to the monotypic herbaceous genus Ranzania. Bongardia is nested within a clade characterized by a basic chromosome number of x = 6, and has a remote relationship to the Leontice group with which the genus has been placed in most previous classifications. The x = 6 group, the largest in the Berberidaceae, comprises two distinct lineages: Jeffersonia and the rest of the core genera (Diphylleia, Bongardia, Achlys, and Epimedium). Among the core genera, Diphylleia is sister to Epimedium/Achlys and their sister genus Bongardia. ITS sequence data provided additional support for the phylogenetic relationships of the x = 6 group observed in the rbcL gene tree.
10.2307/2419667|Monophyly of the populations of Wahlenbergia (Campanulaceae: Campanuloideae) in the Juan Fernandez Islands is supported by chromosome number (n = 11 in a genus that otherwise has x = 8 or 9), data on allozyme variation, and morphology. Cluster analyses of 41 morphological characters in 23 specimens, using average taxonomic distance, Euclidean distance, and product-moment correlation as coefficients of resemblance, support recognition of five species. Populations on Masatierra comprise three species: W. berteroi (which also occurs on nearby Santa Clara), W. fernandeziana, and W. grahamiae; recognition of W. larralnii as distinct from W. fernandeziana is not supported. Populations on Masafuera, treated as a single species by all previous authors, are divisible into two species: W. masafuerae, growing on the coast, and W. tuberosa, growing inland. Phylogenetic analyses of 21 morphological characters for the five species generate three equally parsimonious trees of 28 steps with a consistency index of 1.000. In the preferred tree, which parallels the structure of the dendrogram based on product-moment correlation, the complex is divided into two clades: the non-cormose clade, defined by an increased number of teeth on the leaf margin and glabrous filaments (W. fernandeziana and W. grahamiae), and the cormose clade, defined by the presence of a subterranean or epigeous woody caudex, linear leaves with revolute margins and the adaxial surface glabrous, narrow bracts, and narrow corolla lobes (W. tuberosa, W. masafuerae, and W. berteroi). It is inferred that the complex originated on the geologically older island of Masatierra, giving rise there to the non-cormose clade. It then dispersed to the younger island of Masafuera where it gave rise to the cormose clade, one branch of which (W. berteroi) resulted from dispersal back onto the older island. This pattern of cladogenesis on the secondary island and back-dispersal to the primary is unique among genera that have speciated in the archipelago.
10.2307/2419668|Sequences from the internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA were used to assess relationships among genera of subtribe Sonchinae (Lactuceae). The data suggest that Sonchinae is paraphyletic, and that the Dendroseridinae should not be recognized as a distinct subtribe. Several Macaronesian genera, along with woody Macaronesian species of Sonchus (all diploid, 2n = 18), appear to have been derived from a common ancestor. Prenanthes pendula is more closely related to this Macaronesian group than to other members of Prenanthes, suggesting that Prenanthes, like Sonchus, is polyphyletic. The Juan Fernandez Islands endemic genus Dendroseris (2n = 36) is monophyletic, but its phylogenetic relationships to other Sonchinae remain uncertain. Reichardia, which forms the sister genus of the Sonchinae, is also monophyletic. Launaea, by contrast, is considered to be paraphyletic. The monotypic genus Aetheorhiza (2n = 18) is sister to the annual weedy species of Sonchus, rather than being closely related to Launaea. Two monotypic endemic genera from New Zealand, Embergeria (2n = 36) and Kirkianella (2n = 90, 126), are sister genera, and together they form the sister clade to Sonchus arvensis-S. maritimus. This implies that these Pacific genera were derived either from section Arvenses or Maritimi of subgenus Sonchus, rather than from section Apseri.
10.2307/2419669|Ernodea consists of nine historically recognized species, most of which are endemic to the Bahamian Archipelago. The species are quite diverse morphologically, and their boundaries are difficult to identify because of intermediate forms. As part of a comprehensive investigation of the evolution and taxonomy of the genus, populations of five of the taxa were studied on Great Abaco and Great Inagua (Bahamas) and Puerto Rico. Starch gel electrophoresis was performed on leaf extracts and 13 scorable loci were examined. The five species studied were fixed for the same allele across 12 of these loci. The one variable locus showed variation that appears to be more highly correlated with geography rather than morphology. These data provide no evidence of genetic barriers among the species. Hand-pollination experiments tested for apomixis, selfing, outcrossing, and inter-specific fertility. These experiments suggested that there are no reproductive barriers between the species and that the species have a mixed-mating system. The data accumulated in this study do not support, but neither can they refute, the recognition of nine distinctive taxa in this genus.
10.2307/2419609|Solanum chacoense is a highly variable wild potato species widely distributed from central Bolivia to central Argentina, from sea level to over 3,000 m in the Andes. Upland populations of S. chacoense were thought to have arisen from introgression of lowland populations with S. microdontum. Our study uses morphological data, molecular data from single- to low-copy nuclear DNA restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP's), and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD's) to reinvestigate this hypothesis. The data do not support introgression but show relative equal divergence of upland and lowland populations from S. microdontum. These results suggest that other hybridization hypotheses need to be reexamined in sect. Petota. However, the similarity of many taxa in the group and alternative explanations of morphological or molecular intermediacy will complicate conclusions of hybridization.
10.2307/2419610|Phylogenetic relationships among the genera of Apiaceae are poorly understood, and the commonly employed systems of classification of this family are widely regarded as artificial. The understanding of evolutionary relationships in Apiaceae has been hampered by difficulties in interpreting traditional taxonomic characters, especially fruit characters. A cladistic analysis of 53 sequences from the chloroplast gene matK was used to provide a phylogenetic perspective for interpreting evolutionary patterns and relationships in Apiaceae. Results of the analysis of matK sequence data are in conflict with the subfamilial and tribal treatment of Cerceau-Lartival, as well as the tribal system of Drude. matK sequence data do support much of Drude's subfamilial system, suggesting subfamilies Apioideae and Saniculoideae are largely monophyletic. The saniculoid genus Lagoecia, however, is found among the apioids and should perhaps be transferred to that subfamily. Three of the apioid genera analyzed (Bupleurum, Anginon, and Heteromorpha) are placed in basally-branching clades within subfamily Apioideae. This topology, along with evidence from morphology, anatomy, geographic distribution, and insertions and deletions in matK sequences, suggests that subfamily Apioideae may have originated in southern Africa from woody, simple-leaved ancestors. Relationships among the remaining taxa of Apioideae agree largely with other recent molecular studies, and suggest that the carpological characters used to construct older systems of classification have been prone to parallel evolution.
10.2307/2419611|This paper investigates cladistic relationships among tribes of Gesneriaceae using morphological data. Forty-four characters were scored across 34 genera selected as exemplar taxa to represent current and previous classification systems. The analysis resulted in 4,840 most-parsimonious trees of 364 steps each. In all trees, Klugieae are identified as sister to the remainder of the family which consists of a paraphyletic Cyrtandroideae, and monophyletic Gesnerioideae. The placement of Coronanthereae in Cyrtandroideae is not supported by this analysis whereas its placement in Gesnerioideae or as a separate monophyletic subfamily is supported. Beyond these changes, current tribal classification systems for the family are largely congruent with the results of this analysis. Exceptions are that Gloxinieae were found to comprise two clades, and monophyly for Didymocarpeae was not supported. Earlier classification systems, besides current ones, are found to be highly inadequate to reflect cladistic relationships within the family.
10.2307/2419612|Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site analysis was used to elucidate phylogenetic relationships within the taxonomically controversial genus, Cornus. Twenty-nine species representing all major morphological subgroups of the genus were analyzed with 21 restriction endonucleases. Major lineages within Cornus identified by the cpDNA restriction site data are highly concordant with those suggested by both rbcL sequences and morphology. Relationships among these lineages are well-resolved by the restriction site data. The genus diverged early into two major clades: the blue-fruited group bearing blue or white fruits and the red-fruited group bearing red fruits. The blue-fruited clade further comprises two lineages: the alternate-leaved group and the opposite-leaved group. The red-fruited clade is composed of three lineages: the cornelian cherries, the dwarf dogwoods, and the big-bracted dogwoods, with the latter two as sister-groups. The cpDNA restriction site data also correlate closely with the evolution of chromosome number, morphology, and phytochemistry. Most notably, the chromosome number of n = 10 evolved twice in Cornus, and the small, non-petaloid bracts in C. discifloru apparently represent a reversal to the non-showy state. Furthermore, the presence of iridoids in the red-fruited dogwoods apparently is a retention of the plesiomorphic condition.
10.2307/2419613|The rhizomorphic lycopsids are a putatively monophyletic group delimited by the rhizomorphic syndrome: centralized determinate growth and secondary thickening in their rooting systems. A cladistic analysis of the most completely understood species provides the basis for two alternative, new classifications of the group, one following strict phylogenetic classification criteria, the other more traditionally Linnean. Both are based on the same preferred most-parsimonious cladogram and place the rhizomorphic lycopsids in one order, the Isoetales. Also, both classifications delimit the same suprageneric groups: Hizemodendron + Lepidodendron + Lepidophloios, Diaphorodendron + Synchysidendron, Sigillaria, and Chaloneria + Isoetes are well supported as monophyletic clades, but the basal plexus of bisporangiate-coned ulodendrids (Paralycopodites + Oxroadia + Paurodendron) is paraphyletic. Both classifications differ from all previous studies in 1) assigning all rhizomorphic lycopsids to a single order, and 2) recognizing the trees Diaphorodendron plus Synchysidendron as a distinct family, the Diaphorodendraceae. A generally applicable paleobotanical taxonomic philosophy is outlined that broadly reflects a phylogenetic framework based on living species (if available) and reconstructed whole-plant fossil species. These core species provide a framework into which are interpolated satellite taxa: fossil isolated organs and partial plants.
10.2307/2419614|Tehuana calzadae is a new genus and species from the Pacific coast of Oaxaca, Mexico, belonging to subtribe Zinniinae (Asteraceae: Heliantheae). A cladistic study based on morphological and chromosomal data indicates that Heliopsis and Philactis are its immediate sister taxa. Tehuana calzadae differs from the latter two genera in having pales with subulate tips, disc cypselae with four ribs, and disc corollas with unevenly thickened biconvex tubes, as shown in illustration and a key to genera of subtribe Zinniinae.
10.2307/2419615|Direct sequencing of nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer sequences (ITS) from Arabidopsis suecica showed that at least two ITS types were present in individuals of this allopolypoid species. Cloning PCR-amplified ITS sequences and subsequent sequencing confirms that A. suecica contains two distinct types of ITS sequences, one from A. thaliana and the other from either Cardaminopsis arenosa or C. neglecta. Based on these data and on ecology, A. thaliana and C. arenosa are the putative parents of A. suecica. These results support those of other studies employing cpDNA restriction sites, cytology, and isoelectric focusing of Rubisco. No recombination or evidence of concerted evolution of the ITS was observed, suggesting either that homogenization of rDNA repeats through concerted evolution is more efficient within rather than among chromosomes, or that, because of the recent origin of A. suecica, insufficient time has elapsed to allow ITS sequences to be homogenized. Both of these phenomena may be responsible for the observed pattern of ITS variation in A. suecica.
10.2307/2419616|Molecular support for monophyly of Ebenales and its phylogenetic relationships to other dicot families was investigated using parsimony analysis of nucleotide sequences of the large subunit of ribulose-1,5-biphosphate carboxylase (rbcL). All families of Ebenales were examined except for the remote monogeneric family Lissocarpaceae, due to the lack of material. In addition we examined 93 rbcL sequences of 34 other families. All analyses strongly support monophyly of the asterid III grouping (identified in an analysis of 500 rbcL sequences by Chase et al.). The rbcL tree identified Ebenales to be distributed among several major subclades of the asterid III clade. Sapotaceae are sister to Symplocaceae and more closely related to Lecythidaceae/Scytopetalaceae than to other families of Ebenales. Ebenaceae are sister to Primulales. Styracaceae are polyphyletic, with Diapensiaceae and some Styracaceae sister to Polemoniaceae, and this clade is then sister to members of Clethraceae and Styrax. Although the phylogenetic hypothesis appears to be poorly resolved between groups, there is considerable support, as indicated by decay and jackknife support, for many of the inter-familial relationships.
10.2307/2419617|A cladistic analysis is presented for a subset of 51 species of Erythrina (Leguminosae: Phaseoleae) representing the morphological, ecological and geographical diversity of the genus. The results are similar to a previously published cladistic analysis of chloroplast DNA restriction site characters. The combined analysis supports as monophyletic subg. Erythraster, but suggests that subg. Micropteryx, Erythrina and Chirocalyx are paraphyletic. At the sectional level, several of the traditionally recognized groups are supported as monophyletic. A paraphyletic assemblage of South American elements are basal in the genus. From this group are derived two main clades. One comprises South American and Mexican taxa. The other includes Asian species from which are derived a New World group and a primarily African clade, with derived Asian and South American species. Biogeographical patterns, fossil evidence, and the probable age of avian pollinators suggest a possible Early Tertiary occurrence in North America, with subsequent diversification in South America, Africa, and Asia.
10.2307/2419618|Wood anatomy is described in detail for the single-species families Akaniaceae and Bretschneideraceae, placed close together in most phylogenetic systems. Both families have simple perforation plates with occasional scalariform plates, alternate lateral wall pitting, helical sculpturing on vessel walls, septate fibers with pits simple or nearly so, scanty vasicentric axial parenchyma, and wide tall multiseriate rays composed mostly of procumbent cells. Differences between the genera are relatively few and minor compared with resemblances; close relationship is indicated. Wood anatomy of the two families resembles that of Sabiaceae and, to a lesser extent, that of other Sapindales. The wood is distinctive within Capparales whether that order is defined traditionally or in the light of molecular studies. Wood data are compatible with an interpretation that Akaniaceae and Bretschneideraceae diverged from near the base of Sapindales.
10.2307/2419619|Mimosa tejupilcana, a new species from the State of Mexico, Mexico, is described and illustrated. It is presently known only from the Municipios of Valle de Bravo, Temascaltepec, Tejupilco de Hidalgo, and Amatepec. The new species is referred to series Plurijugae and that series is placed in sect. Mimosa. A key to distinguish the new species from all other taxa in the series, as well as from the similar M. adenantheroides, is provided.
10.2307/2419674|A phylogenetic analysis was conducted using sequence data from the chloroplast gene ndhF. Sequences were obtained from 25 species of Solanaceae, including 18 species of Solanum representing five of the seven conventionally recognized subgenera. Trees were constructed using parsimony and maximum likelihood methods. Results indicate that Solanum lycopersicum (formerly in genus Lycopersicon) and Solanum betaceum (formerly in genus Cyphomandra) are nested within the Solanum clade. Each of the Solanum subgenera Leptostemonum, Minon, Potatoe, and Solanum are not monophyletic as currently circumscribed. Four major clades within Solanum are supported by high bootstrap values, but the relationships among them are largely unresolved. The problematical sections Aculeigerum (represented by S. wendlandii) and Allophyllum (represented by S. allophyllum) emerge as sister taxa in a larger clade composed of S. betaceum, S. luteoalbum, and members of subgenera Leptostemonum, Minon, and Solanum. Several prominent morphological characters such as spines, stellate hairs, and tapered anthers apparently have evolved more than once in Solanum.
10.2307/2419675|A phylogenetic analysis of Solanum based on chloroplast DNA restriction site variation confirms previous findings that Lycopersicon and Cyphomandra are derived from within Solanum. Three out of four Solanum subgenera with more than one representative in this analysis (Minon, Potatoe, Solanum) are found to be polyphyletic, suggesting that the subgeneric classification of the genus needs revision. Subgenus Leptostemonum is monophyletic within the context of our sampling. Three primary clades can be distinguished within Solanum. Clade I includes representatives of sections Archaesolanum, Dulcamara, Holophylla, Jasminosolanum, and Solanum. Clade II includes members of subgenus Potatoe (sections Basarthrum, Lycopersicon, and Petota). Clade III includes all representatives sampled from subg. Leptostemonum, sects. Allophyllum, Brevantherum, Geminata, Pseduocapsicum, and Cyphomandropsis, and species formerly assigned to Cyphomandra. Solanum as a whole and each of the three primary clades apppear to be New World in origin. Within Leptostemonum, African and Australian members are derived from New World ancestors.
10.2307/2419676|Chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis was used to test hypotheses of sister group relationships of the diploid Mexican wild potato species Solanum bulbocastanum (ser. Bulbocastana) and S. cardiophyllum (ser. Pinnatisecta). A prior chloroplast DNA study including two accessions each of these two species supported them as sister taxa, widely separated from their presumed closest Mexican diploid species relatives. The present study samples more widely by examining 28 accessions of all three subspecies of S. bulbocastanum, and 20 accessions of all three subspecies of S. cardiophyllum. The results support two main clades exclusive of the outgroup: 1. Solanum bulbocastanum (all subspecies) and S. cardiophyllum (all subspecies except subsp. ehrenbergii), and 2. S. cardiophyllum subsp. ehrenbergii and members of ser. Pinnutisecta other than subsp. ehrenbergii. In the first clade, there was little resolution and some chloroplast types were shared by three subspecies of S. bulbocastanum and two subspecies of S. cardiophyllum. These results, in combination with an earlier chloroplast DNA study of the Mexican and Central American species, suggest that subsp. ehrenbergii is related to other members of ser. Pinnatisecta, possibly S. brachistotrichum or S. stenophyllidium, or alternatively that subsp. ehrenbergii obtained the chloroplast genome of a species in ser. Pinnatisecta by introgression.
10.2307/2419677|Solanum sect. Petota series Conicibaccata is a group of 40 wild potato species, composed of diploids, tetraploids, and hexaploids, distributed from central Mexico to central Bolivia. This study examined their species boundaries and interrelationships by phenetic analyses of morphological data and cladistic analyses of chloroplast DNA restriction site data. Mitotic chromosome counts were obtained for 114 accessions; species whose first counts are reported here are S. garcia-barrigae, S. orocense, and S. sucubuncnse. Most results were concordant in showing three main groups of species: 1) tetraploids and hexaploids from central Mexico to southern Ecuador; 2) diploids from northern Peru to Bolivia, included in a cpDNA clade of diploids and hexaploids assigned to ser. Demissa and ser. Tuberosa, and 3) diploids and tetraploids from southern Colombia to Peru, cladistically related to members of ser. Piuranu. Some species boundaries, and even series boundaries of ser. Conicibaccata and ser. Piurana, are supported morphologically only by a combination of widely overlapping character states, none of which is constant for a species. Other species have no support, and it is likely that too many species are recognized in the group. The cladistic analysis of chloroplast DNA data suggested that some species represent a combination of apospecies and plesiospecies, and some populations are of possible hybrid origin.
10.2307/2419678|Nine Papuasian species of Timonius are considered to be close relatives of T. flavescens; all have subvalvate stipules, usually prominent leaf domatia, reticulate leaf venation, and bracteate inflorescences that, in pistillate specimens, are reduced to a solitary flower and fruit. Four species (T. elegans, T. hentyi, T. kostermansii, and T. morobensis) and one variety (T. subcoriaceus var. sessilis) are described as new. A key, descriptions, a distribution map, and citations of specimens are provided. Several other paleotropical, extra-Papuasian species of Timonius are discussed as possibly also referable to the T. flavescens alliance.
10.2307/2419679|Overlapping patterns of morphological variation in Lomatium have obscured interspecific relationships and thwarted attempts at infrageneric classification. However, the tuberous lomatiums, a group of 13 species mostly from the Inland Pacific Northwest of the U.S.A. and allied primarily by their thickened roots, have long been considered an informal assemblage in Lomatium, although they have received formal taxonomic recognition at the infrageneric level only once. Variation in root morphology is coupled with interspecific differences in leaf and fruit morphology, flower color, and involucel structure. To test the monophyly of the tuberous group and to examine patterns of relationship and morphological divergence among these species, a phylogenetic analysis was conducted using chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site variation. Samples of all taxa of tuberous lomatiums except the narrowly endemic L. stebbinsii were analyzed. Also included were samples of 18 other species of Lomatium, representing all but one of the morphological groups in the genus, and the related genus, Angelica. Phylogenetic trees of Lomatium were well resolved but generally weakly supported. The tuberous group is apparently polyphyletic, comprising members of at least four distinct lineages: 1) L. watsonii, associated with the L. columbianum group from the Pacific Northwest; 2) L. ambiguum, an apparent relative of several nontuberous species from California; 3) L. hendersonii, one branch of a speciose trichotomy and apparently only distantly related to other tuberous species, and 4) the remaining nine tuberous species sampled. Thus, within Lomatium, tuberous roots may have evolved in parallel several times. Developmental studies are needed to determine the mode of root thickening and the organogenesis of these storage structures.
10.2307/2419680|The Podocarpaceae traditionally comprise seven genera in one family. Modern authors have recognized as many as 18 genera distributed in four families. A cladistic analysis of morphological evidence resulted in one most parsimonious tree, with Saxegothaea as sister group to other genera. The scale-leaved clade comprises imbricate-leaved taxa of Holantarctic distribution. Another clade includes Podocarpus s. str., and other taxa presently concentrated in the tropics. Podocarpus s.l. and Dacrydium s.l. were paraphyletic and polyphyletic, respectively, supporting the recognition of segregate genera. Phyllocladus, Saxegothaea, and Nageia section Nageia, sometimes placed in monotypic families, are best treated as members of the Podocarpaceae. Some modern distributions (e.g., those of the three sections of Nageia s.l.) may be explained by vicariance owing to the break-up of Gondwana.
10.2307/2419681|A previous extensive survey showed that most but not all members of the papilionoid tribe Desmodieae lack the intron for the chloroplast gene rpl2 and partially or completely lack the open reading frame ORF184. We extended the survey of Desmodieae to include all 26 genera recognized in the most recent comprehensive taxonomic treatment of the tribe, and use slot blot hybridization with gene- or intron-specific probes for all taxa, polymerase chain reaction amplification across the rpl2 intron region for a subset of taxa, and DNA sequencing across the rpl2 intron/exon boundary in representatives of selected genera (Desmodium, Lepesdeza, and Phylacium). Our results indicate that rpl2 intron is absent from both genera of the largest subtribe, Desmodiinae, and from core Lespedezinae (Campylotropis, Kummerowia, and Lespedeza). It is indicated as present in both genera of Bryinae and in two Lespedezinae genera (Neocollettia and Phylacium). In contrast to the rpl2 intron, the pattern of ORF184 loss in Desmodiinae and Lespedezinae was extremely complex and difficult to interpret from slot blots, but consistent either with partial deletion or extensive sequence divergence. Bryinae showed no such evidence of loss or partial deletion. In agreement with the distribution of the rpl2 intron, Bryinae have been considered to have affinities outside Desmodieae, while both Phylacium and Neocollettia are anomalous within Lespedezinae. Thus the rpl2 intron loss may represent a synapomorphy for a "core" Desmodieae (Desmodiinae and Lespedezinae).
10.2307/2419682|Previous paleobotanical studies on Tertiary floras from northern Latin America have documented that the lowland tropical rain forest and associated communities underwent significant change in their range and composition during the past 60 Ma. New data from pollen and spore assemblages allow refinement in the nature of these changes in three different geographic regions of the neotropics. At the northern limit in central Mexico through northern Central America, changing climates, particularly fluctuating temperatures, are revealed as a principal force driving vegetation dynamics. In southern Central America (including the proto-Antilles), climatic change had less effect on the vegetation. Rather, there was extensive volcanism and profound, rapid alterations in physiography. In the Amazon Basin there were limited topographic changes and moderate climatic effects. A primary forcing mechanism was fluctuating water tables induced by sea-level changes. It is speculated that these separate histories may have elicited a reordering in the myriad of factors constituting the speciation process and, therefore, provided different mechanisms for achieving biodiversity. An awareness of these separate physiographic provinces with distinct environmental histories may be useful in 1) accounting for geographically correlated genotypic and phenotypic features within a genus; 2) understanding factors that shaped the origin and diversification of individual taxa, and 3) refining scenarios to explain diversity in various parts of the neotropics.
10.2307/2419683|Phylogenetic relationships among the 11 species and subspecies of the Andean-Patagonian Chuquiraga sect. Acanthophyllae were resolved by parsimony cladistic analysis using 22 morphological characters. The comparative method was used to test whether a reduction in leaf width occurred in species due to an adaptation to warmer desert climates. Mean values of annual precipitation, January (summer) temperature and July (winter) temperature were estimated for each taxon. Independent comparisons for leaf width and climatic variables were calculated at each node of the cladogram and a regression analysis of leaf variation versus climatic variation was performed. The probable ancestral geographic area for the group was determined using Bremer's method. Results of these analyses suggest that marked involution and reduction in leaf width occurred twice independently in the evolution of the group. Reduction of leaf width was correlated with an increase in temperature. The Puna, Patagonia and the High Andes have the highest probability of having been part of the ancestral area of this section, which currently also extends to the Monte, Prepuna and Chilean Desert. This study suggests a relatively recent climatic effect on the evolution of leaf morphology.
10.2307/2419684|Parsimony analysis of rbcL sequences supports monophyly of the Labiatae s.l., which includes the Labiatae, subfamilies Caryopteridoideae, Chloanthoideae, and Viticoideae of the Verbenaceae, and Symphoremataceae. Representatives of subfamily Verbenoideae (Verbenaceae s. str.) do not form a monophyletic group with the Labiatae s.l. Avicennia (Avicenniaceae), Cyclocheilon (Nesogenaceae), and Euthystachys and Retzia (Stilbaceae), included in the Verbenaceae by many authors, are distinct from the Labiatae s.l. and Verbenaceae s. str. The inferred phylogeny also provides a framework to interpret character evolution. Results suggest that uniovulate locules have evolved in at least two lineages of Lamiales s.l. and that a gynoecium with four locules by the development of false partitions apparently has evolved independently in the Labiatae s.l. and the Verbenaceae s. str. Whereas a dry fruit is plesiomorphic in the Lamiales s.l., a fleshy fruit is plesiomorphic in the Labiatae s.l. with possible reversal in four lineages.
10.2307/2419452|Data from chloroplast DNA restriction sites and morphology are combined in a phylogenetic analysis of six genera in the Dichrostachys and Leucaena groups. Desmanthus is demonstrated to be monophyletic, which contrasts with previous morphological studies in which it was paraphyletic to Neptunia. The monotypic genus Calliandropsis from central Mexico is sister to the Old World genus Dichrostachys, a result consistent with all previous analyses, as well as with ecological evidence. The cladistic analysis shows that the Dichrostachys group is not monophyletic; Desmanthus is more closely related to Leucaena and Schleinitzia than it is to the other genera in the Dichrostachys group. Based on these data, the Leucaena group is recircumscribed to include the genera Desmanthus, Leucaena, and Schleinitzia, and the Dichrostachys group to include Calliandropsis, Dichrostachys, Gagnebina, and Alantsilodendron. The position of Neptunia relative to the other genera is ambiguous, and it is placed incertae sedis pending more conclusive evidence about its position in the Mimosoideae.
10.2307/2419453|The Rocky Mountain Astragalus molybdenus s.l. comprises A. molybdenus from Colorado, A. shultziorum from Wyoming, and A. lackschewitzii sp. nov. endemic to Montana. These three species are determined to be closely related to the species of Astragalus sect. Polares. Section Minerales, formerly a monotypic taxon that accommodated A. molybdenus in the Phacoid Phalanx next to sect. Astragalus, is now synonymized with sect. Polares. Supporting evidence comes from morphometric and cladistic analysis of morphological and chloroplast DNA restriction site data, and is consistent with findings reported elsewhere on sequence variation of the internal transcribed spacers that flank 5.8S nuclear ribosomal DNA. A previously overlooked attribute of A. molybdenus s.l. (the mature pod, which is deciduous from a marescent, ventrally ruptured calyx) is used to pinpoint the relationships of this species group to the piptoloboid Homalobi subgroup of Neo-astragalus. Additionally, chloroplast DNA sequences are exceptionally divergent among populations, on the order of 1.5-2.0%, and this evidence is used in part to support the recognition of three constituent species within A. molybdenus s.l.
10.2307/2419454|Chusquea perotensis is described from Volcan Cofre de Perote. Although its spikelets are typical of Chusquea, this species is anomalous in having the internodes hollow with well defined cavities. Based on molecular and morphological data, C. perotensis is classified within Chusquea sect. Swallenochloa, and is considered a sister species of C. bilimekii, also from Mexico. Both species are rare and probably threatened in their fragile montane habitats. Keys, based on vegetative only and vegetative and flowering characters, to the species of Chusquea sect. Swallenochloa in Central America and Mexico are provided.
10.2307/2419455|Seventy-nine accessions representing forty-seven taxa of Clerodendrum s.l. (Lamiaceae) and seven putative outgroup genera are included in an analysis of chloroplast DNA restriction sites for ten enzymes. Parsimony analysis of 456 potentially informative characters identifies four large discrete clades (Clades I-IV) within Clerodendrum s.l. and shows that Clerodendrum s.l. is polyphyletic. Clades I and II comprise Asian and African taxa respectively. Clade III comprises coastal species from Africa, Asia and central America and presents an hypothesis of relationship within Clerodendrum that has not previously been explicit in classifications of the genus. Clade IV, comprising subg. Cyclonema and sect. Konocalyx (subg. Clerodendrum pro parte) emerges as a lineage distinct from the rest of Clerodendrum. Traditional sections Squamata, Odontocalyx (subg. Clerodendrum), Cyclonema and Stacheocymosa (subg. Cyclonema) are well-supported monophyletic groups. Subgenus Clerodendrum and sections Clerodendrum and Axilliflora (subg. Clerodendrum pro parte) are shown to be polyphyletic. The polyphyly of Clerodendrum s.l. is also supported by a separate analysis of chloroplast ndhF sequences, in which a smaller sampling of Clerodendrum is included in a broader sample of labiate genera. The ndhF sequence data suggest that Tetraclea belongs in Clade I of Clerodendrum and support the monophyly of the recently circumscribed subfamily Teucriodeae.
10.2307/2419456|Solidago albopilosa Braun is a rare tetraploid goldenrod endemic to sandstone rockhouses in eastern Kentucky. Previous studies have indicated similarity in morphology between S. albopilosa and S. flexicaulis and possible hybridization between the species. The purpose of this study was to examine the nature of the relationship between S. flexicaulis and S. albopilosa. Solidago flexicaulis is reported to hybridize with only one other goldenrod, S. caesia. Cytology, enzyme electrophoresis, and RAPD markers were used to examine the hypothesis that S. albopilosa is an autotetraploid derivative of S. flexicaulis or alternatively is an allotetraploid resulting from hybridization between S. flexicaulis and S. caesia. In addition, artificially produced F<sub>1</sub> hybrids produced from crosses between S. caesia and S. flexicaulis were compared morphologically with individuals of S. albopilosa. There was no evidence that either of these species has a recent close relationship with S. albopilosa. However, morphological and isozyme comparisons indicate that S. albopilosa is most similar to S. flexicaulis. The similarity between these species may indicate an ancient autopolyploid origin for S. albopilosa from S. flexicaulis.
10.2307/2419457|We explored the evolutionary history of the Gossypieae and Gossypium using phylogenetic analysis of biparentally and maternally inherited characters. Separate and combined data sets were analyzed and incongruence between data sets was quantified and statistically evaluated. At the tribal level, phylogenetic analyses of nuclear ribosomal ITS sequences yielded trees that are highly congruent with those derived from the plastid gene ndhF, except for species that have a reticulate evolutionary history or for clades supported by few characters. Problematic taxa were then pruned from the data sets and the phylogeny was inferred from the combined data. Results indicate that 1) the Gossypieae is monophyletic, with one branch from the first split being represented by modern Cienfuegosia; 2) Thespesia is not monophyletic, and 3) Gossypium is monophyletic and sister to an unexpected clade consisting of the Hawaiian genus Kokia and the east African/Madagascan genus Gossypioides. Based on the magnitude of ndhF sequence divergence, we suggest that Kokia and Gossypioides diverged from each other in the Pliocene, subsequent to their apparent loss of a pair of chromosomes via chromosome fusion. Phylogenetic relationships among species and "genome groups" in Gossypium were assessed using cpDNA restriction site variation and ITS sequence data. Both data sets support the monophyly of each genome group, once taxa known or suspected to have reticulate histories are pruned from the trees. There was little congruence between these two data sets, however, with respect to relationships among genome groups. Statistical tests indicate that most incongruence is not significant and that it probably reflects insufficient information rather than a biological process that has differentially affected the data sets. We propose that the differing cpDNA- and ITS-based resolutions of genome groups in Gossypium reflect temporally closely spaced divergence events early in the diversification of the genus. This "short internode" phenomenon is suggested to be a common cause of phylogenetic incongruence.
10.2307/2419458|Chaboissaea, a New World genus of open, marshy habitats, consists of four species: three taxa endemic to Mexico and one from Argentina and Bolivia. Restriction sites for 14 enzymes were mapped for the chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) plasmids of these four Chaboissaea species. Five hundred five potential restriction sites were detected when using Bealia mexicana, Lycurus setosus, and Muhlenbergia montana as outgroups. Within Chaboissaea, 56 variable sites were shared among two or more species. Along with unique morphological characteristics and distinctive allozyme markers, our RFLP data support monophyly of the genus and suggest that Lycurus is its sister group. Cladistic analysis indicates that Chaboissaea subbiflora is the sister to the remaining three species in the genus, followed by C. decumbens; C. atacamensis and C. ligulata are the most derived species in the genus. Chaboissaea atacamensis and C. ligulata are extremely closely related and differ by only four autapomorphies in the latter. All data indicate that C. atacamensis emerged recently and our phylogeny based on cpDNA RFLP analysis suggests that C. ligulata, a species with a large geographical range in Mexico, is its sister taxon. Based on all lines of evidence, the genus appears to have arisen in southwestern North America (Mexico) and recently radiated to South America.
10.2307/2419459|Three morphologically similar North American barrel cacti comprise the Echinocactus polycephalus complex, here defined as including E. parryi, E. polycephalus var. polycephalus, and E. polycephalus var. xeranthemoides. The relationship of E. parryi to E. polycephalus has been suggested without critical examination. The varieties of E. polycephalus have been elevated to species rank by some taxonomists; however existing keys have shown inadequacies separating these taxa in the field, and distribution maps have indicated potential sympatry among them. Herbarium studies, field observations, scanning electron microscopy, and phenetic analysis are here used to support the distinction of E. parryi and E. polycephalus as separate species. The varietal ranking of E. polycephalus var. xeranthemoides is also supported. The varieties of E. polycephalus are distinguished by seed and hypanthium scale morphology. Their distributions are parapatric, with evidence of hybridization and potential introgression. The records of Pleistocene-age seed macrofossils of E. polycephalus are summarized. Echinocactus parryi and E. polycephalus are herein lectotypified.
10.2307/2419460|The Lobelia cardinalis complex (Campanulaceae: Lobelioideae) is a group of red-flowered, hummingbird-pollinated, diploid, perennial herbs that are found in wetland habitats throughout much of North America. Cluster analysis and principal components analysis of 66 morphological characters extracted from 103 population samples failed to disclose groups of populations that were morphologically distinguishable and geographically coherent. We conclude that the complex comprises a single species, L. cardinalis, and that this species cannot be divided into infraspecific taxa. It is most closely related to L. siphilitica, a blue-flowered bee-pollinated species with which it is partly sympatric. Reproductive isolation of the two appears to be a function of pollinator differences.
10.2307/2419461|Nucleotide sequences of the plastid locus ndhF are used to examine phylogenetic relationships among 25 representative species of subfamily Tillandsioideae. Genetic divergence among bromeliad taxa is low for ndhF sequences, ranging from 2.1% between Catopsis wangerinii and Tillandsia tricholepis, to 0.2% between several species of Guzmania, Mezobromelia, and Vriesea. Parsimony analysis produced six shortest trees of 216 steps. These results: 1) suggest Tillandsioideae as traditionally circumscribed is monophyletic; 2) place Calopsis and Glomeropilcairnia in a clade that is the sister group to the remainder of the subfamily; 3) indicate Vriesea is a paraphyletic grade from within which Tillandsia and Guzmania have arisen, and 4) suggest Mezobromelia is more closely related to Vriesea subg. Vriesea sect. Xiphion than its traditionally recognized sister-group, Guzmania. All subgenera and sections of Tillandsia and Vriesea for which at least two taxa are sampled are paraphyletic. ndhF sequences support sister-group relationships for Tillandsia utriculata (subg. Tillandsia) and Vriesea espinosae (subg. Vriesea sect. Vriesea), as well as for Tillandsia funckiana (subg. Tillandsia) and Vriesea malzinei (subg. Vriesea sect. Xiphion). Other clades well supported by these data include Tillandsioideae sensu stricto (excludes Catopsis and Glomeropitcairnia) and a component of Vriesea subg. Vriesea sect. Xiphion. Poor resolution and weak branch support for many clades in the ndhF trees suggests that information from more highly variable sequences or the combining of data sets will be required for a clearer understanding of phylogenetic relationships in Tillandsioideae.
10.2307/2419462|Based on morphological characters a phylogenetic analysis of 97 African and Madagascan Cynanchum species is conducted. Of these, 93 are members of sect. Cynanchum and their relationships are explored using sect. Rhodostegiella, sect. Roulinia, and Pentarrhinum as outgroups. Stable clades of two to five taxa are identified, and their relationships to the outgroups and to the remaining four African Cynanchum species are explored using Tylophora as outgroup. All analyses are performed with all characters considered as unordered and under the assumption that some characters are ordered. Monophyly of the leafless succulent taxa is tested by excluding characters directly related to succulence. The Madagascan taxa as a whole are not monophyletic. The small Madagascan succulent genus Folotsia should probably be included in Cynanchum. Three African species are excluded from sect. Cynanchum and transferred to the small African genus Pentarrhinum as P. balense, P. gonoloboides, and P. somaliense. The position of C. ledermannii, of which only incomplete material is available, cannot be resolved at present.
10.2307/2419463|Three general families of species concepts have been proposed within the field of phylogenetic systematics, each with the goal of identifying the minimal taxa within phylogenetic systems as "species." Under the Phylogenetic Species Concept species are the minimal elements of hierarchic descent systems. In terms of population-level processes, phylogenetic species are the population systems that result from cladogenesis, which occurs when an ancestral population system becomes subdivided into two or more descendant systems. The descendant population systems that arise from events of this sort have ceased to exchange genes with each other, but they are not individually monophyletic; the minimal monophyletic group is a group of two or more phylogenetic species. The Monophyletic Species Concept was formulated with the goal of recognizing minimal "monophyletic" groups of individuals as species. Monophyly is a unified concept in hierarchic descent systems, wherein three key attributes are correlated in occurrence, these being common ancestry of members of a group (i.e., the group includes an ancestor and all of its descendants), exclusivity of kinship (i.e., every member of the group is more closely related to every other member than to any nonmember), and nesting of such groups (i.e., if there is any overlap in the membership of two different monophyletic groups, one of the groups is completely included in the other). These attributes are disengaged in occurrence in reticulate descent systems, and none of them by itself constitutes monophyly; proponents of different versions of the Monophyletic Species Concept have variously emphasized one or another or a combination of these attributes. Under one proposed definition the set of descendants of any mating pair in a population is considered a "monophyletic" group, and many "monophyletic" groups of individuals, of partially overlapping membership, therefore coexist within a sexual population. Under the terms of this definition a "monophyletic" population can absorb immigrants indefinitely; all offspring derived from crosses between immigrants and existing members of the "monophyletic" group are themselves members of the "monophyletic" group, and population "monophyly" therefore is regained as soon as the immigrants (which are not members of the "monophyletic" group) die. Some former proponents of the Monophyletic Species Concept have abandoned the notion of "monophyletic" species and have proposed an alternative, the Genealogical Species Concept, in which species are recognized on the basis of character descent relationships, rather than organismal descent relationships. The Genealogical Species Concept disallows incongruence between gene trees and species trees by operationally expanding the limits of species until all incongruence among gene trees is accommodated within species. Under the terms of the Genealogical Species Concept there can be any amount of discoverable phylogenetic structure within genealogical species, so individual genealogical species are not minimal elements of phylogenetic systems.
10.2307/2419817|The subtribe Sicyinae includes six genera (Microsechium, Parasicyos, Sechiopsis, Sechium, Sicyos, and Sicyosperma). In this paper, monophyly of this subtribe and phylogenetic relationships among its genera are explored by means of a cladistic analysis. Twenty nine morphological and palynological characters, and 22 taxa representative of all genera of subtribe Sicyinae were included in the analysis. The taxa used as outgroup were the genera Cyclanthera and Echinopepon, two members of the subtribe Cyclantherinae, the sister group of Sicyinae according to the current classification of the family Cucurbitaceae. Two equally most parsimonious cladograms (L = 78, CI = 0.615, RI = 0.764, HI = 0.564) were obtained. In both cladograms, the members of the subtribe Sicyinae were clustered as a monophyletic group. However, the monophyly of Microsechium, Parasicyos and Sicyos was not clearly supported, and their relationships could not be defined. In contrast, Sechiopsis and Sechium formed a monophyletic group supported by the presence of defined floral nectaries at the base of the receptacle. The results confirm the strong relationships between these two genera suggested in previous papers. However, while the monophyly of Sechiopsis was clearly supported by the presence of winged fruits, no synapomorphy was found either for the whole genus Sechium or for its two currently accepted sections. Nevertheless, the results also revealed that there is not any evidence to place the members of Sechium in three different genera (Sechium, Frantzia and Polakowskia) as has been proposed by other authors.
10.2307/2419818|Hemerocallis taeanensis is described as a new species. Populations of the species are presently known only from grasslands under pine-oak coastal forests in Taean Gun, along the middle western Korean coast. The new species is distinctive in its combination of slightly swollen roots lacking a rhizome; deciduous, small leaves (32-56 cm long); usually tubular scape, short (0.3-5.5 cm long), usually once branched (Y-type) inflorescence with 2-5-flowers, and orange-yellow, small perianth (5.0-8.6 cm long). Other dwarf groups of Hemerocallis in eastern Asia (e.g., H. nana H. forrestii, and H. plicata, all native in southwestern China) are easily distinguished from H. taeanensis by their golden-orange flowers, short perianth tube (0.5-1.5 cm long), and highly inflated roots.
10.2307/2419819|Two species of Rubus occur naturally in the Hawaiian Islands, R. hawaiensis and R. macraei. It has been previously thought that R. spectabilis, a western North American species, and R. hawaiensis share a recent common ancestor based on morphological similarity, and that R. macraei was a later derivative of R. hawaiensis. DNA sequences of the chloroplast gene ndhF were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of these species with non-Hawaiian members of subgenus Idaeobatus. These findings strongly contradict the previous hypothesis for the origin of the Hawaiian Rubus. Although R. hawaiensis is closely related to R. spectabilis, R. macraei is distantly related to these species. Sequence identity, genetic distance, and phylogenetic analysis all suggest that R. macraei is distantly related to New World and Asian species of subg. Jdaeobatus. Consequently, R. macraei and R. hawaiensis may have arisen from two separate colonizations in the Hawaiian Islands rather than one as previously assumed. The ancestry of R. macraei may trace to other Pacific Rim islands.
10.2307/2419820|Aquatic species represent fewer than two percent of all flowering plants, and only 18 aquatic genera have acquired true hydrophily (water-pollination) which is associated with an unusually high incidence of unisexual flowers. From the subset of submersed, hydrophilous angiosperms, only 13 genera have colonized marine habitats. The evolution of hydrophily, unisexuality, and marine habit in angiosperms was explored using estimates of phylogeny obtained by phylogenetic analyses of chloroplast (rbcL) gene sequence data. Despite what might appear to be difficult evolutionary transitions, hydrophiles are highly polyphyletic with independent origins in the monocotyledon subclass Alismatidae in addition to two derivations in the dicotyledon families Ceratophyllaceae and Callitrichaceae. Yet, even in alismatids, hydrophily has evolved many times. Unisexuality has also evolved repeatedly in the Alismatidae, and is ancestral to the evolution of hydrophiles and marine plants in the Hydrocharitaceae. Marine angiosperms (known only from Alismatidae) have evolved in three separate lineages. The multiple origins of hydrophilous, marine plants offer an extraordinary example of convergent evolution in angiosperms.
10.2307/2419821|The phylogeny of the orchid genus Bromheadia (26 species) has been analyzed using 27 characters. Bromheadia is a monophyletic genus with one very distinctive apomorphy, the shape of the stipe of the pollinia. Because of the distinct morphology of the genus only the genus Claderia seemed to resemble Bromheadia sufficiently to act as an outgroup. The analysis resulted in a single cladogram with a length of 78 steps. Bromheadia has traditionally been subdivided into two sections. Section Aporodes appeared to be monophyletic (unique characters are laterally flattened leaves and the presence of sterile bracts). Section Bromheadia is paraphyletic and should include the other section to be monophyletic, or alternatively, it has to be subdivided into three monophyletic groups. A historical biogeographic analysis regrettably had to unite all distinct areas in Borneo due to imprecise data. It resulted in a mainly sympatric speciation scenario for Bromheadia, with one vicariance event, and several dispersals. The method used, Brooks' Parsimony Analysis, is questioned for its seemingly artificial rooting (all-zero area) and consequently, usually sequential splitting of areas with an increasing number of present taxa and ancestral taxa. The Ancestral Area method of Bremer mainly indicated Borneo as the only area of origin of Bromheadia.
10.2307/2419822|Phylogenetic relationships within the Lyonia group of the Andromedeae, i.e., Agarista, Craibiodendron, Lyonia, and Pieris, are investigated by means of cladistic analyses of morphological (external morphology, anatomy, embryology) and molecular (matK nucleotide sequences) characters. Analysis of morphological characters used species as terminals and sections or genera as terminals in two separate matrices. Combined analyses used malK with each of these morphological matrices. Results of all analyses were completely congruent in regards to generic circumscription, but relationships among genera were unresolved in morphological analyses and only weakly supported in molecular analyses. The monophyly of the Lyonia group and each of its genera was supported. Molecular and combined analyses support the hypothesis that Agarista and Pieris are sister, but differ in the placement of Craibiodendron. Both morphological and molecular analyses support the hypothesis that the lepidote species of Lyonia, i.e., sect. Lyonia, constitute the sister group to the remaining members of this genus. Both also support the sister group relationship of Lyonia sect. Pieridopsis, an eastern Asian group, and Lyonia ligustrina, the sole representative of sect. Arsenococcus, a species of eastern North America. Finally, both molecular and morphological analyses support placement of Pieris subg. Arcterica, i.e., P. nana, as sister to Pieris subg. Pieris. Based on this study of generic relationships within the Lyonia group, the use of species as terminals is recommended for cladistic analyses of supraspecific relationships.
10.2307/2419823|Historical biogeography of the trans-Pacific Asteraceae genus Abrotanella (Senecioneae, Blennospermatinae) was analyzed with cladistic methods. The genus comprises 19 alpine species and is restricted to six areas of endemism, South America, Australia-New Guinea, Tasmania, New Zealand, Stewart Island, and the sub-Antarctic Campbell and Auckland Islands. Two area cladograms were constructed, one conforming to the sequence of Gondwanaland break-up, the other considering also the physical barrier of a glaciated Antarctica. Four fully resolved cladograms of Abrotanella were mapped on the area cladograms using the computer software COMPONENT to assess conformity between distribution patterns in Abrotanella and geological area relationships. The analysis revealed a convoluted pattern, suggesting several cases of dispersal. The distribution of the species apparently reflects migration, possibly via stepping stones along former archipelagos, and long-distance dispersals. A possible ancestral area was estimated by the use of ancestral area analysis, reversible parsimony, and Fitch optimization. All methods indicate South America as part of the area where Abrotanella originated. The distribution of at least two species are most parsimoniously explained by dispersals from South America to Stewart Island and from New Zealand to Australia and New Guinea, respectively. Removal of these two allegedly dispersed species from the component analyses reveals an underlying pattern in agreement with geology if South America is considered as the sister area to the West Pacific.
10.2307/2419824|Based on phylogenetic analysis of rbcL gene sequences from species of Vittariaceae, Vittaria and Antrophyum are, respectively, polyphyletic and paraphyletic. New circumscriptions are developed with the goal of organizing the species into genera that are strictly monophyletic. Species of Vittaria are placed in three genera, Vittaria, Haplopteris, and Radiovittaria, reflecting new hypotheses of their phylogenetic relationships. Species with leaves 4 mm wide and paraphyses bearing narrow apical cells are retained in Vittaria. Old World species with funnelform terminal cells on paraphyses and distichous phyllotaxy are placed in Haplopteris, whereas those with funnelform terminal cells on paraphyses and spiral phyllotaxy are placed in the new genus Radiovittaria. Species of Antrophyum are divided between the monophyletic genera Antrophyum and Scoliosorus. Antrophyum is restricted to paleotropical species with pluriseriate venation and globose-tetrahedral spores. Those species with pluriseriate venation (neotropical and African) and bilateral spores are assigned to Scoliosorus. The genera Ananthacorus, Anetium, Hecistopteris, Monogramma, and Polytaenium are retained and given clarified circumscriptions. A description of the Vittariaceae and a key to the genera of the family are presented; all genera are described and new combinations are made for a number of species.
10.2307/2419825|The intron of the chloroplast gene rpl2 is absent from relatively few lineages of angiosperms, and is thus potentially a useful phylogenetic character. A previous extensive survey of Leguminosae showed that the intron was missing from chloroplast genomes of one of the two species sampled from the large caesalpinioid genus Bauhinia. A survey of 78 species of this genus, representing all four subgenera and most of the currently recognized sections, shows that the intron is absent from numerous species of the genus, in a pattern that is correlated, albeit imperfectly, with taxonomic groupings. The intron is present in chloroplast genomes of two of three species sampled from the small subg. Elayuna, all but one species of subg. Phanera, and the monotypic subg. Barklya. In contrast, the intron appears to be absent from the gene in nearly all species of subg. Bauhinia. Three species in two sections of subg. Bauhinia were found to be polymorphic for the presence of the intron. Comparisons of the distribution of the intron with current taxonomic groupings and the topology of a recent morphological cladistic analysis suggest either that there may have been multiple independent losses of the intron in the genus or that a polymorphism has been retained across speciation events.
10.2307/2419826|An analysis of chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was undertaken to investigate the evolutionary divergence of Ferocactus and its possible relationship with North American columnar cacti of tribe Pachycereeae. Our chloroplast DNA study using parsimony-based phylogenetic reconstruction methods provides molecular synapomorphies to define major lineages within Ferocactus and columnar cacti of the tribe Pachycereeae. The issue of monophyly in Ferocactus remains problematic: it appears to be a paraphyletic assemblage derived from an Echinocactus-like ancestor from which three major lineages have evolved. Also, there is a lack of support for the hypothesized basal position of F. flavovirens and F. robustus, and no evidence was found to favor the phylogenetic relationship of Ferocactus with North American columnar cacti, in particular with Escontria chiotilla. For the columnar cacti, the study supports the monophyly of the tribe Pachycereeae as well as its two subtribes: Stenocereinae and Pachycereinae. In the Stenocereinae, Stenocereus dumortieri was found to be in a basal position, and forms a phylogenetically distinct lineage from Stenocereus s. str. and other columnar cacti such as Escontria, Polaskia, and Myrtillocactus. This supports the segregation of S. dumortieri from Stenocereus, and the resurrection of Isolatocereus dumortieri as a distinct genus.
10.2307/2419827|Eriastrum densifolium is a perennial sub-shrub exhibiting complex morphological variation. Five subspecies are recognized, differentiated by flower dimensions and geographic/elevational distribution. One subspecies, E. d. subsp. sanctorum, is known from a single population and is recognized as a federally endangered taxon. The subspecies are difficult to distinguish and do not adequately represent the total morphological diversity in the species. Variation in the species is examined with Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA markers in an attempt to identify genetically cohesive groups of populations. Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA marker diversity indicates that genetic variation is not partitioned geographically or elevationally in the species, but genetic distance and geographic distance are well correlated. Furthermore, population relationships suggest that the currently recognized subspecies are not natural groups. Eriastrum densifolium subsp. sanctorum possesses relatively low genetic diversity in comparison to close geographic neighbors, is not genetically divergent from other populations, and is not a member of a distinct population group. In general, geographic variation in different Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA markers is discordant, and the resulting pattern suggests a continuum of neutral genetic marker variation in Eriastrum densifolium, with no intraspecific taxa evident.
10.2307/2419828|We inferred the phylogeny of Sambucus and Adoxa (Adoxoideae, Adoxaceae) based on nucleotide sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA, preliminary morphology, and a combination of the two data sets. Our morphological analysis implies that Adoxa is nested within Sambucus, based primarily on herbaceous habit and aspects of flower morphology. However, there is strong support for the monophyly of Sambucus based on ITS sequences and in the combined analysis, implying that morphological similarities shared by Adoxa and the two Australian species of Sambucus may have evolved independently. The relatively small variation in ITS sequences within Sambucus makes the sequences easy to align, but results in some ambiguity due to a limited number of informative characters. Nevertheless, there are several well-supported clades within Sambucus. Species with paniculate inflorescences (sect. Botryosambucus) form a well-supported clade, within which the red-fruited species are monophyletic. These results support the view that paniculate inflorescences and red fruits evolved independently in Sambucus and Viburnum. In all analyses S. ebulus and its relatives (sections Ebulus and Scyphidanthe) form a clade supported by valvate corolla lobes. Based on the combined analysis the first Adoxoideae may have been characterized by flowers with an equal number of carpels and perianth parts, and more-or-less separated style branches/stigma lobes. If so, reduction in the number of carpels and fusion of styles occurred within Sambucus.
10.2307/2419829|Phylogenetic analyses of various combinations of atpB and rbcL sequence data, trnK restriction sites, and morphological characters of taxa representing the Papaveraceae s.l. (Pteridophyllaceae, Fumariaceae subfamilies Fumarioideae and Hypecoideae, Papaveraceae s. str. subfamilies Eschscholzioideae, Chelidonioideae, Papaveroideae, Platystemonoideae) are presented. Several measures of data set incongruency indicate considerable congruence between data sets. In order to correctly identify the root of the family, combined atpB and rbcL sequence data for the Papaveraceae s.l. and appropriate outgroups (Asarum, Illicium, Platanus, Euptelea, and representatives of the Ranunculaceae and Berberidaceae) were analyzed. Regardless of the outgroup used, all topologies obtained suggest that Pteridophyllum (Pteridophyllaceae) is sister group to Fumariaceae and Papaveraceae s. str. Data sets of the ingroup with Pteridophyllum used as the outgroup were analyzed separately and together, with results from the combined data sets showing increased bootstrap support. Contrary to recent claims, Papaveraceae s. str. remain monophyletic after the exclusion of Pteridophyllum and Fumariaceae. In the Papaveraceae s. str., Eschscholzioideae are sister group to Papaveroideae (including Platystemonoideae) and Chelidonioideae (including Glaucium/Dicranostigma). The evolution of floral morphology, geographical distribution, and ecology of Papaveraceae s.l. are briefly discussed.
10.2307/2419430|Previous analyses of chloroplast DNA restriction site data from Machaeranthera and related genera support many relationships that are incongruent with morphological and cytological data. To find explanations for these disagreements, sequence data from the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear rDNA were obtained from the same genera and species for comparison with chloroplast DNA evidence. Both lines of evidence supported a monophyletic "Machaeranthera group" including Machaeranthera and 12 additional genera, and both supported a monophyletic group of genera with chromosome numbers based on x = 6. Both lines of evidence placed Machaeranthera stenoloba within M. sect. Sideranthus, suggesting that M. stenoloba has undergone significant morphological divergence compared to its closest relatives. Chloroplast DNA and ITS evidence disagreed substantially on the placements of M. viscida, M. heterophylla, and M. gypsitherma. Chloroplast DNA evidence suggests that M. viscida and M. gypsitherma belong within M. sect. Blepharodon and M. heterophylla belongs outside it. However, ITS evidence suggested that M. heterophylla belongs within M. sect. Blepharodon and M. viscida and M. gypsitherma belong outside it; ITS evidence suggested that M. gypsitherma is closely related to M. riparia of M. sect. Arida. The differing placements of these three species supported by chloroplast DNA and ITS evidence suggest that these species have experienced reticulate evolution.
10.2307/2419431|The delimitation of genera of the tribe Hippomaneae in the Euphorbiaceae has never been solved satisfactorily. The species of this tribe present in the Malay Archipelago (Malesia) were recently revised, but no satisfying generic classification was available. Therefore, a partial phylogenetic analysis of the Malesian Hippomaneae was performed. The delimitation of genera after the analysis was done as conservatively as possible, with only those monophyletic genera distinguished that possessed unique apomorphies within the whole of the Hippomaneae. The genera recognized are not likely to be altered in a more elaborate analysis of the complete Hippomaneae. For this reason the use of a partial analysis for generic delimitations seems justified and presents, when carefully executed, a procedure with which the value of larger regional flora revisions can be greatly improved. The analysis resulted in eight trees, all pointing to the same generic delimitation. Before the analysis 12 groups could be distinguished, but after the analysis it was apparent that only 11 of them constituted monophyletic groups. Two new genera will have to be described, some others will have to be united, and several old delimitations, already abolished for some time, will have to be reestablished. Most remarkable are the union of Excoecaria with Glyphostylus and Sebastiania; and the position of Gymnanthes near taxa formerly attributed to Sapium.
10.2307/2419432|Numerous phenotypic (morphological, palynological, cytological, and anatomical) studies have been conducted on Myrtales, yet the detailed relationships among the families of the order remain elusive. In this paper, the rbcL sequences of 50 taxa (39 representatives of Myrtales and 11 rosid outgroups) were analyzed using parsimony and maximum likelihood to provide a phylogenetic hypothesis of intraordinal relationships in Myrtales. The congruence between the phenotypic data from an earlier study and the rbcL topology was assessed to identify the potential synapomorphies that would corroborate the clades supported by the molecular tree. The rbcL consensus tree defined two major clades in the order. The first clade comprised a Myrtaceae lineage sister to a Melastomataceae lineage and the second clade included Onagraceae, a Lythraceae lineage, and Combretaceae. Phenotypic characters suggest that the ancestor of the first clade was characterized by the acquisition of fibrous seed exotegmen, while the ancestor of the second clade had flowers with stamens inserted directly on the rim of the hypanthium. However, branch support for the basal split of Myrtales is weak, possibly as a result of rapid early radiation in the order.
10.2307/2419433|Phylogenetic relationships in Navarretia were examined using morphological data, and DNA sequence data from nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacers. Analyses of molecular and morphological datasets produced similar consensus trees. A combined analysis resulted in increased resolution and stronger bootstrap support for most clades. Results support the hypothesis that sections Mitracarpium and Navarretia are monophyletic, with somewhat weaker support for a third monophyletic group consisting of sections Aegochloa and Masonia. Evolutionary rate heterogeneity among sections is evident. An early radiation is suggested for the Aegochloa-Masonia clade, in contrast to a relatively late radiation of ephemeral pool species (including the single South American member of the genus) in section Navarretia. No such radiation of taxa is evident following three separate instances of adaptation to serpentine.
10.2307/2419434|Three distance methods including two hierarchical clustering methods [average linkage (UPGMA) and Neighbor Joining, NJ] and one non-hierarchical ordination method (Multidimensional Scaling, MDS) were used to analyze data sets including taxa of known hybrid origin and their parents. Whereas goodness of fit measures indicated reduced success of MDS and parsimony analyses with increasing numbers of hybrids, neither UPGMA nor NJ analyses were affected by number of hybrids. Compared to analyses with the same number of taxa, all of which were species, goodness of fit measures indicated that all analytic methods had more difficulty handling species than hybrids. These measures are unlikely, therefore, to provide any signal of the presence of hybrids. Results were also compared in terms of placement of hybrids relative to parents and other taxa. UPGMA (and raw distance values) reliably placed many hybrids closest to one or both parents. In contrast, NJ placed hybrids in the same manner as parsimony: usually as the basal member of a lineage including one or both parents along with other taxa. These results support the idea that NJ yields topologies that are similar to explicit phylogenetic methods. However, in the special case of hybrids, these topologies, in parallel with those from parsimony analyses, provide no indication of the presence or special evolutionary history of hybrids. If identification of hybrids is the goal, these results suggest that pairwise distances are more useful than any of the methods explored.
10.2307/2419435|Genetic variation at fifteen putative loci in eight enzyme systems (aconitase, alcohol dehydrogenase, aspartate aminotransferase, phosphoglucose isomerase, phosphoglucomutase, shikimate dehydrogenase and uridine diphosphoglucose pyrophosphorylase) was studied in nearly 500 plants from 20 taxa of the genus Actinidia by means of starch gel electrophoresis. Eighty-two putative isozyme alleles were identified by analysing polymorphism within and among species, segregation in progeny from controlled crosses of Actinidia chinensis genotypes, and differences in banding patterns between shoot tip and pollen extracts. Cytosolic phosphoglucose isomerase was found to be duplicated in at least one diploid species, Actinidia chinensis. An agglomerative cluster analysis conducted on a genetic dissimilarity matrix did not correspond well with current taxonomic subdivisions of the genus and indicated that relationships between some Actinidia taxa should be reconsidered. For the enzyme systems studied, we identified 34 alleles in Actinidia deliciosa var. chlorocarpa, 39 alleles in Actinidia deliciosa var. deliciosa and 35 alleles in Actinidia chinensis. Actinidia deliciosa, the kiwifruit, (2n = 6x) and Actinidia chinensis (2n = 2x) share 34 of 40 alleles, and are consequently thought to be by far the most closely related species. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that Actinidia deliciosa was derived by polyploidization solely from Actinidia chinensis without any other Actinidia species being involved.
10.2307/2419436|Variation of approximately 20 kb of non-coding regions of the chloroplast genome of 29 species of Allium and 7 species of related genera have been cladistically analyzed. Both restriction site mutations and length mutations have been included in these analyses. The cladograms obtained with both types of mutation are highly similar topologically and display similar levels of homoplasy. No indication of significant between-data-set incongruence was found. The results of Wagner, Dollo and weighted parsimony indicate that recognition of the monotypic Nectaroscordum siculum renders Allium paraphyletic. The two large subgenera Rhizirideum and Bromatorrhiza are probably not monophyletic. Two strongly supported clades, both of which comprise species of different subgenera, are not characterized by morphological synapomorphies when analyzed a posteriori. Furthermore, the position of Allium tuberosum (subg. Rhizirideum) and A. fimbriatum (subg. Amerallium) changes considerably with different types of analysis, which suggests that inclusion of these and affiliated taxa may strongly influence the relationships found among chloroplast types in the genus. The highly artificial nature of the subgenera (subg. Bromatorrhiza is also indicated to be para- or polyphyletic) is not unexpected given the taxonomic complexity of Allium. As a consequence, however, many more taxa have to be included in an analysis of the phylogenetic relationships of chloroplast DNA's in the genus. The trnK, trnC - trnD, psbA - trnS, and rbcL - ORF106 regions are most suited for further use because these regions are easily amplified and exhibit a considerable level of sequence variation with a restricted degree of length variation.
10.2307/2419437|The neotropical members of Gesneriaceae are characterized by numerous characters that appear to be adaptations to life in the wet tropics. Among these are epiphytism, anisophylly, hummingbird-pollination, and bird-dispersal of seeds. Many of these characters have diversified to a broad extent in the single tribe Episcieae. This analysis investigates the phylogenetic relationships among genera of Episcieae and also examines the evolutionary origin of several characters found within this tribe such as fruit characters, epiphytism, chromosome numbers, and tubers. All genera of the tribe were included in the analysis except the Guyana endemic Rhoogeton and the Central American Oerstedina. Larger genera such as Columnea and Episcia were represented by several species with attempts to include members of the different sections of these genera. Columnea appears to be a monophyletic group but its relationship to Drymonia and Alloplectus is not resolved. The latter genera may need to be included in Columnea to make it strictly monophyletic. Neomortonia is polyphyletic with one species in the Columnea clade and another with Episcia. The anomalous position of some Paradrymonia indicate a more thorough analysis of this genus is necessary to resolve phylogenetic relationships.
10.2307/2419570|Nineteen taxa representing all six sections and 17 of the 22 species of Lopezia have been examined for restriction site mutations of chloroplast DNA using homologous probes from Lopezia miniata subsp. miniata. Restriction sites were analyzed using maximum parsimony, weighted parsimony, maximum likelihood, and neighbor-joining. The results of these analyses support the monophyly of sect. Riesenbachia. Sections Jehlia and Lopezia may, however, be paraphyletic depending on the placement of L. racemosa subsp. racemosa. Section Nannolopezia is clearly derived from within sect. Lopezia and should be reduced to synonymy. A single reduced consensus cladogram is presented that fails to resolve the placement of sect. Riesenbachia and the placement of L. racemosa subsp. racemosa, I., miniata subsp. miniata, and L. concinna within sect. Lopezia. The chloroplast DNA results indicate that "snapping" stamens, a means of mechanically depositing pollen on visiting pollinators, have evolved only once in the genus. Hummingbird pollination, which is plesiomorphic in the genus, may have been secondarily regained in sect. Jehlia after its loss to fly pollination.
10.2307/2419571|The monophyly and phylogenetic relationships of Plumbaginaceae (sensu Cronquist) were evaluated using parsimony analysis of nucleotide sequences of the plastid gene rbcL. Analysis of 42 taxa, including 18 species of Plumbaginaceae, placed this family as a strongly supported monophyletic group sister to Polygonaceae and in the same clade as Simmondsiaceae, Nepenthaceae, Droseraceae and Caryophyllales. Within Plumbaginaceae, two well supported groups are present, corresponding to subfamilies Plumbaginoideae and Staticoideae. These groups have been regarded as independent families by some authors, and anatomical, morphological and biochemical differences are well defined. The taxonomic status of each group is discussed.
10.2307/2419572|We tested the power of quantitative morphology to distinguish Amelanchier taxa at a Maine site where most individuals come from polyploid agamospermous species and taxonomic boundaries are potentially obscured by hybridization. We sampled 92 individuals from seven species and one putative hybrid, 13 from a microspecies we call A. "rubra," and 15 that fit no published description (unknowns). We performed principal coordinates analysis on 20 quantitative and qualitative characters, six recognized taxa, and the unknowns. Three groups are suggested: 1) A. intermedia, A. laevis, A. "rubra," four A. stolonifera, and four unknowns; 2) A. nantucketensis and three A. stolonifera, and 3) A. canadensis and 11 unknowns. In the scatterplot of the first two principal coordinates axes, the only two species that overlap are A. intermedia and A. luevis. Discriminant function analyses indicate that A. "rubra" could be a hybrid of A. laevis and either A. nantucketensis or A. stolonifera and do not support the hypothesis that A. intermedia is A. canadensis  laevis. The unknowns group with A. canadensis, A. laevis, or A. "rubra" and mostly do not appear to be F<sub>1</sub>s. Agamospermy and/or insufficient time for hybrids to establish after disturbance may explain the absence of an extensive hybrid swarm.
10.2307/2419573|In this study we estimate the phylogenetic position of the South African genus Prionium within the order Juncales. Prionium is traditionally included within the family Juncaceae. However, trees based on rbcL sequence data have indicated that Juncaceae is paraphyletic because Prionium is not included within Juncaceae. Morphological and rbcL sequence data are analyzed separately and then in a combined data set to assess the phylogenetic position of Prionium. Each of these analyses supports a basal position of Prionium within Juncales. The monophyly of Juncaceae sensu lato is not corroborated by the morphological data set, the rbcL data set, or the combined data set, while Cyperaceae is monophyletic. Based on these results, Juncaceae s.l. can no longer be recognized without raising Prionium to family level. Juncales may consist of four families, the "Prioniaceae," Thurniaceae, Juncaceae (excluding Prionium), and Cyperaceae. The basal position of Prionium within Juncales is supported by several unique features. Therefore, it is suggested that a new family should be erected for Prionium and be given the name Prioniaceae.
10.2307/2419574|The phylogenetic relationships of 16 of the 18 species of the neotropical genus Cobaea (Polemoniaceae) were investigated using sequences of the ITS1 and ITS2 regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA. Cantua and Bonplandia were used as outgroups. Six most-parsimonious trees (length = 558 steps, CI excluding uninformative characters = 0.688, RI = 0.875) were produced, and support for most branches, based on boot-strap and decay analyses, was quite strong. Insertion/deletion events provide further support for some clades. There are two unresolved nodes in the strict consensus tree, and one of the unresolved nodes is among samples of one species. The ITS phylogeny suggests that two of the three sections of Cobaea are not monophyletic; the third is monotypic. The three characters used to distinguish the sections, corolla lobe shape, inflorescence position, and stamen length, were of questionable utility in sectional circumscription.
10.2307/2419575|A cladistic analysis of Iris included 18 ingroup taxa from series Californicae and two outgroup taxa from series Sibiricae. The analysis resulted in three most parsimonious trees of 78 steps, one of which had the topology of the strict consensus tree. Twenty-nine morphological, binary and multistate characters allowed resolution of 14 monophyletic clades. The long floral tube and short floral tube groups in series Californicae that have been informally proposed by previous workers were found to be polyphyletic as presently circumscribed. Iris tenax is polyphyletic and I. hartwegii may be paraphyletic as currently delineated. The inclusion of taxa of proposed hybrid origin (I. hartwegii subsp. pinetorum, I. h. subsp. columbiana and I. thompsonii) did not increase the homoplasy present on the morphology based tree nor did it effect the analysis outcome. The inclusion of a taxon proposed to be involved in introgressive hybridization (I. purdyi) increased the amount of homoplasy present but did not alter tree topology.
10.2307/2419576|E. J. Palmer described a "very distinct looking Oak" from the bluffs of Magazine Mountain, Arkansas and named it Quercus shumardii var. acerifolia in reference to its sugar maple-like leaf shape. Our focus has been to determine the appropriate taxonomic level for recognition of this plant. Using cluster analyses and multiple discriminant function analyses of vegetative and reproductive characters we have compared Quercus shumardii, Q. buckleyi, Q. texana, and the maple-leaf oak. Cluster analyses segregated maple-leaf oak from Q. shumardii and the other two recognized taxa. Multiple discriminant function analyses correctly classified maple-leaf oak specimens 95% of the time when acorn and leaf data were considered separately and 100% of the time when acorn and leaf data were considered together. Based upon these numerical analyses and the evaluation of descriptive characters presented herein, Q. acerifolia is shown to be as distinct from the other three taxa as they are from each other. The results presented support the recognition of the maple-leaf oak at the species level.
10.2307/2419583|Chloroplast DNA restriction-site variation was surveyed for all 21 species, five non-autonymic subspecies, and six putative F<sub>1</sub> hybrids of tetraploid giant lobelias from eastern Africa (Lobeliaceae, Lobelia subgenus Tupa section Rhynchopetalum; 95 accessions), the Brazilian L. organensis, and all four hexaploid Chilean species of section Tupa. The survey used 14 enzymes and revealed 275 synapomorphic mutations and 85 autapomorphic mutations. Morphological and biogeographical interpretation of the molecular phylogeny suggests that the giant lobelias arrived in eastern Africa on the ancient upland features of Tanzania, possibly the Uluguru Mts., as a colonist with a branched inflorescence from the Asia/Pacific region. One early lineage dispersed to southern Tanzania where it founded a clade of 14 extant species, all with unbranched inflorescences, that shows strong geographic patterns of phylogenetic relationship centered in the Western Rift, Eastern Rift, and Ethiopian mountains. Within the Branched Inflorescence clade, one lineage diversified to form five extant species restricted to the Eastern Arc mountains in Tanzania, and its sister-lineage gave rise to the morphologically and geographically heterogeneous group that includes L. organensis. Phylogenetic relationships show a pattern of movement from ancient upland features to Miocene, Pliocene, Pleistocene, and Recent volcanoes, with early diversification primarily geographic in nature, and recent speciation primarily altitudinal and predominantly upward. Simple interpretation of our evidence indicates putative instances of a relictual species, F<sub>1</sub> hybrids, species of ancient hybrid origin, and extant ancestor-descendant (or progenitor-derivative) species pairs.
10.2307/2419584|Like most other species of Asclepias, A. texana and A. perennis are entirely self-incompatible. They therefore differ from A. incarnata and A. curassavica, which are also members of the supposedly primitive series Incarnatae, but which are self-compatible. Interspecific crosses of A. texana and A. perennis showed that the two taxa are freely and reciprocally interfertile, with fruit-set levels (26.5%) as high as for intraspecific cross-pollinations. Crosses that used A. texana as the female parent had significantly fewer seeds per fruit (19.8) than did those in which A. perennis served as the female parent (42.8), suggesting some form of unilateral interspecific incongruity. In contrast, interspecific crosses between A. perennis and A. curassavica (also Incarnatae) were totally unsuccessful, as were interspecific crosses of A. incarnata with both A. perennis and A. texana. F<sub>1</sub> interspecific hybrids of A. perennis x A. texana were male-sterile. The occurrence of both self-incompatible (A. perennis, A. texana, and A. verticillata) and self-compatible (A. curassavica and A. incarnata) species in Woodson's series Incarnatae may reflect problems in the taxonomic delimitation of subgroups within Asclepias. We believe, however, that self-compatibility has probably arisen independently numerous times within the genus.
10.2307/2419585|Previous studies of the small angiosperm family Datiscaceae have drawn contradictory conclusions regarding its monophyly. Clarification of the relationships among the family components is critical to the interpretation of breeding system evolution within this family. Datisca glomerata is the only androdioecious member of the otherwise dioecious family and an initial phylogenetic study suggested that this rare breeding system was derived from dioecy in this family. A subsequent, broader scope phylogenetic analysis of Datiscaceae and related families has since suggested that Datiscaceae are not monophyletic, calling into question earlier conclusions regarding the evolution of androdioecy in Datiscaceae. In the present study, the phylogenetic relationships of Datiscaceae and the sequence of breeding system evolution are reexamined. DNA sequences from three sources including nuclear 18S ribosomal DNA, the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA, and the chloroplast-encoded rbcL gene were analyzed phylogenetically using parsimony. Results from analysis of rbcL, 18S, and a combined data set all agree that Datiscaceae do not form a monophyletic assemblage. Datisca appears as a sister group to Begoniaceae in all analyses, but the position of sister taxa Octomeles and Tetrameles relative to Datisca and other members of the Cucurbitales is unresolved. The two species of Datisca form separate monophyletic lineages according to ITS analysis, providing no evidence for a progenitor-derivative relationship for the two species. Phylogenetic trees from analyses of rbcL and 18S disagree as to whether dioecy or monoecy is ancestral to Datisca, and thus provide no evidence as to which sexual system gave rise to androdioecy in D. glomerata, however, there is no evidence for the derivation of androdioecy from hermaphroditism.
10.2307/2419586|Croton scutatus is newly described and illustrated. It is currently known from three widely separated areas in the western portion of the Guayana Shield. It shows an interesting transition in trichome types on different parts of the plant, and it possesses a suite of characters that make its sectional placement in the genus problematical. Its closest relative may be Croton guaiquinimae from higher elevations on the Guayana Shield.
10.2307/2419587|The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA was sequenced from 73 samples representing 46 of the 49 species of Helianthus and both species of Phoebanthus. Overall there was only a small amount of sequence divergence, less than 4% within Helianthus and less than 5.5% between Phoebanthus and Helianthus. Phylogenetic analysis supported a close relationship between Phoebanthus and Helianthus as sister groups within subtribe Helianthinae. Within Helianthus, four species of the southeastern U.S. were separated successively as basally diverging clades: H. heterophyllus, H. carnosus, H. porteri, and H. agrestis. There was little differentiation among the remaining species. The annual species of sect. Helianthus were placed in a weakly supported clade, within which three further clades were also weakly supported: H. annuus/H. argophyllus/H. bolunileri; H. debilis/H. praecox; H. petiolaris/H. neglectus/H. descrticola/H. niveus subsp. niveus and subsp. canescens. The perennial species did not form a monophyletic clade. Within the perennials, there were a few clades of weak to moderate support: H. angustifolius/H. floridanus/H. simulans; H. giganteus/H. grosseserratus/H. maximiliani/H. nuttallii/H. divaricatus; H. arizonensis/H. ciliaris/H. laciniatus; and H. atrorubens/H. mollis/H. occidentalis/H. silphioides. The phylogenetic placement of species with narrow geographic distributions in the extreme southeastern part of North America as the sister group (Phoebanthus) and as basally diverging branches of Helianthus in the ITS trees suggests that the ancestor to the genus may have been confined to this area prior to divergence and dispersal leading to the extant array of species.
10.2307/2419588|A multivariate morphometric study of the genus Sorbus, from 127 herbarium specimens in Europe and North Africa and nine populations in Spain, shows that twelve species may be easily recognized in the area: S. torminalis, S. latifolia, S. semiincisa, S. aria, S. intermedia, S. minima, S. sudetica, S. chamacmespilus, S. aucuparia, S. hybrida, S. meinichii and S. domestica. Twenty-seven described taxa were very difficult to discriminate using the standard morphological and statistical methods. Some useful characters are: petiole length, leaf-nerve angle, leaf-tooth length, bud and seed shape, fruit structure, presence of tanniferous-cell groups, large sclereids and starch grains in the fruit. The fruit of S. torminalis has a multi-layered cuticle, not previously reported in Sorbus. We detected tetraploidy in S. torminalis and two other sexuals: S. aria and S. chamaemespilus. The geography and the population structure of taxa in S and C. Europe does not permit their reproductive isolation; hence a large number of intermediate forms occur. Considering the difficulty in assessing the reproductive isolation of microspecies and in differentiating them morphologically, the use of a taxonomic species concept is proposed in Sorbus. Finally, a key to the species is provided.
10.2307/2419589|Castilleja crista-galli is confined to northwest Wyoming, south-central Montana, and central Idaho and displays morphological attributes typical of the ornithophilous Indian-paintbrushes. We examined its putative allopolyploid origin with molecular, morphological, and cytological analyses. In analyses of restriction site mutations of the chloroplast genome, we found that none of the seventeen species of Castilleja examined was characterized by a unique haplotype or set of haplotypes. Rather, geographically isolated species are polymorphic for similar arrays of haplotypes. Moreover, we found no nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat types that characterized species; polymorphisms in nuclear ribosomal DNA repeats were distributed both among individuals and among repeat units of single individuals. Morphometric analyses revealed morphological discontinuities among species, including C. crista-galli, but cladistic analyses of morphological characters failed to reveal synapomorphies for most taxa. Thus, morphological and molecular data were uninformative regarding the hybrid origin of C. crista-galli. Results of cytological analyses do not support allopolyploid origin. We detected diploid and tetraploid populations of C. crista-galli, previously known as just an octoploid. We retain the specific status of C. crista-galli under a morphological species concept. We also suggest that the species of Castilleja included in this study may have radiated recently and rapidly, maintaining ancestral polymorphism.
10.2307/2419590|A new species, Otolejeunea philippinensis (subg. Phoxolejeunea: Hepaticae, Lejeuneaceae) from the Philippines, is described and illustrated. It differs from O. streimannii Grolle, the only species of subgenus Phoxolejeunea previously known, primarily in the rounded horns of the perianth and the large underleaves. A key is provided for all known species of Otolejeunea.
10.2307/2419591|Interrelationships within the Leucas group have been investigated using cladistic analysis of gross morphological, anatomical and cytological data. Fifty species were sampled from Acrotome, Ballota, Isoleucas, Leonotis, Leucus, Moluccella and Otostegia. Different analyses were made, with and without continuous characters, and with and without characters with overlapping states. The result suggests that continuous characters and characters with overlapping states may contain a considerable amount phylogenetic information. The result also reveals that Leucas is paraphyletic with Acrotome and Leonotis as subgroups, but no changes in the genus delimitations have been proposed. The endemic Leucas species from Asia (excluding Arabia) and Socotra form monophyletic groups. The African Leucas milanjiana is excluded from the Asian section Plagiostoma Benth. Leucas is suggested to have originated in northeast tropical Africa, and to have migrated from this area over Arabia to the Indian subcontinent.
10.2307/2419504|An analysis of evolutionary relationships within the angiosperm family Hydrophyllaceae was completed. A parsimony search using DNA sequence data from the chloroplast gene ndhF from 65 accessions yielded 3,227 most parsimonious trees distributed over six tree islands. Hydrophyllaceae, excluding Hydrolea and Codon, are nested within a paraphyletic Boraginaceae sensu lato. These "core" Hydrophyllaceae are restricted to the New World and have the derived feature of capsular fruits with parietal placentation and many small seeds. Two large clades can be recognized-a clade of annual and perennial herbs including Phacelia, tribe Hydrophylleae, and related genera, and a clade containing Nama and the woody, shrubby genera Eriodictyon, Turricula, and Wigandia. The second clade corresponds to the tribe Nameae sensu Gray, but the first has not been formally recognized. Evolutionary relationships based on ndhF are compared to current classification systems and inferences about evolution based on published morphological and anatomical studies.
10.2307/2419505|A variety of taxa at different ranks have been recognized within the Acalypha gracilens/monococca complex (Euphorbiaceae). In addition to emphasizing different characters in their treatments, taxonomists working on the group have interpreted the marked geographic variation in the group as evidence of intermediacy among the taxa they recognize. Univariate and multivariate statistical analyses of morphological data drawn from herbarium specimens and population samples demonstrate that many of the characters used to distinguish infraspecific taxa within A. gracilens vary clinally throughout much of the range of the species rather than demarcating recognizable units. Acalypha monococca shows very little regional variation and is quite distinct from A. gracilens. Many features of A. gracilens parapatric to A. monococca are extreme relative to features of both A. monococca and A. gracilens allopatric to A. monococca. These results suggest that the variation in A. gracilens is not due to hybridization with A. monococca, though the results also demonstrate the limitations of morphological data in distinguishing hybridization from primary divergence. Application of phylogenetic species concepts supports specific rank for both taxa.
10.2307/2419506|Cladistic analyses of Stylidiaceae (Asterales), using Donatiaceae as outgroup and with both morphological and molecular characters, produced two equally parsimonious cladograms. The analyses used morphological characters for 26 species and molecular characters from the chloroplast DNA genes rbcL and ndhF for 12 species. The cladograms indicate that Levenhookia and Stylidium are sister groups and that Oreostylidium is nested within Stylidium. The latter result is remarkable because Stylidium has several significant flower specialisations that Oreostylidium lacks and because Oreostylidium is endemic to New Zealand, where Stylidium is missing. The simple flowers of Oreostylidium may have evolved by reduction and paedomorphosis of the zygomorphic and sensitive flowers of a Stylidium-like ancestor, a change caused by adaptation to a new environment lacking a suitable pollinator. In connection with a switch to unspecialised pollinators or self-fertilisation, the flowers of Oreostylidium apparently became fertile at a morphologically immature or reduced stage.
10.2307/2419507|The cosmopolitan Pteridium aquilinum is widespread throughout eastern North America, where it is represented largely by var. latiusculum and var. pseudocaudatum. Disagreements prevail on the delimitation and taxonomic treatments of the two varieties. Twelve quantitative and qualitative morphological characters were examined in 262 specimens using multivariate and univariate analyses to assess the taxonomic relationship between these two varieties. Numerical analysis based on all 12 qualitative and quantitative characters did not result in recognizable grouping of OTUs on either a taxonomic, population, or geographic basis. When the qualitative characters were used alone or in conjunction with some of the quantitative traits, the OTUs grouped into two distinct clusters corresponding to the two recognized varieties. The morphological study supports a taxonomic treatment at the varietal level. This study complements an isozyme investigation of these two bracken taxa.
10.2307/2419508|The cosmopolitan species Pteridium aquilinum is widespread throughout eastern North America, where it is represented largely by two varieties, var. latiusculum and var. pseudocaudatum. The taxonomy of Pteridium is contentious and the taxonomic status of these two varieties is uncertain. Isozyme data were obtained (14 loci coding 8 enzymes) from eleven populations to assess the genetic relationships of these two varieties. High genetic identities (mean I = 0.98) were observed for all pairs of populations studied. Strong patterns of clinal geographic variation were observed at five enzyme loci, associated with decreasing levels of genetic variation in the more southern populations. This pattern showed some independence relative to varietal status, as UPGMA clustering did not separate these populations into clusters corresponding to vars. latiusculum and pseudocaudatum. Evidence of unrestricted gene flow between the two varieties was found at Greensboro, NC, where the two distinct morphotypes co-occurred. Thus, the isozyme evidence strongly indicates that these two taxa are conspecific, and that their treatment at varietal rank should be maintained.
10.2307/2419509|Phylogenetic relationships of the genera in the subfamily Arundinoideae are examined using sequence data from a variable insert in the plastid rpoC2 gene. Results suggest that the Arundinoideae comprise several lineages as well as misplaced taxa. Two of the larger lineages correspond to the tribes Arundineae and Danthonieae. The Arundineae as delimited here are not clearly defined, and this analysis does not provide much insight into the composition of the lineage. In contrast the Danthonieae are clearly defined by molecular, as well as morphological, data. The results indicate that several groups may be recognised within the Danthonieae: a group centred on the African genus Pentaschistis, a widespread group including Rytidosperma, Tribolium, and several other austral genera, as well as a group including Danthonia s.s. and two small Australian genera. In addition, there are some indications that both Merxmuellera and Cortaderia may not be monophyletic.
10.2307/2419510|Intraspecific morphological variation was investigated in the perennial sub-shrub Eriastrum densifolium to assess whether the five currently recognized subspecies adequately reflect the pattern and range of variation expressed in the species, and to determine if the endangered E. densifolium subsp. sanctorum is morphologically distinct from other populations. Vegetative and floral variation were analyzed at the species and population level, employing herbarium specimens, field collections, and common garden plants. The results of the analyses indicate that morphological variation within the species is largely continuous. The only exception is a group of plants distinguished from the remainder of the species by a single character, corolla tube length. This group of individuals matches the circumscription of E. densifolium subsp. sanctorum. The other four recognized subspecies fail to form well defined morphological groups in all analyses. Patterns of morphological variation are not correlated with either genetic variation or geography. The overall pattern supports the recognition of only two subspecies in E. densifolium. One group represents a single morphologically divergent population (E. densifolium subsp. sanctorum), and the other group the remainder of the species, containing multiple, less divergent populations.
10.2307/2419511|The delimitation of Caryopteris (Lamiaceae) exemplifies the conflict between the representation of monophyletic groups and pragmatic concerns in Linnaean classification. Cladistic analyses of nonmolecular (mainly morphological) data and chloroplast DNA (rbcL and ndhF) sequences were performed to test the monophyly of the eastern Asian genus Caryopteris. The results corroborate earlier studies indicating that Caryopteris is either para-or polyphyletic. If paraphyletic, other genera whose sister groups lie within the currently accepted limits of Caryopteris include Trichostema, Rubiteucris, and probably Ajuga, Schnabelia, and Amethystea. Because phylogenetic resolution is too poor to refer all of the species of Caryopteris to well supported clades, a choice must be made between recognizing a paraphyletic genus or several monotypic ones, three of which would comprise morphologically quite similar species. A compromise solution is adopted in which three new genera are described (Pseudocaryopteris, Discretitheca, and Tripora), the latter two monotypic, and four species of Caryopteris are transferred to other genera, one of which may not be monophyletic. Nine new combinations are provided: Discretitheca nepalensis, Pseudocaryopteris bicolor, Pseudocaryopteris foetida, Pseudocaryopteris paniculata, Rubitcucris siceanea, Schnabelia aureoglandulosa, Schnabelia nepetifolia, Schnabelia terniflora, and Tripora divaricata. For comparative purposes, an alternative classification is provided that employs de Queiroz and Gauthier's phylogenetic system of nomenclature. Using this system, no new names are required, and all supraspecific taxa are both monophyletic and easily recognizable.
10.2307/2419371|Phylogenetic trees based on rbcL sequences support the current classification that the Matoniaceae and its genera Matonia and Phanerosorus each are treated as monophyletic groups. Phanerosorus is lithophytic and has pendulous, pinnate leaves, while Matonia prefers exposed mountain tops and has pedate leaves. A morphological examination of wild juvenile plants of Matonia pectinata and M. foxworthyi shows considerable leaf heteroblasty from simple to once or twice forked and to tripartite with pectinate pinnae. Although the leaves of mature plants differ greatly between Matonia and Phanerosorus, the juvenile leaves of M. pectinata are similar to the juvenile leaves, and to a lesser extent the old leaves, of Phanerosorus major. These data along with available fossil and morphological evidence may suggest that the pinnate leaves of Phanerosorus are derived, perhaps via paedomorphosis, from pedate leaves like those of fossil Matoniaceae and extant Matonia.
10.2307/2419372|Euphronia has been variously allied with the Trigoniaceae and Vochysiaceae, but morphological data have been unable to indicate an unequivocal position for this distinctive genus. Molecular sequence data place Euphronia as sister to the Chrysobalanaceae, in a clade that also includes Dichapetalaceae and Trigoniaceae. A review of morphological, anatomical, and phytochemical data failed to turn up any apparent synapomorphies relating Euphronia to the other taxa in the clade. Nonetheless, these data do not clearly indicate any alternative taxonomic position, thus the placement indicated by the molecular data should be accepted at this time. Another genus of uncertain affinities, Balanops, is also a member of this clade, falling as sister to the rest of the taxa. We suggest that both Euphronia and Balanops be recognized as monotypic families.
10.2307/2419373|The American endemic genus Aniseia contains three species, A. argentina, A. cernua, and A. martinicensis. Only the last has been introduced and naturalized in the Old World tropics. Various investigators have misunderstood the genus and incorrectly included 27 other taxa in Aniseia. Those other taxa have been moved to their proper dispositions in Calystegia, Convolvulus, Hewittia, Ipomoea, Iseia, Jacquemontia, Merremia, and Xenostegia. This paper includes keys, descriptions, and known distributions of the three species of Aniseia. Also included are the binomials, types, and current placement of all species previously included within Aniseia, as well as a key to genera in the tribe Convolvuleae.
10.2307/2419374|We present molecular evidence for later-generation hybridization between two western North American ferns, Polystichum munitum and P. imbricans. Several plants in two mixed-species populations were found to have the chloroplastic haplotype of one of the species and the single-locus allozymic genotype of the other. Such individuals can only have arisen via matings between F<sub>1</sub> hybrids or by later-generation hybridization. The pattern of morphological variation at the two sites is consistent with the molecular data, and together the two data sets suggest that the populations are hybrid swarms. Our data confirm the only known case involving temperate-zone pteridophytes where hybridization has gone beyond the F<sub>1</sub> generation at the diploid level.
10.2307/2419375|Allozyme diversity and genetic divergence were estimated for eight populations within Sarracenia purpurea. Two populations of each infraspecific taxon (i.e., subsp. purpurea, and subsp. venosa vars. burkii, montana and venosa) were analyzed. In addition, genetic diversity was estimated in an ex situ collection of var. montana propagated for restoration purposes. Twenty-three allozyme loci were resolved using 14 enzyme systems. Striking genetic differences were found among infraspecific taxa; mean genetic identity among these taxa was 0.80 (SD = 0.07), whereas mean genetic identity between populations within taxa was 0.97 (SD = 0.04). Populations within each subsp. venosa variety clustered on a UPGMA phenogram, as did subsp. purpurea populations. The percentage of total genetic variation found among populations was higher than reported, on average, for outcrossing, insect-pollinated species (G<sub>st</sub> = 0.55), indicating significant genetic divergence among populations, most (90%) of which was attributable to differences among infraspecific taxa. Overall genetic diversity was moderate within the S. purpurea complex (P<sub>s</sub> = 60.9%, AP<sub>s</sub> = 2.89 and H<sub>es</sub> = 0.189). Compared with outcrossing animal-pollinated perennials, however, mean within-population genetic diversity was low (P<sub>p</sub> = 23.4%, AP<sub>p</sub> = 2.14, and H<sub>ep</sub> = 0.055). These genetic results, coupled with morphological differences described within this widespread species, indicate that the infraspecific taxa are genetically distinct entities. The high level of allozyme divergence among the named taxa suggests that taxonomic revision of the complex may be warranted and that the conservation status of the varieties should be evaluated. Finally, because genetic diversity was comparatively low within the ex situ collection of var. montana, the collection should be supplemented with propagules from other var. montana populations in the vicinity of the restoration site.
10.2307/2419376|A phylogenetic study of the genus Viola used internal transcribed spacer (ITS) DNA sequences for 44 taxa representing many infrageneric groups in Viola plus outgroups Hybanthus concolor and Noisettia orchidiflora. Parsimony and maximum likelihood approaches place Latin American sections basal in Viola, supporting an Andean origin for the genus. Groups of sect. Chamaemelanium, mostly stemmed and yellow-flowered with x = 6 chromosomes, intermingle with groups of sect. Nomimium that are stemless and white- or blue-flowered with x = 12 or an aneuploid number. Neither section is monophyletic, and the assemblage forms a weak clade or grade, depending on the analysis. The remaining sect. Nomimium groups with primarily blue flowers and x = 10 and aneuploid or polyploid numbers form a clade including Hawaiian sect. Nosphinium, with pansies of sect. Melanium (typically stemmed with multicolored flowers and x = 5 to 17) at the base. Phylogenetic relationships from ITS data herald the need for drastic remodeling of Viola. Proposed changes include splitting sect. Chamaemelanium and some of sect. Nomimium into several sections, transferting the remainder of Nomimium to the segregate sect. Viola, and merging Hawaiian sect. Nosphinium with the amphi-Beringian V. langsdorffii complex under the Langsdorffianae in sect. Viola.
10.2307/2419377|Two new species of Plagiochila endemic to China are described and illustrated: Plagiochila defolians sp. nov. and Plagiochila grossa sp. nov. In addition, Plagiochila debilis, a little known species newly found in China is described and illustrated. The latter has a Sino-Himalayan distribution from Yunnan to East Nepal. Relationships to other species are discussed. A key to species of sect. Caducilobae in East Asia is provided.
10.2307/2419378|Bouteloua aristidoides and B. eriopoda (Gramineae: Chloridoideae) have long been resident in separate subgenera or genera, Bouteloua s. str. and Chondrosium, respectively, because they differ in number of branches per inflorescence, branch length, number of spikelets per branch, and branches deciduous versus persistent. However, the species are similar in spikelet orientation and form, including lodicules and the abaxial epidermis of the fertile lemma, and in transverse structure of the leaf blade. These two species, together with B. annua and B. eriostachya (first described as a variety of B. eriopoda), uniquely share a suite of morphological and leaf blade anatomical characteristics. A close relationship among these four species is hypothesized. In light of these findings, recognition of Chondrosium either as a subgenus or genus is discouraged. Other findings include much variation in anther and stigma size and confirmation of cleistogamy in B. aristidoides, cleistogamy and chasmogamy in B. annua, chasmogamy in B. eriopoda and B. eriostachya, inflorescence branch abscission in B. eriostachya, spikelet disarticulation preceding branch abscission in B. annua and some B. aristidoides, a thin outer wall of lemma short cells, and a predicted NAD-ME pathway of C<sub>4</sub> photosynthesis from leaf blade structure. Divergence (speciation) of B. aristidoides may have been associated with a shift to annuality and autogamy to avoid drought, which predisposed the species for success in disturbed habitats. These characteristics plus epizoochory likely account for its wide, amphitropical distribution.
10.2307/2419379|Simarouba amara is frequently confused with two other continental species of the neotropical genus, S. glauca and S. versicolor. Cluster and Principal Component Analyses were applied to verify the distribution and variation of the main diagnostic characters proposed in early revisions: flower and anther size, stamen appendage indument, leaflet surface, and venation features. Simarouba glauca and S. versicolor were found to be morphologically closer to each other than to S. amara. Overlapping of characteristics in boundary populations of the three species was found. Geographical and morphological data other than leaf features also proved useful for species identification.
10.2307/2419383|Psychotria is one of the largest genera of angiosperms as currently delimited, with approximately 1650 species estimated worldwide. A molecular phylogenetic study was undertaken using ITS and rbcL sequence data to address the generic circumscription of Psychotria and its allies in the tribe Psychotrieae and to compare traditional subgeneric groupings with relationships inferred from phylogenetic analysis. ITS sequences from 85 taxa were sampled representing the genus Psychotria and members of the tribe Psychotrieae, with Gaertnera and Mitchella used as outgroups. Sequences from the rbcL gene were analyzed for a subset of these taxa, plus genera in the closely related tribes Coussareae, Morindeae, Ophiorrhizeae, and others. Our results suggest that Psychotria is broadly paraphyletic and defined by lack of characters used to define other genera in the tribe. Two groups formerly assigned to Psychotria (sect. Notopleura and subg. Heteropsychotria plus Palicourea) are more closely related to other genera in the Psychotrieae than they are to other species of Psychotria. In addition, subg. Psychotria includes species formerly assigned to the Malesian epiphytic myrmecophytes of subtribe Hydnophytinae. We propose that the genus Psychotria be restricted to include subg. Psychotria, subg. Tetramerae, and members of the subtribe Hydnophytinae.
10.2307/2419384|The water lilies (Nymphaeaceae) have been investigated systematically for decades because they are believed to represent an early group of angiosperms with relatively unspecialized floral organization. Although this group is small taxonomically, the relationships among genera of water lilies have eluded clarification and no single classification has become widely accepted. We present a well-corroborated phylogeny of water lily genera that is based on agreement between non-molecular data and DNA sequences obtained from both organellar and nuclear genomes. For specific portions of the resulting phylogeny, we evaluate the support conferred by each separate data set in comparison to various combinations. This approach enabled us to assess the potential benefits of further data acquisition, and also allowed us to evaluate the fundamental advantages and disadvantages of each data partition. Every data set contributed differently to the overall phylogenetic analysis and resolution of the cladogram. The 18S rDNA performed the most poorly, with homoplasious sites confounding some topological assessments in comparisons of closely related genera. However, as taxonomic distance increased, phylogenetic signal in the 18S rDNA data increased due to the expression of sequence variation in highly conserved sites. Even the 18S rDNA data were relatively congruent with the other data evaluated, and the resulting combined data analysis rendered a single maximum parsimony tree with strong nodal support throughout. When floral features were evaluated using this well-corroborated phylogeny, the pleiomerous condition of water lily flowers showed several instances of secondary derivations. Although the actual morphological details of the first water lily flowers remain uncertain, it is clear that the flowers of extant water lilies do not necessarily depict the ancestral organization. Results of the phylogenetic analysis are used to encourage the adoption of an evolutionarily based classification system for water lilies.
10.2307/2419385|Within many lineages diversity of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal RNA genes has proven comparable to that of restriction sites of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA). Although cpDNA polymorphism has proven useful in many phylogenetic studies at the intraspecific level, the utility of ITS sequences in this application has been subjected only to limited testing. The Streptanthus glandulosus complex is an ideal candidate for this evaluation, given the substantial variation in cpDNA restriction site and enzyme electrophoretic markers present among populations. ITS sequences were obtained for 31 populations within the complex; phylogenetic patterns derived from these data were compared to a cpDNA phylogeny based on restriction site data from a previous study. No population exhibited the same ITS sequence, and average divergence among populations was 2.57%. The ITS strict consensus tree bears clades that are geographically distinct, but lacking in internal resolution; we suspect that some combination of gene flow, lineage sorting, and recombination has led to low resolution within these major clades. The ITS tree shares many features with the cpDNA tree, but the two also display substantial incongruities, including one that may have arisen via cytoplasmic introgression. Greater consistency is exhibited by the cpDNA tree, most likely due to the haploid and non-recombining nature of the chloroplast genome. Combining the ITS and cpDNA data results in a more highly resolved tree than those from either of the separate analyses. Despite the pitfalls of using a diploid, recombining data source like ITS at the intraspecific level, potential benefits include tracking of maternal and paternal lineages as well as insight into patterns and levels of gene flow among populations. Furthermore, the joint use of ITS and cpDNA markers facilitates independent assessment of intraspecific phylogenetic hypotheses and can expose cases in which introgression or phylogenetic sorting has caused incongruencies among haplotype trees.
10.2307/2419386|A new species, Schismatoglottis bulbifera, Araccae, with adventitious buds on the midvein of the abaxial side of the leaf blade is described. Our observations suggest that its adventitious shoots are of endogenous origin. The somatic chromosome number is 26, a diploid level of x=13.
10.2307/2419387|Chloroplast DNA restriction site variation was used to examine phylogenetic relationships in Artemisia sect. Tridentatae, a complex of eleven species of woody shrubs, which are dominant components of sagebrush communities of western North America. Twenty-seven endonucleases were utilized to identify 82 variable site mutations, 27 of which were phylogenetically informative. The resulting cpDNA phylogeny indicates that sect. Tridentatae is monophyletic, with the exception of A. palmeri and A. bigelovii, two historically anomolous species. A sister-group relationship between A. palmeri and species of subg. Artemisia supports the exclusion of A. palmeri from sect. Tridentatae (subg. Seriphidium), and its inclusion within subg. Artemisia. Artemisia bigelovii, a species with heterogamous capitula, is nested within the Tridentata clade, supporting its inclusion within the section. Introgression and subsequent chloroplast capture of the Tridentatae genome by two unrelated species, A. californica and A. filifolia, may explain the unexpected placement of these two species in the Tridentata clade. Low cpDNA sequence divergence provides only limited resolution of phylogenetic relationships within sect. Tridentatae, indicative of a recently differentiated and/or hybridizing polymorphic species complex. In addition, the cpDNA data provide only equivocal evidence for either of two competing hypotheses regarding the origin and phylogenetic relationship of sect. Tridentatae within Artemisia s.l.
10.2307/2419388|The moss genus Pohlia includes species with bisexual gametophytes, unisexual gametophytes and no specialized asexual propagules, and unisexual with specialized asexual "gemmae." A group of Northern Hemisphere species characterized by having axillary gemmae are very similar in other gametophytic characters, and virtually identical in sporophyte morphology, in contrast to most other species of Pohlia that differ in both gametophytic and sporophytic features. This study tested the hypothesis that gemmiferous taxa form a complex of "microspecies" that are less distinct genetically than are comparable sexual species. Fourteen putative isozyme loci were screened in 50 populations representing 11 species (7 gemmiferous and 4 nongemmiferous). The seven gemmiferous species are less distinct from one another (mean I = 0.8999) than are the four species that do not form gemmae (mean I = 0.7530). Species lacking gemmae have higher total infraspecific gene diversity (mean II<sub>T</sub> = 0.254) than gemmiferous species (mean H<sub>T</sub> = 0.138).
10.2307/2419389|Isozyme data from 26 populations of six species within the Sphagnum recurvum complex, as well as from the two outgroups S. balticum and S. lindbergii, were used to infer the relationships of these populations, and to assess to what degree these relationships are reflected in alternative classifications. A subset of eight populations, comprising four species, were analyzed for both isozyme and RAPD markers. Population aggregation analysis, cluster analysis of pairwise distances and parsimony analysis of allele frequency data grouped populations with brown spores in three distinct clusters corresponding to S. angustifolium, S. flexuosum and S. recurvum s. str., whereas no clusters corresponding to any of the yellow-spored taxa (S. brevifolium, S. fallax and S. isoviitae) could be discerned. Genetic data corroborates morphological evidence suggesting that species level recognition is not warranted for S. fallax and S. isoviitae, whereas the status of S. brevifolium remains more uncertain. S. lindbergii deviated strongly from the remaining material in terms of both isozymes and RAPDs supporting its status as outgroup. S. balticum showed close genetic affinity to the yellow-spored taxa, suggesting that the S. recurvum complex is not monophyletic. Isozyme and RAPD markers yielded similar clustering patterns.
10.2307/2419543|Rheochloa scabiflora Filg., P.M. Peterson & Y. Herrera, gen. et sp. nov., is described and illustrated. The new species occurs in humid grasslands of Municipio de Mineiros, Goias, Parque Nacional das Emas in central Brazil. It seems most closely allied with Dinebra but differs by its perennial habit, inflorescences composed of 3-5 subdigitate racemes, short pedicellate spikelets, glabrous lemmas that are ciliolate on the apex, and fusiform caryopses with persistent style bases. Rheochloa is tentatively placed in subtribe Eragrostidinae of tribe Eragrostideae. So far, R. scabriflora is known only from a single population located inside Parque Nacional das Emas (18<sup></sup>17'55''S-52<sup></sup>43'79''W).
10.2307/2419544|Phylogenetic relationships were examined within the genera Theobroma and Herrania using 18 species representing all recognized sections of both genera and three outgroups. DNA sequences for vicilin, a gene encoding a seed storage protein, were analyzed using parsimony. Both Herrania and Theobroma appeared monophyletic on the most parsimonious trees, but the monophyly of Theobroma was only weakly supported. The monophyly of all currently recognized sections of both genera was supported with the exception of Theobroma sect. Glossopetalum within which was nested the monotypic sect. Andropetalum. The analysis sheds light on the morphological diversification of these closely related genera and serves to demonstrate the potential phylogenetic utility of vicilin.
10.2307/2419545|Section Micranthes of the genus Saxifraga (Saxifragaceae) comprises 67 species that are distributed throughout the northern hemisphere. A previous phylogenetic analysis indicates that this section is a lineage distinct from the remainder of Saxifraga. Recent taxonomic treatments have divided section Micranthes into four subsections: Cuneifoliatae, Micranthes, Rotundifoliatae, and Stellares. To investigate the phylogenetic relationships among species in section Micranthes and to test the monophyly of each of the four subsections, we sequenced the chloroplast gene matK for 26 species of section Micranthes. The results of our parsimony analyses suggest that subsections Micranthes and Stellares are each monophyletic. The single taxon of subsection Cuneifoliatae (S. calycina) for which material could be obtained appears within a clade representing subsection Rotundifoliatae; hence Cuneifoliatae may not be distinct from Rotundifoliatae. Within section Micranthes there exists a high diversity of ovary positions, ranging from what has been described as fully superior to greater than one-half inferior. Examination of this character in light of our matK strict consensus tree indicates that the major trend in gynoecial evolution in section Micranthes has been from an ancestor with what has been termed a superior ovary towards greater inferiority. However, gynoecial evolution in subsection Micranthes is complex, with several apparent reversals towards greater superiority.
10.2307/2419546|Alcohol dehydrogenase (Adh) genes were amplified with PCR, cloned, and sequenced for five putative hybrid species of the genus Paeonia (Paeoniaceae): P. sinjiangensis, P. arietina, P. humilis, P. officinalis, and P. parnassica. Two to three diverged types of sequences were found at each of the Adh1A and Adh2 loci for each species. Parsimony analyses of these sequences together with previously obtained Adh sequences of non-hybrid species of Paeonia indicated that two major types of Adh sequences of each of the five species were phylogenetically separated on the Adh1A and Adh2 trees. Along with nrDNA and cpDNA phylogenies, it is most parsimonious to hypothesize that these diverged sequences represent alleles derived from different parents through hybrid speciation. The approach of separating parental alleles of a nuclear gene in a hybrid genome and reconstructing phylogenies of these alleles offers a solution to the long standing methodological difficulty of reconstructing reticulate evolution. Phylogenies of plant nuclear genes, however, may be confounded by dynamic evolutionary processes of the gene families, such as gene duplication/deletion, gene conversion, and recombination. Thus, a strong hypothesis of hybrid speciation should rely on the congruence of multiple gene phylogenies as well as the congruence between gene phylogenies and other lines of evidence.
10.2307/2419547|The systematic positions of genera previously assigned to the Buddlejaceae are investigated using Bremer support and parsimony jackknife analyses of cpDNA ndhF and rbcL sequence data. The differences between these two methods are discussed: resampling methods such as the jackknife help identify and assess confidence in qualitatively supported groups, whereas Bremer support provides an absolute, quantitative measure of that support. The close relationship of Buddlejaceae s. str. (comprising Buddleja, Nicodemia, Emorya, and Gomphostigma) to Scrophulariaceae s. str. is confirmed. Previous suggestions that Desfontainia and Plocosperma are not related to the Scrophulariales sensu Thorne are corroborated, as are the close relationships of Sanango to Gesneriaceae and of Retzia to Stilbaceae. Previously unsuggested monophyletic groups revealed include Androya and Myoporum, together appearing as sister group to the Scrophulariaceae/Buddlejaceae clade, Nuxia and the Stilbaceae clade, Peltanthera and the Sanango/Gesneriaceae clade, and Polypremum and Tetrachondra. The latter genus is not part of Scrophulariales sensu Thorne, which otherwise is well supported. Oleaceae is resolved as sister group to the rest of the clade. Within the order a gesneriad clade, a stilbacean clade, two 'scroph' clades, Acanthaceae, Bignoniaceae, Lamiaceae, and Verbenaceae occur as distinct lineages. The relationships among these are poorly resolved and the position of Lindenbergia is uncertain.
10.2307/2419548|Australian Gossypium consists of 17 species classified into three sections. The largest and most poorly understood is the group of 12 species in seet. Grandicalyx that occur in the Kimberley and Cobourg regions of NW Australia. These areas are characterized by annual monsoon rains and dry-season fires. Species in sect. Grandicalyx exhibit a suite of morphological and ecological features that are otherwise unknown in the genus and that apparently evolved in response to seasonal fires and ant mutualism. These features include an herbaceous perennial habit, the ability to regenerate from thickened rootstocks following fires and extended drought, pedicels that recurve following pollination so that the capsules are pendent and open inverted at maturity, and sparsely vestitured, ant-dispersed seeds that bear elaiosomes. To better understand the evolutionary and biogeographic history of the species in sect. Grandicalyx, we sampled widely within and among species and generated three sets of DNA sequences, i.e., for the plastid rpl16 intron, the nuclear 18S-26S ITS of rDNA, and an alcohol dehydrogenase gene. Phylogenetic reconstructions indicate that species in sect. Grandicalyx are monophyletic with little resolution within the clade. Sequence divergence is low in all pairwise comparisons among species, suggesting that the group radiated relatively recently, perhaps in the late Pliocene-Pleistocene after an earlier (Miocene) divergence from the other extant Australian lineages. The palaeoclimatic record, sequence divergence estimates, and phylogenetic data suggest that diversification of the sect. Grandicalyx species arose via range fragmentation of a more widely distributed ancestor or ancestors. This evolutionary history was accompanied by the development of a prostrate to upright herbaceous, multistemmed habit, adaptation to seasonal fires, and a suite of features associated with myrmecochory.
10.2307/2419549|Ipomoea is a large and complex genus containing over 600 species of vines and shrubs widely distributed throughout the tropics and subtropics. The phylogeny of 40 species representing the three currently recognized subgenera and nine sections within the genus was analyzed using sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA and sequences for three exons and two introns of the 3' end of the nuclear gene waxy. Nucleotide data from each gene or region were analyzed singly and in combination using parsimony. Exon and intron sequences from the relatively unexplored waxy gene provided appreciable levels of site mutations, and intron sequences revealed several phylogenetically informative deletions. ITS provided greater resolution and was largely congruent with waxy. Combined analyses using Merremia and Operculina as outgroups showed strong support for two major clades, including a novel assemblage of four Old World species and a larger clade composed of the remaining sample. Within the larger clade were numerous well-supported subclades, several of which corresponded to previously recognized taxonomic groups. Higher level hierarchical relationships within the two clades and the among the subclades did not support the most recent classification scheme, which divides Ipomoea into three subgenera, Ipomoea, Quamoclit, and Eriospermum. A striking result from this study was identifying a close relationship between species of section Pharbitis (subgenus Ipomoea) and species of subgenus Quamoclit. This clade is comprised of taxa with a broad range of morphological diversity, implying both floral and vegetative morphology may have been evolutionarily labile within the genus. The composition of three clades consisting largely of species of subg. Eriospermum suggests a novel set of relationships between New World and Australian species. Several clades identified in this study are prime candidates for future studies of character evolution, including several putative cases of independent pigment transformations of red and white flowers from purple flowers.
10.2307/2419550|Parsimony analysis of nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences and morphological data provided a well-resolved set of phylogenetic hypotheses for Sanicula, with special emphasis on the western American species constituting sect. Sanicoria and the Hawaiian sect. Sandwicenses. A lineage that encompasses the western American sect. Sanicoria and the Hawaiian sect. Sandwicenses appears to comprise three major clades: Clade 1, a group of coastal North American and Hawaiian species; Clade 2, an ecologically diverse assemblage of continental taxa including maritime, marsh, chaparral, serpentine, and desert species; and Clade 3, a group of mostly narrowly-endemic species of interior habitats in western North America. Species of the largely Old World sect. Pseudopetagnia and sect. Sanicula fall outside the sect. Sanicoria + sect. Sandwicenses clade. The (weakly supported) phylogenetic patterns among species of sect. Pseudopetagnia and sect. Sanicula are consistent with an Asian origin of Sanicula. As reported earlier, three primarily-Californian, coastal species of sect. Sanicoria (S. arctopoides, S. arguta, and S. laciniata) appear to be more closely related to the monophyletic Hawaiian group than to other members of sect. Sanicoria. Biogeographic reconstructions provide unequivocal support for dispersal of the Hawaiian ancestor from the California Floristic Province. Estimates of clade age from rate-constant ITS trees place the most recent common ancestor of the Hawaiian taxa at  0.9  0.4 Ma, after the origin of Kaua'i, O'ahu, and West Maui, but indicate a divergence from the closest surviving American lineage at  8.9  1.5 Ma, i.e., possibly before the origin of the modern high islands. Our data confirm that the two South American species of sect. Sanicoria are conspecific with western North American S. crassicaulis and S. graveolens and originated from a minimum of two long-distance dispersal events < 2.5 Ma (since the late Pliocene). A suite of fruit characteristics that promote animal dispersal are common to the Hawaiian and South American species and their closest North American relatives. Dispersibility appears to have been lost multiple times in western North America, with limited diversification occurring after loss of dispersal-promoting characteristics. Origin of the only polyploid species in sect. Sanicoria, S. crassicaulis, appears to have been an ancient event that predates the divergence of most modern species in the section. We propose submergence of sect. Sandwicenses within sect. Sanicoria to create a more natural sectional taxonomy of Sanicula.
10.2307/2419551|The Asteriscus alliance comprises three genera (Asteriscus, Ighermia, and Pallenis) restricted to Macaronesia and the Mediterranean basin. This alliance is a member of the tribe Inuleae where it forms a distinct morphological group with low chromosome numbers (n = 5-7). The taxonomic boundaries of the three genera have been controversial, although previous morphological cladistic analyses support the monophyly of each genus. Phylogenetic comparisons of most taxa in the alliance and seven other genera of Inuleae were conducted using ITS sequences. Parsimony analyses support the monophyly of the Asteriscus alliance and identify four lineages. One group has two species (P. hierochuntica and P. maritima), and two lineages are monotypic (P. spinosa and A. aquaticus). The fourth lineage includes the remaining 10 taxa of the Asteriscus alliance. Neither Asteriscus nor Pallenis, as currently defined, is monophyletic, and Ighermia is sister to the largest Asteriscus clade. All taxa distributed in Macaronesia, the arid African-Mediterranean basin, the Sahara region, and the Middle East (except P. hierochuntica) are part of the largest lineage. At least two independent colonizations from northern Africa have occurred in Macaronesia, one involving A. schultzii and the second including the remaining five taxa endemic to the Cape Verde and the Canary Islands. The derived position of these endemics in the ITS tree suggests a recent colonization of the Macaronesian Islands from northern Africa. The ITS phylogeny is incongruent with previous morphological cladograms of the Inuleae because Buphthalmum and Xerolekia are not sister to the Asteriscus alliance.
10.2307/2419552|DNA sequences of the chloroplast gene ndhF were used to estimate the phylogeny of the grass tribe Andropogoneae. Previous hypotheses of relationships in the tribe were based on cytological and morphological characters such as the presence/absence of awns, monoecy vs. andromonoecy, or inflorescence characteristics. Classifications were subsequently proposed based on those ideas of relationships, and these are examined in the context of the molecular data. The notion that the base number of the tribe is x=5 is tested using the phylogeny. Diploids with n=5 are not conclusively the earliest diverging members of the group, but are nested high in the tree and the earliest diverging lineages in the tribe have n=10. Subtribal designations are not informative due to the lack of resolution between clades in the strict consensus tree. There are well-supported clades in the tribe, including three Sorghum lineages and a "core" Andropogoneae clade, even though relationships among clades are poorly supported. The topological pattern suggests a rapid radiation for the group. A preliminary assessment of the generic limits of the genus Sorghum show it to be paraphyletic, including the genera Cleistachne, Miscanthus, and a species of Microstegium. Subtribe Sorghinae is represented here by Sorghum, Sorghastrum, Cleistachne, Bothriochloa, Capillipedium, Dichanthium, and Chrysopogon and does not form a monophyletic group.
10.2307/2419553|Breeding system, population dynamics, and the underlying genetic structure of orchid populations should reflect their evolutionary potential. We examined the genetic structure of populations representing a widespread, obligately outbreeding epiphyte of the Greater Antilles, Tolumnia variegata. We sampled 14 populations from Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, and Cuba for isozyme variation using horizontal starch-gel electrophoresis. We resolved and scored variation for twelve loci from six enzymes, and found that all loci were polymorphic at the species level and allele frequencies were significantly different among all populations. Variation at the population level was also high, as the average percent polymorphic loci was 71%, the expected mean heterozygosity (H<sub>e</sub>) was 0.21, and the average number of effective alleles per locus was 1.43. Nearly all genetic variation in T. variegata occurred within populations (H<sub>T</sub> = 0.22; D<sub>ST</sub> = 0.03; G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.11). Average gene flow estimates among populations were moderate (Nm<sub>S</sub> = 1.34 and Nm<sub>W</sub> = 2.07). Within islands, populations were very similar to one another and there was a significant negative correlation between geographic distance and either genetic identity or Nm<sub>W</sub> among populations. Among islands, gene flow was more restricted but there was no obvious relationship between genetic distance and population differentiation. Patterns of genetic and morphological variation matched. Some minor differentiation has occurred among islands, but gene flow estimates reinforce the notion that all populations sampled represent a single species. Evolutionary potential is high because of substantial levels of genetic and morphological variation, but evolutionary diversification among these populations would likely be a slow process.
10.2307/2419690|Two new species and a new subspecies of Plagiochila (sect. Zonatae) from southwestern China are described and illustrated: P. aspericaulis sp. nov., P. durelii subsp. guizhouensis subsp. nov. and P. paraphyllosa sp. nov. The former is also found in Nepal whereas the latter two appear to be endemic to China. Their relationships with other species of the section are discussed. To accomodate P. aspericaulis and the three closely related species, P. caulimammillosa Grolle & M. L. So, P. hyalodermica Grolle & M. L. So, and P. parvivittata Inoue, all with a hyalodermis of mammillose cells, a new subsect. Caulimammillosae within the sect. Zonatae is segregated. Plagiochila durelii Schiffn. proved to be highly variable in paraphyllia characteristics and the following ten species names had to be placed in its synonymy: P. alata, P. bhutanensis, P. ferruginea, P. hamulispina, P. harae, P. sawadae, P. thomsonii, P. torquescens, P. unialata, and P. vietnamica. A key to the species of this section with paraphyllia or a hyalodermis is provided.
10.2307/2419691|A new genus and species, Corsiopsis chinensis (Corsiaceae), is described from Guangdong province, China. Corsiopsis is an achlorophyllous mycoheterotrophic herb with structurally complex white flowers. Although there are similarities with Corsia, it is distinct since the flowers are unisexual and bear an erect bladder-like posterior sepal (labellum) that lacks any basal callus. The family has previously only been reported from South America (Arachnitis) and Australasia (Corsia); the new genus therefore represents the first record of the family from Asia and the northern hemisphere.
10.2307/2419692|Morphological (including pollen morphology) and wood anatomical characters of the poorly known species 'Psychotria epiphytica' from tropical Africa are documented and described. It is the only record of genuine epiphytism for African Rubiaceae. The species is characterized by its inaperturate pollen grains with peculiar reticulate exine structure, and pyrenes that lack a clear ventral excavation and open with one mediodorsal and two lateral preformed germination slits; another remarkable feature is the unusual variation in stipule morphology. It is proposed to transfer the species to Chassalia. A new name, Chassalia petitiana, is given because of the illegitimate status of the original name. Psychotria euchlora, a probably closely related species from Sao Tome, is also discussed.
10.2307/2419693|Chrysactinium (Compositae: Liabeae) is composed of six species, all restricted to the Paramotype regions of Ecuador and Peru. Chrysactinium longiradiatum and C. rosulatum are considered synonymous with C. acaule because of the high levels of variation exhibited in the characters previously used to distinguish them.
10.2307/2419694|The Hawaiian endemic fern Polypodium pellucidum, named for its characteristic translucent leaf veins, is a member of the monophyletic, primarily temperate species group known as the Polypodium vulgare complex. Since its original description in 1824, P. pellucidum has been recognized as morphologically diverse and several varieties have been named. The most commonly recognized are a rainforest epiphyte (var. pellucidum), a lava flow terrestrial (var. vulcanicum), and var. opacum, characterized by a lack of translucent veins. Electrophoretic analysis of isozymes was used to test available systematic hypotheses and gain new perspectives on the breeding system and distribution of genetic variation within this species. These analyses showed that 1) levels of genetic variability were very high for an island endemic species, 2) based on fixation indices (F), outcrossing between genetically differentiated gametophytes was rare, 3) values of Nm were consistent with interpopulational gene flow as a relatively rare event, 4) genetic identity (I) between populations within taxa averaged above 0.85 whereas that between two of the varieties averaged 0.785, and 5) although morphologically distinct, P. pellucidum var. opacum is isozymically identical to P. pellucidum var. vulcanicum. Assuming a single introduction with subsequent diversification, the high levels of genetic variation indicate that P. pellucidum has been a resident of the Hawaiian islands for a relatively long period of time, perhaps longer than the oldest of the current islands, and has migrated from island to island. Although reduced genetic identities between the two ecologically divergent varieties suggest that they may eventually become separate species, the genetic similarity of P. pellucidum var. opacum to P. pellucidum var. vulcanicum indicates that it should not be recognized as a separate variety.
10.2307/2419695|It has been suggested that the characters on which the current infrageneric classification of the genus Styrax is based are not reliable. However, to date no alternative classification for the genus has been proposed. To address this problem, a phylogenetic analysis of Styrax was conducted using 34 morphological characters. Parsimony analysis suggested that none of the currently recognized subdivisions of Styrax are monophyletic except section Pamphilia. This section has traditionally been considered a distinct genus but the analysis placed it in a highly nested position, consistent with its recent transfer into Styrax. The biogeographical history of Styrax was inferred with Fitch parsimony analysis and dispersal-vicariance analysis. Results suggest that 1) the presence of Styrax in South America is the result of migration from southern North America; 2) back-migration from South America to North America has occurred in both montane and lowland tropical lineages; and 3) a migration from Eurasia to North America has occurred in four lineages. The phylogeny provides evidence for a single origin of morphological gynodioecy within the genus, a floral reduction series among the gynodioecious species, and a host shift by gall-forming aphids (tribe Cerataphidini) that parasitize Styrax. Included is a revised infrageneric classification based on the phylogeny with a key and descriptions, and the establishment of two new combinations (Styrax series Cyrta and Styrax series Benzoin).
10.2307/2419696|It is shown that there is far-reaching similarity between the genera Huerniopsis and Piaranthus. It has been widely assumed that these taxa lack an outer corona. It is demonstrated that this is incorrect but that nevertheless the structure of this corona and its associated nectarial cavity is an apomorphy for this group of species among southern African stapeliads. The two species of Huerniopsis are transferred to Piaranthus as Piaranthus decipiens (N.E. Br.) Bruyns and P. atrosanguineus (N.E. Br.) Bruyns.
10.2307/2419697|The small subfamily Pyroloideae, comprising four genera, is unusual in Ericaceae because of its nearly herbaceous habit, largely free petals, and tendencies toward leaflessness. A surprising number of hypotheses exist with respect to the relationships among these genera. Parsimony analysis of 23 morphological characters gave a pattern that is largely congruent with that obtained from analysis of ITS sequences. Two sister clades of monophyletic/monospecific genera are resolved-Chimaphila + Moneses and Orthilia + Pyrola. Relationships among three species of Chimaphila are not clearly resolved. Some structure is present within Pyrola, with two strongly supported clades (P. picta + P. aphylla + P. chlorantha and P. elliptica + P. minor). The placement of P. minor is unsuspected; most past classifications have segregated it from other Pyrola due to its short, straight style (as opposed to a longer, curved style). Developmental study reveals that the style terminates elongation early, so that in fact it is not clear which style orientation is present. The overall bud-like nature of the flower in P. minor further suggests a juvenile morphology relative to other Pyrola. The developmental information, in combination with its position on the cladogram, indicates a paedomorphic origin for the floral morphology of P. minor.
10.2307/2419698|Phylogenetic relationships among 115 species representing the legume genus Astragalus and 12 related genera were inferred from an analysis of nucleotide sequence variation in the internal transcribed spacers and 5.8S gene of nuclear ribosomal DNA. For a subset of these taxa, the ITS data were supplemented by sequences from the chloroplast trnL intron. Phylogenies derived from maximum parsimony and neighborjoining analyses of sequence and insertion/deletion characters all suggest that the vast majority of Astragalus is monophyletic (with the exception of "outlier" species). All New World Astragalus species with aneuploid chromosome numbers (n = 11-15) form a monophyletic group ("Neo-Astragalus"), which now includes the Mediterranean aneuploid Astragalus echinatus. Other Old World aneuploid species are not closely related to Neo-Astragalus, but rather are found among Old World euploid (n = 8, 16) groups. Similarly, the relatively few North American species with euploid numbers are not the closest relatives to Neo-Astragalus but are dispersed among divergent Old World groups that include both aneuploid and euploid species. The historically allied genus Oxytropis is not nested within Astragalus, but forms a separate clade within the larger "Astragalean" clade. The proposed segregate genera Astracantha (Eurasian) and Orophaca (North American) are clearly nested within Astragalus s. str. South American species of Astragalus are nested within Neo-Astragalus and comprise at least two independently derived clades (along with their close North American relatives), as previously suggested by morphology. Parsimony reconstructions of characters that have been used in the traditional subgeneric taxonomy of the genus were examined and show high levels of homoplasy. Preliminary estimates of the absolute rate of species diversification in Astragalus suggest it may be higher than in some other, often cited, continental or insular adaptive radiations in angiosperms.
10.2307/2419699|The species of Phaseolus were exhaustively sampled for both ITS/5.8S DNA sequence and non-molecular data. With all related New World genera designated as outgroups, a phylogenetic analysis of combined data reveals a strongly supported monophyletic Phaseolus. Other well supported relationships include nine monophyletic species clades within Phaseolus, designated as the P. vulgaris, P. filiformis, P. lunatus, P. polystachios, P. leptostachyus, P. pauciflorus, P. tuerckheimii, and P. pedicellatus groups, and P. microcarpus. Only the last of these is monotypic and consistently resolved in a sensitivity analysis as the earliest branch in the Phaseolus clade, though with poor bootstrap support. The five most commonly domesticated species in the genus arise from within the P. vulgaris and P. lunatus groups. The "gene pools" traditionally recognized for the domesticated species P. vulgaris and P. lunatus are not detected with ITS sequence variation. This is in spite of a very high degree of inter- and intra-specific ITS sequence divergence in Phaseolus.
10.2307/2419700|Since the tribe Caucalideae was recognized by Bentham and later Boissier for those species of Apiaceae (Umbelliferae) with spines, hooks, tubercles or bristly hairs on the primary and/or secondary ridges of their fruits, there has been considerable disagreement as to its proper circumscription, the relationships among its members, and the delimitation of certain genera. A recent checklist of the group recognized 68 species in 21 genera; a previous molecular systematic study, however, excluded Aphanopleura and Psammogeton from the tribe. Phylogenetic relationships among all but one of the 19 remaining genera (material from the rare, monotypic genus Angoseseli was not available for examination) and representatives from putatively allied tribes Scandiceae, Laserpitieae, Apieae, and Smyrnieae were inferred from nucleotide sequence variation in the internal transcribed spacer regions of 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA. In all, 29 genera representing 58 taxa were examined. Phylogenies estimated using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and neighbor-joining methods give trees of essentially similar topology, and reveal three major lineages of equivocal relationship: (1) Agrocharis, Ammodaucus, Artedia, Cuminum, Daucus, Laser, Laserpitium, Orlaya, Polylophium, Pseudorlaya, and Pachyctenium; (2) Astrodaucus, Caucalis, Chaetosciadium, Glochidotheca, Lisaea, Szovitsia, Torilis, Turgenia, and Yabea; and (3) Anthriscus, Kozlovia, Myrrhis, Osmorhiza, and Scandix. These groups are provisionally named the Daucus, Torilis, and Scandix subclades, respectively, of a previously delimited Daucus clade. The first subclade contains representatives of Drude's tribe Laserpitieae, whereas the third subclade coincides with Heywood's tribe Scandiceae. Based on those species included in the study, the genera Daucus, Laserpitium, and Torilis are each not monophyletic.
10.2307/2419701|Sequences from the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS) for 35 taxa of Coreopsis and 15 species of Bidens were used to hypothesize phylogenetic relationships within and between the two genera. Coreopsis is paraphyletic and Bidens is polyphyletic in all most parsimonious trees. The ITS phylogeny indicates that the Bidens-Coreopsis complex originated in Mexico with subsequent primary radiations to North and South America. The molecular data suggest that Bidens as now recognized has been derived twice within Coreopsis, with one lineage tropical-subtropical and the other north temperate. These two lineages of Bidens are more widely dispersed, more species rich, and more morphologically diverse than any lineage of Coreopsis. The ITS phylogeny contains two major groups of North American Coreopsis with one consisting of sections from Mexico and California and a second comprised of eastern North American sections. These are the same two major groups recognized by morphology and/or cpDNA restriction site mutations. In most instances, sections of North American Coreopsis resolved as monophyletic groups with morphology and/or cpDNA restriction sites also appear monophyletic in the ITS phylogeny. Coreopsis sect. Pseudoagarista is not monophyletic because species from Mexico and South America appear in two different strongly supported clades. Results of the present study indicate that eventually taxonomic changes will be needed to reflect more accurately relationships in the Bidens-Coreopsis complex.
10.2307/2419638|Chlorocolea R. M. Schust., a small epiphyllous subgenus of the genus Cololejeunea (Hepaticae, Lejeuneaceae), hitherto comprised eight species. It is well characterized and easily recognized by the delicate plants, sigmoid marginal cells of the leaf lobe, and greatly reduced leaf lobules. Cololejeunea zangii R. L. Zhu & M. L. So, an additional species of this subgenus from China, is described as a species new to science. C. zangii primarily differs from other members of this subgenus by the absence of gynoecial innovations. A key is provided for all known species of subg. Chlorocolea.
10.2307/2419639|Anaxagorea inundata P. E. Berry & R. B. Miller is a distinctive new species from the blackwater Rio Atabapo basin in southern Venezuela. It is adapted to its strongly flooded habitat by producing very lightweight wood (specific gravity <0.2) and just a few leaves and flowers near the tips of the unbranched or few-branched stems. It appears to be most closely related to A. rheophytica Maas & Westra, also from a black-water river in southern Venezuela. An illustration of morphological features and photomicrographs of the wood anatomy are provided.
10.2307/2419640|We used starch-gel electrophoresis to examine levels of genetic diversity at 12 enzyme loci in 71 populations of P. commune collected from North America and Europe. Mean levels of within-population diversity were low compared to other mosses (H<sub>S</sub> = 0.061), but total genetic diversity was high (H<sub>T</sub> = 0.180) due to the occurrence of several alleles that displayed high frequencies in different geographical regions. Within these regions, mean genetic identities (I) between populations were high, ranging from 0.867 to 0.998, but significant differentiation occurred among regions. Frequencies of region-specific genotypes, and genetic identities between regions, decreased with increasing geographical distance between regions, suggesting a "stepping-stone" mode of colonization. Distinct region-specific multilocus genotypes were sometimes found in populations distant from their "home," suggesting that occasional long-distance colonization occurs. Nevertheless, overall differentiation among populations was high (G<sub>ST</sub> = 0.51), suggesting that spore dispersal is restricted. Populations that border Pleistocene-age glacial margins in North America and Europe were more similar to each other than either was to other populations from the same continent (North America and Europe); this may be evidence of post-glacial founder events from similar genetic stock preserved in ice-free northern refugia. Two populations of P. jensenii (treated by some authors as P. commune var. jensenii) from Fennoscandia are genetically similar to P. commune from the same region, but overall differences between it and P. commune are high, supporting its recognition as a distinct species.
10.2307/2419641|In the Pacific Northwest, populations of Silene douglasii occur on coastal headlands, cliffs, and montane peaks that may be spatially isolated by considerable distances. We used principal component analysis and discriminant function analysis to determine whether quantitative morphology could effectively distinguish varieties, populations, and subpopulations of this polymorphic species, which has historically included many infraspecific taxa. Ordination of principal component scores for 354 plants sampled in 16 populations revealed overlapping, but identifiable, clusters corresponding to varieties douglasii, oraria, and rupinae. The three varieties were correctly classified by discriminant function analysis 94.5% of the time, and differed significantly for 20 of 22 characters measured. In phenetic analyses, vegetative characters (e.g., leaf width and pubescence) were most effective for distinguishing variety rupinae, whereas reproductive characters (e.g., calyx width, petal dimensions) were more definitive for varieties oraria and douglasii. We also detected evidence of geographic differentiation among populations of S. douglasii. Moreover, both varietal and geographical affinities were apparent despite significant morphological differences among spatially isolated populations and subpopulations. This pattern of considerable population differentiation amidst broad-scale geographical and varietal alliances suggests that local adaptation and/or genetic drift may be important in the historical and ongoing evolution of these taxa.
10.2307/2419642|The 16 endemic Hawaiian species of Lysimachia are a monophyletic lineage that has radiated into a diversity of environments. Genetic diversity in 48 populations of eleven of the thirteen extant species was evaluated using starch gel electrophoresis of eight enzymes encoded by 11 loci. For the genus as a whole (i.e., the mean across all species) there are 1.5 alleles/locus, 40% of the loci are polymorphic, and the expected heterozygosity is 0.117. Species gene diversity varied from 0.021 to 0.255. Species on Maui, the youngest island colonized by Lysimachia, had the lowest genetic diversities, as might be expected as a result of repeated genetic bottlenecks following dispersal from older to younger islands. However, some species on Kauai, the oldest island, had lower diversities than those from Oahu and Molokai, islands of intermediate ages. Most species pairs are separated by differences in the frequency of shared alleles rather than fixation for alternate alleles, thus Nei's genetic identities are relatively high, ranging from 0.745-0.980. The lower value is lower than that reported for Hawaiian Bidens and Tetramolopium and higher than that reported for two of the three genera of the Hawaiian Madiinae, and the Hawaiian Alsinoideae. The phenogram produced by UPGMA analysis of Nei's genetic identities clustered L. glutinosa and L. daphnoides into one group and the remaining species in the second group. The results are useful in that they provide support for some of the changes made in a recent taxonomic revision of the subgenus.
10.2307/2419643|Restriction site variation of chloroplast DNA was analyzed in nine of the eleven currently recognized species of Caryota. Phylogenetic relationships were estimated and used to examine biogeographic patterns in the genus. Analysis of 49 populations of Caryota and six species from the putative outgroup genera Arenga and Wallichia demonstrated low levels of inter- and intraspecific variation as seen in other groups of palms and long-lived perennials. A total of 796 restriction sites representing 4,752 bp (ca. 4.0%) of the chloroplast genome was detected with 75 sites (9.4% of the total) showing phylogenetically informative variation. Phylogenetic analysis identified three main clades, each with one widespread variable species and one or more geographically restricted species. Hybridization was suggested as a probable explanation for patterns of variation detected in several instances of species sympatry. Biogeographic patterns among the three principal clades are largely congruent with Wallace's 1910 Line or Huxley's Line. The Maxima clade consists of three species restricted to the west of Huxley's Line. The Mitis clade consists of two species found west Huxley's Line and on the island of Sulawesi. The Rumphiana clade includes four species distributed, with one exception, to the east of Huxley's Line and on the border islands of Borneo and Palawan. The economically important C. urens, the errant member of the Rumphiana clade, has a distribution disjunct to India and Sri Lanka, possibly a reflection of early human introduction, cultivation, and subsequent natural dispersal into local forests.
10.2307/2419644|We examined phylogenetic relationships among 51 populations representing 18 of the approximately 40 currently recognized species in the genus Androcymbium using 559 parsimony informative cpDNA restriction site changes. Our results indicate that the genus is monophyletic and had a southern African origin. According to our estimates of divergence times, species distributed in North Africa arose in the early Miocene from an ancestor related to A. eucomoides. The two Canary Island endemics originated from an ancestor related to the North African A. wyssianum in the early Pliocene. Strong support for the monophyly of all the species represented by more than one population casts doubt on the inclusion of the six North African species into a Androcymbium gramineum complex and provides strong evidence against the possibility of reticulation in these species. Lack of support for the monophyly of the two currently recognized sections (Androcymbium and Erythrostictus) suggests that the presence of wing-like appendages on the tepals is not a reliable taxonomic character for sectional circumscription. Molecular clock estimates emphasize the importance of ecological diversity in the differentiation of South African species. In sharp contrast, the much less pronounced pattern of change among north African species seems to have been fostered by their relatively recent origin and by the uniform ecological conditions that prevail in their areas of geographic distribution.
10.2307/2419645|We explore phylogenetic relationships in Lithophragma through parsimony and maximum likelihood estimation analyses of internal transcribed spacer sequences of 18S-26S ribosomal DNA. Results based on internal transcribed spacer sequences are compared with those from previous studies based on chloroplast DNA restriction site, morphological, and flavonoid variation. Phylogenetic analysis of internal transcribed spacer sequences produces a highly resolved topology with six main clades. These results suggest that three previously described species of Lithophragma are not monophyletic. Based on this topology and previous findings, two species not recognized in the most recent monograph, L. thompsonii and tetraploid L. bolanderi, are hypothesized to have arisen through hybridization and allopolyploidy, respectively. Flowers of Lithophragma exhibit a diverse array of ovary positions ranging from what has been described as superior to deeply inferior. Analysis of ovary position in light of our phylogenetic results reveals a complex pattern of diversification in Lithophragma. This pattern is explored through character mapping and correlation analyses and is found to be inconsistent with either an active or a passive trend toward greater inferiority. A weak relationship between variation in ovary position and the topological position of each taxon suggests homoplastic tendencies toward greater inferiority in some clades and greater superiority in others.
10.2307/2419646|Phylogenetic relationships of eastern Phlox (Polemoniaceae) are examined using sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA. Eastern North American Phlox species have been the focus of many evolutionary studies, and hybridization is thought to have played a role in the origin and evolution of some taxa. The phylogenetic information presented here leads to several important conclusions relevant to taxonomy, notably that Wherry's sections Phlox and Annuae are not monophyletic, and that the eastern mat-forming taxa and the annuals of central Texas each form monophyletic groups. Neither of the two large species complexes in the east, the P. pilosa complex and the P. glaberrima complex, is monophyletic in the ITS tree. While the tree is consistent with a history of hybridization, the ITS data do not directly support previous hypotheses of hybrid origin of particular taxa.
10.2307/2419647|The 44 species of Linanthus are arranged into six sections based on morphological features. Five of the sections are readily circumscribed and have not presented infrageneric problems to botanists. Section Dianthoides, however, is not morphologically cohesive. It consists of eight annual species sensu Grant, with diverse ranges and habitats in southern California and northern Baja California. Vegetative and floral features suggest that the section, as traditionally defined, may not be monophyletic. However, these morphological characters do not offer a clear view of relationships among the species of sect. Dianthoides or of the section within Linanthus. To test the monophyly of sect. Dianthoides and to decipher relationships among the species, we conducted a phylogenetic analysis using sequence data from the ITS region of nuclear ribosomal DNA. We sampled all ten species from both Grant and Patterson's treatments of sect. Dianthoides and at least one species from each of the other five sections. These data support a paraphyletic Linanthus, which is consistent with the findings of other molecular studies. Trees obtained show two primary lineages of Linanthus: one comprising sect. Dianthoides, two species of sect. Linanthus (sensu Grant), members of Leptodactylon, and two species of Gilia, and a second lineage composed of the remaining four sections of Linanthus and Phlox.
10.2307/2419648|Cichorium spinosum and C. bottae are morphologically well diagnosed species. The remaining four species in the genus, C. intybus, C. endivia, C. pumilum, and C. calvum, are usually difficult to distinguish because they differ primarily in quantitative characters. However, our study indicates, that these species are not intermixed in a multivariate analysis of morphological characters. A cladistic analysis of restriction fragment length polymorphisms and trnL-trnF sequences of the chloroplast genome and nuclear ribosomal DNA sequence data obtained from the six Cichorium species and nine possible outgroup genera indicates that 1) Cichorium has an isolated position within the tribe Lactuceae, 2) C. bottae is sister to all other species of Cichorium, and 3) the remaining species are divided into two main clades, one consisting of C. calvum, C. pumilum, and C. endivia and the other consisting of C. intybus and C. spinosum.
10.2307/2419649|Based on results from cladistic analyses of morphology and DNA sequences (the two chloroplast genes rbcL and ndhF), the three Australasian families Alseuosmiaceae, Argophyllaceae, and Phellinaceae are each monophyletic, belong within Asterales, and together form a monophyletic group. Two new rbcL sequences and thirteen new ndhF sequences were obtained. Congruence tests did not reveal any significant incongruence between the two molecular data sets or between the molecular and morphological data. The character evolution of the Alseuosmiaceae-Argophyllaceae-Phellinaceae group is discussed. The Australasian ancestor of this group was probably a woody plant with simple, alternate, serrate leaves and regular, choripetalous, epigynous flowers borne in panicles. All three families should be retained in line with the "principle of ease of identification."
10.2307/2666668|A new species of Plagiochila from China, P. chenii sp. nov., is described and illustrated. In addition, five species names of Plagiochila are newly placed in synonymy. These are Plagiochila capillaris Schiffn. ex Steph. (= P. corticola Steph.), P. forficata Steph. (= P. corticola Steph.), P. pseudopunctata Inoue (= P. gracilis Lindenb. & Gottsche), P. schofieldiana Inoue (= P. gracilis Lindenb. & Gottsche) and P. togashii Inoue (= P. corticola Steph.). Plagiochila corticola Steph. and P. vernicosa Inoue & Grolle are again reinstated as correct names of species of sect. Firmae. A lectotype is designated for P. corticola. Finally, sect. Capillares Carl (1931) is newly merged in synonymy of sect. Firmae Carl (1931). The following eight species are recognized in sect. Firmae: P. chenii Grolle & M. L. So, P. corticola Steph., P. gracilis Lindenb. & Gottsche, P. monospiris Inoue & Grolle, P. nitens Inoue, P. pseudocapillaris Inoue, P. pseudofirma Herzog, and P. vernicosa Inoue & Grolle. A key to the species of sect. Firmae, which is confined to Asia and Melanesia, is provided.
10.2307/2666669|Original meiotic chromosome counts are presented for 39 species in 15 genera of Acanthaceae from Belize, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, the United States, and Venezuela. These reports include the first counts for 20 species representing 10 genera of the family, including the first chromosome number documented for the genus Poikilacanthus. Counts for 15 species confirm numbers previously reported for them from different sources. New chromosome numbers are reported in two genera, Carlowrightia (n = 17 in C. pectinata) and Justicia (n = 24 in J. galapagana). New chromosome numbers are also reported in two species of Justicia, J. comata (n = 28) and J. oerstedii (n = 11). Systematic implications of these chromosome numbers are addressed where appropriate.
10.2307/2666670|Setaria macrostachya and S. vulpiseta have been treated as distinct species by most authors since they were first described more than 180 years ago. In three recent publications, however, S. macrostachya was listed as a synonym of S. vulpiseta. The present study, which included the examination of some 350 herbarium specimens, has convinced us that these two species are as distinct as many others in the genus, and should continue to be recognized as separate taxa.
10.2307/2666671|The genera Moscharia (two species) and Polyachyrus (seven species) form a monophyletic group within tribe Mutisieae, subtribe Nassauviinae, defined by the leaves with auricles at their bases, and the capitula with 1-seriate involucre. A cladistic analysis of the species of the two genera was carried out using 22 characters from life cycle, external morphology, pollen, and trichomes. Polarity of the characters was based on the outgroup comparison method. One cladogram was produced, with 37 steps, a consistency index of 0.73, and a retention index of 0.75. The cladogram defines six monophyletic groups: (((Polyachyrus annus, (P. carduoides, (P. cinereus, (P. fuscus, P. gayi))), P. sphaerocephalus), P. poeppigii), (Moscharia solbrigii, M. pinnatifida)). The probable ancestral geographic area for the group, determined by Bremer's method, is North- Central Chile area (30<sup></sup>-35<sup></sup> south latitude). The study suggests that the Pleistocene could be the period of evolution of the ancestor of Mescharia and Polyachyrus.
10.2307/2666672|A study was performed to determine intraspecific phylogenetic relationships between Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes from widely separated areas of the world. Eighteen populations of Arabidopsis were studied using polymorphic DNA and morphologic analyses. Experiments were performed employing 15 microsatellite loci in 10 individuals from each of 18 Arabidopsis populations from four continents. Microsatellite loci were amplified by the Polymerase Chain Reaction, electrophoresed, sized, and the polymorphisms analyzed. Morphological studies were performed comparing 11 physical traits in 10 individuals from each population. It was found that: 1) the commonly held premise that North American Arabidopsis thaliana populations originated in Europe is supported; 2) although Asian populations examined appeared genetically distant from the European populations, the hypothesis that Arabidopsis originated in Asia requires additional examination; 3) the laboratory ecotype Kashmir may have originated in Europe, not India; and 4) Arabidopsis morphology has generally changed little among populations across the world.
10.2307/2666673|The larger part of the matK gene and the (3'-) adjacent spacer have been sequenced and used for phylogenetic analyses in 48 species of Lauraceae from all parts of their geographical range, and in three outgroup taxa. Except for the aberrant genera Hypodaphnis and Cassytha, the genetic divergence within the family is surprisingly low. In spite of this, several clades receive sufficient support to change our current concepts of relationships within the family. Particularly well supported is a Beilschmiedia-Cryptocarya clade that had been recognized by wood anatomy, but not in most of the recent morphological systems. The separation between taxa with involucrate and non-involucrate inflorescences, which had been one of the basic subdivisions in all systems of the family so far, is not supported by the present data. Instead, there seems to be an early division into a Gondwanan group and a Laurasian-South American group.
10.2307/2666674|A cladistic analysis of tribes Beslerieae and Napeantheae revealed that both are monophyletic groups and that Napeantheae is sister to Beslerieae. These relationships are supported by parsimony and most models of maximum likelihood analysis, although with the F81 model, maximum likelihood places Napeantheae within Beslerieae making the latter tribe paraphyletic. All analyses indicate that within Beslerieae, Besleria and Gasteranthus are sister genera. In parsimony analysis these two genera are sister to the remainder of the tribe whereas in the maximum likelihood analyses, Cremosperma is sister to Besleria/Gasteranthus. Regardless of the analysis, there is a close relationship between clades comprised of dehiscent fleshy-fruited genera and those with indehiscent fleshy fruits. This is similar to Episcieae, implying that the transition from dry capsular fruits to berries may require a two-step process where a fleshy dehiscent capsule is the first stage followed by an indehiscent fleshy berry. The origin of stomata in islands, a characteristic common among Beslerieae and Napeantheae is discussed.
10.2307/2666675|The origin of the flora of the Macaronesian archipelagos has been a subject of controversy for over a century with the traditional opinion asserting that it is a relictual fragment of a widespread Tertiary subtropical European flora. A phylogenetic investigation of the three Macaronesian genera of the Bencomia alliance (Bencomia, Dendriopoterium, and Marcetella) using sequence data from the nuclear rDNA Transcribed Spacer region (ITS) has provided evidence relevant to the origin of the Macaronesian flora and the evolution of morphological characters of interest to students of island biology. In the ITS phylogeny, the Bencomia alliance, Sarcopoterium, a monotypic genus of the eastern Mediterranean, and Sanguisorba ancistroides, also a Mediterranean species, form a clade that is sister to the Eurasian Sanguisorba minor. These relationships contradict the relictual hypotheses and show that the endemic Macaronesian Rosaceae are sister to Mediterranean Sanguisorbeae. The data also contradict a recent placement of Dendriopoterium and Marcetella together in a subgenus of Sanguisorba. The ITS tree demonstrates that dioecy evolved in the islands from a continental monoecious or gynomonecious ancestor and that there has been an increase in plant size and woodiness compared to continental relatives rather than the decrease suggested by previous workers.
10.2307/2666676|Phylogenetic relationships of New Zealand species of Brassicaceae belonging to the South Island endemic Ischmocarpus, Iti, Notothlaspi, and Pachycladon, and the indigenous Cardamine, Cheesemania, Lepidium, and Rorippa were studied using nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer sequences. Results sup port a monophyletic Notothlaspi and suggest that species of this genus are not closely related to Thlaspi, the genus to which Hooker provisionally assigned N. australe. The cosmopolitan genus Cardamine is paraphyletic by the inclusion of the monotypic genus Iti. The association of Iti with New Zealand Cardamine is of particular significance, as the relationships of this monotypic genus have historically proven elusive. Cheesemania species, Ischnocarpus novae-zelandiae, and Pachycladon novae-zelandiae form a closely related monophyletic group. The species of Lepidium form a monophyletic group, but the New Zealand species are not monophyletic indicating two possible dispersal events to New Zealand. Additionally, the tribes Arabidieae, Lepidieae, and Sisymbrieae are polyphyletic. This study highlights the difficulty of using traditional characters such as fruit type and cotyledon arrangement to define the tribes of the Brassicaceae.
10.2307/2666677|We used sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (nr-ITS) region, both alone and in combination with data from the intron and spacer of the trnL-trnF chloroplast (cp) region, to study phylogenetic relationships within the large tropical and subtropical family Acanthaceae. Substitution rate in the nr-ITS region is nearly twice that of the trnL-trnF cp region, and more than twice the rates of other cp loci that have been sequenced for members of Acanthaceae (i.e., rbcL, ndhT). In terms of phylogenetic relationships, the hypothesis based on ITS was largely congruent with the trnL-trnF results. Exceptions are Crossandra pungens and the two Acanthus species, which are placed enigmatically by nr-ITS data. The combined analysis provides strong support for a single hypothesis of relationships among Acanthaceae sensu stricto (s.s.) and their closest relatives. 1) Elytraria (representing Nelsonioideae) is more distantly related to Acanthaceae s.s. than Thunbergia and Mendoncia. 2) These last two genera are sister taxa and together are the sister group of Acanthaceae s.s. 3) Acanthaceae s.s. are monophyletic. 4) There are at least four major monophyletic lineages within Acanthaceae s.s.: the Acanthus, Barleria, Ruellia, and Justicia lineages. 5) These four lineages are related as follows: {Acanthus lineage [Barleria lineage (Justicia + Ruellia lineages)]}. 6) Within the Justicia lineage, there are at least five monophyletic sublineages, related as follows: {Odontonema sublineage [Stenostephanus sublineage (Henrya sublineage {Dicliptera + New World Justicia sublineages})]}.
10.2307/2666678|We sequenced the complete ITS regions and the 5.8S gene of nuclear ribosomal DNA of 24 plants representing 20 species and two hybrids from six sections of Bidens, plus one species of Cosmos, and produced a phylogenetic tree. All Hawaiian species have identical sequences, including B. cosmoides. Bidens cosmoides is the most morphologically divergent species in the genus, and has previously been segregated into the monotypic section Degeneria and considered to represent a separate introduction of Bidens into Hawaii. Hawaiian and southeast Polynesian species represent a single monophyletic colonization of islands in the Pacific Ocean. There is a basal dichotomy in Bidens between north temperate species of wet habitats in sections Hydrocarpaea and Bidens and subtropical and tropical species of well drained habitats in sections Psilocarpaea, Campylotheca, and Greenmania, suggesting the two groups are not closely related. Segregation of the aquatic B. beckii as the monotypic genus Megalodonta is not supported. A recently discovered Bidens on Starbuck Island in the South Pacific is not closely related to Polynesian Bidens. It could represent a second colonization of the South Pacific, or it could be a recent, non-indigenous introduction. The continental sister group of Polynesian Bidens appears to be a group of Latin American herbaceous species with determinate growth in section Psilocarpaea rather than the indeterminate woody vines of section Greenmania. This suggests that woodiness and indeterminate growth are apomorphic in Polynesian Bidens.
10.2307/2666679|Sequences from the chloroplast-encoded gene rbcL and the nuclear-encoded internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were analyzed independently and then combined to infer phylogenetic relationships of Corynocarpus. Relationships obtained from the rbcL and ITS data sets are are largely congruent and well resolved. The combined data set provides even greater support for relationships. The rbcL results support current placement of Corynocarpus in its own distinct family, the Corynocarpaceae, and suggest that this family is most closely related to the Anisophylleaceae, Begoniaceae, Coriariaceae, Cucurbitaceae, Datiscaceae, and Tetramelaceae, together comprising the order Cucurbitales. This contradicts traditional classifications, which have placed the Corynocarpaceae in the Celestrales. The five species of Corynocarpus are genetically distinct, but comparison of ITS sequences shows little infraspecific sequence variation within C. laevigatus and C. rupestris. The present distribution, fruit morphology, and patterns of relationships inferred from the sequence data suggest a Palaeotropical center of origin and two independent radiations in the Corynocarpaceae. The first radiation comprises C. cribbianus and C. rupestris, which extend through New Guinea to Australia, and the second radiation comprises C. dissimilis and C. laevigatus, which extend southwards through New Caledonia to New Zealand.
10.2307/2666635|The two recent theories of flowering plant evolutionary origins-the Anthophyte and NeoPseudanthial theories-are based on phylogenies (from morphological data) that show Gnetales as extant sister to angiosperms or as paraphyletic to angiosperms. Gnetales figured prominently in homology assessments and evolutionary scenarios of these theories. Several recent studies, including ours, provide strong evidence that extant gymnosperms are monophyletic, so Gnetales are most closely related to other gymnosperms, not to flowering plants. This removes the basis for both recent theories, leaving earlier theories that relate flowering plants to fossil "seed-fern" gymnosperms as the only active contenders. Our data from the homeotic gene Floricaula/LEAFY imply that the lineage leading to flowering plants originally had two copies of this gene, but that one copy was lost in flowering plants, which suggests a new theory: that developmental control of flower organization derives more from systems active in the male reproductive structures of the gymnosperm ancestor, rather than from the female, with ovules being ectopic in the original flower. This theory was based entirely on data from living plants, but the fossil group Corystospermales has both male and female structures that fit the theory. Corystosperms could include ancestors of the flowering plants.
10.2307/2666636|Unlike most highly outcrossing flowering plants, milkweeds (Asclepiadaceae) have exceptionally low pollen-ovule ratios. We counted the number of pollen grains contained within a pollinium sac and the number of ovules contained within an ovary for 38 species of Asclepiadaceae. Across four tribes of the Asclepiadoideae, the number of pollen grains per pollinium varied from 14 to 445, and the number of ovules per ovary varied from 4 to 229. Nevertheless, the pollen-ovule ratio was constrained within a narrow range, generally 1 to 2. Similar constraints on pollen-ovule ratios occur within mimosoid legumes (Acacia, Calliandra, Inga) whose pollen also is dispersed in clusters (polyads). Our data are consistent with the view that agglutination of pollen evolves in concert with ovule number to minimize the likelihood of receiving mixed pollen loads and are not consistent with the view that pollen-ovule ratios reflect breeding system or pollination efficiency. Trends in pollen grain and ovule number do not appear to reflect taxonomic affinities, but rather ecogeographical pressures.
10.2307/2666637|Phylogenetic placement of Puelia and Guaduella, two broad-leaved African grass genera traditionally classified as bamboos, is inferred from analysis of ndhF, rbcL, and PHYB sequence data. Puelia and Guaduella are supported as sister genera, and the Puelia/Guaduella clade is resolved as an early diverging branch within the Poaceae and sister to the BEP + PACC clades, which include the bulk of the family. The new grass subfamily Puelioideae is described to accommodate the Puelia/Guaduella clade.
10.2307/2666638|A new moss species, Schizymenium shevockii, is described from Fresno County, California. Schizymenium shevockii is distinguished from North American species of Mielichhoferia by a single endostomial peristome, and from Mexican species of Schizymenium by dioicous sexuality, poorly developed endostome segments, and the complete absence of exostome teeth. The new species can also be distinguished from S. pontevedrensis (the only European species of that genus), Mielichhoferia mielichhoferiana, and Mielichhoferia elongata by the presence of 38 and 29 nucleotide (nt) deletions in the ITS1 region of nuclear ribosomal DNA, and a nine nt insertion in the ITS2 region. Four additional insertions and/or deletions distinguish S. shevockii from M. elongata and/or M. mielichhoferiana. Moreover, Mielichhoferia elongata and M. mielichhoferiana share 34 nucleotide substitutions that distinguish them (as a monophyletic group) from S. shevockii and S. pontevedrensis. A survey of California populations using primers designed to take advantage of molecular differences between S. shevockii and morphologically similar but sterile plants of Mielichhoferia elongata revealed plants of S. shevockii at three sites. At one such site, S. shevockii was sympatric with M. elongata. All samples of S. shevockii had identical ITS sequences.
10.2307/2666639|The Halesia carolina complex has consisted of several poorly defined taxa endemic to the southeastern United States. To help resolve the taxonomy of this complex, seventeen morphological characters thought to be of taxonomic utility were measured from 286 herbarium specimens collected throughout the range of the complex and analyzed with Pearson's correlations. No character exhibits a distinct gap in character states; rather, most characters display broadly clinal patterns of variation that are significantly associated with latitude. Several characters also exhibit significant partial correlations. Principal components analysis does not reveal distinct clusters. The apparently concordant clines spanning the range of the complex suggest secondary contact of at least two formerly isolated groups, possibly a result of Quaternary glacial cycles. Morphological intergradation among populations is now so extensive as to preclude the recognition of more than a single species, H. carolina, without infraspecific divisions. The taxonomy of the complex is revised accordingly herein. An updated distribution map based on nearly 400 collections, full synonymy, and a description of H. carolina are included.
10.2307/2666640|Phylogenetic relationships in the myrmecophytic genus Tococa (Melastomataceae) were investigated using morphological data. The data matrix comprised 42 ingroup taxa, two of them previously described as Microphysca, the monotypic genus Myrmidone, and 11 species of the genus Miconia as outgroups. Vegetative and floral characters were used, in addition to characters drawn from seeds using both light and electron microscopy. A cladistic analysis of the morphological matrix, containing 58 informative characters, resulted in 224 most parsimonious trees. This analysis shows that Tococa is not monophyletic, both because there are some species of Tococa more closely related to Miconia than to the remaining species of Tococa, and because Myrmidone and Microphysca are nested within Tococa. However, it is possible to recognize a large, well-supported clade that includes Myrmidone and most species of Tococa. This clade is here defined as Tococa sensu stricto. The tooth in the dorsal side of the anther connective that has been informally proposed in the past as a synapomorphy for Tococa, although present in most species of Tococa sensu stricto, is not a synapomorphy for the genus. Synapomorphies for Tococa sensu stricto include the presence of emarginate petals, truncate ovaries and straight anticlinal walls in the cells of the seed testa. Within Tococa sensu stricto, ant domatia have evolved at least twice, and have been secondarily lost at least once.
10.2307/2666641|Isozymes were examined in the six aquatic (including amphibious) diploid species of Isoetes of eastern North America in order to quantify their levels and patterns of genetic variation, to determine their genetic distinctness, and to evaluate the utility of allozymes in addressing ancestry in the I. riparia complex. Twenty-six populations representing diploid species, I. echinospora, I. engelmannii, I. flaccida, I. mattaponi, I. prototypus, and I. valida were compared for eleven enzymes coded by 16 interpretable loci. Levels of genetic variation in populations tended to be low ranging from none (means: P = 0.0, A = 1.0, H = 0.0) in I. echinospora to moderate (means: P = 22.9, A = 1.4, H = 0.093) in I. flaccida. Genetic variation in polymorphic species tended to be distributed more among than within populations, as indicated by high F<sub>st</sub> values (F<sub>st</sub> > 0.607 in all polymorphic species except I. mallaponi, for which F<sub>st</sub> = 0.272). The genetic identities of conspecific populations were high, with mean values ranging from I = 0.779/S = 0.733 in I. flaccida to I = 1.000/S = 1.000 in I. echinospora. Interspecific genetic identities were lower, with means ranging from I = 0.438/S = 0.429 between I. mattaponi and I. prototypus to I = 0.736 between I. valida and I. flaccida, and S - 0.699 between I. valida and I. prototypus. Thus the six diploids were found to be genetically distinct, corroborating their recognition based on morphology. Evidence from this study indicates that isozymes may be informative in diagnosing ancestry of allopolyploids in the Isoetes riparia complex.
10.2307/2666642|Isoetes riparia is a complex tetraploid taxon of eastern North America that in its widest sense includes a diversity of morphotypes variously segregated, or included in a single polymorphic species. Although the diploid ancestry of I. riparia has been proposed as I. echinospora x engelmannii, it is uncertain whether this ancestry applies to all elements of the complex, here broadly defined to encompass three segregates of I. riparia and the recently described I. hyemalis (referred to informally as riparia, canadensis, saccharata and hyemalis). To help clarify relationships among these tetraploids, isozyme genotypes for 13 loci coding eight enzymes, were determined for 16 populations representing all four segregates. Duplicate gene expression, evidenced as fixed heterozygosity consistent with allopolyploidy, characterized the tetraploid genotypes of all taxa. Although exhibiting modest to no variation within populations, populations were highly differentiated, most showing a unique combination of alleles for their multilocus genotypes, with the exception of five genetically identical Canadian populations. Ancestry was evaluated through comparison to diploid genotypes previously reported. A quantitative approach was carried out to rank likelihoods for hypothetical ancestral combinations of diploids for each tetraploid population. The ancestry I. echinospora x engelmannii hypothesized for I. riparia was unequivocally supported for the six populations of the most northern segregate, canadensis. Diploid ancestries for the remaining 10 more southern populations were less certain, although the diploid I. mattaponi was implicated as a likely ancestor for most. Most likely ancestry for populations of riparia/saccharata was inferred as I. valida x mattaponi, and for hyemalis as I. mattaponi x flaccida. However, these hypotheses were only slightly more likely than other combinations. UPGMA analysis using Rogers' similarity resulted in three clusters corresponding to canadensis, riparia/saccharata, and hyemalis. However, the hyemalis cluster was weakly associated and was not supported by UPGMA using Nei's identity. These highly variable tetraploid genotypes suggest a complicated evolutionary history for the I. riparia complex that probably involved a combination of diverse ancestry, multiple origins, divergence, and gene silencing.
10.2307/2666643|Allozyme and morphological analyses were conducted to test speculation and recently published taxonomy concerning northern versus southern variation in the Cypripedium parviflorum complex. Allozyme analyses of 40 populations from 10 states revealed marked differences in genetic variation between northern and southern populations of var. pubescens, and between var. makasin and var. parviflorum. For both comparisons, the northern populations from previously glaciated regions generally contain more genetic variation and larger estimated population sizes than do their southern counterparts. These results are in contrast to most published findings on other taxa that report higher levels of genetic variation in populations near glacial refugia compared to conspecifics from previously glaciated territory. To explain the data in our paper, we suggest the existence of a northern refugium for C. parviflorum in a periglacial environment that contained abundant habitat for this species. This region could have served as a genetically diverse source of propagules for colonizing newly deglaciated territory. Conversely, populations in the heavily forested south may have remained relatively small and isolated throughout glaciation, promoting genetic drift and the loss of genetic variation. Lastly, var. makasin differs from the other two varieties in mottling and coloration of the dorsal sepal, and in pubescence on the uppermost, nonphotosynthetic sheathing leaf. These data are consistent with previous hypotheses of northern versus southern differentiation in C. parviflorum, and support recognition of newly restored var. makasin.
10.2307/2666644|The remarkable morphological diversity of the palm subfamily Calamoideae provides a paradigm for evolutionary studies of palm structure and function. Phylogenetic relationships among the 22 calamoid genera are investigated here in simultaneous analyses of morphological data and DNA sequences from nuclear ITS regions and the chloroplast rps16 intron. The resultant hypotheses of relationship are used to explore morphological character evolution through an examination of character state optimisations. The evolution of habit and its associated characters is found to be highly homoplasious; for example, multiple origins of both the acaulescent and climbing growth forms have been identified. Similarly, life history and reproductive characters show complex patterns of evolution with few primary homology assessments proving to be effective judgements of synapomorphy. Many of these homoplasious characters were emphasized in the previous classification of the Calamoideae and consequently some non-monophyletic groups were recognized formally. We present a new classification in which a number of unexpected, group-defining characters, such as the number of pollen apertures, have been identified. The classification comprises three tribes and nine subtribes, including one newly described tribe Eugeissoneae. However, the morphology of many well supported clades remains poorly understood, creating further challenges for future studies in calamoid phylogeny.
10.2307/2666645|The goals of this study were to elucidate phylogenetic relationships in Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) using the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region, and compare this phylogeny with three infrageneric classifications. Thirty Eleocharis species and eight outgroups were analyzed using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses. These analyses place Websteria within the Eleocharis clade. The sister group of Eleocharis has traditionally been inferred to be either members of the Abildgaardieae or Scirpeae. Theses analyses do not show strong support for Bulbostylis (Abildgaardieae) or Schoenoplectus (Scirpeae) as the sister lineage to Eleocharis. The ITS results are not entirely congruent with any of the classifications. There is support for a monophyletic Eleocharis subgenus Limnochloa and subgenus Zinserlingia sensu Gonzalez-Elizondo and Peterson, but many of the subdivisions of Eleocharis subgenus Eleocharis are para- or polyphyletic. Morphological characters inferred to have multiple origins by the ITS data, and qualitative traits such as texture, shape and color of nuts and scales, and shape and texture of sheath apices have been used to define classification units in Eleocharis and this appears to have played a major role in the confusion surrounding relationships in the genus.
10.2307/2666646|Phylogenetic relationships among 43 accessions of Fragaria, representing 14 species, and one accession of the outgroup Potentilla fruticosa, were assessed using nucleotide sequence data from the nuclear ITS region and from a region of the chloroplast genome including the trnL intron and the trnL-trnF spacer. Variability was low in both regions and lower in the chloroplast than in the nuclear sequences. The data were analyzed cladistically, separately and in combination. Greater phylogenetic resolution was obtained with the ITS and combined data than with the trn data; the strict consensus tree from the combined data analysis was very similar to that from the ITS analysis, but the position of some accessions was affected by the inclusion of the trn data. The results support the following conclusions: Fragaria iinumae is sister to all other species in the genus; F. vesca and F. nubicola are the diploid species most closely related to the polyploid species, including the tetraploid F. orientalis, the hexaploid F. moschata, and the octoploids F. chiloensis and F. virginiana; the latter two species are sister taxa; accessions of F. virginiana subsp. platypetala from Oregon and Nevada are more closely related to F. chiloensis than to other accessions of F. virginiana. The data provide support for the identification of some accessions in the National Clonal Germplasm Repository in Corvallis, Oregon.
10.2307/2666647|Phoradendron is a genus of morphologically diverse mistletoes that currently lacks a satisfactory supraspecific classification. Its subtle distinction from Dendrophthora moreover suggests that Phoradendron may not be monophyletic. This study uses sequences from three regions of the nuclear ribosomal DNA cistron to infer phylogenetic relationships in the two genera. These DNA regions differ in their rates of nucleotide substitution. Sequences of the ITS spacers are sufficiently variable to resolve relationships among closely related species but are barely alignable with those of more distantly related species and outgroups. Alignment is possible, however, among sequences of the 5.8S gene and among two regions of the 26S nuclear rDNA. Maximum parsimony analyses suggested that neither Phoradendron nor Dendrophthora is monophyletic. Three major clades were identified whose topologies suggest that many characters traditionally used for primary subdivision are homoplastic.
10.2307/2666648|Parsimony analysis of nucleotide sequences of the plastid gene rbcL and non-coding trnL-F region was used to examine phylogenetic relationships of 36 members of Zygophyllaceae, especially of the four genera forming subfamily Zygophylloideae (Zygophyllum, Fagonia, Tetraena and Augea). The two data sets were analyzed separately, and in combination. Results of the three analyses were largely in agreement and support previous division of Zygophyllaceae into five subfamilies. Zygophylloideae were further divided into five clades each with high bootstrap support, although the branches connecting these clades are poorly supported. Zygophyllum appears polyphyletic and may need further revision. The taxonomic positions of Morkillia, Sericodes, Pintoa, and Tribulopis are also clarified.
10.2307/2666685|Pitcairnia flammea var. corcovadensis was formed by the reduction of P. corcovadensis. The reestablishment of the latter taxon is based on two points: (1) P. corcovadensis occurs sympatrically with P. flammea in many locations, and (2) a morphometric analysis on a natural population involving these two taxa showed that they were distinct and no intermediate form was found despite their overlapping flowering seasons. Herbarium collections were examined to verify that this distinction is consistent throughout their geographic distribution. Despite the apparent reproductive isolation, artificial hybrids can be produced between P. corcovadensis, and P. flammea. Five morphological traits were recorded for 221 six-month old seedlings from artificial hybrids and parental taxa that were grown under the same controlled conditions. Analysis of variance and discriminant analysis on seedlings showed the differences to be genetically based. A brief review of the synonyms related to P. flammea complex concluded that P. lancifolia var. lancifolia, P. lancifolia var. minor, and P. pumila are synonyms of P. corcovadensis. A re-description, an epitype establishment, geographic distribution, description and list of material examined are provided for P. corcovadensis.
10.2307/2666686|The assignment of collections belonging to the genus Trema has been reassessed using numerical taxonomy methods. Observation in the field in Togo, West Africa, confirmed high phenotypic variation but not the previously asserted lack of character concordance within the T. guineensis complex. This study was carried out to assess the circumscription of taxa in the area. Distance between specimens was computed using the Gower's general coefficient of similarity and the non-parametric MODECLUS cluster analysis was used to discover how the specimens segregated. The existence of three clusters in the 158 specimen dataset using 44 morphological characters was suggested by MODECLUS. Canonical discriminant analysis supported the recognition of those three clusters using 40 morphological characters. Classificatory discriminant analysis showed that all specimens except one are identified correctly by the discriminant function. We suggest that three species be recognized in Togo and the neighboring countries: T. orientalis, T. africana, and T. nitens. A key to the species is included and the advantages of the method suggested here are discussed.
10.2307/2666687|Descriptions, keys, distribution, ecology, and notes on taxonomic problems and comparisons with related taxa are provided for seven new species of Phaseolus from Mexico. The new species are classified in informal Phaseolus groups, in accordance with a recent phylogenetic analysis using molecular and non-molecular characters. Phaseolus macvaughii and P. perplexus are members of the P. leptostachyus group and P. pauciflorus group, respectively, Phaseolus juquilensis, P. marechalii, and P. xolocotzii are part of the P. polystachios group, and P. hintonii and P. zimapanensis, form a well-supported clade with P. xanthotrichus, within the P. tuerckheimii group.
10.2307/2666688|Glycine tabacina, a wild perennial relative of soybean, comprises a widespread polyploid complex in Australia and islands of the Pacific Ocean. Data from a single-copy nuclear locus, histone H3-D, confirm the existence of two polyploid races. Plants of one of these (AAB'B') are nonstoloniferous and have linear leaflets. One of the genomes of this race is that of an A-genome diploid, identified by the histone data most closely with a race of G. tomentella. Its other genome (B'B') was donated by a nonstoloniferous diploid species that is sister to all of the remaining B-genome species, which are stoloniferous. Plants of the second race of polyploid G. tabacina (BBB'B') are stoloniferous, have ovate leaflets, and combine a B' genome with a genome of the core B-genome diploid group. The likely source of the shared B' genome is a species previously referred to as G. sp. aff tabacina, that is here formally named Glycine stenophita.
10.2307/2666689|Vicariant biogeographic relationships have been commonly sought, inferred, or assumed between Africa and South America. Yet for disjunct distributions involving North America and the Old World, Africa is rarely considered. We present a molecular biogeographic study in the legume family that suggests a vicariant biogeographical relationship between Africa and North America. Such a relationship is likely to be shown with additional phylogenetic analysis to be prevalent among legume groups and other taxa that diversified during the Tertiary in seasonally dry tropical vegetation. If so, this finding would strengthen the hypothesis that the Tertiary North Atlantic land bridge had a significant influence on the Cenozoic formation of continental biotas, including that of Africa.
10.2307/2666690|Members of the traditional genus Dentaria (Brassicaceae) comprise about twenty species disjunctly distributed in three biogeographical areas: eastern North America, western North America, and Eurasia. The group has variously been treated as a distinct genus, as a subgenus of Cardamine, or as several sections within Cardamine. Using chloroplast DNA sequence data from the trnL intron and ndhF gene we examine the evolutionary relationships of traditional Dentaria species to Cardamine sensu stricto and the validity of Schulz's sectional treatment of Cardamine (including Dentaria). Sequence data were obtained from nine Dentaria species, representing all three disjunct biogeographical groups and two of Schulz's sections, and six other Cardamine species representing a range of morphological variation within the genus and three of Schulz's sections. Results from maximum parsimony analysis show multiple origins for Dentaria within Cardamine and do not correspond well to Schulz's sectional classification. Cardamine including Dentaria appears to form a monophyletic group with Nasturtium as its sister-group. We also find strong support for monophyly of the eastern North American species group previously placed in the genus Dentaria. Further, we find that C. clematitis and C. flagellifera, considered by some to be conspecific, are distinct and not closely related.
10.2307/2666691|A phylogenetic analysis of Cyperaceae tribe Cariceae was conducted using chloroplast DNA sequences from the gene ndhF and trnL intron and trnL-trnF intergenic spacer. Twenty nine taxa within Cariceae, four outgroup genera, and approximately 3,000 bp of cpDNA were included in the study. Our analysis reveals a monophyletic Cariceae with 100% bootstrap support. Within Cariceae, the South African genus Schoenoxiphium forms a clade that is sister to the rest of the tribe. Our results indicate that genus Carex is paraphyletic with respect to Kobresia, Cymophyllus, and Uncinia. Cymophyllus and Uncinia are nested within an assemblage containing Kobresia, Cymophyllus, and several unispicate Carex species. At the subgeneric level within Carex, only Carex subgenus Vignea appears monophyletic. Several well supported clades were identified within the Cariceae, including the Schoenoxiphium clade, Uncinia clade, Carex subgenus Indocarex/Carex clade, and subgenus Vignea clade; however, relationships among some clades are only moderately supported. Interpretation of the phylogenetic patterns and an account of past phylogenetic hypotheses with respect to the new data are provided.
10.2307/2666692|The relationships of Lycopodium and Lycopodiella (Lycopodiaceae) were investigated based on two plastid data sets (rbcL gene and trnL intron) from a representative sample of 21 species. Separate and combined analyses of the data reveal consistent patterns of relationship. There is strong support for monophyly of Lycopodium and Lycopodiella. There is also support for monophyly of species groups or sections sensu Ollgaard (Lycopodium, Diphasium, Magellanica, Complanata, Lycopodiella, and Campylostachys). The combined data provide new evidence of relationships between subgeneric groups. In Lycopodium, section Pseudodiphasium groups with section Magellanica, section Obscura groups with section Diphasium, and section Annotina groups with section Lycopodium. In Lycopodiella, sections Lateristachys and Caroliniana group with section Campylostachys and this group is sister to section Lycopodiella. Tentative calibration of the phylogenetic tree using fossil evidence indicates a minimum age of Early Jurassic (208 Myr) for the split between Lycopodium and Lycopodiella. Reticulate fossil spores from Upper Permian records are potentially of Lycopodium affinity and indicate that early cladogenesis in Lycopodium may be even older. An evaluation of biogeographic and phylogenetic patterns in these two genera shows a striking difference from that in Huperzia. Sections within Lycopodium and Lycopodiella have broad geographic distributions, whereas molecular data partition the much larger Huperzia group into predominantly neotropical and paleotropical clades.
10.2307/2666693|The taxonomy of the dogroses (Rosa sect. Caninae) is notoriously problematic and all the members of the section are characterized by a form of unbalanced meiosis (so-called "canina meiosis"). We used a novel combination of random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers and elliptic Fourier analysis of leaflet shape to investigate relationships within and between the seven common dogrose taxa in the Nordic countries. A between-individual genetic distance matrix calculated on the basis of the presence/absence of RAPD bands was used in a non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis. Population data from elliptic Fourier analysis of leaflet shape were analyzed with canonical variates analysis. Elliptic Fourier analysis of leaflet shape provided a valuable complement to traditional, often subjectively-assessed, morphological characters and detected subtle patterns of within- and between-taxon differentiation that are generally consistent with the relationships recognized in the current taxonomic treatments of the section. In contrast, RAPDs emphasize the discontinuities between three groups of taxa and suggest that R. canina and the two subspecies of R. dumalis, as well as the taxon-pair R. sherardii and R. villosa subsp. mollis, are more closely related than can be concluded on the basis of morphological characters.
10.2307/2666694|Results of phylogenetic analyses of nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences from Heliantheae s.l. (sensu lato) lead us to conclude that Pelucha should be placed taxonomically in Helenieae s.s (sensu stricto) rather than in Plucheeae or Inuleae s.l. The sister-group relationship between Pelucha and a clade comprising Psathyrotes and Trichoptilium inferred from nuclear ribosomal DNA trees is in accord with morphological characteristics shared by the three genera and with their common restriction to desert environments of western North America. The shrubby habit of Pelucha is unusual in the otherwise mostly-herbaceous Helenieae s.s. and is conceivably the result of evolution on islands in the Gulf of California. In a revised subtribal classification of Helenieae s.s., two new subtribes are erected: Psathyrotinae, for the group comprising Pelucha, Psathyrotes, and Trichoptilium, and Plateileminae, for Plateilema. Gaillardiinae is delimited to comprise Balduina, Gaillardia, and Helenium s.s., Marshalliinae is retained for Marshallia, and Riddelliinae is reinstated for Amblyolepis, Baileya, Hymenoxys sensu Bierner, Psilostrophe, and Tetraneuris.
10.2307/2666695|The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA (rDNA) was sequenced in 65 taxa representing most coneflowers (i.e., species in Dracopis, Echinacea, Ratibida, and Rudbeckia) and other taxa representing 21 outgroup genera of tribe Heliantheae. Results of parsimony analysis of the rDNA dataset by itself and in combination with the cpDNA dataset uphold the hypothesis from an earlier cpDNA restriction site study that Echinacea is not closely related to the other three genera of coneflowers. The data support placement of Echinacea in subtribe Zinniinae. The remaining three coneflower genera represent a monophyletic lineage corresponding to subtribe Rudbeckiinae sensu H. Robinson. The rDNA data support two sublineages in Rudbeckia congruent with the two traditionally recognized subgenera, subg. Macrocline and subg. Rudbeckia. In subg. Macrocline, two geographic areas of diversification are indicated: southeastern and western United States. The widespread species R. laciniata is placed strongly with the western lineage of subg. Macrocline. The rDNA data support transfer of Dracopis to Rudbeckia subg. Macrocline, a relationship also supported by multiple morphological characters. The rDNA data do not confidently resolve the sister group of Rudbeckiinae from among the members of Heliantheae investigated. Multiple hypotheses are suggested for the outgroup taxa, such as expanding subtribe Zinniinae to include Echinacea and Trichocoryne, a genus previously regarded as belonging to subtribe Hymenopappinae (Heleneae or Heliantheae sensu lat.). Our findings further support expansion of subtribe Engelmanniinae to include Balsamorhiza, Borrichia, and Wyethia even though these taxa lack ray floret complexes and have fertile disc ovaries. We suggest that bioprospectors might usefully search among taxa of Zinniinae for bioactive substances similar to the immune stimulants of Echinacea.
10.2307/2666721|Mikania palmata and Mikania wurdackii, endemic to Ecuador and Peru, respectively, are new species. Both are members of section Summikania. Dendroid hairs are reported on the leaves, stems, and capitulescences of M. wurdackii and compared to somewhat similar structures reported elsewhere in the genus only on the cypselae of two Brazilian species.
10.2307/2666722|We used discriminant analysis to assess taxonomic status of three closely related, rare taxa within the cactus genus Escobaria (E. guadalupensis, E. sneedii var. sneedii, and E. sneedii var. leei). These three taxa consist of nine isolated populations; six of these populations consist of morphologically typical specimens (i.e., similar to the type specimen), while three populations are of questionable taxonomic status. We used the six morphologically typical populations (referred to as assigned populations) to derive predictive discriminant functions for each taxon. These discriminant functions were then applied to assigned populations to determine the status and taxonomic boundaries of each taxon, and to the three questionable populations (referred to as unassigned populations) to interpret their taxonomic status. Our model included four predictor variables: number of immature stems, mature stem diameter, number of radial spines, and length of the innermost central spines. Discriminant analysis correctly classified >93% of 186 individuals from the six assigned populations, suggesting a distinct status for each taxon. Applying the predictive discriminant functions to unassigned populations resulted in classifying a large percentage of individuals from each unassigned population into each of two taxa. This suggests that the unassigned populations consist of morphological intermediates, possibly as the result of hybridization. Meiotic chromosome numbers of n = 11 were determined for E. guadalupensis, E. sneedii var. leei, and the three unassigned populations.
10.2307/2666723|Detailed descriptions, habitat preferences, geographic range, and representative specimens are given for the 13 native and two introduced taxa of Acacia subgenus Acacia (approximately the same as Acacia series Gummiferae) that are found in the South American flora. Some of these taxa are wide ranging. Acacia macracantha, A. tortuosa, and A. farnesiana are extremely common in northern South America, whereas A. caven and A. aroma occur throughout much of the southern half of the continent. The remaining species have restricted ranges, being found in relatively small areas. Principal components analysis (PCA) of vegetative and floral features shows that these species form discrete groups in plots of the first three principal components. From these data, most of the species were found to be relatively homogeneous, as indicated by the light clusters formed in the PCA plots. In contrast, A. macracantha, a species ranging from Florida, south through the Caribbean, into South America, and in Mexico, is highly variable morphologically. The data suggest little gene flow between species. Hybrids are extremely uncommon.
10.2307/2666724|Comparative restriction site mapping of the chloroplast genome of 26 accessions of Acacia plus outgroups (Caesalpinia, Albizia, and Ebenopsis) was carried out to analyze phylogenetic relationships among the subgenera of Acacia and, in particular, within Acacia subgenus Acacia. One or more taxa from each of seven New World species-groups plus two African species of Acacia subgenus Acacia were included in the analysis to generate hypotheses of the evolution and radiation of this group. Restriction maps constructed from data from 11 restriction enzymes yielded 212 informative restriction sites out of a total of 900. Parsimony analysis resulted in a total of 12 most parsimonious trees of 663 steps each. The strict consensus tree and bootstrap and decay indices indicate strong support for monophyly of Acacia subgenus Acacia and provisional support for the paraphyly of Acacia overall. Moderately to strongly supported clades within Acacia subgenus Acacia indicate that the mesically adapted A. macracantha species-group is polyphyletic and may represent lineages with sister group relationships with both the ant-acacias and the more xerically adapted A. farnesiana species-group. A group of Caribbean species was found to be ancestral in Acacia subgenus Acacia and African and South American species were found to be relatively derived with respect to North American species, lending support to a Boreotropical, rather than a Gondwanan, hypothesis of the historical biogeography of Acacia subgenus Acacia.
10.2307/2666725|Sideritis L. subgenus Marrubiastrum (Lamiaceae) comprises 24 species of Macaronesian endemic perennials. The constituent taxa encompass a wide array of life forms that have exploited all ecological zones present in the Macaronesian archipelagos of Madeira and the Canary Islands. Though recently revised, an explicit phylogeny of the subgenus is still lacking. This group is especially intriguing because it exhibits the largest aneuploid series ever reported in oceanic island plants. The present study uses a chloroplast DNA restriction site analysis to elucidate the pattern of evolution within and among the islands. The insular taxa form a strongly supported monophyletic group, indicating a single colonization of Macaronesia. Monophyly of the sections is not supported. Integrating geographical and ecological distribution with the cpDNA phylogeny reveals a pattern of diversification within the islands consistent with adaptive radiation. Most other Macaronesian plant groups studied thus far have diversified by inter-island colonization between similar ecological zones. An analysis of chromosome number suggests a bimodal pattern of chromosomal change in the island subgenus, with one clade showing a decreasing aneuploid series and a second clade exhibiting aneuploid increase. The rate of change appears markedly amplified relative to that of the continental subgenus. This extreme level of chromosomal diversity stands in stark contrast to a general pattern of chromosomal stasis in island plants.
10.2307/2666726|Chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site maps for 113 species of Apiaceae (Umbelliferae) and the allied families Araliaceae and Pittosporaceae were constructed for two enzymes and examined for variation in position of J<sub>LB</sub>, the junction between the large single copy and inverted repeat regions that is typically contained within the ribosomal protein S10 operon. With the exception of one large clade in Apiaceae subfamily Apioideae, all species possess a J<sub>LB</sub> indistinguishable from that found in the vast majority of angiosperms. Within this large clade, however, at least one expansion and seven different contractions of the IR relative to the tobacco J<sub>LB</sub> were detected, each ranging in size from 1-16 kb. Five of the junction shifts are parsimony informative, and three support major clades delimited in earlier phylogenetic studies. In light of cladograms based on previous studies of restriction site and DNA sequencing data, the IR appears to have expanded and contracted a minimum of ten times during the evolution of Apioideae, with several presumably identical size variants occurring in parallel. The frequency and large size of J<sub>LB</sub> shifts in Apioideae cpDNAs are unprecedented among angiosperms, indicating that the subfamily represents a model system to study the mechanisms leading to large-scale expansions and contractions of the IR.
10.2307/2666727|The plant family Commelinaceae displays a wide range of variation in vegetative, floral, and inflorescence morphology. This high degree of variation, particularly among characters operating under strong and similar selective pressures (i.e., flowers), has made the assessment of homology among morphological characters difficult, and has resulted in several discordant classification schemes for the family. Phylogenetic relationships among 40 of the 41 genera in the family were evaluated using cladistic analyses of morphological data. The resulting phylogeny shows some similarity to the most recent classification, but with some notable differences. Cartonema (subfamily Cartonematoideae) was placed basal to the rest of the family. Triceratella (subfamily Cartonematoideae), however, was placed among genera within tribe Tradescantieae of subfamily Commelinoideae. Likewise, the circumscriptions of tribes Commelineae and Tradescantieae were in disagreement with the most recent classification. The discordance between the phylogeny and the most recent classification is attributed to a high degree of convergence in various morphological characters, particularly those relating to the androecium and the inflorescence. Anatomical characters (i.e., stomatal structure), on the other hand, show promise for resolving phylogenetic relationships within the Commelinaceae, based upon their agreement with the most recent classification.
10.2307/2666728|Nucleotide sequence data from the chloroplast genome from the non-coding trnL-trnF intron and spacer corroborate previous suggestions about the monophyly of the African Restionaceae. These data, combined with a morphological character set, show that neither Staberoha nor Ischyrolepis are basal to the African Restionaceae but rather are embedded in the Restio clade. There is strong support for a basal dichotomy that separates the woody nut Willdenowia clade from the soft nut and capsular Restio clade. However, the resolution within these two clades is poor, possibly suggesting recent radiation. The monophyly of the genera Elegia, Staberoha, Thamnochortus, Ischyrolepis, Cannomois, and Ceratocaryum is corroborated (albeit on very small sample sizes), but Chondropetalum, Restio, Calopsis, Hypodiscus, Anthochortus and Willdenowia are shown to be para- or polyphyletic. Dovea, Askidiosperma, Rhodocoma, Platycaulos, Mastersiella, Hydrophilos, and Nevillea are either monotypic, or have been represented by a single species in this analysis, and consequently their monophyly cannot be evaluated. It is evident that despite massive generic redelimitations in the family 15 years ago, more changes will have to be made in order to establish a taxonomy of monophyletic genera.
10.2307/2666729|Analysis of three plastid DNA sequences for a broad sampling of Amaryllidaceae resolve the American genera of the Amaryllidaceae as a clade that is sister to the Eurasian genera of the family, but base substitution rates for these genes are too low to resolve much of the intergeneric relationships within the American clade. We obtained ITS rDNA sequences for 76 species of American Amaryllidaceae and analyzed the aligned matrix cladistically, both with and without gaps included, using two species of Pancratium as outgroup taxa. ITS resolves two moderately to strongly supported groups, an Andean tetraploid clade, and a primarily extra-Andean "hippeastroid" clade. Within the hippeastroid clade, the tribe Griffineae is resolved as sister to the rest of Hippeastreae. The genera Rhodophiala and Zephyranthes are resolved as polyphyletic, but the possibility of reticulation within this clade argues against any re-arrangement of these genera without further investigation. Within the Andean subclade, Eustephieae resolves as sister to all other tribes; a distinct petiolate-leafed group is resolved, combining the tribe Eucharideae and the petiolate Stenomesseae; and a distinct Hymenocallideae is supported. These Andean clades are all at least partially supported by plastid sequence data as well. We infer from our data that a great deal of the diversity of the family in the Americas is recent, and that the American Amaryllidaceae may have been reduced to peripheral isolates some time after its initial entry and spread through the Americas. While the sister relationship of the American and Eurasian clades might argue for a Boreotropical origin for the family in America, the cladistic relationships within the American clade based on ITS do not provide any further support for this or any other hypothesis of the family's entry into America. The new tribe Clinantheae is described (four genera: Clinanthus, Pamianthe, Paramongaia, and Pucara), and the lorate-leafed species of Stenomesson are transferred to Clinanthus.
10.2307/2666730|The phylogenetic relationships of 29 genotypes representing 12 species of the genus Corylus (Betulaceae) were investigated using sequences of the internal transcribed spacer regions of the nuclear ribosomal DNA and the chloroplast matK gene. The two genes gave different results. The ITS region in Corylus yielded only 22 informative characters. Nevertheless, several clades in Corylus were resolved: the shrub species C. avellana, C. maxima, C. americana, and C. heterophylla; another group of shrub species C. cornuta, C. californica, and C. sieboldiana; and the tree species C. colurna, C. chinensis, and C. jacquemontii which formed a paraphyletic group. Corylus ferox formed the basal-most branch of the Corylus clades. The strict consensus tree was congruent with the results of interspecific hybridization relationships and morphological classification. The matK sequence yielded only 10 informative characters. Two clusters appeared on the strict consensus tree, one with Asian and European species, and the other with North American species. However, this classification based on matK sequences was not in agreement with currently accepted taxonomic classification, and the paucity of informative characters precludes more definitive inferences from the matK data.
10.2307/2666731|Nyctaginaceae are a small family of mainly New World tropical and subtropical trees, shrubs, and herbs. To date phylogenetic relationships within the family have not been examined. This study provides the first phylogenetic hypothesis of relationships within Nyctaginaceae tribe Nyctagineae based on sequence data from both nuclear (ITS) and chloroplast (accD 5'coding region and intergenic region between the rbcL and accD genes). Morphological characters are also discussed as they relate to the phylogeny inferred using molecular data. Results suggest that neither Acleisanthes nor Selinocarpus is monophyletic but that together they comprise a monophyletic lineage. The genus Mirabilis is strongly supported as monophyletic, but the monophyly of two of its sections is suspect. Morphology generally agrees with the molecular data and in some instances reinforces clades weakly supported by nuclear and chloroplast data. Further sampling will help clarify relationships of these genera within Nyctaginaceae.
2666652|All published information on the Andean Velloziaceae is summarized and augmented by our own data obtained by revision of herbarium material, studies of cultivated plants and observations in the field. A new species from the central Andes within the department of Santa Cruz, Bolivia, is described and illustrated. Vellozia andina sp. nov. is distinguished by, among other characteristics, short, stout and trigonous stems and by the irregular pollen aggregates of more than eight grains. Habitat and ecology of the new taxon are described. This first Andean record considerably amplifies the known range of the genus Vellozia. The new species is a poikilohydrous and poikilochlorophyllous resurrection plant. Within the exclusively Andean genus Barbaceniopsis four species are recognized. Barbaceniopsis castillonii comb. nov., found in southern Bolivia and northern Argentina, with blue-violet and triangular-acute tepals forming a hypanthium, is differentiated from B. boliviensis, which has white, shorter, rather obtuse tepals and a shorter hypanthium. For both taxa new biological information and illustrations are provided. A distribution map and an identification key for all Andean Velloziaceae are presented.
2666653|Asarum sect. Asarum is a monophyletic group of 14 species distributed through North America, Europe, and Asia. The section is here treated in a taxonomic monograph based on morphological study of field-collected material and herbarium specimens. A key, descriptions, distribution maps, and citations of representative specimens are provided, and available information is reviewed on the pollination biology and phylogenetic relationships within the group. Six species of sect. Asarum are recognized in North America: A. canadense is widespread in the east, and the others range from widespread to narrow endemics in the west. Asarum canadense, which has at times been divided into several species or infraspecific taxa, is here recognized as a single species based on a lack of reliable differences among the variants. Asarum europaeum, which is the most widespread species in the section, has been similarly split historically, but also is treated here as a single taxon. In Asia, section Asarum consists of seven species from the eastern Himalayas through south-eastern China, with two also extending into Japan.
2666654|Corynocarpaceae group closely with Coriariaceae and Cucurbitaceae by axial parenchyma types (vasicentric scanty plus apotracheal banded plus ray-adjacent, all in strands of 1-2 cells) and Homogeneous Type II rays. Begoniaceae, Datiscaceae S. S., and Tetramelaceae group on the basis of absence of banded axial parenchyma and subdivision of the vasicentric parenchyma into strands of 3-5 cells. All of the families of Cucurbitales (except Anisophylleaceae) have two unusual features: minimal borders on perforation plates and unusually wide multiseriate rays (not accompanied by uniseriate rays). All of the families except Anisophylleaceae have another unusual feature, storied fusiform cambial initials. Anisophylleaceae have several wood features more primitive than those of other Cucurbitales (tracheids, aliform axial parenchyma, nonstoried cambial initials), but the family is not necessarily excluded from Cucurbitales. Data on wood of Corynocarpaceae are derived from samples of three species of Corynocarpus; possible specific characters are offered.
2666655|Sphagnum troendelagicum is only known from five localities in central Norway. Three populations were analyzed to assess its genetic affinities with other Sphagnum species. Isozyme and cytological data indicate that the species is allopolyploid. Morphological, RAPD, and isozyme data further indicate that it has originated from hybridization between Sphagnum tenellum (sect. Mollusca) and S. balticum (sect. Cuspidata). Sphagnum troendelagicum is morphologically distinct, with unique combinations of character states found in sect. Cuspidata and sect. Mollusca. Sphagnum tenellum is genetically similar to S. balticum, although these species are morphologically divergent. Our data support the inclusion of S. tenellum within sect. Cuspidata. Sphagnum troendelagicum appears to have originated recurrently; thus its restricted distribution cannot be ascribed to a single origin. The progenitor species are widespread in the Northern Hemisphere and often grow sympatrically in boreal areas. Hypotheses that may account for the restricted distribution of S. troendelagicum, including ecological tolerance of the allopolyploid and opportunities for hybridization between the progenitors, are discussed.
2666656|Because geographic races occupy pivotal niches in both evolutionary theory and taxonomy, species for which races or infraspecific taxa have been identified may provide the best cases for evaluating models of geographic speciation. Despite its relatively restricted geographic distribution, Leptodactylon californicum exhibits morphological variation that has been recognized at the infraspecific level. Five subspecies have been recognized within this California endemic, each adhering to specific geographic limits and reportedly exhibiting distinguishing morphological features. We investigated geographic divergence among populations of L. californicum through examination of patterns of divergence in morphology, allozymes, and ribosomal DNA profiles. Geographic trends in morphology have previously been reported, with clines running from north to south and from the Pacific coast inland. Correlations between genetic (i.e., allozymic) divergence and morphology, genetic divergence and geographic location, and morphology and geographic location were detected. Gene flow among populations appears to be restricted, most likely due to geographic barriers, permitting the divergence of populations. Divergence may be further enhanced by self-pollination. Unique alleles are fixed in the most geographically isolated populations; these populations are also the most divergent morphologically. No variation in rDNA restriction sites was detected among populations. The allozyme data, coupled with morphology, support a model of geographic divergence in L. californicum and provide the basis for reassignment of subspecific designations within the species.
2666657|The chloroplast trnL-F region was sequenced for 20 species of Velloziaceae sensu stricto plus Acanthochlamys and representative species of Cyclanthus (Cyclanthaceae) and Pandanus (Pandanaceae) as outgroups. Phylogenetic analysis of the trnL intron and trnL-F intergenic spacer placed the Asian Acanthochlamys as a distant but well-supported sister-group to a monophyletic Velloziaceae sensu stricto. Within the Velloziaceae, the subfamily Barbacenioideae sensu Menezes is well supported as monophyletic, in agreement with chromosomal and morphological data, while the subfamily Vellozioideae may be paraphyletic. At least two of the currently recognized genera within the Barbacenioideae (Aylthonia and Barbacenia) appear to be paraphyletic or polyphyletic as currently delimited, while the genus Burlemarxia appears to have arisen recently within a subgroup of Barbacenia. These results appear most consistent with the inclusion of all or almost all of the taxa of the Barbacenioideae within a broadly delimited genus Barbacenia. Within the subfamily Vellozioideae, trnL-F data are consistent with the segregation of the South American Nanuza from Vellozia as a distinct genus, while the South American species sometimes placed in Xerophyta are not distinct from Vellozia.
2666658|Relationships of the enigmatic genera Whitfieldia, Chlamydacanthus, and Lankesteria (Acanthaceae) were examined using molecular sequence data for two chloroplast loci (ndhF gene, trnL-trnF spacer and intron) for these and a sample of taxa representing all major lineages within the family. Morphological data, including pollen structure as imaged using SEM, were also compiled for these three genera, and evaluated in a phylogenetic context. Bremekamp suggested that Whitfieldia and Chlamydacanthus belonged together as tribe Whitfieldieae, and that Lankesteria was closely related to Pseuderanthemum in Justicieae. Contra earlier classifications of Acanthaceae, this would result in tribes with multiple corolla aestivation patterns. Our results confirm that Chlamydacanthus and Whitfieldia are closely related. Unexpectedly, Lankesteria is sister to these two genera together and we propose that the three genera comprise an expanded tribe Whitfieldieae. Also unexpectedly, Whitfieldieae is sister to Barlerieae. We propose a number of morphological synapomorphies for Whitfieldieae including concentric rings of ridges on the seeds and a densely granular circular area surrounding the pores of pollen grains. Chlamydacanthus and Whitfieldia further share biporate, flattened pollen grains that are circular in outline, and seeds with glabrous surfaces. Barlerieae is a large and diverse lineage such that synapomorphies to support aspects of their relationships are difficult to identify. However, hygroscopic trichomes on the seeds may be a synapomorphy for Whitfieldieae plus Barlerieae, with subsequent loss in Chlamydacanthus, Whitfieldia, and some Barleria. As here circumscribed, Whitfieldieae includes plants with both contort and imbricate corolla aestivation seconding Bremekamp's misgivings about basing classifications entirely upon this character.
2666659|The systematic relationships of four species in the South African holoparasitic genus Hyobanche were examined using inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) banding patterns and nucleotide sequence data from nuclear ribosomal ITS regions and the plastid gene rbcL. Ordination of ISSR data revealed discrete groups, although H. glabrata and H. rubra were indistinguishable. Phylogeny reconstructions based on ISSR and ITS data were congruent and depicted relationships where H. atropurpurea and H. sanguinea form a clade with H. glabrata and H. rubra as their sister group. In contrast, the rbcL tree revealed a topology where H. atropurpurea was sister to a clade that included the other three species. The combination of molecular, morphological, and biogeographical data suggest two alternative hypotheses: (1) that floral evolution has progressed from galeate hirsute corolla tubes to straight glabrous tubes as represented by H. sanguinea, H. glabrata (intermediate morphology), and H. rubra, respectively; or (2) the intermediate floral morphology and distribution of H. glabrata reveal a hybrid origin of this species with H. sanguinea and H. rubra as progenitors.
2666660|Phylogenetic relationships within subfamily Arbutoideae (Ericaceae) were estimated using parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of sequence data from the ITS region and part of the large subunit of nuclear ribosomal DNA. The data support the monophyly of Arctostaphylos, Arctous, and Comarostaphylis, but suggest that Arbutus is not monophyletic, with Mediterraneart Basin species more closely related to the clade containing Arctostaphylos, Arctous, Comarostaphylis, Ornithostaphylos, and Xylococcus than to the western North American species of Arbutus. Calibration of branch lengths with the fossil record suggests that a vicariance event occurred among members of the Arbutoideae between western North America and the Mediterranean Basin at the Paleogene/Neogene boundary, consistent with the Madrean-Tethyan hypothesis.
2666661|Phylogenetic analyses of ITS sequence data from 70 species and 40 genera of Araliaceae (representing all major lineages within the "core group" of the family) do not support the widely used traditional division of Araliaceae into three tribes. Tribe Aralieae (characterized by imbricate petals) is found nested within a paraphyletic Schefflerieae (whose taxa have valvate petals). There are, however, two large monophyletic groups comprising most araliad genera: the "Aralia-Polyscias-Pseudopanax group" (which includes Aralia, Meryta, Munroidendron, Panax, Pentapanax, Polyscias, Pseudopanax, Reynoldsia, Sciadodendron, Tetraplasandra, and their close allies), and the "Eleutherococcus-Dendropanax-Schefflera group" (including Brassaiopsis, Dendropanax, Eleutherococcus, Fatsia, Hedera, Oreopanax, Schefflera, Sinopanax, and their close allies). The ITS trees also permit a re-evaluation of several taxonomically important morphological characters (e.g., petal aestivation, leaf architecture, carpel number, and habit), and provide the opportunity to assess traditional generic delimitations in the family. Four of the largest genera appear to be either polyphyletic (Schefflera, Pseudopanax) or paraphyletic (Aralia, Polyscias), but further studies will be needed to fully re-define these complex taxa. Outgroup comparisons and the placement of Astrotricha and Osmoxylon (in basally-branching lineages in Araliaceae) help to confirm a paleotropical origin of the family. The ITS topologies suggest that biogeographic radiations into different tropical/subtropical regions and into the north and south temperate regions occurred early in the history of core Araliaceae. Temperate taxa have arisen several times independently from tropical and subtropical relatives, although a few subtropical taxa may be found nested within temperate clades (e.g., Pentapanax within Aralia). Migrations between the Old and New Worlds are also suggested for several taxa, including Aralia, Panax, Oplopanax, and the Sinopanax-Oreopanax generic pair.
2666662|The apparent recency of diversification of Californian Lessingia (Compositae, Astereae) makes the genus a particularly interesting group for evolutionary investigation. Here we focus on the major evolutionary lineages within Lessingia (sensu Lane 1992) and the higher-level relationships of the genus and presumed close relatives using sequence data from the 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region and the 3' end (561-563 bp) of the external transcribed spacer (ETS). We present new 3'ETS primers that are useful across Astereae and examine the phylogenetic utility of the 3'ETS in Lessingia and close relatives. In Lessingia, the 3'ETS region appears to have evolved up to 1.4 times more rapidly by nucleotide substitution than has the ITS region. Our results show that data from the ETS greatly augments data from the ITS region; the combined data set yields the best resolved and best supported molecular trees for Lessingia. These topologies lead us to five conclusions regarding the phylogenetic relationships of Lessingia (sensu Lane 1992) and closely related genera: (1) Lessingia may not be monophyletic when Benitoa is included within the genus, (2) among the taxa sampled, Benitoa and Hazardia appear to be the closest living relatives of Lessingia s. s. and L. filaginifolia (= Corethrogyne), (3) a sister group relationship exists between the radiate, perennial L. filaginifolia (= Corethrogyne) and the discoid, annual members of the genus (Lessingia s. s.), (4) different corolla coloration (pink/white vs. yellow) diagnoses the two major clades of Lessingia s. s., and (5) the "yellow group" of lessingias comprises three distinct, morphologically diagnosable, lineages which span the currently accepted circumscriptions of two taxa (L. lemmonii and L. glandulifera).
2666663|Mosaically sympatric populations of Blepharizonia plumosa subsp. plumosa and B. plumosa subsp. viscida occur in the eastern San Francisco Bay region, California. Results from pollen and chromosomal studies of artificial hybrids yielded evidence of low interfertility between individuals of different taxa. Low fertility of hybrids between taxa was associated with meiotic irregularities (e.g., failure of meiosis I). Phylogenetic analyses of 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region from representatives of multiple populations of both groups yielded evidence for two well-supported evolutionary lineages corresponding to B. plumosa subsp. plumosa and B. plumosa subsp. viscida. Pairwise distances between ITS sequences of the two taxa approximate or exceed pairwise ITS sequence distances between species of tarweed genera that are closely related to Blepharizonia. Rate constancy of ITS sequence evolution allowed us to estimate a five-fold more ancient divergence between lineages corresponding to the two taxa in Blepharizonia than between lineages corresponding to the two outgroup taxa in Hemizonia. We conclude that the two taxa currently recognized in Blepharizonia are ancient, highly divergent groups worthy of continued taxonomic recognition and best treated as species, B. plumosa and B. laxa (= B. plumosa subsp. viscida). Although natural hybridization appears to occur between B. laxa and B. plumosa, we found no convincing evidence of introgression that could lead to loss of genetic integrity of the rare and endangered B. plumosa.
2666700|Whereas there is increasing evidence that some polyploid taxa have multiple independent origins, little attention has been given to the possibility that taxa arising through selective processes without ploidal shifts also may be the products of recurrent evolution. I argue that there are no necessary reasons why ecologically distinct races and species could not arise from separate lineages at different times and in different places. Similarity of the genetic structure of progenitor populations combined with parallel selective pressures would make this possible, as would evolution in the direction of greatest genetic variance. Putative examples of multiple independent origins of single and multiple adaptations are reviewed. The possibility that some taxa are polyphyletic is suggested by the presence of isolated populations in different clades. I also consider the possibility of the recurrent origins of reproductive isolating mechanisms and of species.
2666701|Geranium section Brasiliensia (Geraniaceae) consists of three species centered in Southern Brazil: G. arachnoideum, G. brasiliense, and G. glanduligerum. Fruits with "Erodium-type" dispersal have been found in all species of section Brasiliensia, which allows classifying this section within subg. Erodioidea. Diagnostic morphological features are analyzed and compared to other sections of Geranium subg. Erodioidea. No new characters explaining phylogenetic relationships within subg. Erodioidea or supporting its monophyly are found. A new key is provided, as well as new and detailed descriptions. Geranium brasiliense and G. glanduligerum are here illustrated for the first time. Three lectotypes are designated, and a distribution map is presented.
2666702|Dillandia (Compositae, Liabeae) is described as new on the basis of three species: D. perfoliata (S. F. Blake) V. A. Funk and H. Rob. (=Liabum perfoliatum), D. chachapoyensis (H. Rob.) V. A. Funk and H. Rob. (=Munnozia chachapoyensis), and D. subumbellata V. A. Funk and H. Rob. Phylogenetic analysis of Liabeae using data from the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (Kim et al. unpublished data) places two of the Dillandia species outside the subtribe Munnoziinae and separates them from all other clades in the tribe as well. Irregular spine groupings on the pollen confirm the separation of these species from the Munnoziinae. Morphological analysis suggests that these two and one additional species form a monophyletic group defined by their possession of bullate leaf surfaces and pale anther thecae. This study is an example of how molecular and morphological data, when used together, can lead to a better classification.
2666703|Smithatris supraneanae W. J. Kress & K. Larsen, gen. et sp. nov. is described and illustrated. The new taxon was first collected in the limestone hills in the Saraburi Province north of Bangkok, Thailand, and probably ranges into adjacent Burma as well. Smithatris is most closely allied with several genera in the tribe Hedychieae including Curcuma, Stahlianthus, and Hitchenia. It most closely resembles the latter genus sharing the petiolate leaves and long pedunculate inflorescence with congested, pouched bracts, but differing in the deeply split labellum and hood-like structure formed by the lateral staminodes and dorsal corolla lobe that partially encloses the anther. In a separate analysis of the phylogenetic relationships of the genera of the Zingiberaceae based on molecular sequence data, Smithatris forms a nested assemblage with the above three genera thereby supporting recognition of this new taxon at the generic level. Smithatris is commonly used in ceremonies during the Buddhist lent, is sold as a cut flower in local markets in Saraburi, Thailand, and recently has become widespread in commercial nurseries. The fact that this ethnobotanically important plant has remained unknown to taxonomists until now suggests that our knowledge of the flora of tropical Asia is still rudimentary.
2666704|Stem and leaf anatomy of Dirachma socotrana, an endemic species from Socotra, is described in detail. The diffuse porous to semi-ring-porous wood is characterized by solitary vessels and vessels in short radial multiples with a tendency for oblique/radial vessel arrangement, simple vessel perforations, vascular tracheids, nonseptate fibers with simple to minutely bordered pits mainly confined to radial walls, axial parenchyma which is scanty paratracheal and in 1-2-seriate marginal bands, and mainly 1-2-seriate heterocellular rays. The inner bark shows stratified fiber groups; the outer bark has flaring rays. The dorsiventral leaves typically have an indumentum of small, unicellular hairs, anomocytic stomata, an adaxial epidermis largely composed of periclinally divided mucilage cells. The petiole and midrib vascular bundle is typically composed of a simple arc-shaped strand. Prismatic crystals are common in the wood, bark, pith, and leaf. The systematic position of the monotypic family Dirachmaceae in a newly defined Rosales sensu Angiosperm Phylogeny Group was established recently on the basis of molecular data and confirmed by ovule and seed characters. Vegetative anatomical features provide additional arguments for a placement of the family within this order, particularly close to the Rhamnaceae.
2666705|The Monopetalae or Sympetalae have been resurrected recently as the Asteridae s.l., a large clade that includes almost all sympetalous angiosperms. Phylogenetic analyses of a large, combined data set of sequences of four genes (18S rDNA, rbcL, ndhE, atpB) have improved our understanding of the evolutionary history of this large clade of angiosperms. Most of the taxa fall within one of four major clades, the Cornales, Ericales, euasterids I (comprising Lamiales, Solanales, Boraginaceae, Gentianales, and Garryales), and euasterids II (comprising Asterales, Apiales, Dipsacales, Escalloniales, and Aquifoliales). We used the phylogenetic tree based on our recent phylogenetic analysis of four genes to elucidate the evolutionary patterns of the ovule and the diversification of iridoid biosynthesis in the asterids. Asterid-specific patterns of character distribution can be seen. Unitegmic-tenuinucellate ovules occur almost universally in the asterid clade. Cellular endosperm is ancestral in the asterids; nuclear endosperm emerged several times. Shedding of tricellular pollen does not seem to be a useful character for higher level taxonomy except for uniting Apiales and Dipsacales. Reversals from nuclear endosperm formation and tricellular pollen are not observed. Iridoids occur in many asterid clades and are probably ancestral. The ability to produce iridoids, however, has been lost frequently. Secoiridoids predominate in the euasterids II, whereas carbocyclic iridoids are most diverse in Lamiales. Although this study showed high correlation of unitegmic-tenuinucellate ovules with iridoid synthesis, several questions remain. Studies of the ontogeny and biosynthesis of these characters can now focus especially on those areas of transition determined in this analysis.
2666706|Erythronium populations from the southwestern Olympic Mountains of Washington, U.S.A. are tetraploid (2n = 48) and are morphologically intermediate between two widespread diploid species of this region, the subalpine E. montanum and the low-elevation E. revolutum. The Olympic Mountains populations lie between the geographic and elevational ranges of E. montanum and E. revolutum and exhibit a combination of the isozyme characteristics of these two species, possessing 11 alleles in common with E. montanum and four in common with E. revolutum. The evidence supports their derivation from the above two species through allopolyploid hybridization, and they are described here as the new species Erythronium quinaultense.
2666707|Sequence data for the ITS region of rDNA provide evidence that Linanthus bicolor, an annual species of western North America, is polyphyletic. A previous study identified two sequence types, distinguished by over 50 fixed nucleotide differences, in populations from different geographical regions. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the two are not sister taxa and, furthermore, that each represents an independent origin of self-fertilization. The morphological similarity of the two taxa, especially in floral traits, is hypothesized to have resulted from convergent evolution in characters associated with self-fertilization. Morphological and genetic data for populations sampled throughout the range of L. bicolor indicate that these distinct genetic types correspond to intraspecific taxa as currently circumscribed. The molecular evidence for polyphyly of L. bicolor, presence of significant morphological differences between the two taxa, and evidence that they are, to a large extent, reproductively isolated provide a strong rationale for distinguishing them at the level of species. We propose that L. bicolor var. minimus be elevated to species status with the designation, L. minimus.
2666708|Nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions were used to address questions about the taxonomy, phylogeny, and biogeography of the hazelnut genus, Corylus (Betulaceae). The ITS phylogeny supports the recognition of two sections within the genus: section Acanthochlamys comprising the basal extant lineage Corylus ferox, and section Corylus consisting of the remainder of the genus. Within section Corylus, recognition of three subsections is supported: subsection Corylus (species with leafy, more or less bell-shaped involucres), subsection Colurnae (tree species with deeply dissected involucres), and subsection Siphonochlamys (species with tubular involucres). The ITS sequence divergence among species within Corylus is low, corresponding with that of most other North Temperate disjunct taxa. A few morphological characters were added to the analysis to boost support for branches. Migration between Asia and North America via the Bering land bridge is suggested by subsection Siphonochlamys while long distance dispersal from Europe to North America during the late Tertiary is suggested by the close relationship and lack of sequence divergence among members of subsection Corylus. A close biogeographic relationship among areas of eastern Asia, the Himalayas, and the Mediterranean region is suggested by the subsection Colurnae clade.
2666709|The genus Zygocarpum is described with six species formerly of Ormocarpum. This genus is endemic to the Horn of Africa, the southern end of the Arabian Peninsula, and the island of Socotra. Analysis of combined nuclear ribosomal ITS/5.8S and morphological data reveals that Zygocarpum is strongly supported as monophyletic and the basal-most lineage of a mainly African-Madagascan clade comprising also Ormocarpum, Ormocarpopsis, and Peltiera. A second analysis involving a combination of nuclear ribosomal ITS/5.8S, chloroplast trnL intron, and morphological data reveals some well supported relationships among the species of Zygocarpum. Zygocarpum dhofarense and Z. yemenese, endemic to the Arabian Peninsula, form a sister clade to the central Somalian Z. gillettii. The precise relationships among the other two Somalian species, Zygocarpum rectangulare and Z. somalense, as well as the endemic Socotran Zygocarpum coeruleum, are less certain. The distribution of Zygocarpum, which spans the Gulf of Aden, is considered to be due to a Late Tertiary vicariant event involving the separation of the Arabian Peninsula from continental Africa.
2666710|With approximately 2,000 species, Carex is the largest genus in the Cyperaceae and is one of the most widespread genera in the world. Relationships within Carex and among the genera of the Cariceae (Carex, Cymophyllus, Kobresia, Schoenoxiphium, and Uncinia) are unclear. For this reason, a molecular phylogenetic study employing nrDNA ITS and cpDNA trnT-L-F spacer sequences was undertaken. In addition to creating hypotheses of relationship for the Cariceae and testing classifications of this tribe, a primary goal of this study was to assess relationships within Carex section Acrocystis and identify a monophyletic group for more detailed study. These analyses suggest that Cymophyllus, Kobresia, Schoenoxiphium, and Uncinia are nested within Carex. Three primary clades are suggested: a Carex subgenus Vignea clade, a clade including Carex subgenus Primocarex (for the most part) and the other genera of Cariceae, and a clade predominately comprised of Carex subgenera Carex and Indocarex. A large part of Carex section Acrocystis forms a monophyletic group but several Eurasian species are more closely related to other groups rather than to this core clade. Assessment of chromosome number variation across the Cariceae clade suggests that the ancestor of the Cariceae had a moderate to high chromosome number. In addition, these analyses suggest the sister group of the Cariceae is a clade including Scirpus sensu stricto, Amphiscirpus, and Dulichium.
2666711|The phylogeny of Isolepis was investigated by cladistic analysis of rbcL and trnL-F sequence data from 69 species in 26 genera of Cyperaceae. The genus Isolepis, as currently circumscribed, is not monophyletic. Three species, I. nodosa, I. Marginata, and I. trolli, are more closely related to Ficinia, whereas the position of I. humillima is uncertain. The remainder of Isolepis is sister to Ficinia and Desmoschoenus and together with Hellmuthia and Scirpoides form a clade sister to Cyperus s.l.; this clade shares the Cyperus-type embryo. Scirpus s.l. is not monophyletic. Scirpus s.s. and other genera with a Fimbristylis-type embryo form a monophyletic clade, whereas Schoenoplectus and other genera with a Schoenoplectus-type embryo form a grade.
2666712|A phylogeny and revised classification of the flowering plant family Cunoniaceae and related taxa is presented. Parsimony cladistic analyses, including bootstrap and decay analyses, of chloroplast DNA sequences from two loci, trnL-trnF and rbcL, and morphology show that three genera often placed in their own families, Bauera, Davidsonia, and Eucryphia, are nested within Cunoniaceae. Brunellia may be most closely related to the Australian pitcher plant Cephalotus, and Aphanopetalum is in Saxifragales. Within Cunoniaceae, the New Guinean-South Pacific genera Acsmithia and Spiraeanthemum form a sister clade to the rest of family. Within this larger clade is a basal grade in which flowers mature centrifugally on an inflorescence axis, and a clade in which flowers mature synchronously to acropetally on an inflorescence axis. Other conspicuous morphological characters, including stipule position, inflorescence form, petal presence or absence, number of pollen colpi, carpel number, and fruit morphology, are homoplasious among and within clades at the tribal level. The results are used to propose a circumscription of the family, with 26 genera and approximately 300 species. Twenty genera are placed among six tribes (Cunonieae, Codieae, Geissoieae, Caldcluvieae, Schizomerieae, and Spiraeanthemeae), and six poorly resolved genera are not placed into any formally named group. Among outgroups, the Australian endemic family Tremandraceae is nested within Elaeocarpaceae.
2666713|Subfamily Chloridoideae has a history of unsettled taxonomic problems at the tribal and generic levels, and phylogenetic relationships within and among its tribes are not well understood. DNA sequences of the plastid gene matK for 74 species representing 56 chloridoid genera and all tribes and subtribes were used to reconstruct a phylogeny for the subfamily. The base of the Chloridoideae clade shows a polytomy among Triraphis schlecteri and three strongly supported clades labeled A, B, and C. Clade A comprises the Pappophoreae, Uniolinae, and three genera of Eragrostideae; clade B includes most representatives of subtribe Sporobolinae, Spartina, Zoysia, and two Eragrostis species; and clade C encompasses the remaining species. The two largest tribes Eragrostideae and Chlorideae appear polyphyletic. The traditional Pappophoreae minus Pappophorum comprise a clade corresponding to the Cotteinae; Pappophorum nests within a sister clade. The Uniolinae, Orcuttieae, and Triodiinae form strongly supported monophyletic entities. Two large genera, Chloris and Eragrostis, do not appear monophyletic. A pattern of segregation of Old World from New World species is evident in several clades. These results provide a framework for further studies at the tribal and generic levels moving toward a comprehensive systematic treatment of the Chloridoideae.
2666714|The Portulacaceae, Basellaceae, Cactaceae, and Didiereaceae form a monophyletic group within the Caryophyllales, and evidence exists that the first may be paraphyletic if the latter three are recognized at the familial level. Several taxonomic treatments of the Portulacaceae based on morphological features have failed to produce consensus regarding infrafamilial relationships. The present paper employs sequences of the chloroplast gene ndhF to produce a molecular phylogeny of the portulacaceous cohort, focusing on the relationship among major lineages of the Portulacaceae and the three families potentially derived from within them. Results of this analysis supported two major clades within the monophyletic cohort. The first included Portulaca, Anacampseros and its relatives, much of Talinum, Talinella, and Cactaceae; the second, weakly supported, included the remaining genera of Portulacaceae, Basellaceae, and Didiereaceae. This phylogeny also showed that several generic circumscriptions remain inadequate, particularly that of Talinum sensu lato, which was polyphyletic in this analysis, and that all present classifications of the Portulacaceae include demonstrably non-monophyletic tribes.
2666715|Previous studies of the Malvales have shown that the Sterculiaceae are not monophyletic. However, members of four traditionally recognized tribes of Sterculiaceae (Byttnerieae, Theobromeae, Hermannieae, Lasiopetaleae) appear to constitute a clade named Byttnerioideae. Here we analyze sequences of the chloroplast gene ndhF for 37 species of Byttnerioideae. The monophyly of this diverse group of plants is supported with the inclusion of Kleinhovia from a fifth tribe of Sterculiaceae (Helictereae). The Hermannieae is the only tribe that appears to be monophyletic as traditionally circumscribed. Rulingia and Commersonia, two genera formerly placed in the Byttnerieae, are in a clade with all members of the Lasiopetaleae. The remaining Byttnerieae, Theobromeae, and Kleinhovia form two clades at the base of the Byttnerioideae. These results imply that the unusual hooded petals of many Byttnerioideae (e.g., Theobroma cacao) are plesiomorphic for the clade, with subsequent transitions to large, flat petals or small, scale-like petals that lack a distinct hood. Stamen number has traditionally been used to distinguish tribes in the Sterculiaceae. However, our analyses indicate that this character shows extensive homoplasy, with both increases and decreases in stamen number occurring within the Byttnerioideae.
3093974|Eighty-eight chromosome number counts representing 62 species in nine genera of the Lythraceae are presented based primarily on meiotic figures from pollen mother cells. Included are first reports for 47 species and the first count for the monotypic genus Koehneria. Numbers for 40 species of Cuphea from Brazil and Bolivia are reported, significantly increasing representation of chromosome number data for South American sections of the genus. Comparisons of the new counts are made to previously published numbers for each genus. Basic numbers for 24 of the 31 genera are provided. Eight genera retain the apparent original diploid number of x = 8; 12 are functional diploids of paleopolyploid origin with secondary basic numbers of x = 15, 16, 24, 28, or 32. Polyploid events are hypothesized to have occurred early in the evolution of the family so that the majority of monotypic or ditypic genera, which today constitute 65% of the family, are relictual polyploids. The most chromosomally diverse and actively speciating genera are the herbaceous perennials Ammannia, Nesaea, Cuphea, and Lythrum. In contrast, the woody genera Diplusodon, Ginoria, and Lafoensia, are species-rich but speciation has not involved chromosome number changes. Further understanding of chromosomal evolution in Lythraceae will depend on production of well-supported phylogenies for the family and cytological investigations in the genera where many different chromosome numbers occur.
3093975|Plagiochila perdentata sp. nov. (sect. Abietinae Carl) from Papua New Guinea is described and illustrated. Five species names are newly placed in synonymy: Plagiochila curvula Steph., P. incurva Steph., and P. leratii Steph. (conspecific with P. hampeana Gottsche), and P. saveziana Steph. and P. longistipula Steph. (conspecific with P. norfolkiensis Steph.). Plagiochila peradenyensis Schiffn. is transferred from sect. Contiguae Carl to sect. Abietinae. A key to the twelve known species of sect. Abietinae is provided.
3093976|The Amblystegiaceae include pleurocarpous mosses typical of moist, wet, or aquatic habitats. Sporophytes are uniform, and genera are distinguished by the habit, arrangement, and anatomy of leaves, leaf cell shape, and costal structure. Generic limits are controversial. Species have been shifted from genus to genus, sometimes in or out of other related families. Nucleotide sequences from the Internal Transcribed Spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat from 39 accessions were analyzed to test monophyly of the genera Amblystegium, Campylium, and Drepanocladus. Reconstructions constrained to support monophyly of each genus were significantly less parsimonious and less likely than from unconstrained searches. ITS sequences support previous suggestions based on morphology that Campylophyllum halleri is not closely related to Campylium stellatum or Campyliadelphus chrysophyllus. Our results also support previous treatments that divide Drepanocladus into two or more segregate genera. Leptodictyum riparium appears more closely related to Campylium stellatum and Campyliadelphus chrysophyllus than to Amblystegium species. Some, but not all, populations of A. humile, Hygroamblystegium tenax, H. fluviatile, and H. varium form a strongly supported clade.
3093977|We describe and illustrate Metaxya lanosa, the second known species in the genus and the fern family Metaxyaceae (Pteridophyta). It is currently known from four different watersheds in Amazonian Peru and Venezuela. It can be distinguished readily from M. rostrata by the noticeably woolly-hairy stipes and rachises (hairs red-brown or orange-brown and easily abraded), broader, more elliptic pinnae, cartilaginous and whitish pinna margins, more distinct veins abaxially, and longer pinna stalks, especially on the distal pinnae. rbcL data from a very limited sampling are ambiguous but do not reject support for the recognition of at least two species within Metaxya.
3093978|The basal subfamily Caesalpinioideae of the Leguminosae generally is subdivided into four or five tribes, but their monophyly remains questionable. Recent cladistic analyses based on morphological characters and chloroplast rbcL sequences suggest conflicting hypotheses of relationships among tribes and subtribal groupings and of the identification of the basal Caesalpinioideae. Our phylogenetic analysis of the chloroplast trnL intron for 223 Caesalpinioideae, representing 112 genera, plus four Papilionoideae, 12 Mimosoideae and three outgroup taxa, provides some well-supported hypotheses of relationships for the subfamily. Our analysis concurs with the rbcL studies in suggesting that a monophyletic Cercideae is sister to the remainder of the Leguminosae. Among the other tribes of Caesalpinioideae, only the broadly circumscribed Detarieae (including Amherstieae or Macrolobieae) is also supported as monophyletic. The Detarieae s.l. occurs as sister to all Leguminosae, excluding Cercideae. Cassieae subtribes Dialiinae and Labicheinae together are sister to the remaining Leguminosae, which includes a monophyletic Papilionoideae, a paraphyletic Mimosoideae, and several monophyletic groups that correspond to previously defined generic groups or subtribes in the Caesalpinioideae. The trnL intron analysis suggests that basal legumes are extremely diverse in their floral morphology, and that presence of simple, actinomorphic flowers may be a derived feature in a number of lineages in the family.
3093979|A parsimony analysis was conducted on 319 rbcL sequences, comprising 242 from 194 genera of Leguminosae and 77 from other families. Results support earlier conclusions from rbcL and other molecular data that a monophyletic Leguminosae is part of a Fabales that includes Polygalaceae, Surianaceae, and the anomalous rosid genus Quillaja. Within legumes, results of previous analyses were also supported, such as the paraphyletic nature of Caesalpinioideae and monophyly of Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae. Most new data (74 sequences) were from Papilionoideae, particularly Phaseoleae, Millettieae, and allies. Although the overall topology for Papilionoideae was largely unresolved, several large clades were well-supported. The analysis contained a large sample of Phaseoleae and Millettieae, and not surprisingly showed both tribes to be polyphyletic, though with all taxa except Wisteria and allied Millettieae belonging to a single well supported clade. Within this clade was a strongly supported group that included Phaseoleae subtribes Erythrininae, Glycininae, Phaseolinae, Kennediinae, and Cajaninae, with only the last two being monophyletic. Desmodieae and Psoraleeae were also part of this clade. The monophyletic Phaseoleae subtribes Ophrestiinae and Diocleinae grouped with most Millettieae in a clade that included a group similar to the core Millettieae identified in other studies. All but one of the remaining Millettieae sampled formed an additional clade within the overall millettioid/phaseoloid group.
3093980|The Swartzieae, Sophoreae, Dipterygeae, and Dalbergieae are considered the most basal tribes of the subfamily Papilionoideae (Leguminosae). Nucleotide sequences from the chloroplast trnL intron for the majority of genera of these tribes were analyzed cladistically together with placeholder representatives of more derived tribes. Preliminary results indicate radical changes are necessary for papilionoid classification because Swartzieae, Sophoreae, and Dalbergieae are polyphyletic. Their constituent genera are mixed in a series of monophyletic groups, many of which have never been proposed previously, and the relationships amongst which are poorly resolved. Some of these groups, such as the genistoid and dalbergioid clades, are species-rich because they contain major papilionoid radiations. In other cases, putatively basal genera form small clades with no derived taxa included. There is weak evidence that Bobgunnia, Swartzia, Cyathostegia, Bocoa, and Ateleia (all Swartzieae) may be the sister group to all other papilionoids, and that a large clade is congruent with a 50kb inversion in the chloroplast large single copy (LSC) region.
3093981|Nuclear DNA sequence data (Internal Transcribed Spacer 1 of the 45S rDNA cistron) and morphological data were used for phylogenetic studies of the tribe Brongniartieae (Fabaceae), a tribe of four Australian and two tropical American genera. Alignment of the ITS-1 region was largely unambiguous and the phylogeny produced using parsimony methods had a high consistency index. Morphological data were mostly congruent with the molecular data and were informative for some nodes where molecular data were lacking. Combining molecular and morphological data resulted in a well-resolved phylogeny. Analyses confirm the monophyly of the tribe and show that the American genus Brongniartia is more closely related to Australian genera than to Harpalyce, the other American genus in the tribe. There is evidence that the Australian genus Plagiocarpus is related to Brongniartia. Templetonia is polyphyletic. Templetonia biloba, T. incana, and Lamprolobium form a monophyletic group. Analyses also support the recognition of three groups within the Australian endemic genus Hovea.
3093982|Artificial hybridizations of Schiedea and Alsinidendron (Caryophyllaceae: Alsinoideae), genera endemic to the Hawaiian Islands, were used to study the effects of phylogenetic relationship, genetic divergence, breeding system, and population size on the ability of species to cross and produce fertile F<sub>1</sub> hybrids. Using 17 taxa, all crosses attempted produced vigorous F<sub>1</sub> hybrids, although pollen fertility of hybrids varied substantially. Fertility of F<sub>1</sub> hybrids was positively related to genetic identity measured using allozyme variability. Fertility of hybrids was not predicted by phylogenetic relationships, estimated from morphological and molecular data. Hybrids between species with dimorphic breeding systems had significantly higher pollen fertility than other combinations, although this effect was not significant when population size was controlled in the analysis. The association of dimorphism and ability to produce fertile F<sub>1</sub> hybrids is probably indirect: dimorphic species of Schiedea occur in large populations and have high genetic identities. Although artificial hybrids are easily produced in the greenhouse, natural hybridization in Schiedea and Alsinidendron is limited, apparently because instances of sympatry are rare and autogamy is often found in one of the two species occurring sympatrically.
3093983|We tested the phylogenetic hypothesis that the circumscription of the genus Ipomoea comprises all members of Hallier's historical taxon, subfamily "Echinoconiae", including Argyreia, Astripomoea, Lepistemon, Rivea, Stictocardia, and Turbina. Support for the paraphyly of Ipomoea was found based on phylogenetic analysis of 45 taxa using DNA sequences (the ITS region and three exons and two introns of the 3 end of the nuclear gene waxy) in combination with morphological data. Two major clades within Ipomoea s. l. were resolved in the strict consensus of 16 most parsimonious trees. One clade included most of the smaller segregate genera interspersed with species of Ipomoea, whereas the other was formed by Ipomoea s.s. and Astripomoea. Our results also indicated the genus Turbina is polyphyletic and Rivea is nested within Argyreia. Together, these results suggest new phylogenetic interpretations and point towards a revised view of the nature of morphological evolution among these taxa. We used both our current understanding of morning glory systematics and the distribution of character state variation in seven taxonomically important characters to demonstrate that: 1) the common Ipomoea form is widely distributed, 2) the common form has given rise to specialized forms exhibiting a diversity of character state combinations, and 3) many of the specialized forms have arisen repeatedly. On the basis of these observations, we forward a general model of mosaic evolution that emphasizes extreme evolutionary lability in morphology among morning glory species.
3093984|The genus Downingia (Campanulaceae) has been the subject of numerous biosystematic studies, yet little is known of the evolutionary relationships among the 13 currently recognized species. Phylogenetic analyses were undertaken in order to examine the available biosystematic data in a phylogenetic framework. The genus is of particular interest for its extensive chromosomal variation and for its distribution in relatively new, but threatened, vernal pool habitats of western North America. Parsimony analyses of molecular sequence data from the nuclear 18S-26S rDNA internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) and the chloroplast 3 trnK intron indicate Downingia is monophyletic. Monotypic Porterella is sister to Downingia. Additional close relatives include Legenere and Howellia. Two main clades emerge within Downingia, neither of which have been previously recognized using morphological features. One of the two clades is homogenous in chromosome number (n = 11), and the other heterogenous, with chromosome numbers of n = 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12. Reduced, presumably selfing floral forms appear to have arisen at least twice. "Long anther tube" floral forms appear to have arisen three times from "short anther tube" floral forms. The data suggest that the current circumscriptions of some species, notably D. yina, need further examination.
3093985|Previous molecular systematic studies have indicated that the spiny-fruited umbellifers (Apiaceae tribe Caucalideae sensu Heywood) comprise two major lineages, recently delimited as Scandiceae subtribes Daucinae and Torilidinae, with the former including representation of tribe Laserpitieae sensu Drude. These taxa are allied with the monophyletic Scandiceae subtribe Scandicinae whose members lack spiny fruits. The relationship among these three subtribes is equivocal when nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer sequences are compared. Evidence from plastid DNA, however, suggests that Daucinae and Torilidinae are sister taxa. Herein, we provide results of a phylogenetic study of these spiny-fruited umbellifers based on morphology in order to study the evolution of these characters and to ascertain their utility for resolving relationships by comparison to the results of previous molecular analyses. Maximum parsimony analysis of 56 morphological characters resulted in a paraphyletic Torilidinae (Astrodaucus, Caucalis, Glochidotheca, Lisaea, Szovitsia, Torilis, Turgenia, and Yabea) from which a monophyletic Daucinae (Agrocharis, Ammodaucus, Cuminum, Daucus, Laserpitium, Orlaya, Pachyctenium, and Pseudorlaya) are derived. Scandicinae are maintained as monophyletic, sister to Daucinae plus Torilidinae. The genus Artedia, previously attributable to either Daucinae or Torilidinae, shows affinity with the former. The Daucinae plus Torilidinae clade is supported by three fruit synapomorphies-the regular distribution of appendages on both primary and secondary ridges, the presence of primary ridges and hairs on the face of the commissure, and the presence of vittae under the lateral ridges-but each subtribe cannot be circumscribed unambiguously on the basis of morphological data. Characters of the primary appendages exhibit less homoplasy than those of the secondary fruit appendages and support many clades identified in the molecular analyses. Parsimony analysis of combined morphological and ITS data, however, reaffirms the monophyly of subtribe Torilidinae and provides greater resolution of relationships within each of the subtribes than do either of the separate analyses.
3093986|DNA sequences for 100 species representing all subfamilies of Orchidaceae and Hypoxis as outgroup were produced for the intron between the b and c exons of subunit 1 of mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase (nad1). Although the proportion of variable sites is relatively low (slightly greater than rbcL in the same taxa), length variation is common, such that the intron ranges from 905 bp to approximately 2100 bp among the species. The low variability means that the sequences are fairly easily aligned, and provides an opportunity to consider the use of indels where they are a significant proportion of the data set. Critical examination of indel-coding schemes indicates that unordered multistate coding is most useful when nested indels are present. Cladistic analysis of base changes and indels alone, as well as a combined data set, reveals the importance of the indels as characters, since they provide significant additional resolution and branch support beyond that for base changes alone and have higher consistency and retention indices than base changes. The phylogenetic pattern obtained from this locus is consistent with recognition of either four or five subfamilies, and places the vanilloid orchids away from the epidendroids, in agreement with other molecular data.
3093987|Mount Kinabalu, (Sabah, Malaysia) is the youngest (ca. 1.5 million yrs old) and highest (4,095 m) mountain between the Himalayas and Irian Jaya, Indonesia. Because of this combination of youth and isolation, considerable mystery surrounds the origins of its high elevation endemics. We chose a group of high-elevation species from Dendrochilum subgen. Platyclinis sect. Eurybrachium to begin an investigation of the origin(s) of endemicity on Mount Kinabalu. We tested biogeographic hypotheses that the Kinabalu endemics arose from ancestors in: 1) the high mountains of Sumatra, 2) the high mountains of Mindanao, Philippines, and 3) lower elevations on Mount Kinabalu or elsewhere in Borneo. Using phylogenetic patterns predicted by the three competing hypotheses, we evaluated which had the highest support in a likelihood framework. Based on analyses of ITS 1 and ITS 2 sequence variation in Dendrochilum, we rejected hypotheses that the Kinabalu high-elevation endemics arose from ancestors in other high mountains of southeast Asia (Sumatra or the Philippines), and tentatively accepted their origin from lower elevation ancestors in Borneo. The origin of high-elevation endemics from lower elevation Bornean ancestors appears to be a general mode of evolution for many species on Mount Kinabalu.
3093988|Circumscriptions of Arethuseae have varied since the tribe was first described by John Lindley in 1840, containing over ninety genera among the different authors. The latest system of Arethuseae defined by Dressler, including around thirty genera, is the most commonly accepted today. The goals of this study are to assess whether Arethuseae sensu Dressler and component subtribes are monophyletic and evaluate the position(s) of Arethuseae within Orchidaceae. Sequences of two plastid genes, matK and rbcL, have been obtained for 24 representative genera of Arethuseae in Dressler's latest two taxonomic systems for the tribe, plus 46 other genera throughout Orchidaceae. Both separate and combined analyses of the matK and rbcL data indicate that the tribe may not be monophyletic, which is also true for most subtribes within Arethuseae. Furthermore, matK data suggest that this gene may be non-functional within Orchidaceae.
3093851|Cephalantholejeunea temnanthoides (R.M.Schust.) R.M.Schust., the only known member of the genus Cephalantholejeunea R.M.Schust. (Lejeuneaceae, Hepaticae), is a rare Amazonian rheophyte with entire underleaves and unique, bisexual branches consisting of a terminal androecium with 2-6 female branches at its base, the gynoecial branches with only one gynoecium and lacking innovations. Sporophytes described here for the first time indicate that the genus is a member of the subfamily Ptychanthoideae, tribe Ptychantheae, not of the subfamily Lejeuneoideae as was uniformly believed.
3093852|A combination of macro- and micromorphological, anatomical, and phytogeographical data supports the recognition of three species in the Carex backii complex (within sect. Phyllostachyae). Carex backii is widely distributed throughout temperate and boreal regions of North America and is easily recognized by its long, smooth surfaced perigynia (4.8-6.6 mm) with long beaks (1.9-2.9 mm). The leaves are dull green to yellow-green with green, crenate margins. Carex saximontana is confined to the Great Plains region of North America and is distinguished by its shorter, papillose perigynia (3.2-4.9 mm) with much shorter beaks (0.6-1.2 mm). In addition, the leaves are greenish-glaucous to dark herbage-green with distinctive hyaline margins. Carex cordillerana occurs from central British Columbia to central Utah and is described as a widespread new species. Carex cordillerana can be recognized by its dull green to yellow-green leaves with green margins that are densely covered in papillae. Perigynia are intermediate in size between C. saximontana and C. backii (3.9-5.4 mm), but have a unique epidermal cell morphology. Perigynium beaks are similar in length to those found in C. saximontana (0.5-1.6 mm). The North American Carex flora has proven to be a rich source of taxonomic novelties over the past 20 years. This is nowhere better exemplified than in Carex sect. Phyllostachyae.
3093853|The Bromeliaceae is characterized by a 2n chromosome number of 50, but exceptions have been reported. These include scattered polyploids and presumed aneuploid reductions in isolated species from subfamilies Tillandsioideae and Bromelioideae, and 2n = 34 or 36 for all species of Cryptanthus (Bromelioideae) thus far examined. Two hypotheses have been proposed that address the origin of the low chromosome number (2n = 34 or 36, compared to 50) in Cryptanthus. We have attempted to test these hypotheses using quantification of nuclear DNA by flow cytometry. DNA quantifications for examined Cryptanthus species fell into two groups. In one there was no significant difference between Cryptanthus and selected bromeliad species known to have 2n = 50. In the second, Cryptanthus species had approximately twice as much 2C nuclear DNA. Results partially support the hypothesis that the Cryptanthus chromosome number (2n = 34) originated by descending aneuploidy, a derived condition which, with other apomorphies, supports the hypothesis that Cryptanthus is derived within the subfamily Bromelioideae. First chromosome number reports are presented for two species of Cryptanthus and one species of Orthophytum.
3093854|During preparations for a revision of the genus Ribes L. for the entire neotropical region, three taxa in Ecuador, Colombia, and Costa Rica were recognized as new and undescribed species. These are formally named here. Ribes costaricensis sp. nov. from Costa Rica has been traditionally misidentified as R. leptostachyum Benth., from which it differs in angular (not round) ovaries and glabrous (not setose) stems. Ribes luteynii sp. nov. has been confused with R. hirtum Willd. in the past, from which it differs in leaf size and outline and details of the indument. Ribes caldasiensis sp. nov., from Colombia, is also a segregate of the widespread R. hirtum and differs in having a flaring hypanthium (vs. cylindrical) and lax (vs. dense racemes) and also in details of the indument. All three species are endemic to narrow regions from which their respective closest relatives are absent.
3093855|Australian species of Uromyrtus are revised and separated on morphological differences under the general lineage species concept using the criterion of character fixation. Two new species are described. The first, Uromyrtus lamingtonensis, is endemic to southeastern Queensland and its mountainous southeastern boundary with New South Wales. It is distinguished from congeneric Australian species by dense oil glands on both surfaces of the relatively short, acute leaves. The second, Uromyrtus tenellus, occurs in northeastern Queensland. It differs from other Australian members of the genus by the combination of rounded leaf bases, cuspidate to apiculate leaf apices, absence of prominent oil glands on either laminar surface, and relatively long petals. Detailed descriptions, illustrations, and distribution maps are presented for the four Australian taxa. Keys are provided to separate the Australian species of Uromyrtus and to separate Uromyrtus from the New World genus Ugni, which it resembles in several aspects of floral morphology. Transfers are made from Myrtus for two New Caledonian species, Uromyrtus baumannii and Uromyrtus sunshinensis.
3093856|Members of Solanum series Conicibaccata in Mexico and Central America are very similar. All are tetraploids (2n = 4x = 48). Recent authors have recognized three or four species: S. agrimonifolium, S. woodsonii, S. longiconicum (sometimes included in the next), and S. oxycarpum. We had difficulty distinguishing these species in the herbarium, and needed to resolve species boundaries for ongoing floristic studies. We studied this group in the field throughout Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, and Panama, grew collections in the greenhouse, studied herbarium specimens, determined ploidy levels through flow cytometry, and generated molecular data using Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA. Molecular data distinguish S. agrimonifolium, S. longiconicum, and S. oxycarpum. Solanum woodsonii was not available for molecular analysis. All four species can be distinguished morphologically, but only by leaf character states that overlap in range, by pubescence differences that are best observed in living specimens, and by a seed spot character that is only evident on living or recently gathered specimens.
3093857|The current circumscription of Elymus based on cytogenetic analyses includes all allopolyploid Triticeae species containing the St (Pseudoroegneria) genome. In North American Elymus, the St genome is combined with H (from Hordeum) in an allotetraploid (StStHH) configuration. The goal of this study is to determine whether molecular phylogenetic analyses support existing cytogenetic data with regard to the evolutionary origin of North American Elymus. Analyses were performed using sequences from the nuclear starch synthase gene, and include multiple species of Elymus, Pseudoroegneria, and Hordeum, along with representatives of most of the other monogenomic genera in the Triticeae. The results support the hypothesis that Pseudoroegneria and Hordeum are the genome donors to the North American Elymus tetraploids. One species currently placed in Elymus (an octoploid, Elymus californicus) appears to be unrelated to the rest. The close relationships among Elymus H-genome sequences, with one exception, are consistent with a single origin of the group. The St-genome group consists of two well-defined clades, but support for the monophyly of the entire St group is weak. There are shortcomings associated with the current dependence on genome pairing data for grouping and ranking in the Triticeae, but molecular phylogenetic data suggest that, in many cases, groups delimited by cytogenetic data do in fact correspond to evolutionary lineages.
3093858|Hybridization has long been considered a source of taxonomic complexity in Rubus. This study uses molecular data to examine natural hybridization between R. caesius, a facultatively agamospermous tetraploid of subgenus Rubus (blackberries) and R. idaeus, a sexual diploid of subgenus Idaeobatus (raspberries). Both species are widespread in Europe, and hybridization between them is postulated to have given rise to numerous species, including R. maximiformis and R. picticaulis. We sequenced the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of R. caesius, R. idaeus, five putative hybrids from Sweden, and one individual each of R. maximiformis and R. picticaulis from Germany. Rubus caesius differs from R. idaeus at 20 nucleotide sites and one insertion/deletion event. The putative hybrids exhibit nucleotide polymorphism additivity at all or most of these sites indicating that gene flow does occur naturally between R. caesius and R. idaeus. For each of five putative hybrids we analyzed two to 21 ITS region clones by sequencing and using two restriction enzymes that distinguish the parental species at three sites. Individual 729 has only intact parental ITS sequences and may therefore be an F<sub>1</sub>, while the other four show chimeric (mixtures of parental) ITS sequences, suggesting that they may be later-generation hybrids.
3093859|Pelagodoxa (Arecaceae, Arecoideae, Areceae) is a Pacific genus of uncertain geographic origin. Two species have been described. The type species, Pelagodoxa henryana, from the Marquesas Islands, has large fruits, 8.5 cm in diameter, while a species with smaller fruits (6 cm in diameter) was described as P. mesocarpa and later considered as a synonym of P. henryana. The smaller-fruited entity is known from the Melanesian archipelagos of the southwest Pacific, but the type of P. mesocarpa is of doubtful origin. No truly wild population of any Pelagodoxa is known either in the Marquesas or in the southwest Pacific. The structure and histology of the pericarp and seed of the two fruit morphs were investigated and proved to be similar, except for a color change after ripening in the mesocarp of the smaller fruit morph. Distinctive anatomical features of the fruit of Pelagodoxa include an outer layer of cork tissue, an expanded soft parenchymatous mesocarp lacking raphides and sclereids, numerous vascular bundles with thick fibrous sheaths running radially through the pericarp, conspicuous stegmata on the surface of bundle fibers, an endocarp consisting of a thickened locular epidermis, with conspicuous crystalline structures located at the distal end of each radially elongated cell, and an additional layer of sclerenchyma derived from the seed coat. These features suggest a possible relationship with Sommieria within the subtribe Iguanurinae, in which Pelagodoxa is currently included, but they are also reminiscent of the pericarp of Orania (Oraniinae). A distinct operculum on the endocarp, which characterizes most genera of Iguanurinae, is lacking in Pelagodoxa.
3093860|A phylogenetic parsimony analysis based on 76 morphological characters of 43 Mallotus, 3 Macaranga, 1 Claoxylon, 1 Cleidion, 1 Sampantaea, and 1 Wetria species, resulted in 314 trees of length 602 (CI = 0.600, RI = 0.685), which could be summarized in a well resolved consensus cladogram. This consensus cladogram indicates that the genus Mallotus is possibly polyphyletic and that sections Hancea and Oliganthae should probably be excluded from Mallotus. It is proposed to refer to Mallotus as either Mallotus sensu lato (with the sections Hancea and Oliganthae) or Mallotus sensu stricto (excluding the sections Hancea and Oligantae). The genus Macaranga forms a monophyletic group within Mallotus s.s. The traditional section delimitations within Mallotus s.s. do not circumscribe monophyletic clades of species with the exception of section Polyadenii. It is suggested that sections Stylanthus, Rottlera, Mallotus, and the genus Macaranga should form one monophyletic clade. Sections Axenfeldia and Rottleropsis remain unresolved, but are probably closely related. The position of Macaranga within Mallotus suggests that Macaranga evolved from pioneer ancestors that lived in open, scrub-like vegetation. It is hypothesised that Macaranga originated relatively recently in South East Asia during the Oligocene or early Miocene (between 38 and 15 million years ago).
3093861|Phylogenetic relationships among 48 species of Prunus were investigated by means of maximum parsimony analysis of sequence polymorphism from nuclear ITS and chloroplast trnL-trnF spacer DNA. Several genera that have been implicated as close relatives of Prunus in previous studies were utilized as outgroups. The objective of this study was to reconstruct the phylogeny of Prunus with the purpose of reviewing previously described taxonomic relationships and providing a basis for studies of morphological evolution in the genus. Variability and homoplasy are higher in ITS than in trnL-trnF. Parsimony analysis of both markers, separately and in combination, supported a close relationship among Exochorda, Oemleria, and Prinsepia but did not support a sister relationship of this clade with Prunus. Prunus is monophyletic and divided into two groups. The first is a strongly supported clade composed of subgenera Padus, Laurocerasus, and Cerasus. None of these subgenera is monophyletic and the trait used to characterize Padus and Laurocerasus, flowers arranged in racemes, can be more broadly interpreted as a synapomorphy for the clade. The second group included the subgenera Amygdalus and Prunus, and sections Microcerasus (subgenus Cerasus), and Penarmeniaca, which has never been assigned to a subgenus. The exclusively North American subgenus Emplectocladus may be an early diverging taxon sister to the second group. Sections Prunus and Armeniaca are monophyletic with low bootstrap support. Section Penarmeniaca, from southwestern US, and P. besseyi (section Microcerasus) are sister taxa. A Eurasian origin of Prunus is supported.
3093862|Evolutionary relationships within the wintergreen group (Gaultheria, Pernettya, Diplycosia, and Tepuia) are poorly understood and little studied. This study analyzes molecular data (matK, nrITS, and atpB-rbcL spacer) from 34 representatives of the wintergreen group and 19 outgroups in order to determine the phylogenetic position of the wintergreen group within the "Andromedeae" and examine phylogenetic relationships among taxa currently placed in Gaultheria, Pernettya, and Diplycosia. Results show that the wintergreen group is monophyletic and is sister to a clade that contains Chamadaphne and Eubotrys. Gaultheria is likely paraphyletic, with both Pernettya and Diplycosia derived from within it. Pernettya, as sampled, is not monophyletic, P. tasmanica does not form a clade with other species of Pernettya. Diplycosia is monophyletic and sister to G. cumingiana. Although the matK analysis suggests that Tepuia may be sister to the clade containing Gaultheria, Pernettya, and Diplycosia, bootstrap support for this relationship is low and the position of Tepuia is unresolved in the combined analysis. Increased taxon sampling, especially in South East Asia, and more variable DNA regions are recommended for future phylogenetic studies in the wintergreen group.
3093890|Seven species of Porella are present in Australasia and the south Pacific: P. acutifolia (Lehm. & Lindenb.) Trevis. var. acutifolia, P. acutifolia var. linguifolia (Steph.) M. L. So, comb. nov., P. cranfordii Steph., P. elegantula (Mont.) E. A. Hodgs., P. geheebii (Steph.) Grolle, P. grollei S. Hatt., P. maxima (Steph.) M. L. So, comb. nov., and P. viridissima (Mitt.) Grolle. Porella pulcherrima Herzog & S. Hatt. is placed under the synonymy of P. elegantula, and P. queenslandica (Steph.) S. Hatt. under P. cranfordii. Porella hirtella (Steph.) S. Hatt. and P. novoguinensis S. Hatt. are treated as synonymous with P. maxima. Porella javanica (Steph.) S. Hatt. is excluded from the region. Lectotypes are designated for Madotheca latifolia Colenso and M. amoena (Colenso) Martin. A key to all the species in the region is provided.
3093891|A new species of Ribes is described from Ecuador as a result of the ongoing treatment of Grossulariaceae for the Flora of Ecuador. Ribes nanophyllum resembles Ribes hirtum and Ribes erectum, but differs from the first by its obovate leaves and cup-shaped flowers, and from the second by its stems and ovaries bearing long-stipitate glands. The eight Ecuadorian species belong to the Neotropical subgenus Parrilla. Ribes in Ecuador produces flowers and fruits throughout the year, is distributed in montane forests, subpramos, and pramos between 2,750 and 4,267 meters above sea level, and occurs mainly in the northern part of the country.
3093892|One area of risk assessment for transgenic crops concerns cross-compatible wild and weedy relatives. In squash (Cucurbita pepo), free-living populations are diverse in their distributions, ecologies, histories, and genetic and phenotypic compositions. As part of the effort to understand this diversity, random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) data were collected from 37 wild or weedy populations and 16 cultivars, which together represented all infraspecific taxa of C. pepo. Twenty-six primers yielded 70 scorable and variable markers. The presence/absence of bands for these markers produced a data matrix which was analyzed using cluster analysis. The analysis confirmed the relationships among infraspecific taxa that had been revealed, in part, in previous genetic analyses (e.g., isozymes, chloroplast DNA restriction-site mutations, inter simple sequence repeats). Also supported were findings of varying degrees of gene flow from cultivars into free-living populations. Some of the RAPD variation in subsp. ovifera var. ozarkana populations was found to be correlated with the distribution of the drainage systems along which these populations are dispersed. Finally, the RAPD results support the idea that transgenic gene flow experiments with free-living populations should consider using representatives from each of the three free-living taxa, as well as from genetically or ecologically distinct populations within these taxa.
3093893|Leaflet anatomy of 30 species in the genera Alantsilodendron, Calliandropsis, Dichrostachys, and Gagnebina, was studied using hand-sections, leaf clearings, and scanning electron microscopy. Variation was found in the distribution of stomata, venation patterns, and especially sclerification associated with the vascular tissue. Terminal idioblasts are common and diverse, with enlarged tracheids, tracheoidal elements, reticulate and pitted tracheids, and sclereids associated with the terminal veinlets. In addition, sclerification of bundle sheath cells was found in two of the genera, and non-terminal sclereids of unknown origin are reported in yet a third genus. Although many characters of leaf anatomy are strongly correlated with ecological factors, an evaluation of such characters in the context of a preliminary phylogeny indicates that they are useful in phylogeny reconstruction. The major limitation in the use of anatomical characters of leaves in phylogenetics seems to be the difficulty in defining discrete character states and not ecological plasticity.
3093894|We here report the results from two parsimony analyses of all 15 recognized taxa in Hippophae (Elaeagnaceae), one based on chloroplast DNA (cpDNA), and one based on a combined data set of morphological characters and cpDNA. The genera Elaeagnus and Shepherdia were used as outgroup taxa. In general, the results are congruent with a previous RAPD study, and partly with some of the previous proposed classifications. Monophyly of Hippophae is strongly supported. The most widespread species, H. rhamnoides, is, in spite of low support, most likely monophyletic and distinguished by a single molecular synapomorphy. Due to weak internal support, we refrain from recognizing any sections within the genus. Three taxa, first published as nomina nuda but used by several authors, are here validated and/or described. These are Hippophae neurocarpa subsp. stellatopilosa, H. goniocarpa, and H. litangensis. The latter two were originally suggested to form one species with two subspecies, but they are clearly not monophyletic, a single lineage of evolution, but rather are sister to two different species in the analyses. Together with earlier information from isozymes (unpubl. data) and RAPDs, we believe they are results of two independent hybridisations and we describe them as species. In conjunction, a maternal mode of cpDNA inheritance is suggested.
3093895|The Old World dry tropical family Moringaceae is remarkable for the great diversity of habit and floral morphology found within its only genus, Moringa. To infer the phylogenetic relationships of all 13 species, parsimony analyses of morphological data and DNA sequences from a low-copy nuclear region (PEPC), a chloroplast region (trnG), and a tandemly-repeated nuclear region present in high copy number (ITS) were conducted of each data set separately and combined. Characters from studies of ontogeny substantially enhanced the resolution of the morphological data set. The Incongruence Length Difference test indicated the congruence of all data sets, as did Templeton tests comparing the single tree resulting from the combined analysis in the context of the individual data sets. This tree is presented as the preferred topology, in which the four bottle trees appear in a basal paraphyletic assemblage, with the three species of slender trees (including the economically important M. oleifera) forming a clade that is sister to a clade of the six species of tuberous shrubs and trees of northeast Africa. Moringa is currently divided into three sections, but because of the basal grade, it cannot be divided into useful monophyletic infrageneric taxa. The phylogeny-based informal terms "bottle tree grade", "slender tree clade", and "tuberous clade" are suggested as alternatives. Relationships within Moringa were found to be largely congruent with a previous study of wood anatomy.
3093896|A molecular phylogenetic study based on chloroplast DNA restriction site and ITS sequence data shows that the two Macaronesian endemics, Lavatera phoenicea and Lavatera acerifolia, represent two independent introductions into the Canary Islands. The molecular phylogenies, combined with morphological, ecological, and biogeographical data, indicate that Lavatera phoenicea may be a bird-pollinated relict of an ancient laurel forest. Lavatera acerifolia, however, is nested in a derived clade of the Lavatera-Malva taxa from the Mediterranean region, suggesting a more recent introduction into the Canary Islands. Incongruence between chloroplast and nuclear phylogenies suggests that hybridization may have played a role in the evolution of L. acerifolia. Several features of L. phoenicea, such as corolla color and high nectar production, appear to be plesiomorphic and are still present because of historical constraints. In contrast, woodiness is a derived feature that originated as an adaptation to insular conditions.
3093897|Chloroplast (rbcL, trnL intron, trnL-trnF spacer) and nuclear ribosomal (ITS1, 5.8S, ITS2) DNA sequences were analyzed to identify the closest terrestrial relatives of the mangrove family Avicenniaceae. These plants have been classified within or near Verbenaceae in most synoptic treatments of angiosperms. Surprisingly, Avicenniaceae were placed as part of Acanthaceae s.l. in analyses of all data sets, using both parsimony and maximum likelihood. Within Acanthaceae s.l., our analyses consistently placed Avicennia as sister to Thunbergioideae but without strong support. Constrained maximum likelihood analyses indicated that alternative placements of Avicennia near the base of Acanthaceae s.l. were not significantly less likely than the sister group relationship with Thunbergioideae. However, placement with Verbenaceae was significantly less likely, as was placement with Pedaliaceae. Morphological evidence is reviewed in this phylogenetic context, and we suggest that articulated nodes and inflorescence structure (including flowers subtended by a bract and two bracteoles) may provide synapomorphies for Avicennia and Acanthaceae s.l. We can identify no clear morphological synapomorphies linking Avicennia to Verbenaceae. Avicennia shares a number of features with each of its putative relatives that are likely to be symplesiomorphic or are of uncertain phylogenetic status.
3093898|Gaylussacia includes 49 species of understory shrubs in the heath family (Ericaceae) with a disjunct distribution in North and South America. Little is known about evolutionary relationships among the species. To investigate phylogenetic and biogeographic relationships in Gaylussacia, three data sets were constructed and analyzed cladistically using parsimony: morphology, nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer DNA sequences, and chloroplast trnL intron-trnF spacer DNA sequences. Molecular data sets were analyzed in two ways to determine the phylogenetic informativeness of insertion/deletion events. Comparison of results from separate analyses of each data set showed some incongruencies between the nuclear and chloroplast data sets, indicating possible past hybridization or lineage sorting. Combined analyses were conducted for ITS and morphology, and for trnL-trnF and morphology. The monophyly of the genus including G. brachycera was not strongly supported. In addition, the traditional sectional divisions of Gaylussacia were not supported in the morphological and nuclear DNA analyses. Finally, a broader perspective on the disjunct distribution of Gaylussacia includes the possibility of a North American origin for the genus, rather than a South American origin as previously hypothesized.
3093899|Macromeria viridiflora (Boraginaceae), a perennial that occurs in isolated populations on the "Sky Islands" of southwestern North America, displays geographic variation in floral morphology. This study examines an array of morphological traits and describes geographic patterns of variation throughout the range of the species. Univariate and multivariate analysis of morphometric data from eight sites across the range of the species shows significant among-population variation in 19 out of 20 vegetative and floral traits measured. Flower size variation is particularly strong and follows a latitudinal cline, with flowers being much larger in the southern part of the range and smaller in the northern part of the range. Observations also indicate differences in floral visitors between northern and southern populations. While flowers in all populations were visited by hummingbirds, the large-bodied hummingbirds visiting plants in the southern regions are not present in the northern regions, where flowers are visited by hummingbirds with nearly half the body size and much shorter bills. This difference in body size of pollinators mirrors the geographic variation in flower size in M. viridiflora, suggesting that pollinator-mediated selection may be acting upon the species.
3093900|The phylogenetic relationships of the 16 species of Monarda (Lamiaceae) were investigated using sequences of the internal transcribed spacer regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA. Thymus and Mentha were used as outgroups, and Blephilia, Clinopodium, Conradina, Hesperozygis, Monardella, Pycnanthemum, and Ziziphora were included in the ingroup to test the monophyly of Monarda. Two parsimony searches were performed after removing redundant sequences from the analysis: one with indels scored as missing and a second with indels treated as binary characters. Both searches yielded congruent results, but the treatment of indels as binary characters resulted in considerably more resolution within Monarda. There was strong support for the monophyly of Monarda and a close relationship was found between Monarda, Blephilia, and Pycnanthemum. The molecular phylogeny was completely congruent with the infrageneric classification of the genus. Our results were consistent with hypotheses of hybridization between M. fistulosa and M. lindheimeri in Texas. Despite considerable morphological variation among many species, especially in floral characters, little molecular diversification was found in those same species groups. Intraspecific polymorphism in ITS sequence was found in over half the species examined, and may be attributable to ancestral polymorphism, hybridization, or detection of paralogous loci.
3093901|A phylogenetic study was conducted on current members (Chelone, Chionophila, Keckiella, Nothochelone, Pennellianthus, Penstemon, and Tetranema) and former members (Collinsia, Freylinia, Halleria, Russelia, Scrophularia, Tonella) of tribe Cheloneae to test for monophyly, examine biogeographic patterns, and assess relationships of Cheloneae to genera previously excluded from the tribe. Nucleotide sequence data from ITS and matK used in separate and combined analyses yielded congruent trees. Our results provide evidence that Collinsia and Tonella should be transferred from Collinsieae to Cheloneae and that Russelieae should be expanded to include Tetranema. Our results also indicate a New World origin for Cheloneae with dispersal of the Asian component over Beringia. North American Cheloneae may have originated in the Klamath Region of the western United States with expansion to the Rocky Mountain/Columbia Plateau region followed by diversification of several genera. We propose a post-Tertiary evolutionary radiation of the large North American genus Penstemon.
3093902|Marcgraviaceae is a distinctive neotropical family with approximately 130 species distributed from the Caribbean and southern Mexico to northern Bolivia. Phylogenetic analysis of rbcL sequence data strongly supports the monophyly of the family. NdhF, trnL-F, and rbcL sequence comparisons resolve two major lineages within Marcgraviaceae corresponding to subfamilies Marcgravioideae and Noranteoideae. The monogeneric Marcgravioideae is united by both morphological synapomorphies and molecular data. In contrast, subfamily Noranteoideae appears to be delimited by plesiomorphic morphological characters but is supported as monophyletic by molecular data. Our data suggest a close relationship between representative species of Schwartzia and Ruyschia, which share a unique 47 base pair insertion in the trnL-F spacer but have not been allied in morphological classifications. Despite considerable morphological differences among taxa of Noranteoideae, our sequence data do not resolve some currently recognized genera as monophyletic groups.
3093903|Results of phylogenetic analyses of nuclear 18S-26S rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region sequences for representatives of most genera of helenioid Heliantheae and various members of Heliantheae s.s. (sensu stricto) and Eupatorieae help to clarify major lineages and relationships in the clade corresponding to Heliantheae s.l. (sensu lato) and Eupatorieae. Most subtribes of helenioid Heliantheae as circumscribed by Robinson (1981) correspond closely with ITS clades. Polygeneric subtribes of helenioid Heliantheae that appear to be monophyletic based on ITS data include Flaveriinae sensu Turner and Powell (1977), Madiinae sensu Carlquist (1959), and Peritylinae sensu Robinson (1981). Chaenactidinae sensu Robinson (1981) is polyphyletic, but most members of the group are encompassed within only four ITS clades. Based on the ITS data and results of combined analyses of ITS variation plus previously published morphological and chloroplast DNA data, we conclude that Heliantheae s.s. and Eupatorieae represent nested clades within helenioid Heliantheae, as previously suggested. Loss of paleae appears to have been a rare occurrence during radiation of Heliantheae s.s.; only one epaleate taxon that we sampled (Trichocoryne) was placed within an ITS clade of otherwise paleate taxa, referable to Heliantheae s.s. We conclude that expression of paleae in Heliantheae s.s., Madiinae, and Marshallia is homoplasious. We also conclude that pappi of bristles or bristle-like subulate scales have arisen in various lineages of Heliantheae s.l. and in general have received too much weight in previous circumscriptions of suprageneric taxa. Multiple examples of extreme dysploidy from high (putatively polyploid) ancestral chromosome numbers in helenioid Heliantheae are evident from the phylogenetic data. Bidirectional ecological shifts between annual and perennial habits and repeated origins of woodiness from herbaceous ancestors also can be concluded for helenioid Heliantheae. Based on modern distributions of taxa and evident phylogenetic patterns, Baeriinae, Madiinae, and the x = 19 "arnicoid" taxa probably share a common Californian ancestry. To produce a tribal taxonomy for Heliantheae s.l. that better reflects phylogenetic relationships, Eupatorieae and (provisionally) Heliantheae s.s. are retained in essentially the traditional senses, Helenieae is recognized in a restricted sense, Madieae and Tageteae are expanded, and three new tribes (Bahieae, Chaenactideae, and Perityleae) are erected. In Madieae, three new subtribes (Arnicinae, Hulseinae, and Venegasiinae) are recognized, in addition to Baeriinae and Madiinae. In Peritylinae, a new combination, Perityle montana, is proposed for Correllia montana.
3093865|Many dung mosses (Splachnaceae) are characterized by insect-mediated spore dispersal. All of the entomophilous species are coprophilous, whereas anemophilous species are humicolous or epiphytic. The three species of the Voitioideae are coprophilous but are distinguished from other members of the family by sporangia that remain closed (cleistocarpous) and lack a peristome. Spores are released when the sporangial wall disintegrates. Phylogenetic analyses of nucleotide sequences of the trnL-trnF region and the rps4 locus (cpDNA) for 25 species of Splachnaceae suggest that this combination of characters arose twice within the Splachnaceae and that Voitia grandis is more closely related to species of Tayloria subgenus Tayloria rather to the other species of Voitia, which are nested within the genus Tetraplodon. Hence the new combination Tayloria grandis (Long) Goffinet & Shaw is made. Although the optimal trees were left unrooted, our results resolve the Voitioideae (i.e., the genus Voitia) as nested within the Splachnoideae. The phylogenetic significance of sporophytic characters within the family Splachnaceae is briefly discussed.
3093866|In this paper, molecular phylogenetic analyses were used to investigate a putative hybrid origin for Dendrochilum acuiferum, a species endemic to Mount Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysia. Phylogenetic analyses of the plastid (pt) accD-psaI intergenic spacer region and a unique shared 117 bp indel indicate that D. grandiflorum and D. acuiferum are closely related. Direct sequencing of PCR products from the ITS 1 and 2 of the nuclear ribosomal repeat region revealed single site nucleotide polymorphisms in D. acuiferum that were additive between two hypothesized parents in addition to other sampled species. Dendrochilum acuiferum within-individual cloned ITS allelic sequence variants were analyzed in a phylogenetic context to determine the relative support for a hybrid (biphyletic) origin versus a nonhybrid (monophyletic) origin of the alleles. Because there was a significantly higher level of support for a hybrid origin of the alleles (P < 0.05), we subsequently compared likelihood scores for multiple parent pairs that could have hybridized. Although ptDNA evidence suggests Dendrochilum grandiflorum was the most likely maternal parent of D. acuiferum, ITS results are ambiguous about paternity because the phylogenetic results support D. grandiflorum + D. stachyodes and D. grandiflorum + D. kamborangense as equally likely parents of D. acuiferum. In addition, two other parent pairs could not be rejected (P > 0.05).
3093867|The minute, reduced plants of family Lemnaceae have presented a formidable challenge to systematic investigations. The simplified morphology of duckweeds has made it particularly difficult to reconcile their interspecific relationships. A comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of all currently recognized species of Lemnaceae has been carried out using more than 4,700 characters that include data from morphology and anatomy, flavonoids, allozymes, and DNA sequences from chloroplast genes (rbcL, matK) and introns (trnK, rpl16). All data are reasonably congruent <latex>$(I_{(MF)} < 6%)$</latex> and contributed to strong nodal support in combined analyses. Our combined data yield a single, well-resolved, maximum parsimony tree with 30/36 nodes (83%) supported by bootstrap values that exceed 90%. Subfamily Wolffioideae is a monophyletic clade with 100% bootstrap support; however, subfamily Lemnoideae represents a paraphyletic grade comprising Landoltia, Lemna, and Spirodela. Combined data analysis confirms the monophyly of Landoltia, Lemna, Spirodela, Wolffia, and Wolffiella. Phylogenetic relationships are used to evaluate and refine the classification of duckweeds.
3093868|This work presents a reconstruction of the phylogenetic relationships between ten lineages of fescues based on the analysis of nuclear rDNA ITS sequences. Thirty two representatives of most native Western Mediterranean subgenera and sections of Festuca s.l. have been included in this survey in order to establish the evolutionary links between known groups of fescues (subg. Schedonorus, subg. Festuca sect. Festuca and sect. Aulaxyper) and other related Festuca groups that have been poorly studied or that are analyzed here for the first time (subg. Drymanthele, subg. Festuca sect. Subbulbosae, sect. Eskia, sect. Pseudatropis, sect. Scariosae, sect. Pseudoscariosa). Phylogenetic analysis identified two different clades, the "broad-leaved" Festuca and the "fine-leaved" Festuca, using Dactylis, Poa, Deschampsia, Secale, and Brachypodium as outgroups. The "broad-leaved" Festuca clade shows the consecutive sister divergence of the groups: i) the Subbulbosae pro parte clade (some Festuca paniculata s.l. taxa); ii) the Hesperochloa clade (Festuca kingii); iii) the "mixed" clade (incl. sect. Subbulbosae p.p., subg. Drymanthele, sect. Scariosae, and sect. Pseudoscariosa); and iv) the Schedonorus/Lolium clade, subdivided into the "Maghrebian" subclade and the "European + Lolium" subclade. The "fine-leaved" Festuca clade is formed by a paraphyletic assemblage of sectional groups, where sects. Eskia and Pseudatropis are basal to sects. Festuca-Aulaxyper + Vulpia. The closer affinities of Lolium to the European Schedonorus and of Vulpia to Festuca sect. Aulaxyper ("Festuca rubra complex"), stated by previous authors, is confirmed in our analysis. A new nomenclatural combination is proposed (Festuca arundinacea Schreb. subsp. arundinacea var. letourneuxiana (St.-Yves) Torrecilla et Cataln comb. nov.).
3093869|Digitaria killeenii A. S. Vega et Rgolo, a new species from Bolivia, is described and illustrated. Additional micromorphological characters in the spikelets are also described. The presence of an apical, abaxial pair of stomata on the upper lemma and the presence of occasional brownish hairs on the lower palea constitute the first report in the genus Digitaria. The taxonomic position of D. killeenii is discussed and its inclusion in section Clavipilae (Stapf) Henrard is proposed. A comparative table and some remarks about the related taxa are included.
3093870|Parsimony analysis of plastid rpl16 sequences from 62 members of Tribe Cacteae, and four outgroup taxa yielded 1296 equally parsimonious trees of length 666. Strict consensus evaluation of these trees established a highly pectinate topology, which delimited clades within the tribe that correspond to several previously considered generic groups. Aztekium and Geohintonia, which manifest ribs in their stem morphology were shown to represent an early divergence in the tribe, forming a sister group to remaining members of the tribe. Clades containing other genera having ribbed stems also are basal to those that develop tubercles. The most derived clade forms a distinct group of typically small stemmed species with tubercular stem morphology. Within Mammillaria, species formerly placed in the genus Cochemiea and members of the Series Ancistracanthae formed a well-supported, sister clade to the remaining members of Mammillaria. Length variation of the intron in two members of Mammillaria series Stylothelae was also observed.
3093871|The Macaronesian clade of Crassulaceae comprises four genera (Aichryson, Aeonium, Greenovia, and Monanthes) that are largely endemic to Macaronesia, a region encompassing the Azores, Madeira, and the Cape Verde, Canary, and Salvage Islands. The monophyly of this clade has been supported by recent family-level phylogenetic analyses; however, the relationships within the clade remain uncertain. To resolve relationships within the Macaronesian clade, we sequenced several chloroplast DNA regions (matK and the trnL-trnF and psbA-trnH spacer regions) and the nuclear rDNA ITS region. Parsimony analyses of separate ITS and cpDNA data sets recover three major clades, corresponding to Aichryson, the perennial species of Monanthes, and Aeonium (including Greenovia). Congruence tests revealed significant heterogeneity between the ITS and cpDNA data sets. Comparison of the topologies resulting from analyses of these separate data sets indicated five instances of incongruence between the ITS and cpDNA that may be the result of cpDNA capture events. Those five cpDNA sequences that appear to be the result of hybridization were removed, and a combined cpDNA/ITS data set was constructed and analyzed. Parsimony analyses of this combined data set again resolve three major clades that correspond to Aichryson, Monanthes, and Aeonium (including Greenovia); however, the combined analyses provide greater resolution and higher internal support than the analyses of the separate data sets. Given this estimate of phylogeny, the Macaronesian clade most likely evolved from herbaceous, continental ancestors; the woody habit evolved once in Aichryson tortuosum and again in the ancestor of the Aeonium clade. Combined analyses of cpDNA and ITS for a large sampling of the Macaronesian Crassulaceae also confirms recent conclusions that Aeonium originated in Macaronesia and not in Africa and that the east African species, A. leucoblepharum, is of recent origin and represents long-distance dispersal from Macaronesia to Africa.
3093872|The phylogeny of Cercis (Fabaceae) was estimated with DNA sequences of the nuclear ribosomal ITS region and the 3 end of the chloroplast gene ndhF. The combined analysis recovers three trees in which a well supported clade of North American and western Eurasian species is nested within a paraphyletic group of Chinese species. In the single most unambiguously resolved topology from these trees, C. canadensis from eastern North America is more closely related to C. siliquastrum from western Eurasia than to C. occidentalis from western North America. DIVA and character optimizations based on this topology suggest that the initial intercontinental divergence events in Cercis involved mesophytic ancestors. Subsequent inferred intercontinental divergence events involving xerophytic ancestors are consistent with the Madrean-Tethyan hypothesis, which postulates an early Tertiary floristic link between the arid regions of western North America and western Eurasia. Calibration of branch lengths with the fossil record suggests that the North American and western Eurasian lineages diverged between 6 and 32 million years ago. The oldest of these values is consistent with both the Madrean-Tethyan hypothesis (>23 million years ago) and dispersion across a North Atlantic land bridge connecting Europe to North America (>13 million years ago), whereas the youngest requires an explanation involving long-distance dispersal.
3093873|This is a molecular phylogenetic study of the group formerly known as Dryadeae, based on DNA sequences from the internal transcribed spacers, ITS, of nuclear ribosomal DNA and the trnL intron and the trnL-trnF intergenic spacer of the chloroplast. A total of 1.9 kb, for 26 ingroup species, were analyzed using parsimony and model-based Bayesian inference. Some clades are well supported by both data sets: the ingroup, with Fallugia as the sister to the rest of the clade; Sieversia in a strict sense; a clade consisting of all the herbaceous perennials, and some clades within this last group. Other clades, within the group of herbaceous perennials, differ between the analyses. The data sets in the present study do not support any previous circumscriptions of Geum nor any of the suggested segregate genera, except for the southern hemisphere Oncostylus. Morphological characters, notably fruit characters, mapped onto the combined tree show patterns of widespread parallel evolution and reversals-or possibly the effects of reticulations. Allopolyploidy has been suggested by previous workers and there are some indications of this in our results. Geum andicola appears in different well supported groups in the two separate analyses. This may be caused by inheritance of chloroplast DNA from one parental species and homogenization of ribosomal DNA from the other. Also, the intricate fruit type present in, for example, the type species of Geum, G. urbanum, appears to have evolved twice from progenitors with plumose styles. We propose the name Colurieae for this entire clade and the name Geinae for the group of herbaceous perennials.
3093874|Relationships among Halimolobos, Mancoa, Pennellia, and Sphaerocardamum have been controversial. Higher level studies, using cpDNA data from the chloroplast encoded ndhF and trnL intron, suggested that some species of these genera represent a monophyletic group: the halimolobine clade. The research presented here focuses on the halimolobine clade with denser intra and inter-specific sampling. The primary aims of the project were: (1) to further test the monophyly of the halimolobine clade; (2) to test the monophyly Halimolobos, Mancoa, Pennellia, and Sphaerocardamum; and (3) to study the evolution of morphological characters in the clade. Data were generated from the trnL-F region, nrDNA ITS, pistillata intron one, and 17 non-molecular characters. The difficulties associated with incorporating these data into simultaneous analyses are discussed and a strategy is presented. Separate and simultaneous analysis confirmed a monophyletic core group of halimolobine species. The strict consensus tree contained five well-supported halimolobine subclades: Sphaerocardamum, Pennellia plus Arabis tricornuta, Mancoa bracteata plus M. foliosa, a narrowly defined Halimolobos, and a clade consisting of a subset of Halimolobos and Mancoa species. Individual morphological characters vary in their utility for classification of the group. However, the majority of the characters provide some grouping information within the halimolobine clade.
3093875|Circumscriptions of the genus Hibiscus and the tribe Hibisceae (Malvaceae) are based on morphological features that are not unique in the family. An examination of the literature regarding putatively ancestral morphological features revealed that Hibiscus and Hibisceae may be defined by shared ancestral features, and thus are unlikely to be monophyletic groups. These phylogenetic hypotheses were tested using two chloroplast DNA sequences (a coding region-ndhF, and a non-coding region-the rpl16 intron). Several genera usually placed in Hibisceae were found to occupy positions sister to the rest of the family, as was predicted from our reevaluation of their morphological features. Although the earliest divergences in the family were not resolved by chloroplast DNA topologies alone, several morphological features, when analysed in combination with ndhF, suggested a possible resolution of the basal polytomy. These early divergences are represented by extant genera with relatively restricted distributions, which all possess Australasian species that are sister to more widespread and diverse lineages. This suggests the novel hypothesis that eastern Gondwana may be the centre of origin of the family. The pollen fossil record is consistent with this possibility, but does not support it unambiguously. Unexpectedly the tribes Decaschistieae and Malvavisceae as well as other genera of Hibisceae nest within Hibiscus. Nomenclatural upheavals concerning Hibiscus, one of the world's most popular horticultural plant genera, will be difficult to avoid.
3093876|We have conducted a phylogenetic analysis of 57 taxa including 127 accessions of Acer to determine the geographical origin and the presumptive progenitor species of Acer takesimense and A. okamotoanum, two endemics of the Korean island Ullung-do. Sequence analyses of the trnL intron and the trnL-trnF intergenic spacer of chloroplast DNA show a close relationship of A. takesimense to A. pseudosieboldianum from mainland Korea. Acer okamotoanum probably has evolved from Korean individuals of A. mono and not from Japan where A. mono is also native. AFLP data further support the proposed relationships and indicate a substantial loss of genetic diversity of A. takesimense when compared with the progenitor populations from mainland Korea. Both sequence and AFLP data put A. takesimense populations into a monophyletic group, suggesting that they speciated in Ullung Island from a single introduction from Korean peninsular populations. Populations of A. okamotoanum, on the other hand, show a higher degree of shared alleles with at least two mainland populations of their presumptive progenitor A. mono, perhaps indicating multiple origins of the latter endemic species.
3093877|Davidia, a genus that is now endemic to China, played a prominent role in Paleocene vegetation of mid-latitude North America that previously was overlooked. Davidia antiqua (Newberry) comb. nov. is now known from co-occurring leaves and fruits at eight localities in the Fort Union Group of North Dakota, Montana, and Wyoming. The leaves, for more than a century called Viburnum antiquum (Newberry) Hollick, conform to extant Davidia in the long petiole, cordate base, pinnate venation, basal secondary veins with regular branches to the margin, typically blunt, large marginal dentations with medial vein insertion, and closely spaced percurrent tertiaries. Fruits are borne singly on otherwise staminate inflorescence heads. The peduncle bears two prominent scars, well below the head, interpreted as the attachment points of large bracts. The fruit stones are ellipsoidal, composed of fibers, with six to eight single-seeded locules, each with an elongate dorsal germination valve. Vascular bundles are not axial, but are scattered through the septae. Although only two-thirds the size of the fruits of extant Davidia involucrata Baillon, and less prominently sculptured, the fossil fruits correspond closely to the extant ones in morphology and anatomy. Similar leaf and fruit impressions occur together in Paleocene deposits of eastern Russia, but additional work is required to determine if they represent the same species as the North American material. This work establishes that extant Davidia had evolved by the Paleocene, prior to the first known occurrences of Nyssa in the Eocene, and was a contemporary of the extinct nyssoid genus Amersinia. The available stratigraphic record thus implies rapid evolution of Nyssoids within the early Tertiary, or may be taken to indicate that this group of Asterids began its diversification in the Cretaceous.
3093878|The phylogeny of Diapensiaceae was investigated by analysis of morphology and molecular data from three genomes; the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA, rbcL and ndhF from the chloroplast genome, and matR from the mitochondrial genome. Compared to earlier investigations this study is based on a larger data set and has also a larger taxonomic sample that includes representatives of all recognized genera of the family. The results show that Galax is the sister group to all other genera of the family, and that Pyxidanthera is sister to the rest at the next higher node. The relationships between Berneuxia, Diapensia, and Shortia are unresolved. The monophyly of Diapensia is not supported, but has not been tested with molecular data. The monophyly of Shortia is well supported, with S. soldanelloides as sister to the other species. The results indicate that the first diversification in the family occurred in North America with a subsequent diversification of the genera Galax and Pyxidanthera, respectively, and that the ancestor of the remaining genera had an eastern distribution. The small American distribution of Shortia galacifolia is interesting considering the East Asian distribution of its closest relatives, S. uniflora and S. exappendiculata.
3093879|Cladistic analyses using parsimony jackknifing were performed on DNA sequences from the chloroplast gene rbcL to elucidate phylogenetic relationships in Primula and its relationships to other genera of the Primulaceae. A total of 51 species from Primulaceae and 34 species from related families were included. The results showed that the genus Primula was not monophyletic because the genera Dodecatheon, Cortusa, Sredinskya, and Dionysia had their closest relatives within Primula. The results also showed that the genera Pomatosace and Douglasia were derived relatives of Androsace. Diagnostic characters such as leaf vernation, pollen type, and base chromosome numbers were discussed.
3093880|Nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacers (ITS) and chloroplast matK gene were sequenced for 23 species of Actinidia, the genus of kiwifruit. Neither ITS nor matK phylogeny supports monophyly of any of the four sections of the genus. Species of section Leiocarpae form a paraphyletic group at the base of both gene trees. Species of sections Maculatae, Strigosae, and Stellatae plus A. rufa of section Leiocarpae form a monophyletic group, which is consistent with the morphological feature of presence of lenticels on fruit exocarps. Within this clade, however, each of the three sections is polyphyletic on both gene phylogenies. Polymorphic ITS sequences were cloned from 17 of 27 accessions sampled in this study. The polymorphic sequences that are distantly related on the phylogeny may have derived from hybridization or introgression. The infrageneric classification of Actinidia should be revised on the basis of a robust phylogenetic reconstruction inferred from additional molecular, morphological, and cytological data.
3093881|Lycium (Solanaceae) is a genus of  75 species found worldwide inhabiting arid to semi-arid environments. Phylogenetic relationships were inferred for 25 species of Lycium and three closely-related Grabowskia species using sequences of the internal transcribed spacer (nr-ITS) regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA and 27 morphological characters. The nr-ITS and morphological data sets were congruent and a combined analysis showed strong support for a clade containing several North American species that have distinctive floral and fruit morphologies. In addition, there was strong support for a single origin of gender dimorphism among North American Lycium species. Inclusion of a dimorphic species from South Africa suggests that gender dimorphism has evolved independently among African Lycium. Results strongly suggest that Lycium is not monophyletic, but includes the genus Grabowskia. Further, North American Lycium are paraphyletic and current sectional circumscriptions for the American species are inadequate.
3093953|The Dicranaceae have been classified as one of the largest, most heterogeneous families of the moss subclass Dicranidae. Circumscriptions of the family have varied, with some studies excluding selected subfamilies and recognizing them at the familial rank, whereas others have retained a broader familial concept. As well, classifications have varied in their generic circumscriptions of the subfamilies. Chloroplast DNA sequence data trnL <sub>(UAA)</sub>-trnF <sub>(GAA)</sub> and rps4) were used to examine the monophyly of the family and phylogenetic relationships among the subfamilial and generic taxa. Special emphasis was given to subfamily Dicranoideae, with 18 of the 23 genera sampled. Seventy-four trnL-F and rps4 sequences formed a matrix of 1161 aligned base pairs (bp). Phylogenetic analyses using MP and ML criteria were based on 983 bp (333 parsimony informative) after ambiguous data were removed. Our results support the following inferences: 1) Dicranaceae as traditionally defined are polyphyletic; 2) subfamilies Campylopodioideae, Dicranelloideae, Rhabdoweisioideae, and Trematodontoideae are excluded from a robust monophyletic concept of the Dicranaceae; 3) subfamily Dicranoideae is polyphyletic unless 16 genera are excluded from the subfamily, seven of which are transferred to the Rhabdoweisiaceae; 3) subfamily Paraleucobryoideae is polyphyletic with Brothera resolved in the Leucobryaceae clade and Paraleucobryum nested within subfamily Dicranoideae; 4) Dicnemonaceae (including Mesotus) and Wardiaceae are nested within traditional members of the Dicranaceae; and 5) four clades-Dicranoideae, Mesotoideae, Dicranoloma group plus Wardia, and the Leucoloma group, form a robust monophyletic taxon, considered here as a restricted concept of Dicranaceae (sensu stricto). This circumscription excludes 18 genera that have previously been included in the Dicranaceae.
3093954|The tribe Thomsonieae (Araceae) comprise two genera of palaeotropical herbs: Amorphophallus with approximately 200 species and Pseudodracontium with seven species. A phylogenetic study of the Thomsonieae is presented. Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast gene matK and the trnL intron were analyzed for 46 Amorphophallus species, two Pseudodracontium species and six outgroups using maximum parsimony. The two data sets were analyzed separately and in combination. Amorphophallus can be divided into five major well-supported clades, which provide new hypotheses on infrageneric relationships. The branches connecting these clades, however, are poorly supported. Results are compared with previous morphology-based divisions of Amorphophallus. Remarkable results from this study are the monophyly of the African Amorphophallus species and the nesting of Pseudodracontium within Amorphophallus, making Amorphophallus in the traditional sense paraphyletic to Pseudodracontium.
3093955|Previous taxonomic treatments of the family Zosteraceae in Australia/New Zealand have recognized Heterozostera tasmanica (monotypic) and four Zostera species all belonging to subgenus Zosterella: Z. capricorni, Z. muelleri, Z. mucronata, Z. novazelandica. Zostera has always been taxonomically problematic in Australia, where researchers have expressed difficulty with species recognition due to vague or inconsistent morphological characters. There also has been a lack of agreement on generic (notably the distinctness of Heterozostera) and subgeneric delimitation. Recent anatomical, developmental, and molecular studies urge a reevaluation of relationships in the family. To clarify the taxonomy of Zosteraceae, we investigated interspecific phylogenetic relationships focusing on Australian species of subgenus Zosterella. We examined material comprising all genera of Zosteraceae (Heterozostera, Nanozostera, Phyllospadix, Zostera), six/seven species of Zostera subgenus Zosterella (including all Australian/New Zealand species), and one of four species of Zostera subgenus Zostera. We conducted phylogenetic analyses of morphological data and DNA sequences from nuclear (ITS) and plastid (trnK intron, rbcL) genomes. Our results indicate two major clades (highly divergent at both morphological and molecular levels) and two subclades (with low morphological and molecular divergence) within Zosteraceae. Little morphological and molecular variation was observed among representatives within the clade of Australian/New Zealand members of subgenus Zosterella, and none provided cladistic support for taxa recognized formerly as separate species. We recommend that Zosteraceae comprise two genera (Phyllospadix, Zostera) with the latter subdivided into three subgenera (Zostera, Zosterella, Heterozostera). Furthermore, Australian/New Zealand representatives of Zostera subgenus Zosterella should be merged within a single species (Z. capricorni) to reflect the inability of morphological or molecular data to effectively delimit additional species in this group.
3093956|A new holomycotrophic species, Thismia taiwanensis (Burmanniaceae), is described and illustrated from Kaohsiung County, south-central Taiwan. It most closely resembles the Japanese species T. abei and T. tuberculata, but is distinct as the flowers are subsessile, the outer surface of the perianth tube is smooth, the outer tepals bear very short solitary appendages, and the inner tepals bear longer solitary appendages. This represents the first record of both Thismia and Burmanniaceae tribe Thismieae in China.
3093957|A cladistic analysis using parsimony was carried out, including all six species of Paspalum sect. Pectinata plus an outgroup composed of six species of Paspalum subg. Ceresia, six additional Paspalum species belonging to different taxonomic groups, and two extrageneric taxa. The analysis was based on 65 morphological characters and was performed using both equal weights and implied weights. In all resulting cladograms, a well supported clade corresponding to Paspalum sect. Pectinata appears, with either P. ceresia or a clade comprising P. ceresia, P. stellatum, and P. eucomum as sister group. Within the Pectinata-clade P. lanciflorum emerges consistently as sister taxon to the remainder of the section, whereas the phylogenetic relationship among them is poorly resolved. The inclusion of Paspalum sect. Pectinata within a weakly supported subgenus Ceresia is confirmed. Incidentally, some doubt is thrown about the validity of the currently accepted circumscription of Paspalum subg. Ceresia, since the inclusion of P. humboldtianum and P. polyphyllum within it is not supported by our data.
3093958|The phylogenetic positions of the genera Beesia and Eranthis were investigated with respect to seven species in two genera, representing the tribe Actaeeae and five species in five other Ranunculaceae genera as outgroup. Maximum parsimony analyses were performed separately on nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS, plastid trnL-F, and combined DNA sequence data. In these analyses the positions of both Beesia and Eranthis were well supported within the tribe Actaeeae by each analysis and Beesia calthifolia was sister to Anemonopsis macrophylla on a strongly supported clade. Tribe Actaeeae is redefined to include Actaea, Anemonopsis, Beesia, and Eranthis.
3093959|A previous analysis of two chloroplast gene regions, rbcL and the rps16 intron, showed a clear phylogenetic pattern in Gunnera. However, these regions were not informative enough to completely resolve the phylogeny. In this study the nuclear ITS region was sequenced for 24 specimens representing 22 species of Gunnera. 223 characters out of 819 were informative and supported the same monophyletic groups as the chloroplast gene regions. Because of its greater information content, the ITS region identified additional well-supported clades. In an analysis based on the three gene regions together, 272 characters out of 3154 were informative. The results show that the South American annual, G. herteri is sister to all other species. The African G. perpensa is well-supported as sister to the remaining species, which form two well-defined clades, one with the Malayan G. macrophylla as sister to subgenus Milligania from New Zealand and Tasmania. In the other clade, the South American subgenus Misandra is sister group to subgenus Panke from South America and Hawaii. Within Panke the two Hawaiian species form a sister group to the American species. The morphological classification of Schindler, together with some biogeographical and morphological features, is discussed.
3093960|The trnL (UAA) intron and ITS1 region were sequenced to investigate relationships among the five genera of Vitaceae present in Australia relative to Vitis. Congruent results were obtained between separate and combined data sets, with all major clades being shared among trees. All bootstrap consensus trees obtained from single sequences or combined analysis strongly suggest that Cissus is polyphyletic, corroborating the morphological inconsistencies reported previously. Cissus opaca and Clematicissus angustissima consistently grouped in a common clade. A further four taxa (C. antarctica, C. hypoglauca, C. oblonga, and C. sterculiifolia) also grouped within a clade disjunct from the main Cissus clade. Our results suggest that these five species currently classified as Cissus should be segregated from the genus. Of further interest is the close relationship between Cayratia and Tetrastigma. Overall, the results presented provide new insights into the relationships within a number of Vitaceae genera and suggest directions for future studies.
3093961|Myrceugenia fernandeziana (Myrtaceae) is a dominant, apparently anemophilous, tree endemic to Masatierra Island in the Juan Fernandez archipelago. These islands provide a natural laboratory for investigations of relationships within and among populations of threatened/vulnerable species. Leaf morphology was used to compare 25 populations from a diversity of habitats. Allozyme analyses were conducted for a subset of 15 of these populations. Leaf shape, described by elliptic Fourier analyses, allows recognition of distinct subsets of populations (also recognized by allozymes) and a number of leaf characters show evidence of geographically-based (southeast to northwest) clinal variation on the island. Morphological distances among populations are not correlated with geographic distances but allozyme distances among populations are correlated with geographic distances. There is a positive, but not statistically significant, correlation between allozyme and morphological distances. In addition, there is no apparent connection between patterns of allozyme or morphological differences and the habitats in which the populations occur. These results are not consistent with models based on localized adaptation, suggest panmixis, perhaps based on anemophily and broad dispersal, and suggest that conservation strategies must be based on sampling multiple populations within and among habitat types.
3093962|To understand flower morphological evolution in Gentianaceae-Swertiinae, we studied generic relationships using trnL intron, matK, and nuclear ITS sequences of a total of 13 genera and 59 species of the subtribe. The phylogenetic incongruencies between the chloroplast and nuclear genes are likely to be the result of long branch attraction. The East Asian Megacodon and Latouchea and the eastern North American Bartonia and Obolaria were determined as the most basal genera, and several well-supported subgroups were revealed. Swertia, Lomatogonium, and Gentianella s. l. were highly polyphyletic and the position of Veratrilla and several species was ambiguous. The main flower types found in Swertiinae can be transformed into each other by simple developmental variation in proportion. This apparently happened several times during the evolution of Swertiinae and, in conjunction with other homoplastic characters, explains the difficulty of recognizing generic limits and the mosaic pattern of character distribution. Phylogenetic relationships, extant distribution ranges, and a preliminary molecular clock approach led to the hypothesis that the last common ancestor of the Swertiinae lived approximately 15 mya, and that an exchange of lineages between East Asia and North America happened frequently from the time of origin until only recently.
3093963|Gasteranthus (Gesneriaceae; Beslerieae) includes 38 species restricted to the New World tropics. The genus has a limited distribution in Central and South America, with a center of diversity in western Ecuador. This study investigates cladistic relationships among species of Gasteranthus using floral and vegetative morphological data. Corolla shape in Gasteranthus ranges from funnelform to urceolate and ventricose, with additional variation in corolla spur and corolla ventral pouch morphology. Our analysis revealed that there were likely single primary innovations of the three major corolla types, although only one of the three types forms a monophyletic group. Apparently, ventricose corollas were derived from funnelform corollas and urceolate corollas were derived from ventricose corollas, making the funnelform and ventricose corolla groups both paraphyletic. Spurs have been lost twice in Gasteranthus. Conspicuousness of stomatal clusters is quite homoplastic given the phylogenetic hypothesis.
3093964|Sequences of nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS and ETS regions were used to examine phylogenetic relationships of Syringa and Ligustrum. Twenty-seven samples were included in parsimony analyses, representing all major groups of these two genera. Two species of Fraxinus and one species of Jasminum were also included in analyses for rooting purposes. In the resulting phylogenetic hypothesis series Syringa (Syringa) diverges first and is followed by the monotypic series Pinnatifoliae (Syringa), which is sister to a clade containing the remaining species of Syringa and species of Ligustrum. However, this sister relationship is weakly supported. Our results support the recognition of monophyletic groups corresponding to subgenus Ligustrina, and series Syringa, Pubescentes, and Villosae, and suggest that Ligustrum as a monophyletic group is derived from within Syringa, such that Syringa as traditionally circumscribed is paraphyletic. Forcing Syringa to be monophyletic entails nine extra steps, which is significant, as judged by the Templeton test. Parasyringa sempervirens is phylogenetically embedded within the Ligustrum clade, supporting its placement in Ligustrum. Berries are a synapomorphy of Ligustrum species, and the dehiscent berry of Parasyringa sempervirens is likely to be an evolutionary reversal towards a capsule, which is characteristic of Syringa. The evolution of berries might have contributed to an accelerated rate of speciation in Ligustrum.
3093965|Mutisieae are considered one of the most important tribes for understanding the systematics and evolution of the Asteraceae because of their basal position within the family. The tribe is extremely diverse morphologically and biogeographically, consisting of 84 genera and 900 species. Despite extensive studies using macromorphological, palynological, and molecular approaches, tribal and subtribal delimitation and relationships of Mutisieae remain controversial. Phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences of the chloroplast gene ndhF were performed using 53 species representing 31 genera of Mutisieae, 11 genera from the remaining five tribes of Cichorioideae, and five genera from the Asteroideae. The ndhF phylogeny of the Mutisieae provides insights into the circumscription and relationships of the tribe, subtribes, and taxonomic placement of several morphologically anomalous genera. The ndhF tree indicates that Mutisieae are polyphyletic. The subtribes Gochnatiinae and Mutisiinae are not monophyletic, whereas the Nassauviinae are monophyletic. The majority of the South American genera and the Chinese genus Nouelia of the Gochnatiinae are positioned in a basal position in the Mutisieae. Furthermore, intergeneric relationships are resolved in several cases.
3093966|A morphometric analysis was conducted of Echinacea Moench (Asteraceae) to measure variation between native populations for taxonomic purposes. Data were collected from living and herbarium specimens. From a matrix of 321 specimens by 74 characters, a pair-wise distance matrix was computed using Gower's coefficient. Cluster strategies were explored from the distance matrix. MODECLUS clustering separated the data into two clusters, and a flexible agglomerative clustering method separated the data into the same two clusters, which were broken into four subclusters. Canonical discriminant analysis gave significant support for the two- and the four-cluster solutions. Canonical discriminant analysis also showed support for eight smaller clusters identified using McGregor's 1968 classification. We recognize two subgenera and four species: Echinacea subg. Echinacea contains only E. purpurea; Echinacea subg. Pallida contains E. atrorubens, E. laevigata, and E. pallida. The revised varieties are as follows: E. atrorubens var. atrorubens, E. atrorubens var. neglecta, E. atrorubens var. paradoxa, E. pallida var. angustifolia, E. pallida var. pallida, E. pallida var. sanguinea, E. pallida var. simulata, and E. pallida var. tennesseensis. A cladistic analysis was done on the four species. In the most parsimonious solution, E. purpurea was basally divergent to a clade of the other three species (70% bootstrap value), and all four were distinguishable by at least one apomorphy. A key to Echinacea taxa is provided, which should be valuable given the pharmaceutical and horticultural importance of Echinacea.
3093912|New taxonomic data are presented from a revision of the Syntrichia caninervis complex. Seven taxa have been recognized, based on morphological characters of about 180 samples. An identification key is presented. Lectotypes for Syntrichia handelii and Tortula bornmuelleri are proposed. Syntrichia pseudodesertorum is included as a synonym of S. caninervis var. caninervis. Syntrichia pseudohandelii is reduced to the rank of variety as S. caninervis var. pseudodesertorum. Two taxa are cited for first time for N. Africa, S. rigescens and S. caninervis var. gypsophila, and one for Morocco, S. caninervis var. caninervis.
3093913|The genus Ceratozamia comprises about 16 species with restricted distribution north and south of the Eje Neovolcanico in Mexico. Phylogenetic relationships were explored among species of Ceratozamia, using 24 exemplars and seven putative outgroup taxa. We examined variation at the molecular level in two non-coding regions from the chloroplast and nuclear genomes. Although the rate of change of the ITS and trnL-F non-coding regions is considered appropriate to recover variation at this taxonomic level, only 33 nucleotide positions were informative out of 2081. Despite low levels of variation, analyses showed that Ceratozamia is monophyletic and identified Zamia as sister group. The molecular phylogeny of Ceratozamia revealed three main clades, which allow for biogeographic interpretations. The most basal clade suggests a probable ancestral geographic area for Ceratozamia in Southeast Mexico. Another implication is that speciation within the genus appears to be associated with the post-Pleistocene spread of floristic communities from proposed Pleistocene tropical refugia located in S. E. Mexico towards north of the Eje Neovolcanico.
3093914|Compsoneura sprucei represents a difficult species complex that has not been studied since the 1930s. Multivariate analysis of morphological data based on 454 herbarium specimens from 14 neotropical countries provided supporting evidence that Compsoneura sprucei is a complex of at least two species, one in western Amazonian South America, and the other in the eastern lowlands of Central America from Veracruz, Mexico to isthmian Panama. The gross aspects of herbarium specimen morphology, particularly of the dried leaves and fruit, have helped to perpetuate a broad concept of the widespread C. sprucei. Lack of detailed information for staminate flowers has also delayed understanding of the Compsoneura sprucei species complex. The name Compsoneura mexicana is proposed as a new combination for the Central American component. It is moved from synonomy under the name Myristica mexicana to valid species-level status in Compsoneura. Compsoneura sprucei sensu stricto is maintained for the South American component. Results of morphological analysis, a diagnostic key, species descriptions, and a list of representative specimens studied are provided for these two closely related species.
3093915|These comprehensive analyses of systematic relationships within Trilliaceae focused on the relationships within Paris sensu lato (i.e., Paris, Daiswa, and Kinugasa); between species of Trillium; and between Paris sensu lato and Trillium. Seventy species were selected for cladistic analyses and scored for 110 morphological characters; matK and ITS molecular characters were obtained from GenBank for a subset of 26 taxa. Based on the preliminary results, Trillium rivale was used as a functional outgroup. For the subset of 26 species, analysis of the combined ITS and matK sequence data produced six shortest trees; the morphological data, 13 shortest trees; and the combined morphological and molecular data sets, three trees. Analyses of the full morphological data set of 70 species produced 76 shortest trees. Trillium rivale was distinct from both Paris and Trillium and should be placed in its own genus, for which the name Pseudotrillium is proposed. Trillium govanianum was more closely related to Paris than to Trillium but should be retained as a monotypic genus, Trillidium. Trillium and Paris were monophyletic based on molecular as well as morphological evidence. The cladistic analyses strongly support the separation of Paris sensu lato into Daiswa, Kinugasa, and Paris. The monophyly of Trillium after removal of Pseudotrillium and Trillidium was supported in all but the large morphological analysis; subgenus Phyllantherum was monophyletic in all cases, but subgenus Trillium was not monophyletic.
3093916|Synechanthus, a genus of two species, is widely distributed from southern Mexico through Central America to the Pacific coast of Colombia and Ecuador. Univariate, bivariate, and multivariate statistical methods, based on data taken from herbarium specimens, were used to examine morphological variation between and within species. The species are clearly distinguished based on qualitative variables, and means of most quantitative variables are significantly different between the two. Synechanthus warscewiczianus is distributed more or less continuously from Nicaragua to Ecuador. No variables are correlated with latitude, but three are correlated with elevation. In central Panama, small-sized plants occur on three isolated peaks. These can be separated from larger-sized plants with discriminant analysis, and two of the three small-sized populations can be separated from each other. The distribution of S. fibrosus, from Mexico to Costa Rica, encompasses three separate populations that can be distinguished from one another by discriminant analysis. No variables are correlated with elevation or latitude.
3093917|The Brazilian bamboo genus Eremocaulon is revised, including a key to its five species, descriptions, illustrations, and a distribution map. Our modified circumscription of Eremocaulon unites E. aureofimbriatum with four other species based on a unique combination of both vegetative and reproductive characters, including leathery culm leaves bearing oral setae, an elongated, persistent prophyll at the base of the primary branch, pseudospikelets, and six stamens. The western Amazonian species E. amazonicum, with capitate clusters of pseudospikelets, is newly described, as is E. setosum from the Atlantic forests of So Paulo. The monotypic genus Criciuma is recognized as a synonym of Eremocaulon, resulting in the new combination E. asymmetricum, and Guadua capitata is transferred to Eremocaulon as E. capitatum. Apoclada, Eremocaulon, Guadua, Olmeca, and Otatea, the five currently recognized genera of the Guaduinae, are compared and contrasted.
3093918|The taxonomic composition of three principal and distantly related groups of the former tribe Millettieae, which were first identified from nuclear phytochrome and chloroplast trnK/matK sequences, was more extensively investigated with a phylogenetic analysis of nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS/5.8S sequences. The first of these groups includes the neotropical genera Poecilanthe and Cyclolobium, which are resolved as basal lineages in a clade that otherwise includes the neotropical genera Brongniartia and Harpalyce and the Australian Templetonia and Hovea. The second group includes the large millettioid genera, Millettia, Lonchocarpus, Derris, and Tephrosia, which are referred to as the "core Millettieae" group. Phylogenetic analysis of nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS/5.8S sequences reveals that Millettia is polyphyletic, and that subclades of the core Millettieae group, such as the New World Lonchocarpus or the pantropical Tephrosia and segregate genera (e.g., Chadsia and Mundulea), each form well supported monophyletic subgroups. The third lineage includes the genera Afgekia, Callerya, and Wisteria. These genera are resolved as a basal subclade in the inverted-repeat-lacking clade, which is a large legume group that includes the many well known temperate and herbaceous legumes, such as Astragalus, Medicago and Pisum, but not any other Millettieae.
3093919|Several species in the North American shrub genus Ceanothus L. are purported to be diploid hybrid-derived species, isolated and stabilized from congeners by geographic barriers. Ceanothus masonii and C. sonomensis are putatively of hybrid origin each derived independently from C. cuneatus var. cuneatus and C. gloriosus var. exaltatus. We tested this hypothesis using allozyme, morphometric data, and sequences from the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) and 5.8S coding region of nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) and the chloroplast-encoded matK gene. We found all four entities to be closely related genetically. Lack of genetic differentiation made it difficult to evaluate the hybrid origin hypothesis. The alternative hypothesis of primary allopatric divergence is just as reasonable an explanation for our data.
3093920|Three new species and two new varieties of Mentzelia belonging to the multistemmed subshrub group of section Bartonia are described. Typical of the group, they are narrow endemics occurring in relatively barren clay soils in the Intermountain Region of interior western U.S. Mentzelia tiehmii and Mentzelia argillicola are from Nevada, Mentzelia memorabalis from northern Arizona, Mentzelia multicaulis variety uintahensis from northeastern Utah and northwestern Colorado, and Mentzelia multicaulis variety flumensevera from central Utah.
3093921|Mentzelia rhizomata, a new species of sect. Bartonia, is described from the Roan Plateau area of Garfield Co., Colorado. It may be readily distinguished from other taxa of the section by its sparsely branched, horizontally spreading, elongate, woody, deeply seated underground caudex system. From its nearest relative, M. goodrichii of northeastern Utah, the Roan Cliffs blazingstar differs in being a sprawling plant with five petals, generally shorter pedicels and sepals, an urceolate fruit, and numerous, long, twisted and often tangled, exceedingly fragile and easily detached caudex branches. The plant has been reported in the Colorado literature under the name Nuttallia argillosa.
3093922|Phylogenetic relationships among Vaccinium sections Macropelma, Myrtillus, and Hemimyrtillus have been the subject of much debate. These taxa have been proposed as close relatives and they share, along with sect. Oxycoccoides, the character of buds covered by two partially fused prophylls. However, the monophyly of these sections has not been assessed and hypotheses about evolutionary relationships have not been tested using a cladistic framework. While most investigators agree that the Hawaiian taxa from sect. Macropelma represent a monophyletic group, the phylogenetic position of the Polynesian V. cereum has been the subject of much discussion. Molecular data from the nrITS and the chloroplast genes matK and ndhF for 52 species of Vaccinieae were used in a phylogenetic analysis to assess the monophyly of these sections and to determine their phylogenetic position in tribe Vaccinieae. Hawaiian representatives from sect. Macropelma form a monophyletic group that is derived from within sect. Myrtillus. However, the Polynesian V. cereum is likely of hybrid origin. The Myrtillus + Macropelma clade is sister to a clade that includes sections Oxycoccoides and Praestantia, and the two Asian representatives from sect. Hemimyrtillus. The Tethyan clade from sect. Hemimyrtillus is sister to the rest of tribe Vaccinieae.
3093923|We investigated cladistic relationships among the genera and species of paleotropical Gentianaceae-Canscorinae using morphological characters. Twenty-five characters were scored across all 23 species of the subtribe plus four outgroup species representing the closely related Coutoubeinae and Chironiinae. The maximum parsimony analysis resulted in one most parsimonious tree of 91 steps. The seven genera of Canscorinae fall into two major clades. These comprise Cracosna, Hoppea, Schinziella, and Canscora (clade I), and Microrphium, Phyllocyclus, and Duplipetala ined. (clade II). Intergeneric relationships were highly congruent with earlier molecular analyses in which, however, not all genera were included. Phylogenetic relationships among genera imply that the two different types of anisomorphic androecia found in Canscorinae evolved independently. An ancestral area analysis showed that Canscorinae are likely to have originated in SE Asia. From there India was colonized by the Canscora, Hoppea, Schinziella clade. The presence of some species of this clade in Africa/Madagascar is considered to be the result of independent long-distance dispersal events.
3093924|Analysis of the trnT-trnL spacer, the trnL intron and the trnL-trnF spacer of 65 species of Cynanchum, 33 members of the Metastelminae, and seven representatives of other Asclepiadeae shows that Cynanchum in its present circumscription is polyphyletic. Both the genus Cynanchum and the subtribe Metastelminae s.l. split along the Old World-New World geographic division. The only exception to this division is Cynanchum subgenus Mellichampia, which belongs to Cynanchum s. str. For the Old World Cynanchum relatives, the subtribe Cynanchinae is re-established. The remaining New World sections of Cynanchum are not monophyletic. The South American members of section Cynanchum join the morphologically aberrant Grisebachiella hieronymi. Section Macbridea is associated with Funastrum. In the Old World, the succulent genera Folotsia, Karimbolea, Platykeleba, and Sarcostemma are monophyletic with stem-succulent Cynanchum and nested within a clade of exclusively Malagasy Cynanchum species.
3093925|The Gnaphalieae are a group of sunflowers that have their greatest diversity in South America, Southern Africa, and Australia. The objective of this study was to reconstruct a phylogeny of the Australian Gnaphalieae using sequence data from the trnL intron, trnL/trnF intergenic spacer, matK, and ETS. Included in this investigation are the Australian genera of the Gnaphalieae from the subtribes Cassiniinae, Gnaphaliinae, Angianthinae, and Loricariinae, and one to four genera from all tribes of the subfamily Asteroideae to serve as outgroups. Results indicate that the subtribes Angianthinae and Cassiniinae are non-monophyletic as currently circumscribed. There is also some evidence to suggest that the genera Asteridea, Craspedia, Hyalosperma, Millotia, and Podolepis are monophyletic, whereas Calocephalus, Gnephosis, Myriocephalus pro parte, Ozothamnus, Siloxerus, Trichanthodium, and Xerochrysum are non-monophyletic. A group of perennial shrubs and alpine cushion plants from southeastern Australia dominates the clade at the base of the Gnaphalieae. The more derived clades contain primarily herbaceous annual taxa, mainly from western Australia. Based on our results, it seems likely that initial colonization and diversification of the Australian Gnaphalieae occurred in the Bassian Floristic region in eastern New South Wales, Victoria, and Tasmania. Following diversification in eastern Australia, concurrent with the increasing aridity over the entire continent during the Miocene, a massive radiation in the Gnaphalieae occurred into the arid zone of South Australia and Western Australia.
3093926|Phylogenetic relationships were assessed for 14 taxa in the Asteriscus alliance, a group of three genera within the tribe Inuleae. Species of Asteriscus, Ighermia, and Pallenis occur in desert and coastal habitats throughout the Mediterranean and Middle East, with several species endemic to Macaronesia. Sequence data from the external and internal transcribed spacers of the nuclear ribosomal DNA and from the chloroplast gene ndhF were obtained for all taxa. Analysis of individual and combined data sets support a monophyletic Pallenis but indicate that Asteriscus, as currently delimited, is paraphyletic. Reassignment of Ighermia to its former status as a species of Asteriscus allows Asteriscus to be monophyletic as well. Multiple, independent dispersal events between the continent and Macaronesian islands are required to explain the current distribution of taxa. In general, the island endemics are more derived than continental taxa, but the ultimate origin of the alliance remains unclear.
3093933|The role of nucleocytoplasmic interactions in the genesis of post-zygotic isolation has been given little attention by plant evolutionists. I present evidence from reciprocal crosses, cytoplasmic substitution lines, and cell fusion lines that hybrid weakness and sterility often arise from interactions between the nuclear genome and the chloroplast and mitochondrial genomes. These interactions are much more important in the origin and isolation of species than we appreciate. The strength of the post-zygotic barriers tends to be a function of cytoplasmic divergence. I also review evidence indicating that the properties and evolutionary potential of allopolyploids and diploid hybrid derivatives may be influenced by cytoplasmic factors.
3093934|One new species of Herbertus with distinctly verruculose cuticle from Papua New Guinea is described and illustrated: Herbertus streimannii sp. nov. Eight species of Herbertus are present in Australasia and the south Pacific: H. armitanus (Steph.) H. A. Mill., H. circinatus (Steph.) H. A. Mill., H. leratii (Steph.) H. A. Mill., H. longifissus Steph., H. oldfieldianus (Steph.) Rodway, H. pilifer Schiffn., and H. ramosus (Steph.) H. A. Mill. Herbertus huerlimannii H. A. Mill. and H. parisii (Steph.) H. A. Mill. are placed under the synonymy of H. longifissus, H. alpinus (Steph.) E. A. Hodgs. under H. oldfieldianus, H. javanicus (Steph.) S. Hatt. under H. ramosus, and H. setigerus (Steph.) H. A. Mill. under H. leratii. A key to all the species in the region is provided.
3093935|Cladistic analyses based on chloroplast protein coding genes rbcL and rps4, and the chloroplast encoded trnL (UAA) intron were conducted (1) to investigate phylogenetic relationships among basal peristomate mosses, especially the nematodontous mosses (Tetraphidaceae and Polytrichaceae), and the arthrodontous mosses with pleated endostomes (Buxbaumiaceae and Diphysciaceae), and (2) to make inferences on evolution of the peristome. A combined data matrix included 46 taxa and 2206 characters of which 619 were parsimony informative. The results indicate that the basal peristomate mosses, particularly the Tetraphidaceae, Polytrichaceae and Buxbaumiaceae, are paraphyletic. Sister group relationships between the following taxa are newly suggested: Tetraphidaceae and all peristomate mosses; Polytrichaceae and the clade consisting of Buxbaumiaceae, Diphysciaceae, diplolepideous and haplolepideous mosses; Buxbaumiaceae and the clade consisting of Diphysciaceae, diplolepideous and haplolepideous mosses. The following novel inferences on peristome evolution are also suggested: the plesiomorphic condition of the endostome of the arthrodontous peristome was pleated; the pleated endostome has been transformed into a keeled endostome in the diplolepideous/haplolepideous clade; the similarity in cell divisions preceding deposition of secondary peristomial wall material in peristome development is a synapomorphy in the peristomate mosses. The exostome has been independently lost or reduced in the Diphysciaceae, and the diplolepideous/haplolepideous clade.
3093936|Cladistic analyses of Iris included 18 ingroup taxa from series Californicae and two outgroup taxa from series Sibiricae. The internal transcribed spacers and the 5.8S subunit of 18-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA were sequenced to provide phylogenetic information. An analysis of DNA data resulted in five most parsimonious trees that concurred in part with morphological data. Species groups in series Californicae that have been informally proposed by previous workers were not supported in this study. Two species complexes, I. tenax and I. hartwegii, were not monophyletic as currently delineated. Support for several internally resolved clades is low with DNA data, probably due to high levels of homoplasy along some branches. The overall level of variation and sequence divergence is relatively high compared to other infrageneric plant groups.
3093937|Separate and combined analyses of morphology, rps16, and rbcL data were conducted on a total of 27 Al-stroemeriaceae species including 23 Alstroemeria, three Bomarea, and Leontochir. We wished to examine the monophyly of Alstroemeria and Bomarea as well as explore the phylogenetic position of Leontochir and two controversial monotypic genera segregated from Alstroemeria: Schickendantzia and Taltalia. Monophyly of the Chilean and Brazilian Alstroemeria species were explored. The results support monophyly of the family. Alstroemeria and Bomarea are both monophyletic with the former genus being more strongly supported. Bomarea and the monotypic genus Leontochir form a clade distinguished from Alstroemeria by a set of morphological characters. Bomarea could not be defined by morphological characters without including Leontochir. Resolution within Alstroemeria is only weakly supported and formal subdivisions should not be made until the Brazilian members are revised and/or more appropriate phylogenetic markers at the species level have been found. Alstroemeria graminea or A. pygmaea never appear in a position that makes their segregation from Alstroemeria possible (as Taltalia and Schickendantzia, respectively), without making Alstroemeria paraphyletic. The resolution best supported in this study divides Alstroemeria into subclades roughly corresponding to geography: a clade from northern Chile, a clade from central Chile, and a clade containing the Brazilian species. Most of the trans-andean species could not be unambigously placed by this study.
3093938|The phylogenetic position of the Lampranthus group (Ruschioideae, Aizoaceae), with particular emphasis on the large genus Lampranthus, was studied using DNA sequences from the trnL-trnF region of the chloroplast genome, the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region and the 5S non-transcribed spacer (NTS). Phylogenies of 59 species in 29 genera of succulent Aizoaceae, including two species from subfamily Mesembryanthemoideae, are presented. Due to an inadequate number of informative sites within the Ruschioideae (31 for trnL-trnF; 49 for ITS), the trnL-trnF and ITS regions are found to be unsuitable for phylogenetic investigations at the specific and generic level. The 5S spacer proves useful at the generic level, but fails to reveal well-supported phylogenies above the generic level. Combined analyses of all three gene regions show that Lampranthus N.E.Br. in its present circumscription is not monophyletic. A "core" of species of Lampranthus is well supported with numerous species of Lampranthus more closely related to other genera. At a higher taxonomic level, the data also do not support a monophyletic Lampranthus group. Circumscription of informal groups within the Ruschioideae, including the Lampranthus group, has mainly been based on the shared presence of a particular type of fruit. Fruits of the Lampranthus group are characterized by long, diverging expanding keels, broad valve wings and the absence of a closing body. The present data implies that this fruit type is homoplasious.
3093939|Tamarix is a taxonomically difficult Old World genus that has become naturalized and invasive in the Americas and Australia. We examine the morphology and taxonomic history of 12 putative U.S. invasive Tamarix species, and investigate current invasions using chloroplast and nuclear sequence data. We test molecular phylogenetic hypotheses regarding the relationships of putative invasive taxa, and conclude that there are four invasive entities in the U.S., two of which are T. aphylla and T. parviflora. The sequence data also identify an invasive entity consisting of genetically indistinguishable T. ramosissima and T. chinensis, and another consisting of genetically indistinguishable T. gallica and T. canariensis. There is evidence of introgression between T. ramosissima, T. canariensis, and T. gallica, which is a likely source of confusion in the identification of some Tamarix invasions.
3093940|Using rbcL plastid DNA sequences, we evaluated monophyly and relationships of the genera of Crossosomataceae, which are a small group of shrubs from North America and Mexico: Crossosoma, Apacheria, Glossopetalon (Forsellesia), and Velascoa. Morphological characters that correspond to the phylogenetic patterns were examined. The analysis consisted of two steps. In the first, we analyzed the sequences of representatives of the four genera with those of over 500 species of eudicots. Based on these results, a second, restricted analysis with 25 taxa was conducted. Crossosomataceae are monophyletic and the four genera fell into a well-supported clade with representatives of Stachyuraceae and Staphyleaceae. Characters that mark Crossosomataceae are: microphyllous leaves (less than 5 cm long), solitary flowers with an apocarpous ovary and hypanthium, ventrally dehiscent follicles, and seeds with a fimbriate or irregular aril. A brief description of the family and an identification key for the genera are presented.
3093941|A phylogenetic analysis of Harpullia (two incompletely-known species excluded, Conchopetalum and Majidea as outgroups) based on morphological characters resulted in five most parsimonious cladograms. These cladograms and the strict consensus cladogram show a few polytomies. Only a few branches have relatively high Decay Indices. The strict consensus cladogram indicates that Harpullia is monophyletic (five synapomorphies) and does not support the existing subgeneric classification. Thus, it is advisable to refrain from any subgeneric classification. The historical biogeographic pattern confirms the one already found for eight other genera of Sapindaceae. Harpullia originated on the New Guinean-Australian plate and from there dispersal and speciation occurred towards New Caledonia and Southeast Asia main land.
3093942|Phylogenetic analysis of Macromeria based on 35 morphological characters produced a single most parsimonious tree that supports the monophyly of the genus. The phylogeny supports previous evaluations of relationships among species, and the resulting clades often connect sister taxa that are geographically proximate. Mapping of corolla size onto the phylogeny indicates that floral size has changed many times within the genus, and that the very large corolla size in southern populations of Macromeria viridiflora has been derived from a smaller-flowered ancestor.
3093943|Pollen and seed morphological data refute that Borreria hockii (R.D. Congo, Katanga) is synonymous to Spermacoce thymoidea (Southwest Angola, Huila). For the former, the necessary combination Spermacoce hockii is given; Spermacoce homblei, described from Katanga, is shown to be synonymous. The name Spermacoce thymoidea was also used for Zambian material from Mwinilunga that represents in fact a new species, Spermacoce stipularis, also collected from central Angola and Katanga. Spermacoce stipularis mainly differs from Spermacoce thymoidea in the presence of an elaiosome and in the type of pollen grain, and from Spermacoce hockii in the more slender and taller habit, the absence of heterophylly, and the smaller flowers. The value of the characters used in the taxonomy of the genus Spermacoce is briefly reviewed with special emphasis on the importance of seed and pollen data. The three species are restricted to high plateaus of the Zambezian regional center of endemism; they are geoxylic plants, a life form very common in the grass savannahs of these plateaus. Further comments on the ecology of the plateaus and their endemism are also provided.
3093944|Two new Rubiaceae species, Robbrechtia grandifolia and R. milleri from Madagascar are described. Clearly belonging to the tribe Pavetteae, the species possess an unusual combination of characters (sheathing stipules with intrapetiolar lobes, young shoots and inflorescence parts covered with copious colleter exudate, long-tubed flowers with a well-developed calyx, a bilobed stigma and unilocular fruits with a single, deeply ruminate seed) that makes the establishment of a new genus, Robbrechtia, necessary. Detailed descriptions, illustrations and distribution data of the new taxa are given. The characters of the genus are evaluated and compared to those of the other representatives of the tribe Pavetteae.
3093945|Phylogenetic relationships among 75 species of Lentibulariaceae, representing the three recognized genera, were assessed by cladistic analysis of DNA sequences from the plastid rps16 intron and the trnL-F region. Sequence data from the two loci were analyzed both separately and in combination. Consensus trees from all analyses are congruent, and parsimony jackknife results demonstrate strong support for relationships both between and within each of the three demonstrably monophyletic genera. The genus Pinguicula is sister to a Genlisea-Utricularia clade, the phylogenetic structure within this clade closely follows Taylor's recent sectional delimitations based on morphology. Three principal clades are shown within Utricularia, with the basal sections Polypompholyx and Pleiochasia together forming the sister lineage of the remaining Utricularia species. Of the fundamental morphological specializations, the stoloniferous growth form apparently arose independently within Genlisea and Utricularia three times, and within Utricularia itself, perhaps more than once. The epiphytic habit has evolved independently at least three times, in Pinguicula, in Utricularia section Phyllaria, and within the two sections Orchidioides and Iperua (in the latter as bromeliad tank-epiphytes). The suspended aquatic habit may have evolved independently within sections Utricularia and Vesiculina. Biogeographic optimization on the phylogeny demonstrates patterns commonly associated with the boreotropics hypothesis and limits the spatial origin of Lentibulariaceae to temperate Eurasia or tropical America.
3093946|Genetic relationships of Mimulus michiganensis comb. et stat. nov., formerly known as M. glabratus var. michiganensis, and two related species that have been implicated in its origin, M. glabratus var. jamesii and M. guttatus, were studied using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers. Genetic similarities were calculated based on the RAPD data using Jaccard's coefficient and used to construct a UPGMA phenogram. All individuals of M. michiganensis were highly similar to each other and formed a distinct cluster in the phenogram. This cluster was nested among the individuals of M. glabratus var. jamesii, and the resulting cluster was, in turn, nested within the individuals of M. guttatus. These findings, in agreement with earlier morphological and crossing studies, support the elevation of the taxon in rank from variety to species; accordingly, the new combination M. michiganensis was established. No evidence was found to support earlier hypotheses of a role of M. guttatus in the origin of M. michiganensis through hybridization with M. glabratus var. jamesii or through direct ancestry via an aneuploidy event. The results are consistent with a close relationship between M. michiganensis and M. glabratus var. jamesii.
3093947|Sequence data from the nrDNA external transcribed spacer (ETS) were generated to help resolve questions about the evolution of Machaeranthera left unanswered by previous analyses of chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) restriction site data and nrDNA ITS sequence data. Combined ITS and ETS (nrDNA) evidence agreed with cpDNA evidence in supporting a close relationship between Onopsis and M. tanacetifolia. Nuclear rDNA evidence also supported an alliance between M. sections Blepharodon and Sideranthus. The nrDNA evidence provided greater support for the relationships of M. gypsitherma, M. heterophylla, M. stenoloba, and M. viscida than earlier analyses of ITS sequence data, reinforcing earlier conclusions that these species have experienced reticulate evolution. Finally, nrDNA evidence provided strong support for a group consisting of M. bigelovii, M. canescens, M. gypsitherma, and M. riparia. The relationships that nrDNA evidence supported for these four species conflicted substantially with those supported by cpDNA evidence. The many instances of conflict between cpDNA and nrDNA suggest that the evolution of Machaeranthera has been complex and may have involved as many as seven separate occurrences of reticulate evolution.
3093948|Tageteae consist of approximately 216 New World species with a center of diversity in the Mexican highlands. The present study uses DNA sequences of the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA and the 3 end of the ndhF gene from the chloroplast to assess phylogenetic relationships within the tribe. Although trees from the two molecular makers are not completely congruent, both data sets provide support for the recognition of 21 genera of Tageteae. The combined data set generates a well-resolved tree with strong support for the monophyly of all but three genera. Tagetes is paraphyletic because Adenopappus and Vilobia are nested within the genus. Porophyllum is shown to be polyphyletic and P. tridentatum and P. crassifolium are recognized as belonging to a newly described genus Bajacalia. Two new combinations, B. tridentata and B. crassifolia, are proposed. Additionally, a new species Bajacalia moranii B. L. Turner, is described. The other species of Porophyllum examined are nested within or formed a sister group to Pectis. Dyssodia sensu lato is not monophyletic and its segregate genera should be recognized. The DNA phylogenies also support the transfer of Dyssodia jelskii into Schizotrichia, resulting in the new combination S. jelskii. The recognition of Pectis as a separate subtribe is also not supported. The lack of support for subtribal groupings and the small size of the Tageteae argue against formal recognition of subtribes. Chromosomal and biogeographic data correspond well with the combined molecular phylogeny. The phylogeny suggests that the Tageteae probably originated in Mexico and that there have been at least three independent introductions into South America. Chromosome numbers are quite variable within the tribe but are consistent within clades. The ancestral base chromosome number for the Tageteae is most likely x = 12 and there have been several episodes of aneuploid reduction in the evolution of the tribe.
3093949|The internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of nuclear ribosomal DNA was sequenced in 36 samples representing 16 of the 17 species of Lasthenia. Phylogenetic analysis supported the monophyly of only section Hologymne whereas other sections are paraphyletic or polyphyletic. Species of section Baeria together with L. leptalea (section Burrielia) form a well supported clade. Samples of L. californica (section Baeria) form two clades representing geographically separated populations in a north-south pattern. Section Burrielia is polyphyletic and the ITS data suggest that different species of this section are more closely related to taxa of either sections Baeria or Ptilomeris. The monotypic section Platycarpha shares a close affinity with some species of section Ptilomeris. Species of section Ptilomeris formed two clades. One clade includes L. burkei, L. conjugens and L. fremontii supporting a close relationship among these species as previously recognized. The remaining species of section Ptilomeris form a well supported clade together with L. microglossa (section Burrielia). The basal position of L. glaberrima of section Lasthenia suggests that the ancestor to the genus may have been a self-compatible annual species with n = 5 and confined to wet habitats, a hypothesis that contradicts previous suggestions.
3093992|The rhizomes of all species in the fern genus Lecanopteris Reinw. contain galleries (hollow chambers) that serve as domatia (homes) for ants. Some aspects of the biology of these species have been elucidated clearly, e.g., adaptations linked to the facultative, co-ecological association between Lecanopteris species and ants have been well established. Other aspects such as the evolutionary relationships between Lecanopteris and other genera of the Polypodiaceae as well as among the thirteen species in Lecanopteris remain widely debated. Diverse leaf and rhizome features have provided numerous autapomorphic characters for diagnosing species and describing subgenera, but there are few synapomorphies to establish reliable interspecific alliances. DNA sequences of the rbcL gene and the trnL-F non-coding region were obtained to test hypotheses of evolutionary history for Lecanopteris and related taxa. Data from each DNA region were considered separately and in combined analyses. The phylogeny obtained from parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of separate and combined data sets were congruent, but the analyses of combined data sets contained more informative characters, more robust bootstrap support, and better Bremer ("decay") values than did analyses of the individual DNA regions. Lecanopteris was solidly supported as monophyletic, subgenus Lecanopteris appeared monophyletic, but subgenus Myrmecopteris was paraphyletic. Rhizome morphology, including surface indument, branching patterns, and internal galleries, correlated with DNA-based hypotheses of evolutionary history and interspecific relationships, but aspects of leaf morphology, including blade shape and soral position, appeared homoplastic. Low levels of infrageneric sequence divergence between morphologically distinct species suggest a relaxation of selective pressure on morphology, perhaps owing to the ant/plant association. Narrowly distributed, derived species may have arisen as peripheral isolates from more geographically widespread progenitors.
3093993|An unknown plant of the Hymenophyllaceae was discovered in New Caledonia and is described as a new species, Hymenophyllum paniense. The species has unique fronds that resemble hairy caterpillars due to impressive marginal hairs. To elucidate its systematic position, the species was compared with 14 species of Hymenophyllum sensu lato using morphological and molecular approaches. Special attention was focused on the trichomes of the fronds. Molecular phylogeny using continuous sequences of approximately 3,400 bp of chloroplast DNA (including rbcL genes, accD genes and intergeneric spacers) suggested monophyly of this and other Oceanian species bearing multicellular hairs.
3093994|A phylogenetic analysis was conducted to examine the monophyly and relationships of the four broadly defined genera of Aristolochiaceae. Seventy-two morphological characters were coded from representatives of these genera and from a broad selection of potential outgroups. The data support monophyly of the Aristolochiaceae and monophyly of the broadly defined genera Aristolochia, Thottea, and Asarum. The genera are grouped into two clades within the family, Thottea + Aristolochia and Asarum + Saruma. Based on the results of these analyses, Asaroideae, which have been circumscribed by some authors to consist of Saruma, Asarum, and Thottea, are paraphyletic, and should be emended to exclude Thottea.
3093995|A synopsis of Veratrum, including commentary on species and character evolution within the genus, is presented. The circumscription and relationships of infrageneric taxa are evaluated using parsimony analyses of ITS (nuclear ribosomal) DNA sequence data of 26 representative taxa. Proposed new infrageneric circumscriptions, strongly supported by tree statistics and topologies, are correlated with potential morphological synapomorphies at the proper level of universality. Based on our analyses, Veratrum is circumscribed broadly (including Melanthium) and divided into two sections and two subsections (most with novel circumscription). This modified infrageneric classification involves reassignment of Veratrum subgenus Pseudoanticlea as subsection Pseudoanticlea. Although interspecific relationships are not highly resolved, the molecular data provide strong support for placing several species previously of unknown affinities and also validate several generalizations concerning character evolution within Veratrum.
3093996|The chloroplast-encoded gene rbcL was sequenced in 30 genera of Commelinaceae to evaluate intergeneric relationships within the family. The Australian Cartonema was consistently placed as sister to the rest of the family. The Commelineae is monophyletic, while the monophyly of Tradescantieae is in question, due to the position of Palisota as sister to all other Tradescantieae plus Commelineae. The phylogeny supports the most recent classification of the family with monophyletic tribes Tradescantieae (minus Palisota) and Commelineae, but is highly incongruent with a morphology-based phylogeny. This incongruence is attributed to convergent evolution of morphological characters associated with pollination strategies, especially those of the androecium and inflorescence. Analysis of the combined data sets produced a phylogeny similar to the rbcL phylogeny. The combined analysis differed from the molecular one, however, in supporting the monophyly of Dichorisandrinae. The family appears to have arisen in the Old World, with one or possibly two movements to the New World in the Tradescantieae, and two (or possibly one) subsequent movements back to the Old World; the latter are required to account for the Old World distribution of Coleotrypinae and Cyanotinae, which are nested within a New World clade.
3093997|All diploid species of Hordeum have been included in phylogenetic analyses of four molecular data sets supposedly from three different linkage groups. Two data sets stem from the nuclear genome: partial DMC1 (disrupted meiotic cDNA1) sequences (chromosome 3 in H. vulgare) and partial EF-G (elongation factor G) sequences (chromosome 2 in H. vulgare). The other two data sets are RFLP data and sequence data, rbcL (ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/ oxygenase), from the plastid genome. Incongruence length difference tests show that the two nuclear and the two plastid data sets, respectively, are congruent, whereas the nuclear data and the plastid data are incongruent. The greatest incongruence is caused by the two Eurasian subspecies of H. marinum. The nuclear data support monophyly of the species, but the plastid data group one of the subspecies among the American taxa. The explanation is most likely lineage sorting. Based on a combined analysis of all data sets a new infrageneric classification of Hordeum including only monophyletic groups is presented. One new taxon, Hordeum L. sect. Sibirica (Nevski) G. Petersen & Seberg, stat. nov., is proposed. The distribution of selected morphological characters is discussed.
3093998|During preparation for a revision of the genus Paspalum for America, two new taxa from Brazil were recognized as previously undescribed species. Paspalum plowmanii from Bahia, Gois, and Mato Grosso is related to P. macranthecium. from which it differs by its non-stipitate spikelets, with upper glume 3/4 the length of the spikelet, and by having a membranous upper glume and lower lemma. Paspalum filgueirasii from Gois, Brazil, is related to P. proximum Mez, from which it differs by having a single and erect raceme. Both species are described, illustrated, and compared with putatively related species. A key to the new species and related taxa of Paspalum is also presented.
3093999|A new species of Poaceae from Brazil, Tridens riograndensis Acedo & Llamas, is described and illustrated. Complete morphological and anatomical descriptions are made. The new species can be distinguished from other species of Tridens by possessing glumes with obtuse apices, paleas that are shorter than the lemma, and spiciform panicles. A key to morphologically similar species is offered.
3094000|In recent DNA-based cladograms of dicotyledons, Aextoxicaceae (one sp., Chile) and Berberidopsidaceae (three spp., Chile and Australia) form an isolated clade, Berberidopsidales, basal to rosids and asterids. Until recently, Aextoxicaceae had been placed in Euphorbiales, Berberidopsidaceae in Violales. Light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) studies of wood of the two families show numerous shared primitive features: perforation plates with numerous bars and extensive pit-membrane remnants, lateral wall pitting of vessels scalariform to transitional, tracheids present; long vessel elements and tracheids, low F/V ratio; diffuse axial parenchyma; and Heterogeneous Type I rays. Features reported for the first time include crystals with various degrees of encapsulation in ray cells (Aextoxicon), pit membrane remnants in perforations (Berberidopsis, previously reported in Aextoxicon), and presence of narrow latewood vessels the perforation plates of which can bear pit membranes (Berberidopsis). Probable synapomorphies of the two families include marked difference between multiseriate parts (cells procumbent only) and uniseriate parts (cells square to upright), and presence of dark-staining deposits in axial parenchyma and rays. Cladistics does not use symplesiomorphies, which are numerous between the two families, to group closely-related families at clade tips. Ecological and habital adaptations of woods of the two families are briefly considered.
3094001|Phylogenetic relationships within Polygonaceae, with an emphasis on Polygonum and segregate genera (e.g., Emex, Persicaria, Polygonella), are investigated using sequence data from the chloroplast gene rbcL. The results show the currently recognized subfamilies are likely not monophyletic. Polygonum as currently recognized is paraphyletic. Three strongly supported clades of Polygonum s.l. were found. Contained within these three clades of Polygonum s.l. are representatives of Atraphaxis, Bistorta, Koenigia and Persicaria. Other strongly supported clades found are Coccoloba, Eriogonum, Fagopyrum, Rumex and Triplaris. Patterns of character evolution were studied by mapping characters onto the phylogeny. A woody habit likely evolved multiple times within the family (in Atraphaxis, Koenigia, Muehlenbeckia, Polygonella and in the ancestor to the Eriogonum-Brunnichia clade). Quincuncial aestivation likely evolved early in the history of the family with four subsequent losses in the Rumex-Oxyria clade, Muehlenbeckia, the Eriogonum clade, and the Triplaris clade.
3094002|Malesherbiaceae are an angiosperm family allied with Turneraceae and Passifloraceae. The family contains 24 species in the single genus, Malesherbia, and is distributed in the arid Andes and coastal deserts of Chile, Peru, and Argentina. Although there are several morphologically cohesive groups of species in the genus, no subgenera or sections have been recognized. A phylogeny for the family was reconstructed from ITS sequence data using parsimony, implied weights, successive approximations, and maximum likelihood analyses. Parsimony, implied weights, and successive approximations yielded almost identical topologies having four strongly supported clades and one weakly supported clade. Maximum likelihood analysis using model TrNef+G resulted in a topology showing the same four well supported clades, but the root moved to break the monophyly of the fifth clade. The four well-supported clades each contain morphologically similar species, and the fifth clade also shows some morphological cohesion. The five clades are morphologically divergent and may be recognized taxonomically at the level of section. Five sections, Albitomenta, Cyanpetala, Malesherbia, Parvistella, and Xeromontana, are described. A key to the sections is provided.
3094003|A new genus of arborescent violet, Hekkingia, is described from Neotropical lowland rainforest near Cayenne in northeastern French Guiana. Racemose inflorescences, fully fused filaments and rudimentary dorsal connective appendages place the only known species, Hekkingia bordenavei, near the genus Paypayrola, while strongly tuberculate capsules ally it also to Amphirrhox, the two genera comprising the Subtribe Paypayrolinae to which the new genus is tentatively assigned. Hekkingia shares scarcely differentiated corollas with quincuncial aestivation, very large obovate sepals, red to pink capsules and carunculate seeds with few other genera (but not in this combination), whereas its basally cauliflorous habit, very large bracts and pedicel bractlets are unique in the family. A key to genera of the Violaceae provides a context for this French Guianan novelty.
3094004|Phylogenetic relationships among members of the subtribe Abutilinae and particularly the taxa in the Sida generic alliance are currently poorly understood. The internal transcribed spacers of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS1 + ITS2) from 58 species (51 new sequences) of Malvaceae were sequenced. The ITS data show that species from sects. Cordifoliae, Ellipticifoliae, Muticae, Sida, Spinosae, and Stenidae fall within a well-supported Sida core clade. This clade, which also includes the genus Dendrosida, groups species with a basic chromosome number of seven. Several species are placed outside of the Sida core, confirming preliminary suggestions of the paraphyly of this group based on morphological and cytogenetic evidence. Other sections, such as sect. Nelavagae, are monophyletic and sister to the Sida core, whereas sect. Malachroideae is placed outside of the Sida core in an unresolved position. Meximalva and Sidastrum as well as an Australian group of Sida species form a well-supported clade. Sida hookeriana and S. hermaphrodita are placed in a clade and associated with Sidasodes, removed from the Sida core, indicating a position much closer to subtribe Malvineae than previously suggested. Molecular evidence does not provide clear limits to the Sida generic alliance as currently circumscribed.
3094005|Monophyly of the neotropical plant genus Alloplectus (Gesneriaceae) was tested using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses of molecular sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer region (ITS). As currently circumscribed, Alloplectus is polyphyletic and includes taxa in three different clades. The clade that contains the type species is described as Alloplectus sensu stricto and is characterized by the presence of resupinate flowers. The Alloplectus s.s. clade is weakly supported as the sister-group to Columnea. A separate clade of non-resupinate "Alloplectus" species nests within a paraphyletic Drymonia. A third taxon, Alloplectus cristatus, endemic to the Lesser Antilles and northwestern South America, is also resupinate and unresolved in a basal polytomy, removed from the other species of Alloplectus. The fourth taxon, Alloplectus peruvianus, which was originally described as Columnea peruviana, is strongly supported as nesting within Columnea. Resupination of flowers is an important feature that has not been previously reported and should be recognized as a morphological synapomorphy for Alloplectus s.s. Within the tribe Episcieae, flower resupination is a convergent feature that is independently derived in the Alloplectus s.s. clade, Alloplectus cristatus, and a clade comprising some Nematanthus species.
3094007|Recent advances in understanding the tectonic and paleoenvironmental history of the Caribbean region allow formulation of biogeographic and evolution/speciation models within an improved physical context. Support is developing for a new 'maximist' model of geological history suggesting that the Greater Antilles originated as a submerged volcanic island arc in the present Isthmian region during the Early Cretaceous [Valanginian; 130 m.y. (million years ago)] and moved more than 1000 km to their present location. Geologic investigations are not always concerned with whether an arc is submerged or emergent, but the proto-Greater Antillean arc began colliding with the Bahamas Platform in the Paleocene/earliest Eocene (56 m.y.), and the principal period of emergence allowing terrestrial flora and fauna to colonize was in the middle Eocene (49 m.y.). Early emergence was during the later phases of the hothouse interval of the Late Cretaceous through the early Eocene, which was followed by an intermediate period when climates fluctuated between non-glacial and (marginally) glacial conditions (middle Eocene through the early Miocene), and culminated in the icehouse interval of the late Tertiary and Quaternary Periods. The recent geological/paleoenvironmental models still constitute, however, a broad spectrum of possibilities for biogeographic-evolutionary-speciation events within which specialists must formulate the most probable pathway(s) for individual taxa.
3094008|Morphological data and sequences from the nuclear ribosomal ITS region, and the chloroplast trnL intron and matK locus were sampled from robinioid legumes to infer phylogenetic relationships. The monophyletic robinioid clade includes 11 genetically and often morphologically distinct subclades ranked as genera with the following well supported higher level relationships: ((Hebestigma, Lennea), ((Gliricidia, Poitea), (Olneya, Robinia, Poissonia, Coursetia, Peteria, Genistidium, and Sphinctospermum))). In order to render all 11 robinioid genera monophyletic, the genus Hybosema is synonymized with Gliricidia, and the genus Poissonia is resurrected to accommodate four morphologically disparate species previously classified in Coursetia. Three new combinations are required to accommodate these two generic recircumscriptions: Gliricidia robustum, Poissonia heterantha, and Poissonia weberbaueri. Ages of clades and evolutionary substitution rates are derived from a rate-smoothed Bayesian likelihood approach on sequences from the ITS region and the matK locus. Time constraints are derived from the Tertiary fossil wood species Robinia zirkelii, which shares apomorphic wood characters with the Robinia stem clade. The Cuban endemic Hebestigma is estimated to have diverged at least 38 Ma from its Mesoamerican sister genus Lennea, whereas the Greater Antillean Poitea is estimated to have diverged at least 16 Ma from its continental sister Gliricidia. This study reveals that sequences from the ITS region are amenable to exhaustive taxon sampling because of the high levels of variation at and below the species level. The evolutionary substitution rate for the ITS region is estimated at 3.1-3.5  10<sup>-9</sup> substitutions/site/year, approximately an order of magnitude faster than that estimated for the matK locus.
3094009|The Lythraceae contribute eight genera and 41 species to the flora of the Antilles. Two genera, Ginoria and Haitia, and twenty-two species are endemic to the region. A summary of the distribution of each genus among the islands of the Greater Antilles is presented, together with an estimate of center of origin and mode and direction of introduction. Cuphea (15 species) and Ginoria (13 species) are best represented. Results of phylogenetic analyses for Rotala, Cuphea, and Ginoria aid in understanding the nearest relationships and geographic sources of the Antillean members of these genera. They suggest that Rotala was introduced twice from different directions and Cuphea was introduced from eastern South America a minimum of five to eight times into the Greater Antilles and at least three times into the Lesser Antilles. A paraphyletic Ginoria and Haitia, which is nested within the most derived species of Ginoria, are the result of adaptive radiation in situ in Cuba and Hispaniola from an undetermined ancestor. The biogeographic patterns of the Lythraceae in the Caribbean primarily have been established following chance, multiple, long-distance dispersal events from multiple directions. Highly vagile seeds and self-compatibility most likely enhanced their successful dispersion and establishment. Vicariance is not required to explain the distribution of Lythraceae in the Antilles.
3094010|The phylogenetic relationships within Styrax series Valvatae were estimated with DNA sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA to test hypotheses bearing on the historical biogeography of the Antilles. The results provide evidence for three dispersal events within Styrax to the Antilles, one from southern North America, the other two from South America. The data do not support a strict Greater Antillean vicariance scenario for Styrax. Vicariance between the Greater Antilles and southern North America without immediate prior dispersal would require a more basal position of Styrax ochraceus than that recovered, although low branch support values in the relevant portion of the tree do not preclude this possibility. Dispersal of Styrax from South America to the Greater Antilles could have proceeded across oceanic barriers, or more likely through GAARlandia. Styrax obtusifolius in Cuba and Hispaniola and the strictly South American Foveolaria clade have evolved small flowers and the gynodioecious condition independently. The predominance of microscopic pollinators in the Cuban fauna may have impelled the evolution of small flowers in Styrax obtusifolius. The data suggest that the Antilles have played little if any role in the intercontinental dispersal of Styrax.
3094011|Exostema (Rubiaceae) comprises 25 neotropical woody species, ranging from western South America and Mesoamerica to the West Indies, with 19 species occurring in Cuba and Hispaniola. Biogeographical hypotheses based upon a phylogenetic analysis of morphological data depict a South American origin for the group, with species radiations in the Greater Antilles. Molecular phylogenetic analyses were conducted using ITS and rbcL sequence data for a sample of 14 species of Exostema and nine species from eight closely related genera. Results indicate that Exostema is paraphyletic with respect to Coutarea, Erithalis, and Chiococca. Hypotheses invoking independent South American origins for subclades of Exostema are not supported. Coutarea and the South American Exostema species form a clade sister to the Caribbean Exostema species with terminal inflorescences. Relationships among axillary flowered Exostema species are not well resolved. Distribution, ecology, and seed traits indicate over-water dispersal is important for wide-spread species (e.g., E. caribaeum). Sister species relationships between the Cuban and Hispaniolan endemics E. salicifolium and E. acuminatum are strongly supported. Disjunctions between various regions of Cuba and Hispaniola are consistent with geohistorical connections between these composite islands. Biogeographical patterns found in Exostema are similar to those reported for other Caribbean plant groups, with vicariance detected in certain cases, and dispersal often indicated by distribution, ecology and phylogeny for many taxa.
3094012|Ernodea Swartz (Tribe Spermacoceae) and Erithalis P. Browne (Tribe Chiococceae) are two genera of Rubiaceae that are endemic to the Caribbean, composed of four and nine species, respectively. Molecular phylogenies were analyzed in a biogeographic context using Brooks Parsimony Analysis (BPA) and Fitch Parsimony methods. A geographic association of Cuba and Dominican Republic was supported by area cladograms generated by BPA for Erithalis and by the combined data matrix. Additionally, the two parts of Hispaniola (Dominican Republic and Haiti) appear in two different places on the cladogram suggesting that Hispaniola represents a composite of geological areas. Fitch analyses support a Greater Antillean origin for Erithalis, however, it was ambiguously resolved for Ernodea. Overall, biogeographic analyses explain the present-day distribution of Ernodea as a product of dispersal, whereas a combination of vicariance and dispersal events appears to be involved in Erithalis biogeographical history. In general, the study implies that trans-oceanic seed dispersal plays an important role in the distribution of these genera, in addition to Tertiary vicariance events for Erithalis.
3094013|Coeloneurum, Espadaea, Henoonia, and Goetzea are shrubs and trees that are endemic to the islands of Cuba, Hispaniola, and Puerto Rico in the Greater Antilles. A phylogenetic analysis was conducted to elucidate the evolutionary relationships among them and with other major lineages of the Solanaceae. DNA sequences of the chloroplast genes ndhF, rbcL, and trnL-trnF intron and intergenic spacer were obtained for twenty two taxa and sequences of the nuclear rDNA ITS region were obtained for eight taxa comprising a data set of over 5,000 bp. The inferred phylogeny groups the Antillean genera together with the South American Metternichia and Duckeodendron in a clade within the Solanaceae, pointing to a broader circumscription of the Goetzeoideae. Both chloroplast and nuclear datasets find the following relationships among the Antillean taxa: (Coeloneurum (Henoonia (Espadaea, Goetzea))). The South American genera Metternichia and Duckeodendron are the first and second sister groups, respectively, to the Antillean genera. The close relationship of Metternichia to the Antillean genera also is supported by pollen morphology. Phylogenetic inference suggests that the Antillean taxa first occuppied xeric environments and evolved into more mesic habitats. Floral characteristics indicate evolution of pollination systems from nocturnal, insect-pollination in Duckeodendron and Metternichia to diurnal, bird-pollination in the Antillean genera. Duckeodendron and the Antillean genera produce drupes, but their contrasting morphology and anatomy suggest that these fruit types originated from separate evolutionary events.
3094014|Increased attention is being given to the preservation of paleontological sites, collections, and other archival resources that record stages in the history of the Earth's biota. The success of these efforts will be enhanced with greater recognition that the extant biota and its immediate past stages are part of a continuum (e.g., deep-time floras). An expected consequence of this view would be to bring identification of the fossil representatives under closer scrutiny by specialists in the extant lineages. Improvement in the quality and reliability of the paleontological database benefits the use of the information both in its biological applications (e.g., historical biogeography, calibration of molecular clocks, construction of area cladograms) and in geological investigations (e.g., paleoenvironmental reconstructions). Inherent in the increasing recognition of time as important in these considerations is continued access to the remarkably few fossil-bearing sites, especially in tropical America, that have provided virtually all of the existing museum specimens used in investigations for anchoring lineages in time and place. The destruction of these sites before additional collections can be made, and before they can be studied by modern methods of identification and interpretation, is an impediment to understanding the modern biota much like the destruction of sites with high concentrations of extant endemic taxa (hotspots). The relatively rare sites providing archival material for revealing the history of the Earth's vegetation should be relocated, studied more collaboratively by paleobotanists and taxonomists, and preserved. Preliminary efforts are underway to conserve three collection sites (San Sebastian flora, Puerto Rico; Sanchez flora, Dominican Republic; Yumar flora, Cuba), and to develop a project whereby paleobotanists and taxonomists will work collaboratively to establish a reliable database of fossil material.
25063887|Capillolejeunea from the East African Islands does not deserve generic recognition and is proposed as a synonym of Drepanolejeunea (Lejeuneaceae, Hepaticae) based on studies of fertile material. The new combination, Drepanolejeunea mascarena comb. nov., is proposed. Detailed description and illustrations of Drepanolejeunea mascarena are provided.
25063888|Phylogenetic relationships within the moss family Bryaceae were studied using chloroplast DNA sequences (atpB-rbcL, rpl16 intron, rps4, and trnL-trnF region) and anatomical and morphological data. Phylogenetic analyses using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods indicate that the genera Brachymenium, Bryum, and Rhodobryum are not monophyletic. A clade including Acidodontium, Anomobryum, Brachymenium acuminatum, Bryum species, Haplodontium, Mielichhoferia himalayana, and Plagiobryum is robustly supported in all analyses. The sections Brachymenium, Globosa, and Leptostomopsis of Brachymenium occur in a basal grade also including Bryum billarderi and Rhodobryum. The total evidence analysis supports Acidodontium as a monophyletic genus. In general, the results are congruent with previous molecular analyses. Features of the reduced peristome are homoplastic within the Bryaceae, and it is obvious that circumscriptions of taxa based on sporophytic characters alone may unite taxa that are distantly related. The rosulate growth condition is homoplastic within the family, which suggests that the genus Rosulabryum is not monophyletic. Based on present phylogenetic evidence, no morphological synapomorphies can be detected for the Bryaceae.
25063889|ISSR (Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat) fingerprint data and nrITS sequences confirm the presence of Anacolia menziesii in Europe. The species is more variable genetically in North America than in Europe. The data show only minor differentiation between the North American and European populations of A. menziesii. Anacolia webbii is morphologically and genetically very similar to Anacolia menziesii, but can be separated from Anacolia menziesii with high confidence based on the ITS and ISSR data. Long distance dispersal is the most likely explanation for the disjunction of Anacolia menziesii between North America and Europe.
25063890|Anogramma is a genus of eight putative species with small annual sporophytes and potentially perennating gametophytes. Phylogenetic relationships within the genus as well as its relationships with other putatively taenitidoid genera and with traditionally cheilanthoid Cosentinia vellea have been poorly resolved and are investigated here. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference analyses of rbcL sequences were used to test 1) the monophyly of Anogramma, 2) support for the proposed specific distinctness of A. guatemalensis and A. caespitosa from A. leptophylla, and 3) the asserted close (sister) relationship between Anogramma and Pityrogramma, as well as to infer the phylogenetic relationships among these genera. Results reveal that Anogramma in the traditional sense is polyphyletic. Anogramma guatemalensis and A. caespitosa nest within A. leptophylla. Pityrogramma is not sister to Anogramma as a whole but only to A. chaerophylla and A. novogaliciana. Anogramma osteniana is deeply separated from its traditional congeners and the new combination Jamesonia osteniana (Dutra) Gastony is made. Cosentinia vellea should not be subsumed within Cheilanthes but instead should be considered a taenitidoid genus closely related to A. leptophylla and A. lorentzii. Neighbor joining analysis of Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism data sets inferred relationships among the A. leptophylla accessions, embedding A. guatemalensis and A. caespitosa in respective New World and Old World clades of A. leptophylla.
25063891|Some species of Annonaceae have been reported to have a spiral arrangement of branches on their orthotropic axes while other species have a distichous arrangement of branches, but the systematic distribution of this morphological difference in the family has not been studied. Growth architecture was surveyed for 48 genera and 100 species of Annonaceae using original observations of living plants and reports from the literature. The spiral branching pattern was found in all species of 27 genera examined, while distichous branching architecture characterized the other 21 genera. Architecture pattern is correlated with a difference in the orientation of the apical meristem of the primary shoot: in plants with spiral architecture the apex is erect; in plants with distichous architecture the apex is horizontal or drooping. The architecture data show remarkable congruence with recent infra-familial phylogenies constructed on the basis of rbcL and trnL-trnF sequence data, supporting several rearrangements of genera in the classification of this family, and may be more widely useful in the systematics of Annonaceae.
25063892|We investigated phylogenetic relationships within Erythronium using DNA sequences from the chloroplast gene matK and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA. Erythronium, Amana, and Tulipa form a strongly supported clade that appears to be of Asian origin. Erythronium is widely distributed in the Northern Hemisphere, and consists of three well supported and geographically distinct clades occurring in western North America, eastern North America, and Eurasia. ITS analyses suggest that the Eurasian and eastern North American clades form a monophyletic group that separated into two lineages following divergence from the western North American clade. Although the three clades are each characterized by distinct morphological features, convergence both among and within geographic areas is seen in several characters. The western North American clade exhibits greater morphological and molecular diversity than either of the other two clades, and many of its species hybridize, suggesting both recent and ongoing speciation. The geographic distribution of Erythronium suggests initial diversification in Tertiary mixed mesophytic forest, followed by fragmentation of the range during the late Tertiary or early Pleistocene and subsequent radiation in western North America.
25063893|All published information on Globba (Zingiberaceae) in Sumatra is summarized and augmented by our own data obtained by revision of herbarium materials and observations in the field. Sixteen species and five varieties of Globba are reported from Sumatra, including one new species, which belongs to sect. Globba, G. multifolia sp. nov. The difference between G. multifolia and allied species is discussed. A key to the species of Globba in Sumatra is provided.
25063894|The phylogenetic relationships of Pachycereus (Cactaceae) species and relatives from subtribe Pachycereinae were studied using DNA sequence data. The plastid rpl16 intron, trnL intron, trnL-F intergenic spacer, and nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) were sequenced for 30 species, representing the four genera of subtribe Pachycereinae (Carnegiea, Cephalocereus, Neobuxbaumia, and Pachycereus) as well as three additional outgroup genera from subtribe Stenocereinae. Phylogenetic analyses support neither the monophyly of Pachycereus as currently circumscribed nor Pachycereinae unless Stenocereus aragonii and S. eichlamii are included within it. However, these results suggest that the subtribe can be divided into three major clades. The first includes Pachycereus hollianus and P. lepidanthus, which is sister to a large clade combining species from the Pachycereus and Cephalocereus groups. Within this large clade Cephalocereus and Neobuxbaumia together with Pachycereus fulviceps are sister to the remaining species of Pachycereus as well as Stenocereus aragonii, S. eichlamii, and Carnegiea gigantea. Our results suggest that Pachycereus is paraphyletic and that several other genera (Backebergia, Lemaireocereus, Lophocereus, and Pseudomitrocereus) may be resurrected to accommodate these new phylogenetic insights. A number of morphological and anatomical characters support these relationships, indicating that future analyses combining both molecular and morphological characters will be particularly useful in resolving relationships within this group of columnar cacti.
25063895|A phylogenetic analysis of exemplars of Acacieae, Ingeae, and some Mimoseae, based on trnK, matK, psbA-trnH, and trnL/trnF sequence data, is presented. The results support other recent studies in showing that neither the Ingeae nor Acacieae is monophyletic. Some subgenera of Acacia, specifically subgenera Acacia and Phyllodineae, are monophyletic, but subg. Acacia is in a basal polychotomy with various members of Mimoseae and a large clade with the other members of Ingeae and Acacieae. Acacia subg. Phyllodineae is sister group to members of the Ingeae. Both the Ingeae and Acacia subg. Aculeiferum are paraphyletic.
25063896|The nuclear gene encoding the chloroplast-expressed isozyme of glutamine synthetase (ncpGS) is single copy in diploid angiosperms but is duplicated in species of Glycine, a paleopolyploid genus. The two Glycine paralogues are sister to one another in phylogenetic analyses, a pattern that suggests that this ncpGS duplication occurred subsequent to the divergence of Glycine from extant Glycininae. This pattern does not support an allopolyploid hypothesis in which genomes from close relatives of extant genera combined to form the polyploid, 2n = 40 genome of Glycine, nor with an ancient gene duplication shared with other Glycininae. Rather, it is consistent with autopolyploidy or with a simple gene duplication. Teramnus ncpGS was the closest relative of the two Glycine paralogues, supporting a sister-group relationship between these two genera. In contrast, ncpGS results suggested that Sinodolichos, a genus that has been suggested as a possible congener of Glycine, is more closely related to Pseueminia and Pseudovigna. Both paralogues of ncpGS identify known genome groups among species of Glycine subg. Glycine, but neither strongly resolves relationships among these groups. Incongruence between the two paralogues in the placement of G. falcata mirrors incongruence between the chloroplast genome and other nuclear genes for this species.
25063897|Despite being the model organism for plant molecular genetic studies, little is known about the origins and evolutionary history of extant natural populations of Arabidopsis thaliana. We have analysed phylogenetic relationships between worldwide populations of Arabidopsis using polymorphic chloroplast microsatellites. These highly variable markers have revealed previously undetected levels of cytoplasmic variation and confirm previous hypotheses of a recent and rapid expansion of the species from its centre of origin. Furthermore, the results seem to verify previous nuclear analyses that call into question the true origin of several individual Arabidopsis ecotypes.
25063898|To clarify relationships among western North American members of the genus Draba, we produced a molecular phylogeny using nucleotide sequences from both internal transcribed spacers of nuclear ribosomal DNA and the 5.8S rRNA gene (collectively, ITS). Sequence data from 17 Draba taxa and two outgroups were subjected to both parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses. The phylogenetic results support previously proposed informal groupings for the sampled species. Western North American Draba are divided into two well-supported clades: 1) all taxa with a chromosome number based on x = 8, and 2) taxa whose chromosome base numbers appear to be aneuploid, deviating from x = 8. The resulting phylogenetic framework also reveals the taxonomic limitations of flower color, chromosome base number, and growth habit for predicting relationships within the genus.
25063899|Achimenes is a genus in the Gesneriaceae, subfamily Gesnerioideae, tribe Gloxinieae that shows remarkable variation in floral form and possibly floral pollination syndrome. This includes flowers that are salverform, tubular, or infundibuliform, white, yellow, pink, purple, and red, and with or without corolla spurs. Previous classifications of Achimenes have relied heavily on floral form as a measure of relationship. This study explores phylogenetic relationships in Achimenes and addresses questions of proper supraspecific classification, evolution of floral forms and pollination syndromes, the origins of floral spurs, chromosome evolution, and biogeographic patterns using nrDNA ITS and cpDNA trnL-F spacer sequences analyzed using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood methodologies. Phylogenetic hypotheses support the non-monophyly of most of the supraspecific classification units currently recognized in Achimenes, multiple origins of each of the pollination syndromes and the major morphological characteristics used to define these syndromes, multiple origins of floral spurs, multiple tetraploid events, and sympatric distributions of many closely related species.
25063900|Tribe Anthocercideae (Solanaceae) is an Australian endemic group comprising 31 species in seven genera. Recent phylogenetic work has placed the Anthocercideae sister to Nicotiana. Two chloroplast DNA regions, ndhF and trnL/F, were analyzed and the phylogeny was used to test the tribe's monophyly, discover relationships within the tribe, and make inferences on character evolution and biogeography. The relationship between Nicotiana, Symonanthus, and the rest of tribe Anthocercideae is unresolved. Anthocercis, Anthotroche, Grammosolen, and Symonanthus are found to be monophyletic, while Cyphanthera and Duboisia are not (Crenidium is monotypic). Several characters were inferred to be derived within the Anthocercideae, including unilocular stamens with semicircular slits, ebracteolate flowers, and baccate fruits. Ancient colonization occurred in southwestern Australia followed by several radiation events eastward.
25063901|Phylogenetic analyses of internal transcribed spacer (ITS), external transcribed spacer (ETS), and 5.8S gene sequences of 18S-26S nuclear rDNA from all 23 genera of Cichorieae with centers of diversity in North America (and Picrosia from South America) show that all but three of the genera (Glyptopleura, Krigia, and Phalacroseris) belong to a series of seven clades that are well supported by bootstrap values >90%. Phalacroseris, endemic to California, with a single species (P. bolanderi), is sister to a well-supported (>95% bootstrap) clade that includes all other principally North American genera (plus Picrosia). The seven clades with major support and their component genera are: 1) the Lygodesmia Clade: Chaetadelpha, Lygodesmia, and Shinnersoseris; 2) the Pinaropappus Clade: Marshalljohnstonia and Pinaropappus; 3) the Pyrrhopappus Clade: Picrosia and Pyrrhopappus; 4) the Microseris Clade: Agoseris, Microseris, Nothocalais, Stebbinsoseris, and Uropappus; 5) the Stephanomeria Clade: Munzothamnus, Pleiacanthus, Prenanthella, Rafinesquia, and Stephanomeria; 6) the Malacothrix 1 Clade: Atrichoseris and various species of Malacothrix; and 7) the Malacothrix 2 Clade: Anisocoma, Calycoseris, and various other species of Malacothrix. The rDNA sequence data provide < 80% bootstrap support for other, larger groups that combine two or more of the seven major clades, except for one uniting all 24 ingroup genera and one uniting the Lygodesmia Clade and Pyrrhopappus Clade. The present analysis shows that Malacothrix, a genus of 22 species, is not monophyletic. None of the clades corresponds precisely to a suprageneric taxon of Cichorieae proposed previously, although taxa constituting each clade belong to a common subtribe or subgroup in classifications by Bremer, Jeffrey, and Stebbins, with two to three exceptions. As a group, the 24 genera represent a single, major radiation of Cichorieae based in North America.
25063902|The genus Dahlia presently consists of 35 species, primarily from Mexico. Species are usually placed in four sections: Pseudodendron, Epiphytum, Entemophyllon, and Dahlia, based largely on morphological characters, supplemented with cytological, geographical, and biochemical data. Combined molecular sequence data from both the internal and external transcribed spacer regions (ITS and ETS), located within the nuclear ribosomal gene repeat unit, are used to infer a phylogeny of the genus. Section Entemophyllon forms a very well-defined clade based on these data. Dahlia merckii and D. tubulata are positioned between sect. Entemophyllon the remaining taxa. Sections Pseudodendron and Epiphytum are closely allied with each other and a few species from sect. Dahlia to form the variable root clade (VRC), which incorporates all species with unusual underground structures, along with some species exhibiting the more typical tuberous type. The remaining species of sect. Dahlia form a well-defined clade, the core Dahlia clade (CDC).
25063912|The process of ecological speciation has not been considered in great detail. We can gain a new perspective on this process by viewing new species as successful invaders, and by using invasive species as a model system for understanding the early stages of speciation. I propose that ecological species may be polyphyletic, and undergo genetic differentiation early in their histories. I also note that there are formidable genetic obstacles to ecological speciation. The rate of speciation is dependent on geographical and ecological variables, as are rates of invasions by exotic species. Ecological opportunity is the key for speciation and invasion; and it is most often found on young islands. In general there are no traits that presage which exotic species will be the best invaders of natural areas. Thus it would be difficult to predict which traits foster ecological speciation. Herbaceous plants are more invasive and have higher rates of diversification than woody plants.
25063913|Restriction digest patterns from 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacers (ITS) were employed to investigate delineation between the morphologically similar moss species Leucobryum glaucum, L. juniperoideum, and L. albidum. Discriminant analysis allowed assignment of specimens to haplotypes based on their morphological features and supported the recognition of L. glaucum and L. albidum. In contrast, L. albidum and L. juniperoideum both corresponded to the same haplotype. Many populations could be readily assigned to either L. glaucum or L. albidum by their morphological features. However, morphological variation between these two species was continuous and one of the ITS haplotypes could not be unambiguously characterized by its morphology. Genetically and morphologically identifiable specimens of L. albidum were sampled in Europe and North America, in contrast to the traditional interpretation of L. albidum as a North American endemic. Although L. albidum seems to have a more southern-Atlantic distribution pattern than L. glaucum, the two species occupy broadly overlapping geographic ranges and were sometimes found intermixed.
25063914|We sequenced chloroplast DNA from the matK, rbcL, and rpl16 regions to infer interrelationships within the pinyon pines (Pinus subsections Cembroides and Nelsoniae). Pinyons, together with subsections Balfourianae, Gerardianae, and Krempfianae have been classified in section Parrya, characterized by a dorsal umbo (raised area) on the ovulate cone scale. All three cpDNA regions support the separation of pinyon pines into subsection Cembroides and a monotypic subsection Nelsoniae and indicate that section Parrya is paraphyletic. We propose restricting section Parrya to the North American clade (subsections Cembroides, Nelsoniae, and Balfourianae) and transferring the Asian subsections Gerardianae and Krempfianae to section Quinquefolius (generally known as section Strobus). The data moderately support a sister relationship between subsections Nelsoniae and Balfourianae, rendering the pinyons paraphyletic. Several monophyletic groups can be identified within subsection Cembroides, including a sister relationship between P. maximartinezii and P. pinceana, which is at variance with morphological cladistic analyses. In general, relationships inferred from cpDNA are less consistent with morphological evidence than with internal transcribed spacer region data, despite paralogy in the latter marker.
25063915|Morphological and phytogeographical data support the recognition of three distinct species in the genus Brachyelytrum: B. japonicum, B. erectum, and B. aristosum. Brachyelytrum japonicum is confined to eastern Asia and is characterized by narrow leaf blades (0.5-0.8 cm wide), long lower glumes (0.2-2.0 mm long), and long rachillas (6.8-8.8 mm long). Brachyelytrum erectum is distributed throughout much of the eastern United States, from northwestern Minnesota south to central Louisiana, east to northern Florida and north to northeastern New York. Brachyelytrum erectum is characterized by long hispid hairs (0.2-0.9 mm long) on the veins of the lemma, wide lemmas (0.8-1.8 mm wide), and a conspicuous lemma mid-vein. Brachyelytrum aristosum has a more northern distribution, occurring in southern Canada from southern Ontario to Newfoundland, the northern adjacent United States and through the Appalachian mountains to northwestern North Carolina. Brachyelytrum aristosum is characterized by short scaberulous hairs (0.06-0.2 mm long) on the lemma and narrow lemmas (0.7-1.4 mm wide) that are weakly veined. The distinctiveness of B. erectum and B. aristosum is further supported by amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) data. We include a key to the taxa, synonymies, descriptions, and representative specimens. This study represents a recent monographic study of an eastern North American and eastern Asian disjunct genus.
25063916|The first extensive cpDNA phylogeny of African Begonia was estimated with chloroplast trnL intron DNA sequences. A total of 81 Begonia species was sampled and analyzed using parsimony and maximum likelihood methods. Analyses showed well-resolved sectional relationships, but little resolution at the base of the phylogeny. Malagasy species of Begonia formed a monophyletic group, as were the mainland African wingless fleshy-fruited species with the exception of section Mezierea. Species in section Mezierea are not as closely related to other wingless fleshy-fruited species as once thought. The section is polyphyletic, with the Malagasy members of the section nested within the Malagasy clade. The phylogenetic position of species in section Mezierea demonstrates that fleshy fruits have evolved at least twice in African Begonia. The terrestrial, 2-tepaled, West and Central African yellow-flowered begonias and their related species are also monophyletic, with the monotypic section Cristasemen and B. iucunda holding a solitary, basal position. The predominantly East and South African species in sections Rostrobegonia, Augustia, Sexalaria, and Peltaugustia show greater affinity with Asian and American, rather than other African begonias, and are interdigitated among them; therefore African Begonia are not monophyletic. The trnL intron is a useful region for identifying monophyletic groups across the whole genus and breaking up the genus into workable units. This demonstrates the value of reconstructing phylogenies of large genera in order to achieve more stable classifications.
25063917|The circumscription of Oxylobium and related genera has been problematic for nearly 200 years. Traditional definitions of genera in the group have relied on morphological features of the leaves, flower, and fruit that overlap extensively between genera. Therefore sequences of cpDNA (trnL-F intron and spacer) and nrDNA (ITS) were used to estimate the phylogeny of the group in an attempt to redefine the genera as monophyletic groups. Oxylobium sens. str. was found to be a well supported clade in both data sets, with the inclusion of Mirbelia oxylobioides. No other genus in the group was supported by these data, except Gastrolobium sens. lat. Some species groups within Chorizema, Mirbelia, and Podolobium were supported but relationships among these, Oxylobium and Gastrolobium differed significantly between the chloroplast and nuclear data sets. No group supported by the molecular data had a morphological synapomorphy, not even Oxylobium or Gastrolobium. Therefore it may be necessary to adopt a much broader generic concept in this group than has been done previously. Incongruence between the two molecular data sets, and very short internal basal branches in both, suggest a rapid early radiation in this group, possibly combined with hybridization and lineage sorting.
25063918|Four species were discerned in a complex of Galphimia Cav. (Malpighiaceae) from the Pacific slope of Mexico. Three are newly described (G. arenicola, G. mexiae, and G. radialis). One is transferred from Thryallis L. (nom. rejic.) to Galphimia, and the new combination G. langlassei is proposed.
25063919|A molecular phylogenetic analysis of the Andean genus Tarasa (Malvaceae) and related genera yielded unexpected results regarding generic boundaries, the origins of polyploidy, and the morphological attributes of the polyploid taxa. The polyploid species of Tarasa are particularly unusual because they have life histories and floral morphologies that contradict two traditional polyploid dogmas: they are annuals and have smaller floral features (including pollen) than the diploid species. Typically, polyploids are perennial and larger than their parents. Nuclear (ITS1, 5.8S, and ITS2) and chloroplast (psbA-trnH and trnT-trnL spacers, matK-3' trnK intron) sequence data were used to reconstruct independent phylogenies to test the monophyly of the genus, determine its sister group(s), and investigate the origin of the polyploid species. Neither the nuclear nor the chloroplast phylogeny supports monophyly of Tarasa as currently circumscribed. The high Andean genus Nototriche, the North/South American disjunct genus Sphaeralcea, and Malacothamnus chilensis are placed within the Tarasa clade. The polyploid species of Tarasa are not monophyletic and thus have been generated multiple times. These findings suggest that the unusual morphological features of the tetraploids are the result of convergent evolution and not shared ancestry.
25063920|Adelobotrys (Merianieae: Melastomataceae) is a neotropical, primarily Amazonian genus of 23 lianas and eight arborescent species. A cladistic analysis was performed to test the monophyly of Adelobotrys, discover its synapomorphies, and clarify its internal relationships. The results also allowed a preliminary appraisal of generic limits within Merianieae. For the analysis, 117 morphological characters were coded for 53 ingroup taxa (52 of Adelobotrys plus Sarmentaria decora) and 12 outgroup species from the genera Meriania, Graffenrieda, Axinaea, Centronia, Phainantha, Behuria, Huberia, Pachyloma, and Pternandra. The analysis resulted in a single most parsimonious tree. The result suggests that Adelobotrys is polyphyletic. However, species that fall within the original circumscription of the genus form a well-supported monophyletic group. This group of lianoid species with narrow hypanthia; 5-locular ovaries; short fruiting pedicels; urceolate to globose fruiting hypanthia; elongated, winged seeds; and a vestiture of malpighian hairs is here termed Adelobotrys sensu stricto. Several well-defined lineages are recognized within Adelobotrys s.s., although most of them have only weak support. Purported problems persist with circumscriptions of merianean genera, in particular Meriania.
25063921|Cornus eydeana Q. Y. Xiang & Y. M. Shui, a new species of cornelian cherry, Cornus subg. Cornus, is described from southeastern Yunnan, China. The new species resembles other cornelian cherries in having umbellate inflorescences subtended by two pairs of scale-like bracts and fruit with cavity-filled stones. However, it differs from them by the following combination of characters: evergreen habit, leathery leaves with three or four secondary veins, and densely flowered, long pedunculate inflorescences with perfect flowers. Morphologically, the species appears most similar to the African species C. volkensii Harms, but pollen morphology and geographic distributions suggest a closer affinity with the Eurasian species. The discovery of this species has significant implications for our understanding of the systematics and evolution of the cornelian cherry group.
25063922|Nasa Weigend ser. Carunculatae (Urb. & Gilg) Weigend is revised, four species are recognized, and one, Nasa usquiliensis Weigend, T. Henning & C. Schneider described as new to science. The species of this group are restricted to steep scree slopes in Peru and southern Ecuador and have patchy distributions at elevations of 2200-3500 m. All species share shrubby habit with ligneous stems and deciduous foliage. These characters in combination with clawed, spreading petals and bicolored nectar scales are unique in Nasa. Branched root-tubers are reported from N. carunculata, which is the first report of tuberous storage roots in the genus. Species delimitation is primarily based on habit, trichome characters, flower size, petal color and shape, and the morphology of the floral scales.
25063923|Two non-coding DNA regions from both the chloroplast genome (trnL intron, trnL-trnF IGS, trnT-trnL IGS) and nuclear ribosomal genomes (ITS1 and ITS2) were sequenced in the genus Keckiella and allied genera (Penstemon, Chelone, and Nothochelone) to determine which, if any, of these sequences contained sufficient variability to resolve the seven species of Keckiella. The trnL intron contained almost no signal. However, the trnT-trnL chloroplast IGS region and the nuclear ribosomal sequences were capable, to some extent, of resolving the phylogeny of Keckiella. The nrDNA ITS sequences contained slightly more variability than the chloroplast noncoding region. When combined, these non-coding sequences generated a relatively robust and resolved cladogram. Keckiella rothrockii is clearly indicated as the most basal species of the genus, and the remaining taxa appear to belong to two well-supported clades. The first contains the sister taxa K. antirrhinoides and K. cordifolia. The second contains K. breviflora, K. ternata, K. corymbosa, and K. lemmonii. The nodes of the latter three species are not as strongly supported.
25063924|Because recent molecular studies, based on multiple data sets from all three plant genomes, have indicated mutually congruent, well-resolved, and well-supported relationships within Convolvulaceae (the morning-glory family), a formal reclassification of this family is presented here. Convolvulaceae, a large family of worldwide distribution, exhibiting a rich diversity of morphological characteristics and ecological habitats, are now circumscribed within twelve tribes. A key to these tribes of Convolvulaceae is offered. The group of spiny-pollen bearing Convolvulaceae (forming "Echinoconiae") and tribe Cuscuteae are retained essentially in their traditional sense, Cresseae are circumscribed with only minor modifications, Convolvuleae and Erycibeae are recognized in a restricted sense, while Dichondreae and Maripeae are expanded. Also, to produce a tribal taxonomy that better reflects phylogenetic relationships, the concept of Poraneae is abandoned as artificial, three new tribes are recognized (Aniseieae, Cardiochlamyeae, and Jacquemontieae), and a new tribal status is proposed for the Malagasy endemic Humbertia (Humbertieae). "Merremieae" are tentatively retained even though the monophyly of this tribe is not certain. In addition to the formal classification, we provide clade name definitions for the family as well as for most of the clades recognized presently as tribes. Also, five well-supported clades that are not assigned formal ranks are recognized and their names defined. The reevaluation of traditional taxonomic characters reveals that many homoplasious characters were emphasized in previous classifications, resulting in formal recognition of non-monophyletic groups. Putative morphological synapomorphies for many clades discovered through molecular cladistic analyses are discussed. However, the morphology of several clades that are well-supported by DNA evidence remains poorly understood, creating further challenges for future studies in Convolvulaceae.
25063933|Resolving phylogenies among closely related species remains a perplexing problem in plant systematics. All too often cpDNA and nrDNA ITS are insufficiently variable to provide desired resolution or support. In the present study, we have adopted a RAPD-based approach to develop sequence-characterized regions, from the nuclear genome, with levels of DNA sequence variation appropriate for resolving relationships within subclades of Leucaena (Fabaceae). RAPDs were used to amplify a set of seven Leucaena accessions. Equal length fragments amplified in two or more species were sequenced and compared. Specific primers were designed for aligned product sets displaying similar or greater levels of variation than have been found in previous ITS studies. Two regions whose DNA sequences provided greater resolution and bootstrap support than ITS or cpDNA RFLP restriction site data sets for the same sample of Leucaena species are discussed in detail.
25063934|Collections of plant specimens are the basic infrastructure for all studies of plant diversity, but there is concern that plant collecting is in decline. We acquired collection data from a diverse sample of 71 herbaria to test whether there is a decrease in rates of local collecting in the United States. The recorded data were the decade of collection for all specimens of nine exemplar genera from the local region of the herbarium. All analyses showed evidence of a decline in local collecting. We found that the temporal pattern of collecting varied considerably from herbarium to herbarium, but that more herbaria showed a decreasing trend than an increasing trend. The total accumulation of specimens is in decline and only 21% of the sampled herbaria reached their peaks in local collecting activity in the last 20 years. Furthermore, two thirds of the herbaria acquired fewer locally-collected specimens in the last two decades than in the prior two. These trends were consistent over all size classes of herbaria and over herbaria from all regions, though they were less severe in the Mountain region herbaria. Tests for bias indicated that our sample of herbaria was more active than typical, thus our conclusions should be considered a conservative estimate of decline.
25063935|The haplolepideous mosses (Dicranidae) constitute a large group of ecologically and morphologically diverse species recognised primarily by having peristome teeth with a single row of cells on the dorsal surface. The reduction of sporophytes in numerous moss lineages renders circumscription of the Dicranidae problematic. Delimitation of genera and higher taxa within it has also been difficult. We analyse chloroplast-encoded rps4 gene sequences for 129 mosses, including representatives of nearly all the haplolepideous families and subfamilies, using parsimony, likelihood and Bayesian criteria. The data set includes 59 new sequences generated for this study. With the exception of Bryobartramia, which falls within the Encalyptaceae, the Dicranidae are resolved in all analyses as a monophyletic group including the extremely reduced Archidiales and Ephemeraceae. The monotypic Catoscopium, usually assigned to the Bryidae is consistently resolved as sister to Dicranidae, and this lineage has a high posterior probability under the Bayesian criterion. Within the Dicranidae, a core clade is resolved that comprises most of the species sampled, and all analyses identify a proto-haplolepideous grade of taxa previously placed in various haplolepideous families. The data provide considerable resolution of relationships within the core Dicranidae, yielding a number of well-supported clades. These correspond only roughly to taxa that are currently recognised, and most families and orders of Dicranidae apparently are non-monophyletic under their current circumscriptions.
25063936|A new genus and species, Craibella phuyensis (Annonaceae), is described from Kanchanaburi Province, western Thailand. Craibella is a genus of small trees with pendent, unisexual flowers; the petals are in two whorls, with the larger inner whorl forming a mitriform dome over the reproductive organs. It is suggested that the genus is most closely related to Pseuduvaria and Orophea, but is distinguished from both by the combination of leaf-opposed inflorescences, elongated-conical torus in staminate flowers, and unusual staminal connectives that are apically expanded but do not extend distally over the thecae. Other significant differences include unisexual flowers, distinguishing Craibella from Orophea, and solitary pollen grains (monads), distinguishing it from Pseuduvaria.
25063937|Phylogenetic relationships within the orchid genus Pleione were reconstructed using maximum parsimony analyses of plastid and nuclear DNA and morphology for 20 taxa to evaluate infrageneric groups, controversial species delimitations, and parentage of several putative wild hybrids. Separate analyses of each data set produced mainly congruent clades when P.  confusa and the Chinese accession of P. hookeriana were excluded. Analysis of the combined data indicated that traditional divisions of the genus into various subgenera and sections are supported when they are based on apomorphic characters. Sections found to be paraphyletic appear to be based on homoplasious and plesiomorphic characters. For an infrageneric classification of Pleione based on phylogenetic relationships three groups are suggested. Taxa within the P. bulbocodioides complex do not show much molecular divergence. Pleione maculata and P. praecox are proposed to be the paternal and maternal parent of P.  lagenaria, respectively, as their nuclear and plastid genomes were almost identical to their natural hybrid. Furthermore, DNA sequences confirm the paternal and maternal parent origin of P.  confusa from P. forrestii and P. albiflora as already suggested by morphological and karyotype data. Molecular data are not conclusive about parentages of P.  taliensis.
25063938|Two new species, one new variety, and a new combination of Froelichia are described from North America. Froelichia xantusii from Baja California Sur is being recognized as a species endemic to southern Baja California and separate from F. interrupta in which it had been previously included. Within F. interrupta two varieties are here recognized, the newly described Froelichia interrupta var. colimensis from southern Nayarit to Oaxaca and the new combination Froelichia interrupta var. alata from the Sonoran Desert. Froelichia latifolia is described from eastern Texas and has been segregated from the widespread F. floridana. A key to the genus in North America is also included.
25063939|Gooseberries are often distinguished from currants as a distinct genus (Grossularia) or subgenus (Ribes subg. Grossularia), but recent molecular phylogenetic analyses of chloroplast and nuclear data disagree as to the monophyly of this group. We report new sequence data from the 18-26S nuclear rDNA ITS and ETS regions and from the chloroplast psbA-trnH intergenic spacer that, in combination with previously reported data, suggest subg. Grossularia is monophyletic and nested within Ribes. Two main lineages are evident within subg. Grossularia, corresponding to the true gooseberries (subg. Grossularia sect. Grossularia) and a clade of glabrous-styled western North American gooseberries (subg. Grossularia sect. Robsonia, subg. Hesperia, Lobbia). Biogeographic analyses based on DIVA optimizations suggest a western North American origin for subg. Grossularia, with subsequent dispersal to east Asia giving rise to a well-supported clade of Asian gooseberry species in sect. Grossularia. This example contrasts with the well-documented pattern of dispersal from Asia to North America, and highlights the need to investigate additional groups distributed widely through the Northern Hemisphere.
25063940|The Krameriaceae is a monotypic family of 18 species distributed in the warm arid and semiarid regions of North and South America. We have used sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer region of the nuclear ribosomal DNA repeat (ITS 1, 5.8S, and ITS 2) and morphology to infer relationships within Krameria. Using Kallstroemia parviflora, Guaiacum angustifolium, and Tribulus terrestris, three North American members of the Zygophyllaceae, as outgroups, our data provide evidence for two major clades in the genus, each containing a North and a South American subclade. Both the major clades and subclades are supported by morphological synapomorphies. The phylogeny does not provide an unequivocal resolution as to the hemisphere in which Krameria arose, but it does indicate an initial split leading to the ancestors of the two clades, each of which subsequently produced radiations in North and South America. Therefore, there must have been two independent dispersals to, or two vicariant episodes involving, North and South America.
25063941|Two new monotypic genera of Podostemaceae are illustrated and described: Cipoia (C. inserta) and Diamantina (D. lombardii). Both are known only from the state of Minas Gerais, Brazil, where they occur attached to rocks in the swift currents of river-rapids and waterfalls. Diamantina is the only genus of Podostemaceae that produces pollen in tetrads. Diamantina lombardii is distinguished from all other New World members of the family by its digitate leaves and prominent gynophore. Cipoia inserta is distinguished from other New World species with dyad pollen by a single stamen per flower and by the ovary and mature capsule remaining enclosed within the ruptured spathella during and after anthesis; only the stigmas and stamens project from the spathella. /// Dois novos gneros monoespecficos de Podostemaceae so ilustrados e descritos: Cipoia (C. inserta) e Diamantina (D. lombardii). Ambas espcies so conhecidas somente para o Estado de Minas Gerais, Brasil, onde ocorrem fixas s rochas em corredeiras ou quedas d'gua. Quatro gneros de Podostemaceae do Novo Mundo produzem plen em diades: Ceratolacis, Cipoia, Crenias e Podostemum. Diamantina  o nico gnero de Podostemaceae que produz plen em ttrades. Diamantina lombardii tambm se distingue de todos os outros membros da famlia no Novo Mundo pelas suas folhas digitadas e pelo ginforo proeminente. Cipoia inserta se distingue das outras espcies com plen em diades do Novo Mundo por possuir um nico estame por flor e pelo ovrio includo junto com a espatela rompida durante a ntese, somente os estgmas e os estames se projetam da espatela. A cpsula se desenvolve atravs da espatela rompida.
25063942|The non-succulent, leafy species of Euphorbia from Madagascar have received considerably less attention from taxonomists than the succulent Euphorbia species. The lack of a recent synthetic taxonomic treatment for this group makes it almost impossible to accurately name these species. As part of an ongoing revision of the genus in Madagascar, Euphorbia randrianjohanyi and Euphorbia rauhii, two new species closely allied to the Malagasy endemic E. pervilleana are described, and a key to these three species is provided. This group is distinguished by echinate 1-2-locular capsules. It is closely related to other Malagasy species such as E. tetraptera, which possesses 2-locular capsules with four wings. The three species are dioecious and their deciduous leaves can make some specimens difficult to distinguish; however they can be separated by their allopatric distribution, the length of interglandular appendages, the shape and size of the leaves, as well as by fruit features. They all occur in the central and southern part of the island.
25063943|Micrandra inundata is a distinctive new species adapted to seasonally flooded black-water river banks in southern Venezuela. Trees rarely exceed 10 m in height but have thick basal trunks composed of very lightweight wood. It has the smallest leaves and fruits of any known Micrandra species and appears to be most closely related to M. minor Benth. The botanical description is accompanied by habit photographs, line illustrations of morphological features, and photomicrographs and detailed descriptions of the wood anatomy.
25063944|Cardamine amara, an Eurasian species comprising several subspecies, was examined through morphometric and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) analyses to re-evaluate subspecific status of tetraploid C. amara subsp. olotensis from Catalonia (NE Spain) and to resolve the taxonomic position of Central Italian populations usually placed within C. amara and/or C. raphanifolia s. l. A presumptive close relative from the Caucasus, diploid C. wiedemanniana, was also analyzed for AFLPs. Morphometric results show Catalonian and Italian populations to be similar to each other, but distinct from other C. amara. With both principal coordinate analysis and the neighbour-joining tree based on AFLP data, three main groups are delimited: (1) tetraploid Catalonian C. amara subsp. olotensis and Italian populations, (2) all other diploid and tetraploid subspecies of C. amara, and (3) diploid C. wiedemanniana. As a result of this study, Italian and Catalonian populations are herein treated as a single species, C. amporitana, distinct from C. amara. Catalonian populations appear genetically depauperate, perhaps having experienced bottlenecks during Pleistocene glaciation, or originating via long-distance dispersal from the Apennine Peninsula.
25063945|Onagraceae are a family of 17 genera in seven tribes, with the majority of species in tribes Onagreae and Epilobieae. Despite the species-richness of these two tribes, to date no phylogenetic study has been done with sufficient taxon sampling to examine relationships between and within these tribes. In this study, we used DNA sequence data from one nuclear region (ITS) and two chloroplast regions (trnL-trnF and rps16) to infer phylogenetic relationships among 93 taxa across the family, with concentrated sampling in the large tribe Onagreae. Results strongly suggest that tribe Gongylocarpeae is sister to tribes Epilobieae + Onagreae, both of which are monophyletic. Within Onagreae, Camissonia seems to be broadly paraphyletic, and Oenothera is also paraphyletic. In Oenothera there appear to be two lineages, one of which has Gaura + Stenosiphon nested within it. At the base of the Onagraceae phylogeny, we have clarified previous confusion regarding conflicting placements of Hauya and Lopezia based on nuclear versus chloroplast data. Results of these analyses are supported by morphology and suggest the need for new taxonomic delimitations, which are forthcoming.
25063946|Penstemon subgenus Dasanthera is a group of nine species distributed at high elevations in western North America. Hybridization is common in the subgenus when two or more species occur in sympatry. We examined evolutionary trends and the importance of hybridization to the evolution in the subgenus. Phylogenetic and biogeographic patterns among members of Penstemon subgenus Dasanthera were assessed using nuclear ribosomal ITS and chloroplast matK sequence data, and inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers. These data support previous hypotheses suggesting that the Cascade-Sierra Nevada lineage is derived from the northern Rocky Mountain lineage. Furthermore, there is a shift in growth form from suffructescent perennials to evergreen subshrubs concurrent with migration to the Cascade-Sierra Nevada mountains. Within the Cascade-Sierra lineage, P. newberryi and P. rupicola exhibit floral characters that may represent adaptations for hummingbird pollination. The ISSR data demonstrate the utility of dominant markers for reconstructing phylogenetic relationships at the interspecific level.
25063947|Solanum section Lasiocarpa includes about a dozen species with a center of diversity in the New World tropics. Solanum lasiocarpum and S. repandum (sometimes considered to be conspecific as S. ferox) have an Old World distribution in Asia and the Pacific Islands. Several species in this section produce edible fruits, and two, the lulo or naranjilla (S. quitoense) and the cocona (S. sessiliflorum) are cultivated commercially. Phylogenetic relationships in Solanum section Lasiocarpa were investigated using sequence data from the chloroplast trnT-trnL spacer, the trnL-trnF spacer, and the trnL gene, including the trnL intron. Sampling included 24 accessions from section Lasiocarpa and 14 accessions of other Solanum species as outgroups. All species considered to belong to section Lasiocarpa by previous authors were examined with the exception of the recently described S. atheniae. Solanum robustum and S. stagnale, sometimes considered to belong to section Lasiocarpa, are excluded from the group on the basis of the trn data. The remaining species in the section form a monophyletic group, with three well-supported clades within it: S. hirtum, S. pectinatum-sessiliflorum-stramonifolium, and the remainder of the species in the section. Sequences of S. lasiocarpum and S. repandum are extremely similar, and these two Asian taxa cluster with the New World S. candidum and S. pseudolulo on the trn trees.
25063948|Phylogenetic analyses of chloroplast trnK intron and nuclear ribosomal ITS DNA sequences yield significant improvements in our understanding of relationships, character evolution, and biogeography in Viburnum (Adoxaceae). We confirm that most of the ten traditionally recognized sections are monophyletic. The most striking exception is Odontotinus, which is divided into: (i) a purple-fruited New World clade within which the Latin American section Oreinotinus is nested, and (ii) an Old World, mostly red-fruited clade that is closely related to V. cylindricum (section Megalotinus) and the New World, purple-fruited V. acerifolium. We identify three major supra-sectional groupings: (i) a clade consisting of the Odontotinus-Oreinotinus-Megalotinus complex, the circum-boreal section Opulus, and the Eurasian section Tinus, (ii) a clade containing the Old World section Viburnum, the New World section Lentago, and, with less support, section Pseudotinus, and (iii) a clade containing the Asian sections Tomentosa and Solenotinus. Two species are not clearly allied to any of these supra-sectional clades: V. urceolatum, a Taiwanese/Japanese species traditionally placed in section Viburnum, and V. clemensiae, a Bornean species previously assigned to section Solenotinus. The placement of the root also remains uncertain, but probably does not fall within any of the three major supra-sectional clades. Knowledge of relationships within sections is useful in clarifying historical biogeography and the evolution of sterile flowers and fruit color. The one case of conflict between datasets highlights a possible instance of homoploid hybrid speciation.
25063949|Established concepts of Chrysothamnus have been primarily based on morphological similarity or on molecular studies employing only exemplar taxa. Those investigations and treatments conceptualized Chrysothamnus as a single evolutionary unit with affinity for Ericameria, Petradoria, and Stenotus among other taxa. The hypotheses of relationship presented here are based on nuclear ribosomal 3' ETS and ITS data that were analyzed using several optimality criteria. The results indicate that Chrysothamnus as traditionally perceived is polyphyletic, with species placed in four well-supported lineages. Three of the four clades also contain taxa from other genera. Seven species of Chrysothamnus along with Acamptopappus, Amphipappus, Hesperodoria scopulorum, Tonestus lyallii, and Vanclevea constitute one clade, while four species aggregate in another clade that includes Hesperodoria salicina, Tonestus microcephalus, and T. peirsonii. A third lineage consists of Chrysothamnus gramineus and appears distantly related to any other Chrysothamnus. Finally, four species of Chrysothamnus recently transferred to Ericameria are strongly supported within the Ericameria lineage. Stenotus and Tonestus as traditionally circumscribed are not supported by the molecular data. Instead, the generitype of each is aligned with taxa other than species presently included within the same genus. The results of this investigation indicate that some of the morphological features used to delimit these genera may be the product of convergence, thus diminishing their value for phylogenetic reconstruction.
25063957|Ecological speciation occurs in saturated floras as well as in unsaturated floras. Whereas much consideration has been given to ecological divergence in open habitats, the process of niche shifting in highly competitive environments hardly has been discussed. I propose that ecological speciation in relatively saturated communities is facilitated by disturbance, which relaxes the competitive pressures on populations entering a new habitat. Disturbance affords marginally adapted immigrants an opportunity to become established and form reproducing populations. These populations then may respond to local selective pressures for greater adaptedness, thereby placing them on a speciation trajectory. This conceptual model is bolstered by the role of disturbance in facilitating the invasion of communities by new entities, as is well documented in the literature on alien species.
25063958|Nucleotide sequences from eight nuclear, chloroplast, and mitochondrial genes were obtained from 30 mosses (plus four outgroup liverworts) in order to resolve phylogenetic relationships among the major clades of division Bryophyta. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood (ML), and Bayesian inference. Inferences were compared from Bayesian analyses using homogeneous and several heterogeneous models. Estimates of clade confidence were based on bootstrap analyses, posterior probabilities (in Bayesian analyses) and novel combined approaches. Most ingroup relationships were congruent among analyses, but support for individual clades depended on the analytical approach. Increasingly parameterized models of nucleotide substitution in the likelihood analyses provided significantly higher goodness-of-fit to the data. The results suggest that 1) the Bryophyta, including Sphagnum and Takakia, are monophyletic, 2) Andreaea and Andreaeobryum form a monophyletic group, 3) Oedipodium griffithianum is sister to all other operculate taxa, 4) mosses with nematodontous peristomes are paraphyletic and basal to arthrodontous mosses, 5) Diphyscium is sister to all other arthrodontous mosses, 6) Encalypta is sister to the Funariaceae, and 6) mosses with diplolepideous-alternate peristomes form a monophyletic group. Implications of the phylogenetic hypothesis for morphological evolution in mosses include 1) a pseudopodium has arisen independently in Sphagnum and Andreaea, 2) the mucilage hairs of Andreaeobryum and Takakia are non-homologous, 3) the stomata found in Sphagnum are not homologous to those of other mosses, and 4) that stomata were absent in the ancestor of all mosses.
25063959|Equisetum is a genus of 15 extant species that are the sole surviving representatives of the class Sphenopsida. Chloroplast DNA sequence data were used to examine the monophyly of the two accepted subgenera (Equisetum and Hippochaete) and the putative basal position of Equisetum giganteum. A plastid DNA region that includes rps4 was sequenced for all species of Equisetum. Phylogenetic analyses using parsimony, likelihood or posterior probability criteria, all support the following inferences: (1) Equisetum bogotense is basal within the genus; (2) all other species group in two major sister clades: (i) the rest of subgenus Equisetum (7 species) and (ii) subgenus Hippochaete (7 species). On the basis of the present phylogeny, bisexuality would not be the ancestral state in the Equisetum genus, but characters shared among species of the subgenus Equisetum, such as superficial stomata and protruding antheridia, could be ancestral in the genus.
25063960|Molecular phylogenies have been generated to investigate relationships among species and putative segregates in Asplenium, one of the largest genera in ferns. Of the 700 described taxa, 71 are included in a phylogenetic analysis using the chloroplast rbcL gene and trnL-F spacer. Our results support Hymenasplenium as the sister lineage to all other asplenioid ferns, and all other putative satellite genera are nested within this asplenioid clade. Instead of the classical and well-recognized separation into Old and New World clades, asplenioid ferns reveal a separation of the deeper branches into tropical and temperate clades. Temperate clades have evolved from tropical, more-basal clades and the phylogeny indicates up to six shifts between temperate and tropical preferences in the evolution of this widespread genus. Implications for speciation processes and biogeographic aspects, including the re-colonization of temperate regions after the last glacial period, are discussed and we present a phylogenetic framework from which the historical biogeography of asplenioid ferns can be inferred for Europe and North America.
25063961|Numerous populations from six spruce taxa, including four relict endemics, Picea chihuahuana (Chihuahua spruce), P. martinezii (Martnez spruce), P. mexicana (Mexican spruce), and P. breweriana (Brewer spruce), and two widespread species, P. engelmannii (Engelmann spruce) and P. pungens (blue spruce), were compared at homologous isozyme loci to test various hypotheses about their affinities and origins. Each of the species was clearly separated, and Neighbor-Joining and Unweighted Pair Group analyses of Nei's genetic distance grouped all populations within a taxon into their own clusters. Spruces from Flys Peak, Chiricahua Mountains, Arizona, joined a P. engelmannii cluster and were not a bridge to P. mexicana as previously believed. Spruces from Cerro Mohinora, Chihuahua, were clearly P. mexicana, not phantom hybrids of P. chihuahuana and P. pungens. Nuclear random amplified polymorphic DNA and chloroplast simple sequence repeat and cleaved amplified polymorphic genetic markers were compared in a smaller sample of populations, using distance and parsimony approaches. DNA markers, like isozymes, clearly identified spruces from Cerro Mohinora as P. mexicana. In contradiction to the most recent taxonomic treatment, P. chihuahuana and P. martinezii were separated as distinct species by both isozyme and DNA markers, and formed a sister-species group. Picea engelmannii and P. mexicana formed a separate cluster, and the genetic distance between them was similar to values associated with closely related species but greater than distances typical of subspecies or varieties in conifers. Picea pungens, which is so similar to P. engelmannii that the two are frequently misidentified, was clearly distinguished from it, sometimes joining a P. chihuahuana-martinezii group and sometimes a P. engelmannii-mexicana group, depending on analysis. Picea breweriana was well isolated from all other taxa. Both DNA and isozyme phylogenies agreed with results from crossability studies and contradicted intrageneric relationships constructed largely on cone morphology.
25063962|Convergent intron loss in the plastid genome has been reported at a broad phylogenetic level in the flowering plants, but very few cases are known among closely related taxa, aside from those with a propensity for genome rearrangement. We performed a large survey of an intron in the plastid 3'-rps12 locus and found that it is present in all monocots sampled, apart from two closely related families in the order Asparagales, Asphodelaceae and Hemerocallidaceae. However, only a subset of taxa in the latter family lack it. A likelihood-based parametric bootstrapping analysis rejects an hypothesis that intron loss is a marker for the monophyly of all Asparagales lacking it. Reconstructions of evolutionary transformation in intron status (presence versus absence) using an equal weighting scheme (standard parsimony) on optimal and plausible suboptimal trees instead yield two major classes of ancestral-state assignment. These scenarios indicate that introns were either lost in parallel, or there was a single loss and a subsequent secondary origin. Parsimony weighting schemes that are skewed but (arguably) more realistic than equal weighting reject the latter reconstruction, and support the hypothesis that intron loss is not homologous in Asphodelaceae and Hemerocallidaceae. One of the parallel losses supports a recent circumscription of Hemerocallidaceae to incorporate the family Johnsoniaceae.
25063963|Morphological and habitat similarities among the five species of the terrestrial orchid genus Calopogon have led to nomenclatural and taxonomic confusion. The taxa are marked by subtle character differences and little apparent reproductive isolation. Here we investigate allozyme diversity at the species level and the partitioning of genetic variation within and among species and their populations. Genetic identities are used to define species boundaries and suggest phylogenetic relationships. All five species of Calopogon maintain high levels of allozyme variation within their populations (P = 50.0%-94.4%, AP = 2.67-3.32,
25063964|A new Neotropical genus of Commelinaceae, Plowmanianthus, is described with five new species. Karyological and morphological data, as well as results of phylogenetic studies, support its inclusion in the subtribe Dichorisandrinae (tribe Tradescantieae) with four other genera (Cochliostema, Dichorisandra, Geogenanthus, and Siderasis). The occurrence of moniliform hairs along the distal margins of the petals is evidence of an even closer relationship with Cochliostema and Geogenanthus, this character being restricted in the family to these three genera. Plowmanianthus may be uniquely characterized as comprising small, perennial rosette herbs with usually one-cymed, axillary inflorescences borne among the lower leaves, an androecium reduced to three fertile stamens, annular, papillate stigmas, and uniseriate to partially biseriate seeds. Plants of the genus are shallowly rooted, the roots not penetrating deeper than the leaf-litter or humus-rich layers of their primary rainforest habitats. Plowmanianthus is also distinctive among the Commelinaceae in the unusually high frequency of cleistogamy in the genus, with some species for which only cleistogamous flowers are known. As currently understood, two species (P. panamensis and P. dressleri) are restricted to the Isthmus of Panama, whereas the remaining four taxa (P. grandifolius subsp. grandifolius, P. grandifolius subsp. robustus, P. perforans, and P. peruvianus) are restricted to lowland Amazonia.
25063965|Comparative sequencing of the nuclear ribosomal Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) and the chloroplast matK coding and non-coding regions was used to examine the evolutionary relationships among 53 accessions representing 13 genera of the Zingiberaceae, including 31 accessions of Amomum (Alpinioideae). Phylogenetic analyses of the ITS and matK sequences alone and in combination using maximum parsimony methods produced a moderately supported topology within Alpinioideae. Our results indicated that Amomum as currently defined is polyphyletic with three major groups of species that do not correspond with any previously recognized sectional classification of the genus. Our analyses also identified Paramomum as sister to Elettariopsis, which are both embedded within one group of Amomum. The other two groups of Amomum share common ancestors with additional genera of the Alpinioideae. ITS and matK sequences provide new data for inferring relationships within Amomum and allow fresh interpretations of morphological characters (such as anther appendage and fruit type) that may be of value in future classifications.
25063966|One-hundred ITS rDNA and 32 trnL-F cpDNA sequences were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of 62 (of 67) species of Delphinium section Diedropetala to test the hypothesized hybrid origins of Delphinium gypsophilum and D. luteum. Delphinium gypsophilum has been proposed to be a hybrid derivative of D. recurvatum and D. hesperium ssp. pallescens; D. luteum is of putative hybrid origin between D. decorum and D. nudicaule. The nuclear and chloroplast sequence data were analyzed separately and, because there was no conflict, in combination. TrnL-F alone did not provide much resolution. The ITS data set and the combined ITS/trnL-F data set resolved several small clades. Delphinium luteum appears in a clade with both of its putative parents, and D. gypsophilum appears in a clade with D. recurvatum. In both cases, the sequence data are consistent with hybrid origin, but are also consistent with the putative hybrids being closely related to one or both of their proposed progenitors. Population-level data (allozymes, RAPDs, and AFLPs) support the latter hypothesis. Although our goal was not to resolve all relationships throughout sect. Diedropetala, the results provide initial information on subsectional relationships.
25063967|A brief discussion of the systematics of Swartzia, a large neotropical genus of trees and shrubs, is given in preparation for a comprehensive phylogenetic and revisionary study of the genus. Two new species from Brazilian Amazonia, Swartzia coriaceifolia and Swartzia juruana, are described and illustrated. The former was collected in the basin of the Rio Negro in the state of Amazonas and possesses morphology allying it with S. brachyrachis and its relatives. Swartzia juruana is known from a single collection from the upper Rio Juru basin of Acre and is closely related to the more widespread species S. jorori. Morphological characters of the new species are discussed, and a key to the unifoliolate species and varieties of Swartzia is provided. /// Uma discusso da sistematica de Swartzia, um gnero neotropical grande, composto de rvores e arbustos,  apresentada como passo inicial para a reviso e para o estudo filogentico do gnero. Duas espcies novas da Amaznia brasileira, Swartzia coriaceifolia e Swartzia juruana, so descritas e ilustradas. Swartzia coriaceifolia foi coletada na bacia do Rio Negro no estado do Amazonas e  morfologicamente semelhante  S. brachyrachis e espcies afins. Swartzia juruana, por outro lado,  apenas conhecida de uma coleo da bacia superior do Rio Juru, no estado do Acre e  espcie prxima  S. jorori, uma espcie de distribuio mais ampla. Os carteres morfolgicos das espcies novas so discutidos, e uma chave para a identificao das espcies e variedades unifolioladas de Swartzia  apresentada.
25063968|A new papilionoid legume genus, Maraniona, is described based on recent collections from the Maraon Valley in northern Peru. The sister group relationships of Maraniona are analyzed using a combination of non-molecular and chloroplast DNA matK/trnK sequence data that incorporate comprehensive generic level sampling across the dalbergioid legumes. This analysis places Maraniona in a strongly supported subclade of the informal Pterocarpus clade of the dalbergioid legumes. We discuss the endemic status of Maraniona in relation to overall endemism in the upper Maraon Valley as well as the possible affinities of Maraniona to the genus Tipuana from Argentina and Bolivia.
25063969|Nuclear ribosomal (ITS) and plastid (trnL-trnF) DNA sequence data from representatives of most New World species of Thlaspi (Brassicaceae), including the widespread North American T. montanum, have been studied to investigate their relationship to the Eurasian members now placed in the genus Noccaea, especially the European T. montanum (= N. montana) complex. ITS sequence data of the New World taxa were added to a previously published data set, which includes sequences of representative taxa of 11 of the 12 genera segregated from Thlaspi, to elucidate overall relationships within Thlaspi s.l. Sequences from Callothlaspi, Kotschyella, Masmenia, Microthlaspi, Neurotropis, Noccaea, Noccidium, Pseudosempervivum, Raparia, Thlaspi s.s., Thlaspiceras, and Vania, as well as of the closely related genera Bivonaea, Alliaria, Peltaria, and Teesdalia, were included in the study. The results show that the New World taxa of Thlaspi form a monophyletic group that should be assigned to Noccaea and that the North American "T. montanum" appear to be unrelated to the European plants referred to this species. Sequence distance values are of an order of magnitude that favors Pleistocene speciation and migration of the perennial Thlaspi species into the New World. It is concluded that the North American infraspecific taxa of T. montanum be recognized as Noccaea fendleri. The new combinations N. fendleri subsp. californica, N. fendleri subsp. glauca, N. fendleri subsp. idahoense, and N. fendleri subsp. siskiyouense are proposed.
25063970|Hibiscus section Muenchhusia is a North American taxon with five species as recognized in the most recent taxonomic revision: H. coccineus, H. dasycalyx, H. grandiflorus, H. laevis, and H. moscheutos. To investigate the monophyly of Hibiscus section Muenchhusia, its relationship to other Hibiscus species, and the phylogenetic relationships among its species, DNA sequence data were obtained. To investigate the placement of section Muenchhusia within Hibiscus, chloroplast ndhF gene and rpL16 intron sequences were generated and added to a recently published dataset. To investigate relationships within section Muenchhusia three DNA sequence data sets were generated: a non-coding region of the chloroplast genome (rpL16 intron), nuclear ribosomal ITS, and a nuclear gene encoding granule-bound starch synthase (GBSSI). Analyses of ndhF + rpL16 data indicated that section Muenchhusia is indeed monophyletic and is embedded in a clade that includes representatives of Hibiscus section Trionum sensu lato plus other genera segregated from Hibiscus (Abelmoschus, Fioria), and the tribe Malvavisceae. Within section Muenchhusia little to no phylogenetically informative variation was detected in the ITS or rpL16 sequences. The GBSSI data, on the other hand, provided sufficient information to resolve relationships among species. The species of section Muenchhusia fall into two primary clades, one consisting of H. grandiflorus and H. moscheutos sensu lato, the other including H. coccineus, H. dasycalyx, and H. laevis. These phylogenetic data corroborate earlier biosystematic studies that also placed the species into these same two groups. Sequence polymorphism was observed in one accession each of H. dasycalyx and H. grandiflorus and resolution of the underlying alleles indicates that gene flow has occurred from H. moscheutos into both H. dasycalyx and H. grandiflorus.
25063971|A systematic treatment is presented for the six species of Pilidiostigma (Myrtaceae), one newly described. Pilidiostigma is distinguished from other fleshy-fruited genera of Myrtaceae by the combination of its elliptic anthers, capitate to peltate stigma, testa usually chartaceous-membranous and covered with numerous large yellow or white oil glands (except for P. tetramerum), 1-3 locular ovary, and globular embryo in which the cotyledons and hypocotyl often are not, or only slightly, differentiated. The genus occurs predominantly in eastern Australia in wet forests east of the Great Dividing Range from near sea level to 1300 meters, although P. papuanum also extends into New Guinea. The new species Pilidiostigma sessile is described from northeastern Queensland and is diagnosed by its sessile or nearly sessile, basally rounded to cordate leaves. Lectotypes are designated for P. rhytispermum and P. glabrum. Detailed descriptions are provided for each species, along with a key, and profiles of essential oils are reviewed for most species.
25063972|Titanotrichum oldhamii has been variously placed in Gesneriaceae or Scrophulariaceae, although most recent taxonomic treatments treat it as a monotypic tribe within Gesneriaceae. In this study, we reconstructed a broad-scale phylogeny containing Titanotrichum using gene sequences from four sequence regions (chloroplast trnL-F intron and spacer and atpB-rbcL spacer, nuclear 26S ribosomal DNA, and the low-copy developmental gene CYCLOIDEA, CYC). The phylogenies inferred from each individual data set and the combined data are congruent in placing Titanotrichum inside Gesneriaceae. The phylogenetic tree based on combined chloroplast and nuclear DNA sequences grouped Titanotrichum with subfamilies Gesnerioideae (New World) and Coronantheroideae (South Pacific and Chile). We have isolated CYC, from most of the species of Gesneriaceae and Scrophulariaceae represented in this study, and this gene phylogeny suggests the same placement of Titanotrichum. CYC was found to evolve three times faster than the trnL-F intron and spacer, 3.3 times faster than the atpB-rbcL spacer, and eight times faster than nuclear 26S rDNA. Although there is considerable phylogenetic information in this fast evolving gene, analysis is problematic because of high levels of homoplasy and paralogy. In addition to a duplication predating a split between New World and Old World taxa (Gcyc1 vs. Gcyc2), there are several subsequent lineage-related duplications (mainly within Gcyc1).
25063973|Phylogenetic analyses of 159 DNA sequences from the nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer region were conducted to evaluate the monophyly of the herbaceous, perennial genera of Apiaceae subfamily Apioideae endemic to North America (north of Mexico) and to determine the relationships of those elements that currently comprise Cymopterus within the group. The results of a previous phylogenetic study were equivocal in suggesting monophyly for these perennial, endemic taxa and revealed Cymopterus to be polyphyletic, with its species closely linked with those of Aletes, Lomatium, Musineon, Oreoxis, Orogenia, Podistera, Pseudocymopterus, Pteryxia, and Tauschia. Herein, we expand sampling to include comprehensive representation of Aletes, Cymopterus, Musineon, Oreoxis, Orogenia, Podistera, Pseudocymopterus, and Pteryxia, and greater representation of Lomatium and Tauschia. We also include all members of two genera not examined previously, Glehnia and Oreonana, as well as additional outgroup genera from the Angelica clade of the apioid superclade. Our results indicate that the perennial, endemic apioid umbellifers of North America constitute a (weakly supported) monophyletic group, with Angelica and the meso-American Arracacia clade comprising two of several possible sister groups. The two subspecies of Glehnia littoralis ally with Angelica and Peucedanum japonicum; Oreonana shows affinity with several species of Cymopterus and Lomatium. The lack of resolution in the ITS trees precludes unambiguous hypotheses of relationship among these perennial, endemic umbellifers but does show that many of these genera, where resolved, are not monophyletic. Indeed, Cymopterus and Lomatium are highly polyphyletic and permeate all major clades resolved in the molecule-derived trees. Evidence from branch lengths and low sequence divergence suggests that this group of North American umbellifers underwent rapid radiation, likely during the geoclimatic events of the Late Tertiary and Quaternary.
25063974|Onoseris (Asteraceae, Mutisieae) is a genus of 31 species distributed from Mexico to Argentina through the Andes with its center of diversity in Peru. A phylogenetic analysis based on a detailed morphological study is provided. Urmenetea is used as the outgroup. Three most parsimonious cladograms are obtained based on the complete data set using Paup* 4.0b8. Two monophyletic groups are recognized: 1. Species with petiolate leaves, palmately veined blades with hastate base, and few-headed capitulescences, rarely thyrsoid capitulescences (O. acerifolia, O. alata, O. brasiliensis, O. cabrerae, O. castelnaeana, O. costaricensis, O. donnell-smithii, O. drakeana, O. fraterna, O. hastata, O. macbridei, O. onoseroides, O. peruviana, O. purpurea, O. sagittata, O. silvatica, and O. speciosa). 2. Species with sessile or subsessile leaves, elliptic and pinnately veined blades with attenuate base, and solitary capitula (O. albicans, O. amplexicaulis, O annua, O. chrysactinioides, O cumingii, O. gnaphalioides, O. humboldtiana, O. hyssopifolia, O. linearifolia, O. lopezii, O. minima, O. odorata, O. salicifolia, and O. weberbaueri). These monophyletic groups are recognized as subgenera Onoseris and Hipposeris respectively. Onoseris salicifolia is chosen as the lectotype of Onoseris subg. Hipposeris. Corolla polymorphism within Onoseris shows that corolla morphology alone cannot be used to distinguish between subtribes Mutisiinae and Gochnatiinae. Biogeographically, Onoseris has a continuous distribution from the Southern Andes to Northern Andes and Central America, but no individual species is distributed on both sides of the Huancabamba Zone. A group of species in subgenus Onoseris distributed in Central America and Brazil are regarded as phylogenetically derived (e.g., O. brasiliensis, O. costaricensis, O. onoseroides).
25063975|The morphology of branched foliar trichomes in Lobelioideae (Campanulaceae) was studied via scanning electron microscopy. Trichomes of this type are found only in the Neotropical endemics Burmeistera, Centropogon, and Siphocampylus, and in the Hawaiian endemic Cyanea. The 37 species examined included all species with branched trichomes in Burmeistera, Centropogon sect. Burmeisteroides, Centropogon sect. Niveopsis, Centropogon sect. Wimmeriopsis, Cyanea, and Siphocampylus, plus about one- fourth of the 100 species comprising Centropogon sect. Siphocampyloides. Trichomes observed conformed to eight structural types. Dendritic, multangulate, multangulate-dendritic, echinoid, and furcate hairs were found only in Centropogon sect. Siphocampyloides, Cyanea, and Siphocampylus. Echinoid-dendritic hairs were confined to Centropogon sect. Burmeisteroides, stellate hairs to Centropogon sect. Wimmeriopsis, and multiseriate- multangulate hairs to Burmeistera and Centropogon sect. Niveopsis. Within Centropogon, the distribution of trichome types is consistent with the currently accepted classification of the genus. Correlations with other data, both morphological and molecular, suggest that branched trichomes have evolved in the subfamily repeatedly, perhaps as many as 11 times.
25063987|A phylogenetic analysis of the monocots was conducted on the basis of nucleotide sequence variation in two genes (atpA, encoded in the mitochondrial genome, and rbcL, encoded in the plastid genome). The taxon sample of 218 angiosperm terminals included 177 monocots and 41 dicots. Among the major results of the analysis are the resolution of a clade comprising four magnoliid lineages (Canellales, Piperales, Magnoliales, and Laurales) as sister of the monocots, with the deepest branch within the monocots between a clade consisting of Araceae, Tofieldiaceae, Acorus, and Alismatales, and a clade that includes all other monocots. Nartheciaceae are placed as the sister of Pandanales, and Corsiaceae as the sister of Liliales. The Triuridaceae, represented by three genera, including Lacandonia, are resolved as monophyletic and placed in a range of positions, generally within Pandanales. Dasypogonaceae and Arecaceae diverge sequentially from a clade that includes all other commelinid taxa, and within the latter group Poales s. lat. are sister of a clade in which Zingiberales and Commelinales are sisters. Within Poales s. lat., Trithuria (Hydatellaceae) and Mayaca appear to be closely related to some or all elements of Xyridaceae. A comparison was conducted of jackknife and bootstrap values, as computed using strict-consensus (SC) and frequency-within-replicates (FWR) approaches. Jackknife values tend to be higher than bootstrap values, and for each of these methods support values obtained with the FWR approach tend to exceed those obtained with the SC approach.
25063988|Pucara leucantha is transferred to Stenomesson as Stenomesson leucanthum based on the phylogenetic position of Pucara resolved by nuclear and plastid DNA sequences. An allied species, Stenomesson chloranthum, is described from the Departments of Amazonas and Cajamarca in Peru, but at lower elevations. Both of these species release their pollen in tetrads, unique within Amaryllidaceae, and have tri-lobed stigmas, unique within Stenomesson.
25063989|Seed morphology has been an important taxonomic character for the Bromeliaceae, with three distinct seed types, naked, winged, and plumose, corresponding to the traditionally recognized subfamilies, Bromelioideae, Pitcairnioideae, and Tillandsioideae, respectively. In Tillandsioideae, the type of plumose seed appendage is used, in conjunction with other characters, to help circumscribe genera. For example, Catopsis, a genus of approximately 20 species, is characterized by having an apical coma of hairs, in contrast to Guzmania, Vriesea, and Tillandsia where seeds have a basal coma of hairs. The individual hairs, apical or basal, that comprise the plumose coma of the Tillandsioideae seeds have been assumed to be homologous structures. Scanning electron and light microscopy were used to examine the details of seed hair development in representative species of Catopsis and Tillandsia. Observations made in this study confirm published details of the basal seed hair development for Tillandsia. The apical seed hairs characteristic for Catopsis are shown to have a distinctly different ontogeny, and are judged to be synapomorphic for the genus. The apical and basal plumose seed appendages diagnostic for subfamily Tillandsioideae are analogous, but are not homologous in the ontogenetic or positional sense.
25063990|Despite the controversy surrounding Cariceae generic and Carex subgeneric limits, most debates centre on a relatively small number of highly reduced unispicate taxa. This study examines Cariceae phylogeny by using all five genera (Schoenoxiphium, Kobresia, Uncinia, Carex, Cymophyllus) and four Carex subgenera (Psyllophora, Vignea, Vigneastra, Carex), with the emphasis of sampling on the tribe's taxonomically difficult unispicate groups (Uncinia, Cymophyllus, Kobresia pro parte, Carex subgenera Psyllophora, and Carex pro parte). Phylogenies based on rDNA internal and external transcribed spacer (ITS, ETS1 f) sequences indicate that the tribe consists of four primary clades (((A, B) C) D) that support a fundamental split between dioecious and androgynous unispicate taxa. Dioecious species are related to multispicate species of either Carex subgenera Carex (Clade D) or Vignea (Clade C), whereas the androgynous species of Uncinia, Kobresia, Cymophyllus, and Carex are related to multispicate species of Schoenoxiphium and Kobresia (Clades A and B). Analyses strongly indicate that the genus Carex is artificial. Moreover, trees support proposals to merge Carex subgenera Carex and Vigneastra (Clade D), and they support the monophyly of Carex subgenus Vignea and the polyphyly of Carex subgenus Psyllophora. Analyses also reject the common evolutionary link made between Schoenoxiphium and Carex subgenus Vigneastra, and the belief that Schoenoxiphium and Kobresia should be merged. The monotypic genera Cymophyllus and Vesicarex do not warrant generic status. The implications of the phylogeny for tribal inflorescence evolution are discussed.
25063991|Eragrostis is a large genus of grasses in subfamily Chloridoideae of the Poaceae. Recent phylogenetic analyses have suggested that the group may not be monophyletic, and there are a number of segregate genera that may be better placed within Eragrostis. We have used molecular sequence data from the plastid locus rps16 and the nuclear gene waxy from a broad sample of Eragrostis species and representatives of six of the seven segregate genera to address these issues. We find that Eragrostis is a monophyletic group with the inclusion of four segregate genera: Acamptoclados, Diandrochloa, Neeragrostis, and Pogonarthria. The placement of Cladoraphis and Stiburus is uncertain. Thellungia does not belong in Eragrostis and is actually more closely related to Sporobolus.
25063992|We assessed the infraspecific taxa of Coryphantha robustispina (syn. Coryphantha scheeri) by analysis of 16 morphological vegetative characters measured from 67 herbarium specimens collected throughout the range of this species within the United States, two live specimens from southeastern Arizona, five live specimens from New Mexico, six live specimens from Texas, and 279 live specimens from Pima and Santa Cruz Counties (south-central Arizona). Four spine characters exhibit strong clinal variation: central spine width, central spine form (curvature), central spine size, and lower radial spine width. Other spine characters show considerable variation but no significant clinal patterns. Central, radial, and guard spine lengths and central spine form are significantly correlated with total number of mature tubercles on the primary stem ( age of plant). In south-central Arizona, central spine curvature varies ontogenetically; older adults produce straighter central spines. Central, radial, and guard spine lengths, and central and radial spine widths are more correlated with length of tubercle than with age of plant. Principal component analyses indicate that morphological intergradation occurs across the east-west range of this species, indicating that neither varietal nor subspecific divisions are warranted at this time. These results raise fundamental questions regarding the legal status of Coryphantha scheeri variety robustispina, a taxon listed as endangered under the Federal Endangered Species Act.
25063993|A cladistic study based on morphological characters is presented for all 28 genera of Olacaceae as well as 26 representative genera from five other families of Santalales: Loranthaceae, Misodendraceae, Opiliaceae, Santalaceae, and Viscaceae. The data matrix consists of 80 macro-morphological, palynological, and anatomical characters. The phylogenetic trees obtained show a paraphyletic Olacaceae with four main clades. Some of these clades are congruent with previously recognized tribes, but all of subfamilies are para- or polyphyletic. Examination of character transformations confirms several assumptions of evolutionary trends within Olacaceae and Santalales, but others appear to be more complex than expected. Optimization of trophic mode on the consensus tree shows that root hemiparasitism had a single origin in Santalales. Whatever the optimization procedure used, the basal-most clade of Olacaceae consists of 12 genera, among which five are known to be autotrophs, whereas the remaining three clades (15 genera) contain four genera known to be root parasites.
25063994|The phylogenetic position of 74 taxa of Asian Sedoideae (Crassulaceae) was estimated based on analyses of the trnL-trnF intergenic spacer sequence of cpDNA and the ITS region, including the 5.8S rDNA sequence, of nDNA. Our analyses suggest that the subfamily Sedoideae is not monophyletic and the genus Sedum especially is highly paraphyletic. Recent studies based on cpDNA restriction-site variation and the matK region recognized seven clades of "major importance." In our analyses, four major clades were recovered: Kalanchoe, Sempervivum, Aeonium, and Acre. All Asian Sedum (s.s.) tested are included in the Acre clade, and all other eastern Asian genera are in groups corresponding to the Telephium clade. The Telephium clade is split into four strongly supported subclades, Rhodiola, Hylotelephium, Phedimus, and Umbilicus, and is determined to be polyphyletic. All eastern Asian genera that were segregated from Sedum are separated in a lineage distinct from Sedum (s.s.). Hylotelephium, Orostachys, Meterostachys, and Sinocrassula are closely related, and Hylotelephium and Orostachys are polyphyletic. The infrageneric taxa within Hylotelephium and Rhodiola are indicated to be polyphyletic.
25063995|Echinopepon disjunctus, a new species of the Echinopepon torquatus species-group from the Yungas rainforest of Jujuy (Argentina), is described and illustrated. Echinopepon coulteri is here excluded from the E. torquatus group on inflorescence and floral characters; a key to the remaining species of the group is included. In addition, the floral structure of the monotypic genus Pseudocyclanthera and four species of Rytidostylis is reviewed. The aestivation of the corolla, invagination at the base of the hypanthium, nectar-secreting trichomes, synanther, and pollen morphology support a closer relationship between Pseudocyclanthera and Rytidostylis than between Pseudocyclanthera and Cyclanthera. The receptacular nature of the trichomatous base of the androecial column and style seems to be distinctive for Rytidostylis. A key to the genera Cyclanthera, Pseudocyclanthera, and Rytidostylis is also included.
25063996|Nuclear sequence data are needed for plant systematics studies in order to supplement data from the chloroplast genome and from morphology. We cloned and sequenced a partial sequence of LEAFY, from the 3' end of the second intron to the 3' end of the third exon, for 44 species from the three Leguminosae subfamilies, but with greater taxon sampling in the basal subfamily Caesalpinioideae. Only one copy of LEAFY was amplified in most of the Leguminosae studied, but in members of tribe Detarieae, our phylogenetic analyses suggest that two copies are present, one of which may be a pseudogene. Sampled species of Brownea Jacq. and Browneopsis Huber (Detarieae) possess a large, unique insertion, which seems to be a useful taxonomic marker for this bigeneric group. The rate of substitution in the coding sequences of LEAFY gives a phylogenetic signal at a broad spectrum of phylogenetic levels, from the intergeneric level to the family level. The second intron is highly variable, and for the copy that seems to be under relaxed selective constraint, the sequences cannot be compared between species of different tribes or subfamilies. The phylogenetic analysis of LEAFY sequences results in topologies that, overall, are consistent with past taxonomy and chloroplast sequence analyses. However, incongruence between the chloroplast trnL intron and one of the copies of LEAFY is found in the tribe Detarieae. This incongruence remains poorly explained, but may result from hidden paralogy or lineage sorting of divergent alleles. This study provides an example of the unexpected complexity that can arise when evaluating the phylogenetic utility of a low-copy nuclear gene.
25063997|A combined parsimony analysis of cpDNA trnK, nrDNA ITS/5.8S, and morphology reveals that the genus Strophostyles is monophyletic. In contrast to the conventional view of the geographic relationships of eastern North America, Strophostyles is most closely related to neotropical genera. Its sister is the South American genus Dolichopsis, which is endemic to the Chaco, a region characterized by having an annual frost interval. Strophostyles is apomorphically diagnosed by divergent stipules, persistent secondary floral bracts, calyces with four acute to sometimes attenuate lobes, and seed testa often with a cellular coat. The relationship with Dolichopsis is supported in part by a shared keel petal morphology involving a gibbous ventral margin proximal to the rostrum. Phylogenetic analysis of ITS/5.8S sequences and morphometric analysis of quantitative traits suggest that the three traditionally recognized species of Strophostyles can be recognized under the phylogenetic species concept. Strophostyles umbellata is the most genetically variable at the ITS locus and geographically centered in southern Appalachia. Strophostyles helvola shows the least amount of intraspecific genetic variation at this locus, suggesting a recent and rapid range expansion throughout eastern North America. Nucleotide sequence variation is intermediate in Strophostyles leiosperma, a species distributed primarily in central North America.
25063998|Many genera previously placed in the traditionally circumscribed Capparaceae are either unrelated or, more commonly, isolated lineages in the order Brassicales. This study examines the relationships of three of these orphan genera, Emblingia, Forchhammeria, and Tirania, in the context of a focused analysis of the core Brassicales. In order to assess relationships of these genera, analyses were conducted across Brassicales using chloroplast rbcL, ndhF, and matK sequence information. Both maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses place all three genera in the well-supported core Brassicales (Brassicaceae, Capparaceae, Cleomaceae, Gyrostemonaceae, Pentadiplandraceae, Resedaceae, and Tovariaceae). The Asiatic Tirania and New World tropical Forchhammeria are closely related to two small families, the pan-temperate Resedaceae and the Australian Gyrostemonaceae. These analyses also indicate a novel placement of Emblingia as sister to all remaining members of core Brassicales. Although there is strong support for the relationships among most of these taxa, relationships of Pentadiplandraceae and Tovariaceae are weakly resolved. Thus, the core Brassicales is a biogeographically dispersed lineage that is comprised of many small and morphologically distinct clades plus the large crown group Brassicaceae s. lat. Patterns of morphological evolution appear complex, especially in floral merosity and carpel and locule number. Likewise, the evolution of breeding systems within this lineage involves recurrent shifts towards monoecy or dioecy, and possible reversals to bisexuality. Further sampling of Capparaceae tribe Stixeae is critical for any taxonomic recommendation of familial status for these orphan genera.
25063999|The first revision of the neotropical genus Potalia (Gentianaceae: Potalieae, formerly Loganiaceae) is presented. This genus was formerly considered monotypic, with Potalia amara being the only recognized species. New morphological and anatomical studies show that Potalia resinifera should be resurrected and that nine newly discovered species should be recognized; one endemic to Central America (P. turbinata), two endemic to Choc, Colombia (P. chocoensis and P. crassa), two endemic to white-sand areas along Rio Negro and its tributaries (P. elegans and P. maguireorum; Brazil, Colombia, and Venezuela), and the last two endemic to white-sand areas in the western Amazon basin (P. coronata and P. yanamonoensis; Peru, Brazil and Colombia). Potalia amara sensu stricto is restricted to the Guianas and northeast Brazil, whereas P. resinifera is widespread in lowland Amazonia and the Andean foothills. Morphological differences between the species are primarily in fruit and inflorescence morphology, but there are also differences in plant size, leaf shape, and corolla color. Potalia resinifera shows the greatest infraspecific variation. Phylogenetic relationships between Potalia and its close relatives Anthocleista from Africa and Fagraea from tropical Asia-Australia-Pacifics are discussed. The widespread pharmacological uses of Potalia species by indigenous peoples of the Neotropics are reviewed and vernacular names are listed. /// Se presenta la primera revisin del gnero Neotropical Potalia (Gentianaceae: Potalieae, anteriormente Loganiaceae). Este gnero se considero monotpico en el pasado, siendo Potalia amara la nica especie reconocida. Sin embargo, nuevos estudios morfolgicos y anatmicos muestran que Potalia resinifera debe resucitar y que se deben reconocer nueve especies, una endmica de Centro Amrica (Potalia turbinata), dos endmicas del Choc, Colombia (P. chocoensis y P. crassa), tres endmicas de reas con arenas blancas a lo largo del Ro Negro y sus tributarios (P. elegans y P. maguireorum; Brasil, Colombia y Venezuela), y las ltimas dos endmicas de reas con arenas blancas al oeste de la cuenca del Ro Amazonas (P. coronata y P. yanamonoensis; Per, Brasil y Colombia). Potalia amara sensu stricto se restringe a las Guianas y al noreste de Brasil, mientras que P. resinifera se encuentra ampliamente distribuida en las reas bajas de la Amazonia y en el pie de monte andino. Las diferencias morfolgicas entre las especies se encuentran bsicamente en el fruto y en la morfologa de las inflorescencias, pero adicionalmente se encuentran diferencias en el tamao de las plantas, la forma de las hojas y el color de la corola. Potalia resinifera es la especie que muestra mayor variacin infraespecfica. Se discuten las relaciones filogenticas entre Potalia y sus parientes mas cercanos, Anthocleista de Africa, y Fagraea del tropico Asitico-Australiano-Pacfico. Se revizan los ampliamente conocidos usos farmacolgicos que las comunidades indigenas del Neotropico dan a las especies de Potalia y se presenta una lista de nombres comunes. /// A primeira reviso do gnero neotropical Potalia (Gentianaceae: Potalieae, previamente considerada como Loganiaceae)  apresentada. Esse gnero foi considerado a princpio monotpico, sendo Potalia amara a nica espcie reconhecida. Entretanto novos estudos morfolgicos e anatmicos mostram que Potalia resinifera deve ser revalidada e que nove espcies recm-descobertas devem ser reconhecidas; uma endmica  Amrica Central (P. turbinata), duas endmicas a Choc, Colmbia (P. chocoensis e P. crassa), duas endmicas aos terrenos com solo de areia branca (areias quartzosas) ao longo do Rio Negro e seus afluentes (P. elegans e P. maguireorum; Brasil, Colmbia e Venezuela), e duas endmicas aos terrenos com solo de areia branca da regio oeste da Bacia Amaznica (P. coronata e P. yanamonoensis; Peru, Brasil e Colmbia). Potalia amara sensu stricto restringe-se s Guianas e ao nordeste do Brasil, enquanto P. resinifera apresenta-se amplamente distribuda nas plancies da Amaznia e nas encostas dos Andes. As principais diferenas entre as espcies encontram-se na morfologia dos frutos e das inflorescncias, havendo tambm diferenas no tamanho da planta, forma da lmina foliar e cor da corola. Potalia resinifera apresenta grande variao infraespecfica. So discutidas as relaes filogenticas entre Potalia e dois gneros prximos, Anthocleista da frica e Fagraea da sia-Austrlia-Pacfico. O difundido uso farmacolgico das espcies de Potalia por povos indgenas dos neotrpicos  revisado e os nomes populares so listados.
25064000|Bystropogon (Lamiaceae) is endemic to the Macaronesian Islands and represents the best-known example of a putative phytogeographic connection between these islands and the New World. Previous morphological taxonomic studies suggested that this genus is closely related to the western South American Minthostachys. Phylogenetic analyses of nucleotide sequences of the internal transcribed spacers and 5.8S subunit of nuclear ribosomal DNA and the trnL gene and trnL-trnF spacer of the chloroplast genome for 33 of the 72 genera in the Mentheae tribe were performed. Maximum parsimony analysis of the combined data set resulted in 63 most parsimonious trees. The strict consensus tree of this analysis shows with moderate bootstrap support (74%) that Bystropogon is sister to the Old World taxa Acinos, Ziziphora, and Clinopodium vulgare. When analyzed separately, the ITS and trnL/F data sets do not agree as to the sister group to Bystropogon, although none supports a sister relationship with Minthostachys. The cpDNA phylogeny strongly supports a relationship of Bystropogon with a clade of New World mint taxa (90% bootstrap value). Due to the apparent conflict between the chloroplast and nuclear characters observed in the phylogenies, we are not certain of the true biogeographic relationship of Bystropogon. Finally, in all analyses, all of the Mentheae genera sampled in this study form a monophyletic group (100% bootstrap value) and a derived clade of ten New World genera is found. These results contribute to our understanding of generic relationships within the tribe.
25064001|Phylogenetic analyses are used to examine the morphological diversity and systematics of Synthyris and Besseya. The placement of Synthyris and Besseya in Veronicaceae is strongly supported in parsimony analyses of nuclear ribosomal ITS DNA sequences. Parsimony and maximum likelihood (ML) criteria provide consistent hypotheses of clades of Synthyris and Besseya based on the ITS data. The combination of morphological characters and ITS data resolve additional clades of Synthyris and Besseya. The results show that Synthyris is paraphyletic to Besseya. In the monophyletic Synthyris clade, Besseya forms part of a Northwest clade that also includes the alpine S. canbyi, S. dissecta, and S. lanuginosa and mesic forest S. cordata, S. reniformis, S. platycarpa, and S. schizantha. The Northwest clade is the sister of S. borealis. An Intermountain clade, comprising S. ranunculina, S. laciniata, S. pinnatifida, and S. missurica, is the sister to the rest of the Synthyris clade. Constraint topologies are used to test prior hypotheses of relationships and morphological similarities. Parametric bootstrapping is used to compare the likelihood values of the best trees obtained in searches under constraints to that of the best tree found without constraints. These results indicate that topologies in which a monophyletic Synthyris is the sister of Besseya are significantly worse than the best ML tree in which Synthyris is paraphyletic to Besseya. Similarly, forcing either the monophyly of all taxa that have deeply incised leaf margins or those that have reniform laminas and broadly rounded apices results in trees that are significantly worse than the best ML tree, in which leaf margin incision and reniform laminas are homoplastic. We propose a new classification for Synthyris that emphasizes monophyletic groups. The new combination Synthyris oblongifolia is proposed.
25064002|A phylogenetic study of the genus Perideridia (Apiaceae; tribe Oenantheae) was conducted to elucidate its circumscription, infrageneric relationships, and patterns in the evolution of available morphological, anatomical, and cytological characters. Nuclear rDNA ITS sequences were procured from 84 accessions of Perideridia, representing all 14 of its species and four of its six subspecies, and five outgroup taxa, and analyzed using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference methods. The trees recovered by each of these optimality criteria were congruent and generally quite robust. Upon the removal of the eastern Asian Perideridia neurophylla, previously referable to Pterygopleurum neurophyllum, the genus Perideridia is monophyletic and exclusively North American in distribution. Three major clades within Perideridia are inferred; the midwestern U.S. Perideridia americana is likely sister to all other species. With the exceptions of Perideridia lemmonii and P. bolanderi (where each species comprises two separate lineages), and P. oregana (whose limits are expanded to include tetraploid populations previously referred to as P. leptocarpa), all taxa were recovered as monophyletic. Optimization of 16 non-molecular characters on a phylogeny inferred by maximum parsimony analysis of combined ITS and nonmolecular data revealed high instances of homoplasy, with the clade of P. howellii and P. kelloggii, taxa characterized by monostelic roots, supported by four of six synapomorphies. The occurrence of multistelic tuberous roots in all other species of Perideridia and in the unrelated Pterygopleurum neurophyllum suggests that this uncommon character among dicots has evolved twice in the family Apiaceae.
25064003|Chaetanthera is a South American genus of 43 species in seven subgenera. Pollen grain morphology of 39 species of Chaetanthera and allied genera of Mutisiinae was surveyed using light and electron microscopy. Two palynologic groups are distinguished in Chaetanthera, defined as types I and II, the latter with the subtypes II 1 and II 2. The groups are supported by additional morphological and habit characteristics. Type I has pollen with a thinner exine (usually 5-7 m thick), subrectangular shape, nexine outline elliptic to subrectangular, and medium-sized; type II has pollen with a thicker exine (11-18 m thick), elliptic shape, nexine outline dumbbell-shaped, and large-sized. Subtype II 1 has columellae in the ectosexine, whereas subtype II 2 has a compact ectosexine. A palynologic alliance is established among the mutisiean genera Aphyllocladus, Gypothamnium, and Plazia (Plazia group), species of Onoseris and Urmenetea (Onoseris group), Brachyclados, Chaetanthera, Lulia, Mutisia, and Pachylaena (Mutisia group), Gerbera, Trichocline, and Uechtritzia (part of the Gerbera group), and Hyaloseris and Dinoseris on the basis of pollen similarities. These generic groups are defined by the habit and floral and fruit features, and the pollen structure is mainly useful to establish relationships among the groups. In this scheme the Mutisia group, which includes Chaetanthera, approaches the Onoseris and Gerbera groups.
25064004|In high elevation habitats of the Peruvian Andes a new population of Microseris (Asteraceae, Lactuceae) related to the single South American species, M. pygmaea, recently was discovered. Microseris pygmaea occurs at lower elevations in Chile and has originated after long-distance dispersal from a Californian progenitor. Differences in flowering traits and habitat preferences of the new population raised the question of its precise phylogenetic affiliation. The analysis of the nuclear rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of all Microseris species revealed the Peruvian plants as part of the Chilean M. pygmaea clade. Molecular, ecological, and physiological data resulted in an interpretation of the Peruvian population as derived from Chilean progenitors instead of being remnants of stepping-stone dispersal from North America through the Andes to Chile. Differences in ITS sequences found in this study compared to earlier ones were explained by the occurrence of two different rDNA clusters in the genome of Microseris, which were preferentially amplified by differences in the PCR protocols.
25064005|Phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed using molecular (nrDNA ITS and rpl16) and morphological data for eight species in three sections (Leptosyne, Pugiopappus, and Tuckermannia) of Coreopsis that are almost exclusively restricted to California. Parsimony analyses were conducted on each of three data partitions (cpDNA, ITS, and morphology) and congruence between these topologies and data sets was assessed by inspecting the topology for "hard" incongruence and via the partition homogeneity test (PHT). The individual topologies were largely congruent (i.e., lacking "hard" incongruence), with the exception of the placement of C. calliopsidea by analyses of morphological data. Because the two molecular data sets are generally in agreement regarding the placement of this taxon, the morphological data for C. calliopsidea were excluded and a PHT test indicated no significant heterogeneity among the molecular partitions. A combined analysis supports the monophyly of the eight California species and of sections Tuckermannia and Leptosyne; however, section Pugiopappus is not monophyletic. This latter section as traditionally defined includes species that display an annual habit and dimorphic cypselae. Examining the evolution of these two features in light of the phylogeny indicates that the annual habit has either arisen twice or arose once with reversal to perenniality, and that dimorphic cypselae originated twice. The evolution of pubescent fruits and pappus scales is more complex. The three alternative reconstructions indicate that these features could either be ancestral, represent three independent gains, or result from a single gain followed by two losses.
25064006|The systematic value of morphological characters in Senecio sect. Jacobaea (Asteraceae) is studied using separate and combined parsimony analyses of morphological and DNA sequence data. These analyses are the first studies of morphological characters in a phylogenetic context in Senecio. Although the morphological data set forms a valuable addition to DNA sequences in providing greater resolution and support for several molecular-based clades, most characters are not suitable for identifying clades containing more than just a few closely related species. One of these characters, the stigmatic configuration, commonly used to study generic and subtribal limits of Senecioneae, is too variable for classification purposes in sect. Jacobaea. Among the four morphological characters that can be used to identify relatively large clades in the section are two indumentum characters. Because indumentum characters also have been found to be phylogenetically informative in other sections and genera in Senecioneae, we argue that they might be suitable for classification purposes throughout this tribe. We show that on the basis of these and other morphological characters and DNA sequences, S. gallerandianus and S. maroccanus should be included in sect. Jacobaea. This brings the total number of species in this section to 26.
25064011|The magnitude of niche shifts associated with ecological speciation and the factors that regulate the process are poorly understood. I propose that ecological transitions most often involve the invasion of habitats most accessible through seed dispersion and by relatively small genetic changes. A significant seed rain is required for the recruitment of chance variants that are somewhat adapted to the novel conditions, as well as for the expansion of the genetic repertoire necessary for the evolution of a well-adapted entity. The probability of exploiting a new niche is an inverse function of the amount of genetic change that is required. Genes with large effect facilitate the change. There is considerable evidence that substantial habitat and pollinator niche shifts may occur with relatively few gene changes. There is speculation that populations may establish in new habitats through adaptive developmental and physiological changes induced by the environment, and then undergo genetic changes that stabilize the new phenotypes. Hybridization provides an unusual opportunity for major ecological change over a relatively short time span.
25064012|The monophyly of Campylopus and its relationships to other genera of the Dicranaceae-Campylopodioideae, especially Bryohumbertia and Pilopogon, have been ambiguous. To evaluate inter- and intrageneric relationships of Campylopus, maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood calculations of sequences from the chloroplast DNA (
25064013|It has been suggested in the literature that limited hybridization occurs between Cupressus macnabiana and C. sargentii where the species occur in sympatry. This study confirmed the hybrid origin of specimens from a sympatric population using an objective analysis of morphological and DNA evidence. Fifty-eight individuals from three populations (two pure stands and one mixed population) were sampled. Variation in diagnostic restriction sites within ITS (nrDNA), matK (cpDNA), and NEEDLY intron two (nDNA) were used in combination with 20 quantitative morphological characters to detect and characterize putative hybrids. ITS and NEEDLY were uninformative with respect to hybrid detection, but matK demonstrated species-specific polymorphism. Anomalous combinations of plastid type, Discriminant Function identification, and position in a pictorialized scatter diagram were used to identify putative hybrids. Intermediacy of the putative hybrids was demonstrated statistically (p = 0.005) with 13 out of the 14 diagnostic morphological characters having intermediate values. Hybrids most likely arose from multiple hybridization events with both species acting as the paternal parent. The hybrids are apparently fertile, and may form a complex swarm. The most recognizable morphological characteristics of the hybrids are the partial development of resin glands on leaves of the ultimate branch segments, the penultimate branching pattern, ovulate cone width, and seed mass.
25064014|Sequences from the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region 1 (nrDNA ITS1) and the plastid rps4 gene from the genus Ephedra (Ephedraceae, Gnetales) were obtained in order to infer phylogenetic relationships, character evolution, and historical biogeography in the genus. Within Ephedra the length of the nrDNA ITS1 varied from 1,081 to 1,143 basepairs (bp), in contrast to dramatically shorter lengths in the outgroups (Gnetum, Welwitschia, and Pinus). The rps4 locus varied in length from 645 to 661 bp in the same set of taxa. Both parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of these sequences resulted in a well-resolved phylogeny that supports the monophyly of Ephedra, but not its subdivision into the traditional sections Ephedra, Asarca, and Alatae. The resulting phylogeny also indicates a derivation of the New World clade from among the Old World taxa. Among the Old World species three highly-supported monophyletic groups are recognized that are highly concordant with morphological evidence. The New World clade includes two main subclades of North and South American species that are strongly supported, while the position of two, mostly Mexican species E. pedunculata and E. compacta remains unresolved. Character reconstruction of ovulate strobilus types in Ephedra indicates that fleshy bracts are ancestral, with shifts to dry, winged bracts having occurred multiple times. Low levels of sequence divergence within the North American clade suggest either recent and rapid ecological radiation or highly conservative ribosomal DNA evolution within the clade.
25064015|Cytogenetic studies of North American Elymus suggest that the genus is an allopolyploid derivative of Pseudoroegneria (St) and Hordeum (H). To test this, we conducted a phylogenetic analysis of North American Elymus species within a broad sample of diploid Triticeae taxa using cloned sequences from one member of the nuclear gene family encoding phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. The phylogeny supports the hypothesis that Pseudoroegneria and Hordeum are the diploid progenitors of the North American Elymus tetraploids. Each tetraploid Elymus individual has two distinct forms of the gene, and each form is in a strongly supported clade with sequences from either Pseudoroegneria or Hordeum, suggesting that these Elymus species have an St + H genomic content. This pattern is consistent with a single (or multiple very similar) polyploid ancestor(s) of the North American tetraploids, confirming earlier results based on granule-bound starch synthase I gene sequence data. We also examined the utility of the phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase gene to reconstruct the evolutionary history of the Triticeae by comparing it to starch synthase gene sequence data. Both nuclear data sets are phylogenetically informative, but suggest somewhat different evolutionary histories among genera within the tribe.
25064016|The origin of two tetraploid species of Hordeum, H. capense from South Africa and H. secalinum from Eurasia and North Africa, is explored using phylogenetic analyses of two single-copy nuclear genes (DMC1 and EF-G) and one plastid gene (rbcL). By applying copy-specific primers it was possible to obtain sequence data from two copies of each of the nuclear genes from the two tetraploid species. The most parsimonious explanation of the presence of both genes is that each copy was inherited from a different diploid parental species. Hence, H. capense and H. secalinum are allotetraploids. The phylogenetic analyses also demonstrated that the two species have a common hybrid origin involving diploid H. marinum subsp. gussoneanum and H. brevisubulatum. A gene tree derived from the plastid rbcL sequences showed that H. brevisubulatum was the maternal parent. Based on the number of evolutionary changes since polyploidization and subsequent diversification of the two species, H. capense, with an isolated occurrence in South Africa, is best explained as an ancient relict, as opposed to a recent introduction.
25064017|Tripogon nicorae Rgolo & A. S. Vega, a new species from South America, is described and illustrated. A key for the identification of Tripogon species in America is included and a comparative table based on morphology, leaf anatomy, micromorphological features of the spikelets, and ecology. The taxonomic synopsis includes synonymy, geographical distribution and ecology, iconography, vernacular names, and a list of representative specimens examined. Tripogon ekmanii Nicora & Rgolo is reported for the first time in Uruguay. /// En este trabajo se describe e ilustra Tripogon nicorae Rgolo & A. S. Vega, una nueva especie propia de Ecuador, Per, Bolivia, Chile y Argentina. Se incluye una clave para la identificacin de las tres especies que habitan en Amrica, as como una tabla comparativa basada en la morfologa, anatoma foliar, caracters micromorfolgicos de las espiguillas y ecologa. La sinopsis taxonmica comprende la sinonimia, distribucin geogrfica y ecologa, iconografa, nombres vernculos y una lista de material adicional examinado. Tripogon ekmanii Nicora & Rgolo se cita por primera vez en Uruguay.
25064018|Recent phylogenetic analyses of Saxifragales, based on DNA sequences of five plastid and nuclear ribosomal genes under parsimony and likelihood criteria, failed to resolve the branching order of the major lineages of the clade. This lack of resolution was attributed to the rapid radiation of Saxifragales. However, simultaneous origin of the major lineages was rejected by both parametric and non-parametric statistical tests, indicating that there is potential for resolving these relationships using additional analytical procedures and/or additional data. We reanalyzed the original data using a Bayesian approach, by implementing a Markov chain Monte Carlo process. Common-model and mixed-model analyses were conducted. Although Bayesian analyses did not fully resolve the phylogeny of Saxifragales, greater support was indicated for the relationships of Saxifragaceae, Crassulaceae, Haloragaceae, and Paeoniaceae. Relationships of "lower hamamelid" line-ages were inconsistently supported, including sister group relationships of Cercidiphyllum-Daphniphyllum and Altingiaiceae-Hamamelidaceae. Simultaneous origin of the major lineages was not supported. We compare parameter estimation in common- and mixed-model Bayesian analyses and find striking differences that may affect the posterior probabilities of clades. Our application of Bayesian methods to discriminate simultaneous speciation from weak phylogenetic signal is a useful addition to the limited set of tools available for this purpose. We discuss important caveats for the interpretation of Bayesian posterior probabilities in this study, especially when a common model is assumed across data partitions.
25064019|Leaflet anatomy of 14 taxa in Mimosa sect. Batocaulon, series Quadrivalves is described for the first time, using cleared leaflets and light microscopy. Members of the series have obliquely asymmetric, linear-oblong, narrowly elliptic, or narrowly oblanceolate leaflets with an eccentric primary vein. The venation pattern is brochidodromous with basal lateral veins. In nine of the 14 taxa the lateral loops become notably narrower in the distal portion (anisonerved loops). On the basis of primary vein size and width, and the nature of the loops, the taxa of the series are divided into two groups, one with isonerved loops and a notably thickened primary vein (massive) and the other with anisonerved loops and a stout or moderately thickened primary vein; the primary vein and secondary veins can be sinuate or straight. Idioblasts were observed in association with the ends of the veinlets. These are of three types: polymorphic sclereids, osteosclereids, and tracheoidal elements. Calcium oxalate prisms and druses are present in most taxa of the series. The first are associated with the vascular bundles, while druses are found in mesophyll cells. The systematic value of leaflet anatomical characters is discussed, and leaflet anatomy is found to provide significant characters for distinguishing groups and individual taxa in series Quadrivalves. Resumen. Se describe por primera vez la anatoma de los fololos de 14 taxa de Mimosa secc. Batocaulon serie Quadrivalves usando fololos aclarados y microscopa de luz. Los miembros de la serie tienen fololos oblicuamente asimtricos, linear-oblongos, angostamente elpticos o angostamente oblanceolados, con la vena primaria excntrica. El patrn de venacin es broquidodromo con venas laterales basales. En nueve de los 14 taxa los arcos laterales llegan a ser notablemente ms angostos en la porcin distal (arcos anisonervados). Con base en el tamao y la anchura de la vena primaria y la naturaleza de los arcos, los taxa de la serie se dividen en dos grupos, uno con arcos isonervados y venas primarias notablemente engrosadas (masivas) y el otro con arcos anisonervados y venas primarias fuertes o moderadamente engrosadas; las venas primarias y secundarias pueden ser sinuadas o rectas. Se observaron idioblastos asociados a los extremos de las venillas; estos son de tres tipos: esclereidas polimrficas, osteosclereidas y elementos traqueoidales. Se presentan cristales prismticos y drusas de oxalato de calcio en la mayora de los taxa de esta serie. Se discute el valor sistemtico de los caracteres anatmicos de los fololos y se encuentra que estos son significativos para distinguir grupos y taxa individuales en la serie Quadrivalves.
25064020|Evidence from chloroplast trnK and nuclear ribosomal ITS sequences and morphological data reveals that the monotypic legume genus Wajira is nested within a clade comprising the species of Vigna subgen. Macrorhynchus. This Wajira-containing clade is basally branching in a larger clade that contains many of the genera traditionally referred to as tribe Phaseoleae subtribe Phaseolinae. Wajira is thus recircumscribed to include Vigna subgen. Macrorhynchus. Given the heterogeneity of floral morphology of its constituent species, Wajira is apomorphically diagnosed by woody stems and a pollen brush that comprises an introrse linear array of unicellular hairs. This recircumscribed genus now comprises five species, one of which is described as new, Wajira danissana. Three species require new nomenclatural combinations, Wajira grahamiana, Wajira praecox, and Wajira virescens. Wajira albescens, W. danissana, W. praecox, and W. virescens are woody climbers that are each narrowly distributed in the arid Somalia-Masai region characterized by sparse ground cover not subjected to seasonal burning. Wajira grahamiana has a thick woody subterranean rootstock that resprouts stems, and is widespread in the Sudano-Zambezian Region, southern India, and Sri Lanka, where grasslands subjected to seasonal burning predominate. This species is resolved in all phylogenetic analyses as derived from within the Somalia-Masai clade. An evolutionary rates analysis of trnK sequences suggests that the Wajira stem clade diverged from its closest relatives just over 10 million years ago, the extant diversification of the genus began around 6-7 million years ago, and Wajira grahamiana attained its widespread distribution during the last 2 million years.
25064021|Molecular data from Cladopus and Hydrobryum, members of the aquatic angiosperm family Podostemaceae, were analyzed phylogenetically using the chloroplast matK gene and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of the nuclear ribosomal RNA (nrRNA) gene to infer the species relationships and the biogeographic history of the East Asian species. The phylogenies based on matK and ITS were incongruent for relationships in a northern clade of Cladopus, but the pattern of root morphologies (ribbon vs. linear) agreed with the matK phylogeny. The matK phylogeny revealed that all East Asian temperate species of each genus form a monophyletic group that is derived from tropical/subtropical species. A clock-constrained maximum-likelihood tree suggests that the divergence events of the temperate lineages from their tropical sisters occurred coevally in the two genera. Dispersal-vicariance analysis (DIVA) suggests that distribution at the middle latitudes was formed by a wide primary distribution covering tropical and temperate areas and a secondary dispersal event in Cladopus, and by a dispersal event in Hydrobryum. Two Kyushu-Fujian groups are found in Cladopus, one consisting of Japanese C. austro-osumiensis and Chinese C. fukiensis and another consisting of Japanese C. japonicus, C. austrosatsumensis, and C. doianus and Chinese C. chinensis, each of which shows little genetic differentiation between species from Kyushu, southern Japan, and Fujian, China, suggesting parallel biogeographic histories. Disjunct populations of Hydrobryum japonicum from Kyushu in southern Japan and from northern Thailand show little genetic differentiation, whereas a plant from Yunnan, China, diverged earlier than did the Japanese or Thai plants. The DIVA results suggest that the disjunctive distribution of Hydrobryum japonicum was formed by two dispersal events from Kyushu to Yunnan and to northern Thailand.
25064022|For the last 150 years, the taxonomy of Hoffmannseggia has been variously entangled with Caesalpinia and Pomaria. Traditionally, Hoffmannseggia consisted of herbaceous or sub-shrubby perennials (rather than trees or vines) that lack spines and usually bear glandular trichomes on portions of the vegetative surfaces. However, the lack of correspondence of other characters such as flower shape, fruit type, and sepal persistence with habit and armament led to the repeated realignment of various species. Recent molecular work has shown that Hoffmannseggia forms a monophyletic group supported with several morphological synapomorphies and that it is not closely related to either Caesalpinia or Pomaria. Here we use molecular data from the nuclear ITS spacer regions, the trnL spacer and trnF intron chloroplast regions, and the rbcL gene to examine the relationships of Hoffmannseggia species. We show that there are two major clades in the genus that do not correspond to any previous infrageneric taxonomy. These clades are supported by morphological differences, the most striking of which is habit with one clade consisting of sub-shrubby species and the other of herbaceous species. We point out other characters that support subgroups within these clades, document one case of hybridization, and identify other suspected cases of hybridization. We also make the new combination Hoffmannseggia pumilio.
25064023|The evolution of floral symmetry in Asteridae has been of recent interest. Three genera with full or partial radial floral symmetry are found within tribes Gesnerieae and Gloxinieae of Gesneriaceae where the remaining taxa have bilaterally symmetrical flowers. These tribes have been shown to each be monophyletic and to be sister to each other, but a full analysis within each tribe has not demonstrated strongly supported sister group relationships among genera, especially those with radially symmetrical flowers. To assess sister group relationships more accurately, a phylogenetic analysis using GCYC (a Gesneriaceae homolog of CYCLOIDEA) sequences as well as four regions from the chloroplast genome (ndhF, trnL intron, trnF-trnL spacer, rpl20-rps12 spacer), ITS, and two paralogues of the nuclear encoded chloroplast expressed glutamine synthetase was conducted. The analyses for the most part resolved sister group relationships between radial and bilateral taxa with strong support as well as provided support for several clades within Gloxinieae and indicated that Phinaea is not a monophyletic genus.
25064024|Phylogenetic relationships in Mentha were inferred from DNA sequences of the chloroplast (cp) rpl16 intron and trnL-trnF region. The objectives were to test monophyly of Mentha and each of its sections and assess relationships among Mentha species. Based on cpDNA data, Mentha is strongly supported as monophyletic. The suggestions that M. cervina and M. cunninghamii should be placed in other genera gain no support from this analysis. Mentha cervina is sister to M. gattefossei, and the New Zealand endemic, M. cunninghamii, is allied with species from Australia (M. australis, M. diemenica, M. satureioides). No recognized section with more than one species sampled forms a monophyletic group. Section Pulegium may be monophyletic, but the third member of this section, M. grandiflora, was not sampled. Chloroplast DNA sequences of the putative allopolyploids M. canadensis and M. spicata suggest that M. arvensis and M. longifolia, respectively, may be their maternal parents.
25064025|We show the power of detailed AFLP study to address questions of species delimitation and genetic diversity in morphologically-cryptic plants. We have combined this technique with karyological studies to explore species boundaries in the Western Mediterranean representatives of Veronica subgen. Pentasepalae. Several members of this subgenus are represented in the Iberian Peninsula and North Africa by morphologically similar populations, which lead to different taxonomic hypotheses. We have analyzed genetic variation with two different objectives: first, to provide a basis on which one taxonomic hypothesis is favored against its alternatives, and second, to obtain a satisfactory interpretation of phylogeographic patterns. The usefulness of several parameters and analyses is considered in order to help rank taxa and to reveal details of their speciation modes. Some of these parameters are presented with a geographical background to facilitate phylogeographic interpretations. The data support one of the previously proposed taxonomic hypotheses, which results in the recognition of eight taxa. An east-to-west migration route within the Iberian Peninsula is hypothesized, coinciding with the general pattern proposed for Veronica subgen. Pentasepalae. Further data on genetic variability and chromosome counts for 41 populations are provided.
25064026|A new genus, Salcedoa, is described from the Cordillera Septentrional, northern Dominican Republic. The bilabiate florets, smooth style branches, caudate anthers, and pollen grains size and shape, exine structure and sculpture, and endoaperture shape place it close to the South American genera of the tribe Mutisieae (Asteraceae) centered in the Guayana Shield. Two morphology-based phylogenetic analyses, one using Gochnatia and the other using Chaetanthera as outgroups, and including Salcedoa and the 12 Guayanan genera were performed to determine the sister group relationships of Salcedoa. The results suggest that Salcedoa is sister to Gongylolepis. The unusual distributional pattern of Salcedoa and the Guayanan genera was explored through the dispersal-vicariance method. A trans-oceanic dispersal of fruits is postulated as a probable mechanism by which Salcedoa reached Hispaniola from a South American ancestor.
25064027|Phylogenetic analyses of ITS and 5' trnK/matK spacer sequences were undertaken for 39 species representing the range of morphological variation in the genus Brachyglottis and putative outgroups. Independent analyses of the sequence data were largely congruent, and when combined provided stronger support for relationships. The results suggest that Brachyglottis as currently circumscribed is paraphyletic. However, a more inclusive monophyletic group was supported that consists of the genera Bedfordia, Brachyglottis, Dolichoglottis, Haastia, and Traversia. Short branch lengths suggest that there has been a spectacular adaptive radiation of the Brachyglottis alliance in recent times. The species are morphologically diverse and occupy a wide range of ecological niches in New Zealand, yet exhibit very little sequence variation.
25064028|The chloroplast genome has provided sequence data for inferring plant phylogenies for more than a decade. General operational assumptions regarding chloroplast gene sequences are that they are single-copy, under strong functional constraint, and uniparentally inherited. However, studies have demonstrated the transfer of large segments of the chloroplast genome into the nuclear or mitochondrial genomes. Additionally, heteroplasmy and haplotype polymorphism of plastid genomes within and among individuals have been documented. Random sampling of nucleotide sequences from different plastid haplotypes or from paralogous sequences through the course of a systematic investigation may affect the resulting gene tree topology and the inferences drawn from it.
25064037|A central tenet of evolutionary biology is that environmental change is the prime driving force behind speciation and the genesis of evolutionary novelty. While gradual, long-term environmental change may be an important stimulus for speciation, it is not clear that such change would generate highly divergent phenotypic, physiological, and life history attributes, and disparate ecological tolerances, as described in numerous angiosperm genera. I propose that niche shifts rather than long-term environmental change are the primary drivers of evolutionary novelty within genera. This argument is based on the differences in the dynamics of speciation through gradual change and in the dynamics of speciation through niche transitions. Ecological speciation is a prospective process that involves the invasions of new niches in space. Geographical or vicariant speciation is a responsive process involving changes dictated selectively or randomly by environmental gradients in time. Niche conservatism may limit major adaptive shifts in time.
25064038|Nucleotide sequences for six nuclear loci and one chloroplast region were used to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships in Sphagnum section Acutifolia. The combined data matrix, which includes 136 accessions (129 ingroup taxa and seven outgroups) and 5126 nucleotide sites, was analyzed using Bayesian inference. Most of the individual morphospecies commonly recognized in the section were represented by multiple populations, in some cases by up to 16 accessions from throughout the Northern Hemisphere. Results of the combined seven-locus analysis resolved many of the species as monophyletic, but the deeper nodes were generally without support. Separate analyses of single-locus data sets revealed significant conflicts, indicating gene flow among both closely and more distantly related species within the section. The sequence data allowed likely parentage to be identified for several species of hybrid origin, and identified individual accessions that appear to be genetic admixtures. Taxonomic conclusions that can be made from the analyses include: 1. Sphagnum wulfianum and S. aongstroemii should both be included in section Acutifolia, 2. S. subtile cannot be separated from S. capillifolium, and the two should be synonymized, 3. S. capillifolium and S. rubellum each contain a monophyletic core of populations and should be retained as separate species, but 4. S. rubellum cannot be separated from S. andersonianum and S. bartlettianum and the three should be merged, 5. S. tenerum is highly differentiated from S. capillifolium and should be treated as a separate species, 6. interspecific mixed ancestry is demonstrated for S. russowii (a likely allopolyploid), S. skyense, S. arcticum, and S. olafii. Interspecific recombination appears to be rather common in section Acutifolia, yet species, for the most part, maintain cohesiveness.
25064039|The phylogenetic integrity and relationships of the pleurocarpous moss Hypnodendron and several potentially related taxa are investigated using chloroplast rbcL, trnL-F, and rps4 sequence data, the mitochondrial nad5 region, and a set of 29 morphological characters. Strong support is obtained for the recognition of a monophyletic group, the "hypnodendroid pleurocarps," that includes Hypnodendron, Braithwaitea, Pterobryella praenitens, the Cyrtopodaceae, Spiridentaceae, and Racopilaceae. This clade is resolved as sister to the Hypnanae with moderately strong support. Hypnodendron is paraphyletic, with H. section Sciadocladus resolved as sister to Pterobryella praenitens and outside of a very well supported clade that includes the other taxa of Hypnodendron in addition to the Spiridentaceae and Cyrtopodaceae. Chloroplast and mitochondrial sequence data show a high degree of congruence, and confidence in critical nodes is increased by long branches, high support values, and indels corresponding to radical modification of sequence and secondary structure within the nad5 group I intron. Based on morphological character state optimisation the hypnodendroid pleurocarps comprise a clade that includes plesiomorphically dendroid, palmate/umbellate terrestrial plants in addition to a number of derived lineages representing adaptive shifts towards epiphytism. These include the prostrate/creeping Racopilaceae, the dendroid-pinnate species in Hypnodendron section Phoenicobryum, and the simple, large-leaved Spiridentaceae and Cyrtopodaceae. Our data also support recognition of the hypnodendroid pleurocarps at the ordinal or superordinal level.
25064040|The systematics of the Asplenium seelosii complex have been debated for a long time. This complex includes strictly rupicolous plants that live on limestone cliffs mainly in mountains of southwest Europe: the Alps, the Pyrenees, and several mountain ranges of the Eastern Iberian Peninsula. The disjunct distribution of the populations and several morphological characters, i.e., leaf indumentum and the structure of the perispore, have been used to distinguish species and subspecies. The goal of this study was to evaluate the different systematic treatments of this complex by means of isozyme electrophoresis. Seventeen populations throughout the range of the complex were studied, and 15 enzymatic systems were assayed. There was no within population genetic variation and genetic identity between populations varied widely. Analysis of isozymic data clearly differentiated two groups corresponding to the species proposed, Asplenium seelosii and A. celtibericum, but these data do not support the recognition of subspecies in this complex.
25064041|Multivariate analyses of qualitative and quantitative characters taken from herbarium specimens of Calyptrogyne H. Wendl. (Palmae), together with analysis of geographic distributions, reveals 27 groups of specimens. Application of the Phylogenetic Species/Subspecies Concept to these groups gives 18 species and 13 subspecies, giving a total of 27 taxa in the genus. Eight species (C. tutensis, C. fortunensis, C. sanblasensis, C. baudensis, C. deneversii, C. coloradensis, C. panamensis, C. osensis) and seven subspecies (C. costatifrons subsp. occidentalis, C. costatifrons subsp. dariensis, C. allenii subsp. centralis, C. panamensis subsp. centralis, C. panamensis subsp. tutensis, C. panamensis subsp. occidentalis, C. ghiesbreghtiana subsp. hondurensis) are new, and two new combinations are made (C. ghiesbreghtiana subsp. spicigera, C. ghiesbreghtiana subsp. glauca). These taxa are distributed from southern Mexico to northwestern Colombia, with the greatest diversity in western Panama.
25064042|Poa, with about 575 species, is the largest genus of grasses, and has diversified throughout temperate, boreal, and arctic regions, and similar habitats through the tropics. This new phylogenetic study of Poa based on analysis of restriction site data from PCR amplified regions of chloroplast DNA (trnT-trnF, trnF-trnV, trnV-rbcL, rbcL-ORF106, trnH-trnK) expands previous sampling in the genus to where 1/5 to 1/6 of the species have been characterized for chloroplast DNA types. A broad phylogenetic structure detected in a previous study using restriction site mapping of Poa chloroplast DNA gained additional and robust support. Accounting for extended intra- and extrageneric sampling, Poa remains monophyletic if Austrofestuca and Parodiochloa are included as sections within P. subg. Poa, and if Poa subg. Andinae is removed from the genus. Two new combinations are made: Poa sect. Austrofestuca and Poa sect. Parodiochloa. This new analysis supports the recognition of five major clades within Poa: 1) ArcSyl, Poa subg. Arctopoa sects. Arctopoa and Aphydris, and P. subg. Poa sect. Sylvestres; 2) BAPO, P. subg. Poa sects. (Bolbophorum + Alpinae) (Parodiochloa + Ochlopoa); 3) SPOSTA, P. subg. Poa sects. (Secundae (Pandemos (Orienos + Stenopoa + Tichopoa + Abbreviatae))); 4) PoM, P. subg. Poa sects. (Poa + Macropoa); 5) HAMBADD, P. subg. Poa sects. (Homalopoa, Acutifolae, Brizoides, Madropoa, Austrofestuca, Dasypoa, Dioicopoa, and informal groups "Punapoa" and "Australopoa"). These clades diverge in the following arrangement from the outgroups: ArcSyl (BAPO (SPOSTA ((PoM) (HAMBADD))).
25064043|Very little is known about the small, tropical, monogeneric monocotyledon family Lowiaceae within the order Zingiberales. The phylogenetic position of Lowiaceae within Zingiberales is unclear, as are relationships within its single genus Orchidantha, which includes at least 16 species. This paper presents a phylogenetic analysis of Zingiberales based on 613 parsimony informative characters of the plastid matK gene, the trnL-trnF region, the rps16 intron, and a conservative part of the nuclear ribosomal ITS region (part of the 18S, 5.8S, and 26S rDNA). The resulting single most parsimonious tree indicates that Lowiaceae is sister to all the remaining families of Zingiberales. An analysis of the family (14 species) based on a data set consisting of six plastid and nuclear DNA regions, includes the first use of a cam intron for estimating phylogeny. The results suggest that the nuclear calmodulin (cam) intron may be useful for other lower taxonomic level phylogenetic analyses. In the resulting tree all Bornean species of Orchidantha form a strongly supported monophyletic group. An equally strongly supported clade within the Bornean group contains the species distributed in Sabah (Malaysia) and Brunei. The species from mainland Asia form a poorly supported group because of the nuclear position of Orchidantha chinensis. However, the four Malay Peninsula species with flowers possessing a white labellum form a strongly supported monophyletic group.
25064044|Fossils are widely used as calibration points in molecular-based dating studies, but their placement on a phylogenetic tree of extant species is always highly problematic. We explore some of the problems linked to calibration with fossils, in particular their position on the tree, and emphasize the use of multiple calibration points to obtain better estimates. We use a phylogenetic analysis of Betulaceae based on nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences (5S spacer and ITS) as a case study and estimated divergence times within the family using the nonparametric rate smoothing method of Sanderson and five calibration points from the extensive fossil record of this family. To assess the effects of assumptions relating to the positions of key fossils with respect to stem lineages versus crown groups, we calculated age estimates by placing each fossil subsequently on the stem lineage node and crown group node, and then determined the median value of the resulting ten estimates for each node. Using maximum likelihood and DELTRAN and ACCTRAN parsimony branch lengths, we found that the age of the crown group and stem lineage of Betulaceae vary from 115.2 to 130.6 million years and 211.2 to 302.6 million years (Aptian or before). These results are older than current paleobotanical data. We calculated paleobotanical confidence intervals using methods based on the occurrence of fossils on a stratigraphic column and the lengths of the gaps between these occurrences. We apply these methods to the fossil record of Alnus and related extinct genera; however, only in some cases were molecular- and fossil-based age estimates reconciled.
25064045|A new species, Stillingia yungasensis, from the "Yungas Tucumano-Bolivianas" forest (northwestern Argentina and southern Bolivia) is described and illustrated, including data on habitat, distribution, phenology, and a key to the new species and closest taxa. Stillingia yungasensis may be one of the most basal taxa within Series Oppositifoliae. No other species of Stillingia is sympatric with S. yungasensis, and its distribution supports a recent subdivision of the Yungas forests into two distinct phytogeographical units. Unlike the remaining species of Series Oppositifoliae, S. yungasensis is relatively frequent within its habitat.
25064046|The circumscription of the Old World Passiflora subgenus Decaloba supersection Disemma has been problematic for more than one hundred years. Supersection Disemma consists of 22 Old World species found throughout mainland Asia, Southeast Asia, Australia, and the Pacific. They show great morphological diversity, possessing cup-shaped to tubular flowers and both branched and unbranched inflorescences. These features have been used to link species in Disemma to New World members of subgenus Decaloba, resulting in the widespread suspicion that Disemma is not monophyletic. Plastid (trnL-F intron and spacer) and nuclear (ITS) DNA sequences were used to test the monophyly of supersection Disemma and reconstruct phylogenetic relationships within this group. Two monotypic genera, Hollrungia and Tetrapathaea, were included in this analysis based on their strong morphological similarity to Passiflora, and the Austral-Pacific distribution they share with many of the Old World species. Supersection Disemma is monophyletic, containing two distinct Asian and Australian lineages. Hollrungia and Tetrapathaea are strongly supported as members of Passiflora, though their exact relationships to each other are not resolved. The tubular floral morphology in the Australian species is not homologous with that in the New World species. However, the tubular morphology of P. hollrungii from Papua New Guinea is homologous to the New World tubular condition. The architecture of inflorescences in Disemma is more similar to that in closely related species of Passiflora than to other genera of Passifloraceae.
25064047|The new species Serjania chacoensis from Bolivia and Brazil, Serjania souzana from Bolivia, Brazil, and Peru, and Serjania paranensis from the state of Paran, Brazil, all belonging to Serjania sect. Serjania, are described, illustrated and contrasted to their putatively closest relatives. /// Las tres nuevas especies Serjania chacoensis de Bolivia y Brasil, Serjania souzana de Bolivia, Brasil y Per, y Serjania paranensis del estado de Paran en Brasil, todas pertenecientes a Serjania seccin Serjania son aqu descritas, ilustradas y contrastadas con los que se estiman ser sus parientes ms cercanos.
25064048|The wood structure of 78 species from 27 genera representing the woody primuloids (Maesaceae, Myrsinaceae, and Theophrastaceae) was investigated using light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Results indicated that the ray structure, the nature of mineral inclusions, and the occurrence of breakdown areas in rays can be used to separate the three primuloid families from each other. Within Ericales, the presence of exclusively multiseriate rays is synapomorphic for Myrsinaceae and Theophrastaceae, and the occurrence of breakdown areas in rays is synapomorphic for Myrsinaceae. Within Myrsinaceae, the wood structure of the mangrove genus Aegiceras differs because it has short vessel elements that are storied, non-septate fibers, a combination of low uni- and multiseriate rays, and multiseriate rays with exclusively procumbent body ray cells. The aberrant wood anatomy of Coris and Lysimachia can be explained by their secondary woodiness. Within Theophrastaceae, Clavija and Theophrasta can be distinguished from Bonellia, Jacquinia, and Deherainia. The recent division of Jacquinia s.l. into Jacquinia s.s. and Bonellia is supported by a difference in mineral inclusions.
25064049|Analysis of the trnT-trnL spacer, the trnL intron, the trnL-trnF spacer, and the rps16 intron of 106 species in 34 of the 45 genera of New World Asclepiadeae in the former subtribes Metastelmatinae, Oxypetalinae, and Gonolobinae shows that these genera form a well-supported clade ("MOG"). The small Andean genus Pentacyphus is sister to the remaining MOG clade. The former Gonolobinae form a well-supported subclade closely related to members of Tassadia, Funastrum, and former Oxypetalinae. The only genera that are monophyletic as presently circumscribed are Tassadia and Funastrum. The separation of Tweedia from Oxypetalum is justified by our results. Philibertia is monophyletic only if Amblystigma, Fontellaea, Melinia, Mitostigma, and Podandra are also included. Most species of Blepharodon and Hemipogon are not monophyletic with the respective type species. Some former Astephanus and Cynanchum species as well as the monotypic Grisebachiella are imbedded in Diplolepis (D. descolei, D. geminiflora, D. hieronymi, D. boerhaviifolia, and D. nummulariifolia). The neglected tribe Orthosieae is recognized at subtribal level, Orthosiinae. Chromosome numbers (as far as known) indicate a tendency for reduction in several clades. This study provides a framework for future study of the American MOG genera and highlights areas that need further attention.
25064050|Zaluzianskya (Scrophulariaceae s.s., tribe Manuleeae) is a diverse genus of 55 species of annual and perennial herbs, endemic to southern Africa. This study used DNA sequence data from the nrDNA ITS regions, rpl16, and trnL-trnF to produce the first broad phylogenetic hypotheses for Zaluzianskya, allowing the first tests of the monophyly of the genus and its sections, as well as an examination of character evolution. Reyemia nemesioides was placed within Zaluzianskya with strong support. This is consistent with several morphological characteristics of both species of Reyemia. Sections Zaluzianskya and Holomeria are not monophyletic. The single species sampled from section Macrocalyx (Z. mirabilis) was nested within section Nycterinia according to the chloroplast and combined data, but placed sister to Nycterinia according to the ITS data. Several species do not form clades. Populations of Z. villosa and Z. gracilis were nested within a Z. affinis clade while Z. divaricata was nested within a Z. pusilla clade. Finally, populations of the sole day-flowering species within section Nycterinia, Z. microsiphon, were separated on the phylogenies. The source of this division is unknown but could be hybridization or convergent evolution via pollinator selection. Analyses suggest that the plesiomorphic condition for Zaluzianskya is annual, distributed within arid regions. Subsequent derivations of a perennial life history appear associated with distribution in relatively mesic regions.
25064051|Physalis (75+ species, Solanaceae) is most diverse in Mexico, with only the type, P. alkekengi, native to the Old World. Interspecific relationships are poorly known, and despite the distinctive inflated fruiting calyces, generic limits remain uncertain. Sequence data from part of the nuclear gene waxy (622 bp) and the internal transcribed spacer of the nrDNA (652 bp) were used to generate a phylogeny of subtribe Physalinae. Thirty-five species of Physalis and eight physaloid genera were sequenced. Data analysis included Bayesian and maximum parsimony methods. The Physalinae was monophyletic, but while the morphologically typical Physalis species formed a strongly supported clade, the morphologically atypical species made the genus paraphyletic. A grade of physaloid genera (Quincula, Oryctes, and Chamaesaracha) and Physalis subgenus Physalodendron separate P. alkekengi, P. carpenteri, and P. microphysa from other Physalis species. The Physalis clade consists of Margaranthus and species with solitary yellow flowers and highly inflated calyces. Most sections of Physalis do not appear to be monophyletic. Leucophysalis viscosa and the Central American physaloid genera Brachistus, Tzeltalia, and Witheringia formed a clade at the base of the Physalinae.
25064056|The products of ecological speciation rarely engage in wholesale hybridization with their progenitors, because the ecological barriers between them are unusually strong. This strength may simply be the result of directional selection, or they may arise from the differential survival of incipient species with the strongest barriers. A case is made for the latter. Those incipient species most similar in niche space to their progenitors would be most subject to hybridization with them. This would lead to a reduction in population growth and/or mongrelization of their gene pools associated with such, and ultimately the demise of the derivative. The most ecologically divergent derivatives would suffer less from this process referred to as isolate selection, and have the greatest chance of becoming a thriving new species. Long-distance hybridization has been demonstrated in crop and wild populations. The incidence of long-distance hybridization is inversely correlated with population size. The ecological derivatives struggling to invade new habitats would be especially vulnerable to hybridization.
25064057|Isothecium myosuroides is an abundant and taxonomically problematic moss that occurs in Europe and on the west and east coasts of North America. It has sometimes been split into two taxa, I. myosuroides on the east coast of North America and in Europe, and I. stoloniferum on the west coast of North America. Isothecium stoloniferum has four distinct morphological types known as the ordinary, julaceous, coarse, and pinnate morphs. The degree to which the morphotypes are genetically distinct versus ecologically determined has been debated as has the distinction between I. stoloniferum and I. myosuroides, resulting in conflicting taxonomic treatments. This study uses phylogenetic analyses of the trnL-trnF and trnG regions of the chloroplast genome to examine relationships among the two species and four morphotypes. Molecular phylogenetic analyses reveal that there is some genetic basis to the morphs of I. stoloniferum, and that I. stoloniferum is paraphyletic. Accessions of I. myosuroides form a trans-Atlantic monophyletic group. The remaining samples form two distinct groups that each include samples of two morphotypes within I. stoloniferum. Populations of julaceous and ordinary morphotypes form a monophyletic group. Populations of coarse and pinnate morphotypes form an unresolved polytomy at the base of the clade that includes accessions of I. myosuroides.
25064058|A comprehensive taxonomic revision of the genus Mitrephora (Annonaceae) in Cambodia (Kampuchea), Laos, and Vietnam is presented. Eight species are recognized, including five that are newly described, viz. M. calcarea sp. nov., M. macclurei sp. nov., M. pallens, M. petelotii sp. nov., M. phanrangensis sp. nov., M. poilanei sp. nov., M. teysmannii, and M. tomentosa (inclusive of M. thorelii). Previous taxonomic confusion regarding the delimitation of M. calcarea is clarified and the name is validated for the first time. The correct application of the name M. maingayi is clarified: although the name has been used to refer to a species that is distinct within the region, the name itself is a synonym of M. teysmannii. Most of the Indochinese collections determined as "M. maingayi" are shown here to represent a new species, M. macclurei.
25064059|Satyrium is a morphologically anomalous genus. Although clearly a member of the terrestrial orchid subfamily Orchidoideae, its phylogenetic relationships within the subfamily are uncertain. Morphologically it has always been placed in tribe Diseae, albeit associated with different subtribes, but recent molecular studies suggest a closer relationship to Orchideae. The infrageneric classification of Satyrium is equally problematic, and several different classifications are available. The only infrageneric classification based on a phylogenetic analysis of morphological characters resulted in recognition of the three subgenera Brachysaccium, Bifidum, and Satyrium. DNA sequence data from nuclear (ITS1, 5.8S, and ITS2) and plastid (trnL intron, trnL-F intergenic spacer, and part of the matK gene and trnK intron) genome are used to test the monophyly of these subgenera. Topologies of cladograms resulting from parsimony analysis of separate datasets show several cases of incongruence, some of which are well supported. Combined analysis is performed on a dataset from which two problematic taxa are pruned. Parametric bootstrap, as well as Bayesian posterior probability, rejects monophyly of all three subgenera and alternative groupings are suggested.
25064060|Phylogenetic analyses were performed on six genera and 46 species of the Neotropical palm tribe Geonomeae (subfamily Arecoideae) and outgroups composed of 14 species from the Arecoideae, two from the Ceroxyloideae, and one from the Phytelephantoideae. The analyses were based on two low copy nuclear DNA sequences from the genes encoding phosphoribulokinase and RNA polymerase II. The two data sets did not appear to conflict and were analyzed separately and in combination. Our results added support to the previously reported monophyly of the tribe. The basal node of the tribe was polytomous containing the genera Welfia and Pholidostachys and a clade consisting of the rest of the Geonomeae. Pholidostachys formed a monophyletic group. The currently accepted genera Calyptronoma and Calyptrogyne formed a well-supported clade with Calyptronoma resolved as paraphyletic to Calyptrogyne. Geonoma formed a strongly supported monophyletic group consisting of two main clades. Geonoma section Taenianthera was not monophyletic but a group of three high-elevation Geonoma species was resolved.
25064061|Recently, advocates of DNA taxonomy have complained that there is inadequate control of the taxonomy in databases such as GenBank. This is correct, but the uncertainty may be extended to the sequences themselves. The present study shows that as long as vouchers are available neither problem is fatal, but if no voucher exists, bad sequences and bad taxonomy may be forever linked. Previous phylogenetic analyses of rbcL sequences have indicated that the small, south hemisphere, genus Oxychlo (Juncaceae) surprisingly either is embedded within or is a sister group to the Cyperaceae. This is not in accordance with traditional or current morphological data. By studying five new accessions, representing four species of Oxychlo, and re-examining the two vouchers of O. andina that were used in previous phylogenies, it has been possible to show that these two sequences are erroneous. One is a chimeric sequence and the other is most likely "a contaminant."
25064062|Our studies on the enigmatic genus Bienertia (Chenopodiaceae), with its
25064063|Phylogenetic analyses of two chloroplast and five putatively unlinked nuclear DNA regions were used to explore the evolutionary relationships of a circumpolar arctic polyploid species complex in Silene. Gene phylogenies inferred from introns in the low copy nuclear genes RPA2, RPB2, RPD2a, and RPD2b, and ITS1 and ITS2 from the nuclear ribosomal DNA region, indicate two consecutive polyploidization events. The first involved the diploid arctic/subarctic S. uralensis lineage as the cytoplasmic donor, as indicated by chloroplast rps16 and psbE-petL sequences, and highly unexpected from a morphological perspective, the diploid Siberian/northeast Asian S. ajanensis lineage as pollen donor. The hybridization and polyploidization resulted in the tetraploid S. involucrata lineage. A second hybridization and polyploidization with the S. ajanensis lineage as pollen donor, and the tetraploid S. involucrata lineage as cytoplasmic donor, resulted in the hexaploid lineages of S. sorensenis and S. ostenfeldii. In general, two paralogous sequences were identified from the tetraploids and three paralogues from the hexaploids in the low copy nuclear genes. Interlocus concerted evolution appears to have homogenized the ITS regions, because only the sequences corresponding to the paternal lineage were recovered in the polyploids. The power, and neccessity, of using several potentially unlinked regions is revealed by the fact that the gene phylogenies had small deviations from the general pattern explained by alloploidy. These deviations are better explained as gene duplication and/or lineage sorting events, or simply lack of information.
25064064|DNA sequence data from nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer, including the 5.8s coding region, and plastid trnK/matK were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of Montieae (Portulacaceae), and a revised classification for the group based on monophyly is proposed. Montieae consists of the sister clades Claytonia and Montia. In Claytonia, there is strong support for the following clades: section Limnia, all annuals except the perennials C. sibirica and C. palustris; section Rhizomatosae, high elevation or high latitude perennials with rhizomatous or caudicose growth habits; and section Claytonia, species with spheric or obconic underground perennation structures. All analyses recover clades of Montia circumscribed as sections Montiastrum, Australiensis, and Montia. Heenan's Australasian Neopaxia is placed robustly in Montia section Australiensis, a clade limited primarily to Australia and New Zealand. DIVA and MacClade reconstruct the ancestral area for Montieae as western North America. Beringian taxa of Claytonia section Rhizomatosae are derived from low latitude western North American ancestors adapted to persistently wet, alpine habitats. Although we infer that section Claytonia had multiple shifts to northern high latitudes and potentially to eastern North America from western North America, relationships among clades in this section have limited support. Habitat reconstructions show that the pleisiomorphic condition for moisture regime in section Claytonia is largely maintained over shifts in elevation/latitude.
25064065|Previous classifications based on morphology recognized a distinctive but poorly delimited group of species from western North America as Oenothera subg. Pachylophus. In earlier papers, I split this group into four sections more comparable to others in the genus, but nevertheless assumed the whole group was monophyletic based on morphological analyses. Recent molecular analyses indicate that the morphological analysis was incorrect, however, and suggest instead that the sections are part of a basal grade within the genus. The two yellow flowered sections are shown by the molecular study to be sister taxa, yet because of highly distinctive morphology, especially of the capsules and seeds, I maintain them as separate sections, sect. Contortae (O. xylocarpa) and sect. Eremia (O. primiveris) comparable to others in the genus. The two white flowered sections, sect. Pachylophus (O. brandegeei, O. cespitosa, O. cavernae, O. harringtonii, and O. psammophila) and sect. Ravenia (O. muelleri, O. riskindii, and O. tubifera with two subspecies, tubifera and macrocarpa), are not so closely related and the shift to white petals appears to have been independent. Detailed taxonomic descriptions are given for the species of sects. Contortae, Eremia, and Ravenia. Taxonomic treatment of the species of sect. Pachylophus was given elsewhere.
25064066|A new genus and species of Euphorbiaceae s.s., Brasiliocroton mamoninha, is described from two disjunct areas of lowland forest remnants in eastern and northeastern Brazil. It is a member of tribe Crotoneae and was previously confused with Croton and Micrandra. The resemblance to Micrandra is based on the branched inflorescences and terminal position of the pistillate flowers, trigonous capsules, and ovate leaves with basal glands, but the stamens are more numerous and the pollen is inaperturate (like Croton). Brasiliocroton has a stellate-rosulate indumentum like some Croton species, but its anthers are erect in bud, and the position of the pistillate flowers is anomalous in Croton. Molecular data place Brasiliocroton as the closest sister group to Croton, once Astraea has been removed from Croton and placed sister to Acidocroton and Ophellantha. Wood anatomical features support the generic status of Brasiliocroton.
25064067|Phylogenetic relationships within Sapindaceae sensu lato are assessed using sequence data from two plastid genes, analyzed separately and together. A total of 46 rbcL sequences (31 of which are new), and 89 matK sequences (75 new) representing 64 genera were subjected to parsimony and Bayesian analysis. The results support three major lineages, relationships between which are only weakly supported. Xanthoceras sorbifolium is not clearly a member of any of these lineages, and there is some support for it being the first lineage to diverge within the entire assemblage. Support for a broadly defined Sapindaceae incorporating Aceraceae, Hippocastanaceae, and Xanthoceras is very robust. A division into four subfamilies is proposed: Sapindoideae (including Koelreuteria and Ungnadia); Hippocastanoideae (including taxa previously referred to Aceraceae and Hippocastanaceae, plus Handeliodendron); a more narrowly defined Dodonaeoideae; and a monotypic Xanthoceroideae. Tribal groupings are critically evaluated in light of the analyses. Although many of the current tribes appear paraphyletic or polyphyletic, there is support for the monophyly of some core groups of genera that suggest realignments of tribal concepts that would render them more informative of relationships.
25064068|This study represents the outstanding revision of the Chilean C. integrifolia s.l. complex. In the monograph of the Chilean species of Calceolaria, some taxa of doubtful identity or unclear taxonomy but clearly closely allied to C. integrifolia s.str. were placed under the name C. integrifolia s.l. The taxa, all united by rugose leaves, well developed inflorescences, and overall very similar flower shape, seemed to comprise a close aggregation of innumerable different populations that were impossible to differentiate into well defined species. Extensive fieldwork and cultivation of more than 80 populations collected from almost the entire distribution area together with a broad selection of herbarium collections revealed characters for species delimitation. Main characters are well defined types of indumentum. In combination with other characters like habit and shape of leaves, the taxonomic revision of the C. integrifolia s.l. complex now recognizes nine species: C. andina, C. angustifolia, C. auriculata, C. georgiana, C. integrifolia s.str., C. rubiginosa (described here as a new species), C. talcana, C. verbascifolia and C. viscosissima. Every species has its own characteristic distribution pattern, which is correlated with ecological and climatic factors. Distribution maps as well as figures of main characters, a key to the taxa, synonymies, descriptions, and representative specimens are included.
25064069|Members of Veroniceae are some of the most prominent members of the alpine vegetation of New Guinea. Generic classification suggests at least three origins because the endemic species of Veroniceae comprise two species of Veronica, twelve species of Parahebe, and the monotypic genus Detzneria. DNA sequence data (nr ITS region, plastid trnL-F region) have been analyzed using parsimony and maximum likelihood to test the hypothesis of three different introductions to New Guinea and their origin. The results largely confirm previous suggestions based on morphology, although lack of sufficient sequence variability in the Hebe complex does not allow definite conclusions. Veronica archboldii is closely related to the widespread V. serpyllifolia from the Northern Hemisphere. Parahebe vandewateri and P. albiflora are sisters and probably derived from New Zealand species, although not necessarily from species of Parahebe there. Finally, Detzneria tubata also belongs to the Hebe complex but has no clear affinities in this group. It may be a relict from the first immigration of Veronica species to the Southern Hemisphere. Reasons for different success of the three groups in speciating in New Guinea are discussed in the light of the known vegetation history of New Guinea.
25064070|Solanum arcanum and S. huaylasense, two new wild tomato species segregated from Solanum peruvianum sensu lato, are described and illustrated. These two new species are placed in a key with two other segregates of S. peruvianum sensu lato: S. peruvianum sensu stricto and S. corneliomulleri, and the morphologically similar species S. chilense. We also present a list of all 13 species of wild tomatoes we recognize, and their equivalent former names in Lycopersicon.
25064071|The nuclear gene SAMT-salicylic acid methyltransferase-is a novel phylogenetic marker that was isolated using RT-PCR in order to estimate intergeneric relationships within the Solanaceae. SAMT catalyzes the formation of the volatile compound methyl salicylate, which is an important secondary metabolite for both pathogen defense and floral fragrance in this family. Relationships inferred with SAMT cDNA sequences are mostly congruent with previous cpDNA estimates, which not only increases our confidence in Solanaceae phylogeny, but indicates that paralogy and lineage sorting appear not to be severe for this nuclear gene at this phylogenetic level. Relationships observed with SAMT include Schizanthus as sister to the rest of the family. The second branch was Schwenckioideae + Cestroideae. The final two lineages were Petunioideae sister to the x=12 clade, which includes Nicotianoideae + Solanoideae. Although mostly congruent, one important phylogenetic difference between previous cpDNA and nuclear SAMT phylogenetic estimates is noted. Nicandra and Exodeconus are not supported as sister taxa; rather, Exodeconus is near the base of the Solanoideae while Nicandra appears to belong to a lineage that includes Physalis, Capsicum, Solanum, and Datura. The results obtained in this study indicate that expanded sampling of taxa for SAMT and the study of additional nuclear gene sequences in conjunction with cpDNA will be valuable towards improving our understanding of Solanaceae phylogeny.
25064072|A new species endemic to Mitiaro, Cook Islands, Tetramolopium mitiaroense, is described and illustrated. The species is most closely related to Hawaiian species of Tetramolopium section Tetramolopium. Tetramolopium mitiaroense shares an upright dwarf shrub habit with T. remyi and T. capillare but differs in possessing semi-succulent, linear-oblanceolate leaves versus sclerophyllous, involute, linear leaves for the latter two taxa. Tetramolopium sylvae also has succulent leaves but differs from T. mitiaroense in having a prostrate, rosette habit and spatulate leaves. A key is provided for all eastern Pacific species of Tetramolopium. Published morphological, molecular, and geological data are reviewed to assess relationships amongst Tetramolopium taxa in the eastern Pacific and elucidate the biogeographic pattern of dispersal. The data support the hypothesis that Tetramolopium was first dispersed to the Hawaiian Archipelago from New Guinea with a secondary dispersal event from the Hawaiian Islands to the Cook Islands. Available evidence indicates that the Pacific Golden-Plover is the probable agent of dispersal from the Hawaiian Islands to the Cook Islands.
25064078|A phylogenetic analysis of species of Didymodon from the Mediterranean area, Macaronesia, and Southwestern and Central Asia is presented. The ITS1, 5.8S rRNA gene, and ITS2 for 30 species have been sequenced, which represent about 25% of the recognized species in the genus. The molecular data confirm the monophyly of Didymodon as clearly separated from Barbula. The transfer of Didymodon giganteus to Geheebia, of D. sinuosus to Oxystegus, and D. australasiae to Trichostomopsis is not supported by the molecular data. The phylogenetic affinities of the species generally do not correspond with the infrageneric classification proposed for the genus based on morphological characteristics. The only monophyletic section is Asteriscium, but only after the inclusion of D. bistratosus.
25064079|Nymphaea odorata, Nymphaeaceae, is the most widely distributed water-lily in North America. Disagreement exists on whether this morphologically variable species should be split into two species, N. odorata and N. tuberosa, or treated as one species with two subspecies. Morphological characters and markers from the inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSRs) were examined to assess taxonomic status and elucidate patterns of genetic variation among populations. This study provides evidence against treatment of N. tuberosa at species rank. The principal component analysis of 26 vegetative characters underscores immense variability, but does partially segregate populations of subsp. odorata and subsp. tuberosa. Based on analysis of variance, a new set of morphological characters is proposed to distinguish the two subspecies: mean leaf blade length-to-width ratio, petiole striping, and lobe apex shape. Results from ISSRs show high polymorphism within and among populations. Genetic variation was found largely within geographical regions (89%) rather than among regions. Principal coordinate (PCOA) analyses and minimum spanning tree (MST) analyses based on ISSRs clearly distinguished Nymphaea mexicana and N. odorata. Within N. odorata, samples of subsp. odorata appear to be a distinct entity, whereas samples largely but not completely separated from samples of subsp. tuberosa. PCOA and MST showed linkage between most samples of subsp. odorata whereas this was less evident in UPGMA.
25064080|Sequence data from the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and the plastid trnL-trnF regions were used to assess relationships among populations of N. odorata across its North American range, and to evaluate whether subsp. odorata and subsp. tuberosa form distinct taxonomic units. Nymphaea mexicana was included because of suspected hybridization with N. odorata. The trnL-trnF region provided a single informative site in N. odorata. In contrast, the ITS region was more variable. Phylogenetic analysis of ITS data supports the monophyly of the two species. Within N. odorata, two clades were resolved largely representing subsp. odorata and subsp. tuberosa, although a few individuals appeared outside the respective clades. Polymorphic sites were detected in ITS, indicating possible hybridization between the subspecies. The geographic location of these hybrids suggests a possible hybrid zone. Overall, molecular evidence supports the segregation of subsp. odorata and subsp. tuberosa, with limited gene flow between them.
25064081|The genus Petalolophus (Annonaceae) consists of only one species, P. megalopus, which is characterised by the possession of elaborate perianth wings that extend abaxially from the midrib of the inner petals. Recently published molecular phylogenetic data suggest that Petalolophus is congeneric with Pseuduvaria. Morphological and anatomical characteristics of both genera are critically re-examined and shown to support this conclusion: Petalolophus shares numerous characteristics in common with Pseuduvaria (particularly species from New Guinea) and it is only the autapomorphic possession of extended perianth wings that currently distinguish Petalolophus from Pseuduvaria. Petalolophus megalopus is accordingly formally transferred to Pseuduvaria. Field observations reveal that the flowers of Pseuduvaria megalopus are visited by flies; it is likely that pollination is sapromyophilous, and that the inner petal wings attract flies by mimicking carrion.
25064082|Aponogeton is an important genus whose species are cultivated widely as ornamental aquatic plants. Although a fairly recent monograph has been published, the genus remains poorly studied systematically. We conducted a phylogenetic survey of Aponogeton that focused on relationships among the nine native Australian species as well as their relationship to other members of the genus. Our analyses included a phylogenetic assessment of morphological characters and molecular data obtained both from chloroplast (trnK 5' intron, matK) and nuclear DNA (nrITS) loci. Molecular data provided evidence of hybridization and polyploidy as well as an informative overview of interspecific relationships in the genus. Two potentially new Australian species also were identified by the molecular data. Combined molecular data produced a well-resolved cladogram that enabled us to evaluate previous phylogenetic hypotheses based on non-explicit methods as well as the soundness of the existing classification of the genus. We conclude that Aponogetonaceae originated in Australia and subsequently radiated into Africa, Madagascar, and Asia, from which a secondary Australian diversification occurred resulting in a biphyletic origin of the native Australian species. A pattern of morphological distinctiveness coupled with low molecular divergence indicates relatively recent and rapid speciation of Aponogeton in Australia. Our results also demonstrate that in this group, morphological data are extremely unreliable taxonomically due to their extensive homoplasy. The phylogenetic relationships elucidated by this study provide evidence to support the establishment of two additional sections, Flavida and Viridis, which are described.
25064083|Although known to European botanists since 1876, the genus Ptychococcus (Arecaceae: Arecoideae: Ptychospermatinae) of New Guinea has remained one of the most poorly known genera of the Ptychospermatinae. The present study, based on examinations of plants in the field, in herbaria, and in cultivation, reduces the number of species to two and presents a historical overview of this misunderstood genus, along with a taxonomic revision, a key, descriptions and synonymies of the two species. A neotype is designated for Ptychococcus paradoxus.
25064084|Paspalum vallsii, a new species in Paspalum sect. Pectinata from cerrado areas of central Brazil, is described and illustrated. It is most similar to P. reticulinerve, from which it differs by having solitary, longer spikelets with the upper glume and the lower lemma glabrous. It differs also from P. imbricatum and P. aspidiotes by having a narrower rachis. A key to the species of Paspalum sect. Pectinata is provided. /// Paspalum vallsii, uma nova espcie de Paspalum sect. Pectinata da regio do cerrado do Brasil central,  descrita e ilustrada. A espcie  relacionada a P. reticulinerve, da qual difere pelas espiguetas mais longas e solitrias e pela gluma superior e lema inferior glabros. Difere de P. imbricatum e P. aspidiotes pela raquis mais estreita.  fornecida uma chave para todas as espcies de Paspalum sect. Pectinata.
25064085|Geranium section Dissecta (Geraniaceae) consists of four species centered in Eurasia, between the Mediterranean region and the Himalaya Mountains. In contrast to the current literature, we consider G. chelikii, and G. davisianum to be synonyms of G. sintenisii, and G. pallens to be a synonym of G. asphodeloides. We also accept G. dissectum and G. crenophilum, the latter sometimes considered as subspecies of G. asphodeloides. A multivariate morphometric study showed that some quantitative characters such as deeply divided leaves, shorter and narrower petals, and shorter filaments clearly distinguished the annual G. dissectum. The characters contributing most to separation of the three remaining perennial species were petal width and the length of glandular hairs of stem and pedicels. In G. asphodeloides and G. dissectum the rootstock and stem base has a very starch-rich parenchyma in the cortex, while in G. sintenisii and G. crenophilum the starch-rich parenchyma is mainly developed in the pith. A new key is provided, as well as new and detailed descriptions. Geranium crenophilum and G. sintenisii are here illustrated for the first time. Nine lectotypes and a neotype are designated, and distribution maps are presented. Analyses of the plastid trnL-trnF spacer, nuclear ITS sequences, and morphological data reveal that sect. Dissecta is strongly supported as monophyletic. In these analyses G. dissectum appeared as sister group to the rest of the species. /// Geranium seccin Dissecta (Geraniaceae) est formada por cuatro especies cuya rea principal es eurasitica, entre la regin Mediterrnea y las montaas del Himalaya. En este estudio consideramos G. chelikii y G. davisianum como sinnimos de G. sintenisii y G. pallens como sinnimo de G. asphodeloides. Adems, aceptamos G. dissectum y G. crenophilum, este ltimo considerado a veces como subespecie de G. asphodeloides. Un anlisis morfomtrico mostr que los caracteres cuantitativos ms importantes para diferenciar G. dissectum son sus hojas profundamente divididas, sus cortos y estrechos ptalos y sus cortos filamentos estaminales. Los principales caracteres cuantitativos que separan las especies perennes son la anchura de los ptalos y la longitud de los pelos glandulferos de tallo y pedicelos. El rizoma y la base del tallo de G. asphodeloides y G. dissectum se caracterizan por un parnquima con clulas ricas en almidn situado en el cortex, mientras que, en G. sintenisii y G. crenophilum, dicho parnquima se localiza principalmente en mdula. Se presenta una nueva clave, as como nuevas y detalladas descripciones y mapas de distribucin para cada una de las especies y se eligen nueve lecttipos y un netipo. Geranium crenophilum y G. sintenisii, son aqu dibujados por primera vez. Tanto el anlisis cladstico de los caracteres morfolgicos, como el de las secuencias de ADN de un marcador cloroplstico (trnL-trnF) y uno nuclear (ITS) indican que la monofilia de la sect. Dissecta est fuertemente apoyada. En estos anlisis G. dissectum aparece como grupo hermano de las restantes especies.
25064086|In this paper we present a revision of Charianthus, which represents the first genus in the Miconieae (Melastomataceae) to be the subject of a combined molecular and morphological cladistic analysis. Charianthus is a morphologically well-characterized clade of six species of hummingbird pollinated shrubs and small trees found in the tropical montane rain forests and elfin forests of the Lesser Antilles. Analysis of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region, combined with morphological data, resulted in a strongly supported Charianthus clade. Charianthus fadyenii was placed in the Tetrazygia clade where its position as sister to T. bicolor is strongly supported. Inclusion of C. fadyenii in Charianthus renders both Charianthus and Tetrazygia non-monophyletic, therefore, this species has been transferred to Tetrazygia. Charianthus purpureus, as defined by earlier taxonomists, is a polyphyletic species because of the inclusion of morphologically distinctive populations on the islands of Dominica and Grenada; thus, two new species, C. dominicensis and C. grenadensis, have been described, based on the results presented herein. The revised circumscription of Charianthus renders it the only vascular plant genus endemic to the Lesser Antilles.
25064087|Two monotypic genera of Mimosoideae from southern South America, Mimozyganthus and Piptadeniopsis, have been particularly difficult to classify and there has been disagreement about their relationships to other legume genera. We undertook a phylogenetic study based on molecular data from the chloroplast and nucleus, and synthesized it with new data from morphology, cytology, and playnology, in order to determine where these genera belong in the mimosoid phylogenetic tree. Mimozyganthus, an enigmatic genus whose unique morphology led workers to consider it transitional between the subfamilies Mimosoideae and Caesalpinioideae, is instead nested among the higher mimosoids on the molecular tree. Careful evaluation of the characters that were considered to be caesalpinioid-like reveals that they are not identical and are independently derived. Piptadeniopsis is most closely related to Prosopidastrum, a primarily Argentinian genus with lomentiform fruits. This is in close agreement with most morphological characters, although the pollen is different in the two genera. Piptadeniopsis, Mimozyganthus, and Prosopidastrum form a monophyletic group on all molecular trees, a result consistent with vegetative and fruiting morphology, but not floral characters. Although the relationship of this group to other taxa is unresolved in the individual molecular analyses, a combined analysis of all molecular data for a subset of the taxa reveals that the three taxa are more closely related to the Leucaena group than to Prosopis. We hypothesize that the unique floral characters of Mimozyganthus may have evolved in response to pollinator selection, and a pollination study is needed to test this hypothesis.
25064088|Breadfruit (Artocarpus, Moraceae) is an important staple in Oceania and throughout much of the tropics. Interpretations of species delimitations among breadfruit and its closest relatives have varied from recognition of one to several species. To better understand the systematics and ultimately the origins of breadfruit, we considered evidence from molecular data. Amplified fragment length polymorphism data for 261 individuals of breadfruit, its closest relatives, putative hybrids, and nine outgroup taxa were analyzed using neighbor joining and parsimony analyses. Three species, A. altilis (domesticated breadfruit), A. camansi, and A. mariannensis, are recognized and the existence of hybrids (A. altilis  A. mariannensis) verified. A revised treatment based on the molecular results, as well as morphological and geographical considerations, is presented.
25064089|Classification of Rhododendron species based on morphology has led to a consensus taxonomy recognizing the major subgenera Azaleastrum, Hymenanthes, Pentanthera, Rhododendron, Tsutsusi, and three minor ones. To determine whether these subgenera are monophyletic and to infer phylogenetic relationships between Rhododendron sections and species, we carried out a cladistic analysis using molecular data, including all groups within the genus. For this purpose, we sequenced a large part of the nuclear gene RPB2-I, encoding a major RNA Polymerase II subunit, from 87 species and analyzed the data by maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods. The resulting phylogenies show subgenera Azaleastrum and Pentanthera to be polyphyletic and group all Rhododendron species (except the two in section Therorhodion) into three large clades. Based upon these results, modifications in Rhododendron classification are proposed, which consolidate minor subgenera and recognize monophyletic subgenera and sections.
25064090|We examined infrageneric relationships within Phacelia subgenus Phacelia based on phylogenetic hypotheses derived from internal transcribed spacers (ITS) and the 5.8S gene of nuclear ribosomal DNA. Maximum parsimony (MP) and maximum likelihood (ML) phylogenies support the monophyly of sects. Euglypta and Miltitzia, previously hypothesized based on seed characters and ecological distribution. Tree branching patterns within the Euglypta/Miltitzia clade indicate three principle lineages: 1) the P. pachyphylla complex, 2) a clade of P. brachyloba and 3) a clade consisting of two sister groups, the P. affinis complex and the P. fremontii complex. An aneuploid increase in chromosome number occurs from the P. pachyphylla complex (n = 11) to P. brachyloba (n = 12) while the pattern within the P. fremontii complex includes both aneuploid increases and decreases. There is high bootstrap support for monophyly of taxa representing both the P. magellanica polyploid complex and the P. humiles species group; the former contains the only known tetraploid taxa in subgenus Phacelia.
25064091|A new genus of Icacinaceae, Sleumeria, is described from northern Borneo. The only known species, Sleumeria auriculata, is a large woody scrambler with spirally arranged leaves with entire margins and prominent reticulation, hairs that dry a distinctive yellow-brown, and racemose or compound racemose inflorescences. The habit, leaf arrangement, and inflorescence type place Sleumeria in a group of climbing Icacinaceae near to Sarcostigma, but it is distinguished from that and other closely related genera by the combination of distinctly pedicellate flowers arranged singly or in pairs along the inflorescence rachis, swollen sagittate anther connectives, and a spherical ovary with a distinct filiform style with an unlobed stigma. Investigation of the stem anatomy confirms the relationship with Sarcostigma, especially the presence of successive cambia, but the new genus differs, amongst other anatomical characters, in lacking islands of included phloem within the xylem.
25064092|Multivariate and univariate analyses were used to investigate patterns of floral and foliar morphological diversification among the eight taxonomic varieties of Pedicularis bracteosa (Orobanchaceae). Canonical discriminant analysis supported six varieties but not without considerable morphological overlap. Discrimination was most strongly based upon three floral characters: galea shape, throat length, and calyx tip length; and secondarily on three foliar characters: subtending bract width, longest leaflet width, and longest leaflet length. Analysis of variance on the ratio between calyx length and the length of the connate portion of the calyx did not corroborate a taxonomic difference among all varieties. Because galea shape is associated with specific pollination syndromes that promote reproductive isolation in other Pedicularis species, selection by the different pollinating behaviors of queens versus worker castes of the same species of bumblebees may be driving the diversification of floral morphology. While the taxa are largely allopatric and supported by several strong morphological discriminators, the high degree of morphological overlap among them does not justify their re-ranking above variety. Lack of discrimination between varieties siifolia and canbyi argues for their merger into a single taxon. A revised key to the varieties reflecting the results of this study is presented.
25064093|Phylogenetic analyses of nuclear ribosomal ITS and ETS sequences yield considerable improvements in our knowledge of relationships, character evolution, and biogeography in Meryta (Araliaceae). This genus comprises ca. 30 species, all of which share simple leaves and a dioecious sexual system, a unique combination in Araliaceae. Meryta is distributed widely across the Pacific, but each of its species is endemic to only one or a few islands. Previous phylogenetic studies have included only a very limited number of exemplars from Meryta, but have suggested that the genus is related to the Southwest Pacific clade of Schefflera within the larger Polyscias-Pseudopanax group of Araliaceae. Our data confirm this previous placement and provide evidence for the monophyly of Meryta. There is no support for the recognition of three segregate genera, Botryomeryta, Schizomeryta, and Strobilopanax. Within Meryta, we have identified two major clades, one that unites the species from Fiji and New Zealand (both of old geological origin), and a second, "Northern Arc clade" comprising the remaining species of Meryta. In this second clade, several subclades of New Caledonian species can be recognized, along with a "Volcanic Islands subclade." The presence of species in New Caledonia, Fiji, and New Zealand, together with the placements of these species in the phylogenetic trees, is suggestive of an ancient vicariance, whereas the distribution of the members of the Volcanic Islands subclade appears to be best explained by a series of long-distance dispersal events, most likely from New Caledonia.
25064094|With ca. 1400 species, Begonia is one of the largest plant genera. To address the evolution of Begonia we have produced maximum parsimony cladograms for nuclear large subunit and internal transcribed spacer sequence data in combination with 34 informative morphological characters. Data were obtained from 64 species of Begonia, the monotypic genus Hillebrandia, and both species of Datisca. The resulting phylogenetic hypotheses supported three main clades within Begonia, two internally resolved clades of African plants, and one unresolved transcontinental clade containing species from southern Africa, America, Asia, and the Socotran archipelago. Morphological characters often support well-resolved molecular clades. Tepal number in the staminate and carpellate flowers and fruit characters are discussed. None of the morphological characters sampled, including traditionally emphasized characters in sectional delimitations such as locule number and number of placental branches, provides a basis for subdividing Begonia into easily circumscribed monophyletic groups. Implications for future sectional classifications of Begonia are discussed.
25064101|The neotropical liverwort genus Dicladolejeunea, which has recently been placed in synonymy with Taxilejeunea, is proposed as synonymous with Lejeunea. Dicladolejeunea anomala and D. saccatiloba, as well as Taxilejeunea longiloba, are placed in synonymy with Lejeunea rotundifolia. Oil bodies, androecia, gynoecia, and the sporophyte of L. rotundifolia are described for the first time. Lejeunea rotundifolia is lectotypified.
25064102|Nymphaeales (Nymphaeaceae and Cabombaceae) comprise eight genera and approximately 70 species of aquatic plants, with a worldwide distribution in tropical to temperate regions. Previous analyses of molecular and morphological data have provided a well-resolved and strongly supported generic-level phylogeny for the order. Using published nuclear 18S rDNA and plastid rbcL and matK DNA sequences and a published topology for Nymphaeales, we estimated the divergence times of genera in this clade. We applied four different methods, a strict molecular clock, nonparametric rate smoothing (NPRS), penalized likelihood (PL), and a Bayesian method, to estimate divergence times. We calibrated the trees by using the minimum age of the angiosperm crown group constrained to 131.8 mya. Our results indicate that extant Nymphaeales diversified into two major clades corresponding to Cabombaceae and Nymphaeaceae during the Eocene (44.6  7.9 mya); extant genera of Nymphaeaceae date to 41.1  7.7 mya, and extant Cabombaceae diversified during the Miocene (19.9  5.6 mya). Whereas the stem lineage of Nymphaeales is old based on fossil evidence (125-115 mya), our results indicate that extant Nymphaeales diversified relatively recently. In another set of analyses we used PL to estimate the age of the angiosperms using two prominent Nymphaeales fossils as calibration points. These analyses suggest that these "Nymphaeales" fossils may be attached at deeper nodes than proposed in earlier studies. Using dispersal-vicariance analysis, we infer that the ancestor of Nymphaeales occupied the American and Eurasian continents during the Eocene and that the present distributional patterns require several subsequent dispersal and extinction events. This biogeographic inference is supported by the fossil record.
25064103|Vegetative shoots and a newly discovered fruit of Ceratophyllum are described from diatomite of the middle Miocene Shanwang Formation in Shandong Province, eastern China. Based on the fruit, the fossil can be referred to C. muricatum subsp. muricatum. The presence of this Ceratophyllum indicates that the climate was slightly warmer and more equable than today.
25064104|The Annonaceae are a pantropical angiosperm family, in which Anaxagorea is sister to the rest of the family based on previous phylogenetic studies. Anaxagorea is the only genus of Annonaceae with a disjunct distribution in South and Central America and southeast Asia. Earlier arguments on the biogeographic history of Annonaceae led to the hypothesis of a Laurasian origin for Anaxagorea. A detailed phylogenetic study was conducted using 75 morphological characters and molecular sequences from the atpB-rbcL, psbA-trnH, and trnL-trnF spacer regions and the trnL intron. Molecular analyses alone do not support the monophyly of the Asian species, but the morphological and combined molecular and morphological analyses do. All analyses place most Central American species in a clade, but none support an Asian-Central American clade. South American species from a basal grade, thereby refuting the hypothesis of a Laurasian origin for the genus and indicating instead a Gondwanan origin. Parsimony optimizations and DIVA reconstructions of biogeographic data indicate separate dispersals from South America to Central America and to Asia. Molecular age estimates indicate an Eocene origin for the genus. The clade containing the Asian and Central American species is dated to be younger than the Oligocene climatic deterioration, which reduces support for the North Atlantic land bridge as a dispersal route from South America to Asia.
25064105|Following recent phylogenetic studies of the families and genera of Dioscoreales, the identification of monophyletic infrageneric taxa in the pantropical genus Dioscorea is a priority. A phylogenetic analysis based on sequence data from the plastid genes rbcL and matK is presented, using 67 species of Dioscorea and covering all the main Old World and selected New World lineages. The analysis used 14 outgroup taxa, including Trichopus Gaertn., Tacca J.R. & G. Forster, Stenomeris Planch., Burmannia L. and Thismia Griff. The main findings are: a) that a clade of rhizomatous taxa is sister to the rest of Dioscorea; b) the main Old World groups (such as the right-twining D. sect. Enantiophyllum) are monophyletic and c) there are two distinct lineages among the endemic Malagasy taxa. The consequences of the results for infrageneric classification of Dioscorea is considered, in particular the possibility of greatly simplifying the classifications of Knuth and Burkill. The results are also used to present novel hypotheses of character evolution in selected underground storage organ, inflorescence, fruit and seed characters and to discuss the origins of diversity in Dioscorea.
25064106|Pollen character evolution in yams (Dioscorea: Dioscoreaceae) was investigated in relation to the phylogeny obtained from a recent combined analysis of rbcL and matK gene sequences. The following characters were evaluated: pollen size, aperture number, sexine ornamentation, perforation density, and orbicule presence or absence. Continuous characters were coded using the gap weighting method. Each character was optimized using MacClade onto a tree selected at random from analyses based on molecular data of Wilkin et al. The results indicate that in Dioscorea pollen size decreases in the more derived clades. The latter observation may be related to the evolution of annually replaced tubes. Aperture number increases from one in the monosulcate Stenophora clade (sister to the rest of Dioscorea) to two in other Dioscorea clades. This may be related to the presence of simultaneous microsporogenesis in Dioscorea. A perforate sexine is plesiomorphic in Dioscorea and a striate pattern has evolved more than once and is particularly characteristic in the Malagasy clade. Sexine ornamentation in the Stenophora clade is diverse. The endemic allotetraploid D. pyrenaica is characterized by large, monosulcate, gemmate pollen. The Dioscorea B clade is characterized by pollen with small, dense perforations. Orbicules occur in all Dioscorea species, but are absent in most of the outgroup taxa.
25064107|The Elegia group comprises 60 species of African Restionaceae, a large and ecologically dominant element of the Cape flora of South Africa. The recognition of the group was based upon the shared possession of unbranched fertile culms, the presence of a distinct abscission line at the base of the leaf sheaths, and inserted anthers at anthesis. The taxonomy of the group has been problematic, and every monographer of the group used different generic delimitations. Based upon a cladistic analysis of sequence data from multiple chloroplast regions (trnL-F region, atpB-rbcL spacer, trnK intron, matK, and rbcL) for all 60 species, we seek optimal generic groupings that are monophyletic, conservative nomenclaturally, and readily diagnosable using morphological characters. We found no support for the monophyly of the Elegia group, as the genus Askidiosperma, itself forming a clade of 12 species, was placed outside the group. Within the remaining elements we found no acceptable generic groupings, and consequently propose an expanded circumscription of Elegia that includes the genera Chondropetalum and Dovea, as these latter two genera are embedded within the former. New combinations are E. acockii, E. aggregata, E. decipiens, E. ebracteata, E. hookeriana, E. marlothii, E. microcarpa, E. recta, E. tectorum, and E. macrocarpa.
25064108|Haptanthus is known from only a single collection despite several attempts to recollect it. Because of its unique inflorescence and flowers, and the specimen's lack of fruit, the original authors were unable to assign it to an existing family. After 12 years Nelson described it as the type of a new family, Haptanthaceae. The original authors mainly described and illustrated the gross morphology, pistil anatomy, and pollen of Haptanthus. In attempting to assign it to a family, eight familial placements were considered and reasons were given for their rejection. In the present paper additional characters of the leaf, stem, and pistil, mainly anatomical, are described and illustrated. Most of the wood characters are archaic (primitive). Haptanthus has a suite of characters indicating that it is probably wind-pollinated. Consideration of all the characters studied to date, and examination of additional literature and herbarium specimens of several families, enable us to suggest Flacourtiaceae and Euphorbiaceae as the closest relatives of Haptanthaceae. Recently, Flacourtiaceae has been suggested by another author. Key characters of the three families are compared in a table.
25064109|Haptanthus hazletii is an enigmatic broad-leaved angiosperm of uncertain affinities. Previous research indicated that the staminate flowers had a morphology unique within the angiosperms, consisting of a single stamen with latrorse dehiscence. Re-examination of the morphology and anatomy of the staminate flowers does not support this interpretation but shows that the two elliptic flattened structures bearing the anthers are atop a solid pedicel-like stalk and are appressed to one another. These structures can be interpreted as either tepals with adnate bilocular introrse stamens or as foliose introrse stamens, either interpretation being unlike conventional floral structures. The anatomy of the flower reveals a siphonostele in the pedicel that divides into two arcuate traces supplying the anther-bearing structures. The vascular bundle runs up between the thecae giving off small branches to them; it terminates towards the apex of the flattened structure. Each theca is surrounded internally by massive tissue with endothecial thickenings. The unusual combination of floral characters does not easily fit into any known group, although the suite of characters indicates that the genus is probably amongst the basal eudicots, perhaps near Buxaceae.
25064110|Phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences of six species of Platanus were conducted to estimate species relationships and analyze biogeographic history. On the basis of a broader analysis of the third exon of the nuclear gene LEAFY, the root node for the genus was confirmed to fall between subg. Castaneophyllum (P. kerrii) and the species of subg. Platanus. Separate phylogenetic analyses of the nuclear ribosomal ITS region, the 3' region of the second intron of LEAFY, and the chloroplast region trnT-trnL intergenic spacer provided various levels of resolution, and the combined data yielded a fully resolved set of relationships within subg. Platanus. Two major clades were identified: one with species from Europe (EUR) and western North America (WNA) (P. orientalis, P. racemosa s.l.), the other with species from eastern North America (ENA; US and Canada) and eastern Mexico (EMEX) (P. mexicana, P. occidentalis, and P. rzedowskii). Within subg. Platanus, six subclades corresponded to previously recognized taxa, and one accession may be of hybrid origin. The historical biogeography of Platanus was interpreted using phylogenetic pattern, estimates of divergence times, the fossil record, and climate reconstructions. The pattern of relationships was consistent with a hypothesis of vicariance and the oldest divergence between taxa within the set of area relationships of ((WNA + EUR), (ENA + MEX)) suggested an initial barrier affecting taxa that are now mostly confined to North America. The second oldest divergence within subg. Platanus involves the intercontinental disjunction of semi-arid species from WNA + EUR, which diverged by at least 15 MYBP, consistent with the Madrean-Tethyan hypothesis. Calibrated phylogenies were used to estimate divergence times for five more recent intracontinental disjunctions. These times correlated with the timing of geological events in southwestern North America and northern Latin America.
25064111|Members of Pereskia exhibit some presumably plesiomorphic characters for the Cactaceae including shrubby habit, non-succulent or partially succulent leaves, and in some species, nearly superior ovaries. In addition, the members show a transition from perigynous flowers with half-inferior ovaries to those species having true receptacular epigyny (the predominant condition in the Cactaceae). To examine interspecific relationships within Pereskia we utilized cpDNA restriction-site data and sequences from two non-coding regions of the plastid genome-the psbA-trnH intergenic spacer and the rpl16 intron. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses identified three major clades: a clade containing the widespread P. aculeata and the Andean species, a clade containing six species found primarily in southeastern Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, Argentina, and Bolivia, and a third clade centered in southern Central America and the Caribbean. The relationship between these three clades and the rest of the Cactaceae remains unresolved, but our data do suggest that Pereskia may be paraphyletic. The sister taxon relationship for the yellow flowered species of Pereskia (P. aureiflora, P. guamacho) was also confirmed, despite their widely disjunct distribution.
25064112|The North American species of Celtis have been believed on anecdotal grounds to hybridize commonly in nature, and an understanding of the nature and frequency of natural hybridization among species of Celtis is necessary for understanding phylogenetic relationships within the genus. Extensive natural introgression has been strongly suspected between two species with ranges that overlap broadly in Texas, Celtis laevigata and C. reticulata. Statistical study of morphological and AFLP data was undertaken to test the extent and genetic consequences of natural hybridization between them. Results indicate that there is little or no natural hybridization between these species, contradicting past conclusions. The variability and apparent intergradation between the species that led to the hypothesis of introgression are apparently due to high levels of shared ancestral polymorphism at many loci, and exceptionally high levels of position-associated variation in leaf morphology within individual trees.
25064113|We examined shapes and surface features of seeds of 19 species of Hawaiian Hedyotideae using scanning electron microscopy. The study concentrates on the Hedyotideae previously recognized in the genus Hedyotis and here recognized as the genus Kadua, lacking diplophragmous capsules, and having salverform, fleshy corollas with appendaged lobes. The seeds fell into four main morphological groups: (1) hat- or fan-shaped, laterally cuneate, compressed seeds (Kadua subg. Kadua and atypical species of Gouldiopsis and Wiegmannia); (2) ovoid or elliptic seeds with conspicuous bubble-shaped bodies included in the areoles (cells) (most of sect. Wiegmannia); (3) flat broadly winged seeds with a lateral hilum attached at wing margin (Kadua centranthoides, type species of sect. Gouldiopsis); (4) brick-like or blocky seeds with a centric ventral hilum (Kadua subg. Gouldia). The results of the seed study correlate with the taxonomic arrangement in the current Hawaiian flora. An appendix lists the Kadua names including necessary new combinations and their Hedyotis synonyms for the Hawaiian taxa and seven additional South Pacific taxa having the same corolla characters. The following new names are published: Kadua subg. Gouldia (A. Gray) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua sect. Gouldia (A. Gray) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua fosbergii (W. L. Wagner & D. R. Herbst) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua axillaris (Wawra) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua sect. Phyllozygia (W. L. Wagner & Herbst) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua tryblium (D. R. Herbst & W. L. Wagner) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua sect. Oceanica (Fosberg) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua sect. Austrogouldia (Fosberg) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua lucei (Lorence & J. Florence) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua nukuhivensis (J. Florence & Lorence) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua tahuatensis (Lorence & J. Florence) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua grantii (Fosberg) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua sect. Protokadua (Fosberg) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua coriacea (J. E. Smith) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua sect. Gouldiopsis (Fosberg) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua foggiana (Fosberg) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua sect. Wiegmannia (Meyen) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua cordata Cham & Schltdl. subsp. remyi (Hillebr.) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua cordata Cham & Schltdl. subsp. waimeae (Wawra) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua degeneri (Fosberg) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua degeneri (Fosberg) W. L. Wagner & Lorence subsp. coprosmifolia (Fosberg) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua elatior (H. Mann) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, Kadua flynnii (W. L. Wagner & Lorence) W. L. Wagner & Lorence, and Kadua st.-johnii (B. C. Stone & Lane) W. L. Wagner & Lorence.
25064114|We used DNA sequence data from four regions ([1] nrITS; the chloroplast [2] rps16 intron, [3] trnG-S spacer, and [4] trnL-F intron and spacer) to study phylogenetic relationships within tribe Acantheae (Acanthaceae). Our sample includes 18 of 20 recognized genera and 82 of ca. 500 species (plus two Justicieae as out-groups). Results of parsimony and Bayesian analyses were entirely congruent and provided strong support for monophyly of two sub-lineages of Acantheae, referred to here as the 'one-lipped corolla' and 'two-lipped corolla' lineages, reflecting notable differences in corolla morphology. Subsequent analyses were of the two sublineages separately in order to include all characters (a hypervariable region of trnG-S could not be aligned across the full range of taxa but could be aligned within sublineages). The 'one-lipped corolla lineage' comprises six clades of Old World taxa related as follows: [Crossandra (Sclerochiton clade {Cynarospermum [Blepharis (Acanthus clade + Acanthopsis)]})]. All presently recognized genera are strongly supported as monophyletic, except that Blepharis dhofarensis is placed with species of Acanthus, with strong support from both parsimony and Bayesian inference (monophyly of Blepharis was rejected by both parsimony and likelihood). Alternate hypotheses based on calyx and androecial morphology regarding Crossandrella and Streptosiphon could not be rejected, but placement of these genera with some species of Crossandra based on pollen was rejected. The 'two-lipped corolla lineage' is strongly supported and includes one clade of Old World plants (the Stenandriopsis clade) that is sister to a strongly supported clade that includes all New World Acantheae as follows: [Stenandrium clade (Neriacanthus {Aphelandra lineage})]. The Aphelandra lineage includes the 'armed' Aphelandra clade and a polytomy of six unresolved clades: (1) A. squarrosa, (2) Encephalosphaera clade, (3) Geissomeria clade, (4) A. aurantiaca clade, (5) A. pulcherrima clade, (6) Rhombochlamys. In contrast to patterns in the one-lipped lineage, genera in the two-lipped lineage are mostly not monophyletic nor are relationships among them strongly supported by our molecular data or by morphological synapomorphies. We discuss these results in the context of evidence from other sources including macromorphology, palynology, chromosome numbers, and geographic distribution.
25064115|Three new species of Capsicum from eastern coastal Brazil are described and illustrated. Capsicum pereirae from Esprito Santo and Minas Gerais is related to C. flexuosum and C. schottianum. Capsicum friburgense, endemic to a restricted area in Nova Friburgo (Rio de Janeiro state) is similar to C. scolnikianum, C. cardenasii, and C. mirabile. Capsicum hunzikerianum from So Paulo is closely allied to C. cornutum. A key to differentiate the wild Capsicum species from Brazil is provided.
25064116|The phylogeny of Brassaiopsis (Araliaceae), a morphologically diverse and widely distributed genus in Asia, was estimated based on sequences of the internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS) and 5S nontranscribed spacer (5S-NTS) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA. Two main paralogous copies of 5S-NTS were found for Brassaiopsis but both were not recovered for all species. All but one species of Brassaiopsis was represented by 5S-NTS (copy 1). Separate parsimony analyses of ITS and 5S-NTS (copy 1) generated largely congruent topologies, but several paralogous 5S-NTS sequences precluded data combination. A sister relationship of Brassaiopsis with Trevesia was strongly inferred. The divergence of Brassaiopsis from Trevesia was estimated to have occurred ca. 20 million years ago (MYA) during a period of mountain building and climatic change in SE Asia. Our analysis suggests a rapid evolutionary radiation of Brassaiopsis in the Sino-Himalayan region and Indochina at ca. 8 MYA. Several clades within the genus were circumscribed based on ITS and 5S-NTS analyses: 1) B. aculeata, B. glomerulata, and B. hainla; 2) B. gigantea, B. grushvitzkyi, B. moumingensis, and B. stellata; 3) B. ciliata and B. hispida; 4) B. fatsioides and B. palmipes; and 5) B. gracilis and B. phanerophlebia. Brassaiopsis producta is morphologically unique in possessing a 3-5-locular ovary, and its phylogenetic position was not well resolved in either analysis. Morphological characters previously considered important for defining species and subgeneric groups were shown to have had multiple origins (e.g., leaf architecture and locule number in the ovary). The Brassaiopsis phylogeny supports strong biogeographic connections between S China and Indochina, S China and SW China, and SW China and the eastern Himalayas.
25064117|The federally listed threatened species, Helenium virginicum, is endemic to 30 sinkhole ponds in two counties in Virginia, but a Helenium population in Pomona, Missouri, differs scarcely from H. virginicum from Virginia in morphology, ecology, and non-coding nrDNA ITS sequences. In response to continuing taxonomic uncertainty regarding the Missouri population, we enlarged our ITS comparisons from our previous work to include 48 populations, more than doubling the number of H. virginicum populations, and including populations of H. autumnale and H. flexuosum from 12 states in the United States and two Canadian provinces. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted using Bayesian, maximum-likelihood, and maximum-parsimony methods, and showed strong support for a monophyletic species of all H. virginicum from Virginia, the Pomona population and 29 other recently discovered populations in Missouri. We conclude that H. virginicum is narrowly endemic and disjunct between Virginia and Missouri. Additionally, one population of H. autumnale from the Bruce Peninsula, Canada, was found to be the sister group to H. virginicum. We discuss the impact of Pleistocene and Holocene geoclimatic changes on the phylogeography of these plants, including the possibility that the H. autumnale complex has become more disjunct and narrowly endemic since the Xerothermic Period (8-4Ka).
25064118|A new species of Senecio from the Anti Atlas of Morocco, S. kerdousianus (Asteraceae: Senecioneae), is described and illustrated. The new species can be distinguished from other species of Senecio growing in the Anti Atlas in their discoid capitula, subentire lower leaves with coarse sinuate dentate margins, and cauline and upper leaves with broad auriculate bases. A key to related species from SW Morocco, south of the High Atlas, is provided.
25064125|Congeneric species that have evolved on oceanic islands rarely grow with one another. This spatial sorting is thought to be the result of niche pre-emption, where the first species to occupy a given habitat would exclude its relatives through competition. The evidence that competition shapes local species distributions is scant. I propose that hybridization thwarts the invasion of congeners. We know that crossing barriers between products of recent adaptive radiations typically are weak. Colonization of occupied patches would be sporadic, because invaders would be moving from habitats where they are adapted to those where they are not. Nearly all progeny of the scant invaders would be ill-adapted hybrids, because the pollen pool would consist almost exclusively of indigenous pollen. Only if aliens were predominantly inbreeders or apomicts would they have a chance of escaping the deluge of local pollen and becoming established in the occupied patch. The spatial reach of hybridization is much greater than that of competition.
25064126|Here I present a cladistically based monograph of a group of closely related mosses known as the Syrrhopodon involutus complex. Monographs remain a critical and indispensable component of systematics, but traditional monographic practices require some revisions if modern monographs are to truly reflect and incorporate phylogenetic understanding. I summarize the methods used to address issues relating to sampling and the formation of OTUs for this monograph, and emphasize the importance of incorporating morphological character data in a total evidence phylogenetic analysis. In addition to a traditional Linnaean taxonomic treatment, I provide rank-free definitions of the terminal taxa in the S. involutus complex. Following the PhyloCode recommendations for the designation and naming of more inclusive taxa, I present a novel method for naming terminal taxa as least-inclusive clades. This monographic treatment represents a first attempt at applying the PhyloCode at the terminal level in any plant group, and recognizes five distinct taxa in the S. involutus complex, which I have designated with the rank-free clade name Leucophanella: banksii, borneensis, involutus, rufescens, and revolutus.
25064127|Evidence for a southern South American lineage of polygrammoid ferns was inferred from analyses using four cpDNA markers. The lineage corresponds to the genus Synammia, which has usually been treated as a synonym of the polyphyletic genus Polypodium. Seven specimens of two of the three recognized species were sampled to infer the phylogenetic relationships of this lineage to other polygrammoid ferns and the diversity within this lineage. All approaches found Synammia clearly separated from other polygrammoid ferns, but the exact relationships are still unclear. Model-based methods recovered Synammia as sister to a mainly Neotropical clade of polygrammoid ferns, but support for this hypothesis was provided only by Bayesian inference of phylogeny. The deletion of nearly the whole rps4-trnS IGS is a synapomorphy of Synammia. The lineage is separated from other extant polygrammoid ferns, but very low to zero sequence diversity was found among the seven samples of Synammia. The results strongly support an independent lineage of polygrammoid ferns in southern South America.
25064128|The monophyletic Eurasian clade of Amaryllidaceae was analyzed using plastid ndhF and rDNA ITS sequences for 33 and 29 taxa, respectively; all genera were represented by at least one species. Both maximum parsimony and Bayesian analysis were used on each data set and the combined data. Both sequence matrices resolve the Central and East Asian tribe Lycorideae as sister to the Mediterranean-centered genera of the clade, and recognize two large subclades within the greater Mediterranean region: Galantheae, consisting of Acis, Galanthus and Leucojum; and Narcisseae (Narcissus and Sternbergia)/Pancratium. However, there are areas of incongruence between the ndhF and ITS trees. When three predominantly monotypic genera, Hannonia, Lapiedra, and Vagaria, centered in North Africa, are removed from the alignments, the two sequence matrices produce fully congruent topologies with increased support at many of the nodes, with ILD between partitions rising from P = 0.07 to 0.96. We hypothesize that lineage sorting took place after the divergence of Galantheae and Narcisseae/Pancratium from a common genepool with Hannonia, Lapiedra, and Vagaria retaining a mosaic of the ancestral haplotypes. We also performed dispersal-vicariance analysis to reconstruct biogeographic scenarios on several of the generic level phylogenies found with and without these three genera included, as well as on a species-level phylogeny of Galantheae. After the vicariant divergence of the Asian Lycorideae, North Africa and the Iberian Peninsula are the most likely areas of origin for the rest of the clade. The results of the dispersal-vicariance analysis are discussed in the context of the complex biogeographic history of the Mediterranean basin.
25064129|The systematic placement of the little-known species Ptychosperma micranthum (Arecaceae/Palmae: Arecoideae: Areceae) from far western New Guinea has been repeatedly disputed, resulting in recombinations in both Heterospathe and Rhopaloblaste. However, comparative morphological and molecular phylogenetic studies provide strong evidence against the placement of the species within any of these three genera, or indeed in any other accepted genus. Thus, a new genus, Dransfieldia, is herein described and a new combination, Dransfieldia micrantha, is made. Morphological character analyses demonstrate that the combination of character states that defines Dransfieldia is highly distinctive, despite the fact that many of the states are homoplasious. Dransfieldia micrantha is a slender, unarmed palm possessing a well-defined crownshaft, strongly ridged leaflets with entire, acute apices, an infrafoliar inflorescence with a persistent prophyll that is split apically by the exertion of the peduncular bract, a peduncle that is longer than the rachis, bullet-shaped multistaminate male flower buds in which the filaments in the outer whorl are irregularly inflexed in bud, and fruit with apical stigmatic remains. Molecular phylogenies strongly support the position of Dransfieldia within tribe Areceae, placing it within a clade of genera from the western Pacific.
25064130|Carex subg. Vignea is characterized by sessile bisexual spikes, distigmatic flowers, and the lack of cladoprophylls. Phylogenies reconstructed using nrDNA internal and external transcribed spacer (ITS and ETS 1f) sequences for 100 vignean taxa support this subgenus as monophyletic. The atypical C. gibba is sister to all remaining taxa. Many clades in the remainder of the subgenus do not correspond to easily defined morphological groups, with species representative of several disparate sections frequently contained within a single clade. Many traditionally recognized sections are not supported, although others such as sects. Ovales, Stellulatae, and Glareosae are monophyletic. Tree topologies indicate that gynaecandry has evolved multiple times in subg. Vignea. Species of uncertain subgeneric affinity are variously placed in our analysis. Carex fecunda, previously linked to subg. Vignea, is positioned within the outgroup composed of species traditionally placed in subg. Carex and Vigneastra. While species with highly compound inflorescences are often regarded as ancestral in Carex, our results indicate that this inflorescence type has evolved multiple times and is derived within subg. Vignea.
25064131|During a revision of Andean Poa, three new species, one from Colombia and two from Peru, were recognised as new and are described here. Poa soderstromii from the Pramo of Chisac, Colombia, is similar to the Peruvian Poa brevis from which it differs by having the glumes nearly as long as the spikelet and the lemmas conspicuously 5-nerved and scabrous on the keel. Poa oscariana, from Cusco, is similar to P. gilgiana and P. huancavelicae; from both it can be separated by the spikelets broadly elliptic in outline, 4.5-5.5 mm long and dull pale green, and glumes and lemmas asperulous, without hyaline margins. Poa pilgeri from Junn, Huancayo, resembles P. candamoana, but differs by its filiform and convolute leaves and small spikelets. The species are described, illustrated and compared with similar species. A key as well as commentaries on the subgeneric affinities of the new species are included.
25064132|A phylogenetic analysis of molecular (ITS, trnL-F, trnK including the matK coding region) and morphological data is presented for the pantropical monocot family Costaceae (Zingiberales), including 65 Costaceae taxa and two species of the outgroup genus Siphonochilus (Zingiberaceae). Taxon sampling included all four currently described genera in order to test the monophyly of previously proposed taxonomic groups. Sampling was further designed to encompass geographical and morphological diversity of the family to identify trends in biogeographic patterns and morphological character evolution. Phylogenetic analysis of the combined data reveals three major clades with discrete biogeographic distribution: (1) South American, (2) Asian, and (3) African-neotropical. The nominal genus Costus is not monophyletic and its species are found in all three major clades. The Melanesian genus Tapeinochilos is monophyletic and included within the Asian clade. Monocostus and Dimerocostus are sister taxa and form part of the South American clade. The African-neotropical clade is composed entirely of the genus Costus; moreover, there is support for previously recognized subgeneric groupings within the Costus clade. Evolutionary trends in floral morphology show that close associations with pollinators have evolved several times from an ancestral generalist pollinator floral form. Bee pollination has evolved once in the family, arising in Africa from an open-flowered (generalist) ancestor. Bird pollination has evolved multiple times: once from an open-flowered ancestor in Southeast Asia and multiple times from a bee-pollinated ancestor in the neotropics. Additional morphological characters not traditionally used to define taxonomic groups, but having high consistency in the current phylogenetic analysis, are discussed.
25064133|Evidence is presented for phylogenetic relationships in pantropical Melastomataceae, subfamily Olisbeoideae based on combined exon and intron sequences of the nuclear glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene. Parsimony and maximum-likelihood analyses yielded a well-supported ingroup tree consistent with earlier morphologically based concepts of six genera-Memecylon, Mouriri, Votomita, Spathandra, Lijndenia, and Warneckea. The position of the root node in Olisbeoideae remains equivocal. Outgroup-rooted maximum parsimony suggests a deep divergence between Old and New World lineages, while the maximum-likelihood rooting resolved paleotropical genera as a paraphyletic grade basal to the neotropical taxa. The Fitch optimization method for estimating character evolution consistently inferred the strongly acrodromous leaf venation pattern as ancestral in Olisbeoideae, reinforcing the conclusion that the superficially uninervate or brochidodromiform venation pattern of Memecylon, the neotropical subclade, and some Lijndenia and Warneckea species is best interpreted as a series of independent losses of the strongly acrodromous condition. Genomic GapC sequences may have phylogenetic utility at intergeneric level in other angiosperm families, particularly those that have low apparent rates of chloroplast DNA sequence evolution.
25064134|A phylogenetic analysis of the Celastrales was performed using nuclear (18S, ITS 1, 26S rDNA) and plastid (atpB, matK, rbcL, trnL-F spacer) genes. In contrast to most previous studies, Celastrales and Malpighiales are resolved as being more closely related to one another than either are to Oxalidales. The Huaceae are well supported as the sister group to Oxalidales, not Celastrales, as had been previously proposed. The Lepidobotryaceae are unambiguously supported as sister to the clade consisting of Celastraceae and Parnassiaceae. The Parnassiaceae are well supported as members of an early branching lineage within Celastraceae, rather than as its sister group. Likewise, Pottingeria appears to be part of an early derived lineage of Celastraceae. Empleuridium is unambiguously supported as a derived member of Celastraceae, as are Brexia, Canotia, Siphonodon, Stackhousia, and Tripterococcus. Bhesa is unambiguously supported as a member of Malpighiales, though its relationships within the order remain unclear. Perrottetia should be transferred out of Celastraceae and into eurosids II, being closely related to Tapiscia and Dipentodon. These results help delimit the Celastrales and Celastraceae as morphologically more homogeneous taxa.
25064135|The phylogenetic relationships and chromosomal evolution of the diverse tropical genus Passiflora (Passifloraceae) are explored using data from two chloroplast markers: the rpoC1 intron and the trnL/trnT spacer region. A survey of the presence or absence of the rpoC1 intron in 136 species representing 17 of Killip's (1938) 22 subgenera of Passiflora and four other genera in the Passifloraceae revealed intron losses in 46 taxa. A minimum of two losses were confirmed by a parametric bootstrap approach on sequence data from the trnL/trnT chloroplast non-coding region for 61 taxa. The results of phylogenetic analyses of the trnL/trnT sequence data support the reduction of Killip's 22 subgenera to four as proposed in a new classification system by Feuillet and MacDougal (2004). The monophyly of the 'n=6' and 'n=9' chromosomal and morphological groups is strongly supported. In addition, these data indicate that Passiflora biflora, or closely related species, is the likely continental sister to the red-flowered Caribbean taxa, while P. auriculata is weakly supported as the New World sister to the Old World Passifloras. Finally, character optimization of chromosome numbers on the phylogenetic tree supports x=12 as the base chromosome number for Passiflora.
25064136|The genus Leavenworthia (Brassicaceae) has long been a focus of research on mating system evolution, due to the presence of both self-incompatible and self-compatible species within the genus. A phylogenetic hypothesis invoking multiple transitions between mating systems has been proposed for Leavenworthia, but this hypothesis has not been subject to molecular phylogenetic analysis. DNA sequence variation from four non-coding chloroplast regions (the trnL intron; and the trnT-trnL, trnL-trnF, and psbA-trnH intergenic spacers) was used to reconstruct the generic phylogeny, to test the validity of several proposed species, and to assess the number of mating system transitions within the genus. The strict consensus tree largely reflected the long-standing phylogenetic hypothesis for Leavenworthia, although additional data are needed to fully validate the recognition of L. crassa and L. alabamica. Unexpected results included the placement of L. uniflora as sister to the rest of the genus, and the apparent hybridization between L. exigua and L. torulosa. Finally, our data strongly supported a minimum of three mating system transitions within Leavenworthia.
25064137|A parsimony analysis of ndhF nucleotide sequences representing 24 species and 13 genera of Sterculioideae strongly supports (100% bootstrap) the monophyly of the group. Within the Sterculioideae clade four major clades are recognized with good bootstrap support but relationships among them are not resolved. This analysis suggests the recognition of Argyrodendron as separate from Heritiera, supports Acropogon as separate from Sterculia, and Tarrietia as part of Heritiera. The current circumscriptions of Hildegardia and Firmiana are not supported. The use of fruit characters in the delimitation of genera within Sterculioideae may not be appropriate in some cases and other morphological characters need to be found.
25064138|Balsaminaceae are a morphologically diverse family with ca. 1,000 representatives that are mainly distributed in the Old World tropics and subtropics. To understand the relationships of its members, we obtained chloroplast atpB-rbcL sequences from 86 species of Balsaminaceae and five outgroups. Phylogenetic reconstructions using parsimony and Bayesian approaches provide a well-resolved phylogeny in which the sister group relationship between Impatiens and Hydrocera is confirmed. The overall topology of Impatiens is strongly supported and is geographically structured. Impatiens likely originated in South China from which it colonized the adjacent regions and afterwards dispersed into North America, Africa, India, the Southeast Asian peninsula, and the Himalayan region.
25064139|Phylogenetic analysis of 74 species of Symplocos was conducted with DNA sequence data from the chloroplast trnC-trnD intergenic region. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference trees are consistent with those of a previous study based on combined data from the nuclear ribosomal ITS region and the chloroplast regions rpl16, matK, and trnL-trnF. The inclusion of 21 phylogenetically informative indel characters from trnC-trnD resulted in greater maximum parsimony resolution and clade support than with these characters excluded. A combined five-gene-region (trnC-trnD, ITS, rpl16, matK, and trnL-trnF) analysis based on a data set with complete sequence data is almost completely concordant with that of the combined four-gene data set, and displays higher resolution and overall clade support (in some cases 20 to > 30 bootstrap percentage points). The data indicate monophyly for only one subgenus (Epigenia) and four sections (Barberina, Cordyloblaste, Neosymplocos, and Urbaniocharis) of Symplocos; the other three subgenera (Symplocos, Hopea, and Microsymplocos) and tested sections (Bobu, Palaeosymplocos, and Symplocastrum) will require recircumscription to accord with the principle of monophyly. Supermatrix and supertree analyses were conducted to provide phylogenetic estimates based on all 107 available Symplocos samples with sequence data from at least two of the five gene regions. The supermatrix consensus tree is completely consistent with that from the combined five-gene estimate based on complete sequence data, whereas the supertree consensus differs from these trees in two regions of the topology. The supermatrix consensus also displays greater clade resolution than the supertree consensus. The aligned trnC-trnD data set exhibits a lower percentage of parsimony-informative characters than those based on matK and rpl16 sequences. The length, organization, and relative sequencing ease of trnC-trnD in Symplocos nonetheless confirm the utility of this region for phylogenetic estimation in flowering plants, as previously described.
25064140|Conradina (Lamiaceae) consists of six allopatric species endemic to the southeastern United States, four of which are federally endangered or threatened. The limits and status of several taxa have been contested based on morphological grounds, and clarification of these limits is necessary for the design and implementation of effective and fiscally responsible protection and management plans. The objectives of this study were to investigate the monophyly of Conradina and its relationship to other endemic mints of the southeastern United States, to understand the patterns of diversification in Conradina, and to clarify species relationships. A molecular phylogeny was inferred by sequencing ITS and plastid regions from multiple accessions of each species of Conradina (except for a single accession of C. verticillata) and multiple individuals from species of Clinopodium, Dicerandra, Piloblephis, Stachydeoma, Monarda, Phycnanthemum, and Mentha. ITS sequence data strongly support the monophyly of Conradina, in agreement with evidence from morphology. In contrast, plastid sequence data do not support a monophyletic Conradina and place the genus as paraphyletic to Clinopodium, Stachydeoma, and Piloblephis. Similar plastid haplotypes are shared by different genera, perhaps due to shared ancestral polymorphisms, or more likely, introgression that occurred recently or during the Pleistocene. Within Conradina, ITS sequence data do not resolve species relationships, while plastid sequence data do not support the monophyly of most traditionally defined species of Conradina that are distinguishable morphologically. Species relationships in the plastid data set may also be obscured by introgression or ancestral polymorphism. More rapidly evolving sequence data from nuclear markers will be necessary to clarify relationships in Conradina and related mints from the southeastern United States.
25064141|The wild species associated with the Andean domesticate, the pepino, and closely associated with the wild and cultivated potatoes, are morphologically and ecologically variable. We studied 10 of the 11 known species, represented by 35 accessions, of Solanum section Basarthrum, plus material of two putative new species. Given the morphological variability, and cryptic species, molecular studies were appropriate. Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLP) were utilized because they are highly polymorphic, and cover most of the genome. Some 98% of the 292 fragments recovered proved informative. A neighbour joining cluster analysis and principal coordinates analysis largely supported previous taxonomic distinctions based on decades of morphological and biosystematic study. However, two new distinct molecular elements were identified, one autogamous, the other self incompatible, that will be described as new species, and that mimic a species pair of wild tomatoes native to the same region of Peru. The most diverse taxonomic group, the series Caripensia, also proved to be the most diverse genetically (85% of loci polymorphic), allowing morphologically similar species to be distinguished. The AFLP data and species distributions in this series support an hypothesis of rapid evolution and peripheral isolation as evolutionary mechanisms in the geographically and ecologically diverse series Caripensia.
25064146|Recent molecular phylogenetic analyses prompted recircumscription of Pandanales into five families-Cyclanthaceae, Pandanaceae, Stemonaceae, and Velloziaceae, plus the mycoheterotrophic Triuridaceae-that were not hitherto regarded as closely related and so have not previously been compared in detail. Some species exhibit anomalous floral features, including apparently secondary apocarpy, loss of trimery, and an imprecise boundary between inflorescence and flower. Most noteworthy are the female reproductive structures of Triuridaceae, especially the "inside-out" flowers of Lacandonia. A phylogenetic cladistic analysis using 39 morphological characters of 23 genera spanning all five families of Pandanales yielded three fairly well-resolved and moderately supported most-parsimonious trees. Velloziaceae were sister to all other Pandanales. Cyclanthaceae and Pandanaceae formed a sister pair that was sister to Stemonaceae plus Triuridaceae. Triuridaceae were embedded within a paraphyletic Stemonaceae. Pentastemona was sister to all other Stemonaceae plus Triuridaceae, supporting earlier suggestions that this highly divergent genus should be recognized as a separate family, Pentastemonaceae. Kupea was robustly placed as the basally-divergent node of Triuridaceae, upholding an earlier hypothesis that the biovulate condition in Kupea could represent the ancestral condition for Triuridaceae. Contrasting models are outlined for interpretation of the unusual apocarpous female floral units of Triuridaceae, either as (1) highly reduced partial inflorescences (pseudanthia), (2) inflorescence-like flowers derived by carpel multiplication (delayed determinacy) from an ancestor with a single free carpel (with flowers similar to those of Croomia, but unisexual), or (3) flowers derived from a tricarpellate syncarpous ancestor (with flowers similar to those of Pentastemona, but unisexual) by loss of carpel fusion and carpel multiplication. The formerly unsuspected close relationship between Stemonaceae and Triuridaceae supports the second model. The indistinct inflorescence-flower boundary in Triuridaceae could be attributable to an overlap in genetic programs, resulting either from a partial loss of integrity in regulation of flower development or from extreme axial condensation associated with the mycoheterotrophic habit.
25064147|The role of flowering phenology in ecological diversification is poorly understood, even though this variable may be an important determinant of fitness. While flowering schedules are readily evolvable, they also seem to be under phylogenetic constraint. I ask whether phenological change is a partner to adaptive radiation. Using examples from island and continental lineages, I show that habitat diversifications are not necessarily coupled with phenological change, whereas shifts in pollinator typically are so coupled. It all depends on whether alteration in flowering time is required to invade new habitats or exploit new pollinators. The coupling of ecological and temporal shifts is most evident in the evolution of autopolyploids. Stasis in the flowering times of some lineages more likely is due to stabilizing selection than to genetic constraints.
25064148|The moss genus Pohlia is most diverse in the Northern Hemisphere, but ten species occur in Australia, mostly in New South Wales and Tasmania. One species, P. clavaeformis, is endemic to Australia; P. tenuifolia is disjunct between Australia and South America; P. flexousa is widespread in southern Asia, and P. inflexa is high-latitude, circum-Antarctic. The remaining six species are more or less widespread in the Northern Hemisphere. Keys, descriptions, synonomy, and illustrations are provided. Pohlia mielichoferia and P. turgens are newly synonymized with P. clavaeformis; P. flexuosa and P. inflexa are newly reported from Australia.
25064149|The ancient divergence between the lycopsid genus Isotes and its closest living relative (Selaginella) has resulted in considerable morphological and genetic disparity, yet within Isotes there is remarkable morphological and genetic uniformity. This has made it difficult to identify the phylogenetic root of the genus. In this study, we addressed this problem and characterized the early branching patterns within Isotes using an expanded set of taxa and three molecular markers. We assessed the saturation in the molecular data sets, tested for differences in evolutionary rate, determined the stability of the ingroup topology, and evaluated the applicability of the molecular clock. We then explored three alternative rooting approaches: outgroup, midpoint, and maximum likelihood under the assumption of a molecular clock. Attempts to infer the root of Isotes using the outgroup approach were severely hindered by the effects of saturation, but the results from midpoint rooting and the enforcement of the molecular clock were highly consistent among the data sets. We identify the root of Isotes to be located among three major, highly supported clades.
25064150|With more than 100 species, Mecodium is the largest infrageneric taxon of Hymenophyllum s.l. It was long considered a natural and homogeneous group, but recent phylogenetic studies have questioned this assertion. Using rbcL, rbcL-accD, and rps4-trnS sequences, we demonstrate that Mecodium is highly polyphyletic. Several species of Mecodium form the derived clade "H. polyanthos"; one species is nested within a second derived clade; and the remaining species are assigned to five basal clades including taxa regarded as distantly related. These clades are strongly supported both by parsimony and Bayesian analyses, but the relative placement of the basalmost clades lacks support. We show that the members of "basal Mecodium" are characterized by features that are plesiomorphic for Hymenophyllum s.l.-a reduced or dorsi-ventral stele, a lamina generally at least partially thickened, and a chromosome number based on x = 36, whereas taxa in the "H. polyanthos" clade have a subcollateral stele, the one-cell thick lamina typical of the family, and x = 28. There is a high level of variation among the basal species, and, notably, the rhizome indumentum is shown to be an interesting character for distinguishing among the basal clades. These new findings stress the need for further studies on Hymenophyllum s.l., and reassessment of its classification.
25064151|A comprehensive taxonomic revision of the Philippine representatives of the genus Cyathocalyx (Annonaceae) is presented for the first time. Five species are recognized, including two endemics that are newly described (C. crassipetalus and C. samarensis). The utility of specific taxonomic characters is also evaluated, with particular emphasis on leaf indument and occurrence of crystals; sepal and petal shape; carpel number; monocarp size and shape; pericarp thickness; presence of stipes; seed size and shape; and prominence of the raphe. The conservation status of each species is evaluated according to current IUCN Red List categories and criteria.
25064152|A new species, Clara gracilis (Herreriaceae), endemic to the Rio Grande do Sul State, Brazil, is described and compared to the closely related C. ophiopogonoides. A key for separating the three species of the genus is presented, with a map of their geographic distribution, as well as detailed illustrations of the new species.
25064153|Five character construction methods were compared for a data set of 25 quantitative morphological characters sampled from the Govenia superba complex. The methods were simple-gap, gap coding, gap-weighting, analysis of variance followed by a multiple range test, and an "arbitrary" coding method. Three indices, data decisiveness, consistency index, and skewness (
25064154|The taxonomic position of Hectorella caespitosa and Lyallia kergelensis, caespitose plants endemic to New Zealand and to the Kergulen Archipelago of Antarctica, respectively, remains controversial. Some authors place them within Portulacaceae, but a slight majority of recent authorities treat them as a separate family, Hectorellaceae. Sequences of the chloroplast genes rbcL, ndhF, and matK were obtained from H. caespitosa and added to previously published sequences from Portulacaceae and related families. These data strongly supported the derived position of Hectorella within a clade consisting of western American members of Portulacaceae; the sister group of Hectorella was a clade including Montia, Claytonia, and Lewisia. Implications for taxonomy are discussed. In order to accomodate monophyly in tribal-level classification while preserving current tribes Montieae and Lewiseae, the new tribe Hectorelleae is proposed for the family Portulacaceae.
25064155|The monotypic genus Algrizea is described from the Chapada Diamantina highlands, in Bahia, Brazil, and a new combination, Algrizea macrochlamys, is proposed. This species was well-known from flowering material but fruits and seeds, essential for accurate generic placement, were unknown until 2000. Treated successively as Myrcia, Myrtus, and more recently as Psidium, it combines characters usually considered primitive in the Myrtaceae with an unusual embryo unlike any hitherto described in the Myrtaceae. Morphological and preliminary molecular data suggest that it is best accommodated in the Myrciinae sensu stricto. Algrizea is distinguished by the combination of 3-flowered dichasia, persistent bracteoles, 5 well-developed calyx lobes, bilocular ovaries with 3-6(-8) ovules per locule, seeds 2-3 with membranous, shiny testa, and an embryo in which the hypocotyl assumes an internal position to the unequal, sheathing cotyledons.
25064156|While most Begonia species have a similar fruit morphology that shows adaptations to wind dispersal, a few species have atypical fruits and are adapted to either animal or rain dispersal. Such differences in fruit morphology have traditionally been emphasized in sectional classifications of Begonia and some of the currently recognized sections can only be distinguished using ovary and fruit characteristics. We evaluated the monophyly and evolution of three Asian sections with atypical fruit morphologies: Platycentrum, Sphenanthera, and Leprosae, along with members of nine other Asian sections with fruit morphologies typical of wind dispersed Begonia. A parsimony analysis of nrDNA ITS/ 5.8S sequence data of 46 Asian Begonia species suggests that the members of section Platycentrum, which have fruit morphologies indicative of rain dispersal, evolved from wind dispersed Asian taxa following the colonization of wetter habitats. From within this rain dispersed group, species of section Sphenanthera with fleshy, animal dispersed fruits subsequently evolved on multiple occasions. Members of section Leprosae, which have fleshy fruit, evolved on two separate occasions, in one case independently of the members of the sections Platycentrum and Sphenanthera. As currently recognized, sections Platycentrum, Sphenanthera and Leprosae are polyphyletic.
25064157|Poupartiopsis spondiocarpus, a modest-sized tree of littoral forests of eastern Madagascar, is recognized as a distinct genus and described. Emended descriptions and circumscriptions of the recognized subfamilies Spondioideae and Anacardioideae are provided, as are separate keys to the genera of Spondioideae based on flowering and fruiting material and a table of diagnostic characters for distinguishing the genera. Molecular phylogenetic analysis and structural data including leaf architecture, floral morphology, and endocarp structure place Poupartiopsis in the Spondioideae, one of two subfamilies in Anacardiaceae.
25064158|Under the criterion of limited homogenizing gene flow as evidenced through specimen aggregation analysis, and genetic evidence of a barrier to gene exchange with its closest relatives, we describe a new species in Polemoniaceae, Collomia wilkenii. Collomia wilkenii superficially resembles Collomia tinctoria and Collomia linearis in some features, but, upon examination, has consistent, unique character combinations that distinguish it from both species, as well as from sympatric Collomia renacta and Collomia tenella. These features include particulars of calyx morphology, corolla morphology, stamen insertion and exertion, numbers of flowers in inflorescence clusters, and the kinds and distribution of glandular and eglandular trichomes. Comparative DNA sequencing of chloroplast genes indicates Collomia wilkenii has the chloroplast genome of Collomia tenella. Nuclear ITS sequences show additivity in Collomia wilkenii between Collomia linearis and Collomia tenella, a pattern confirmed by cloning this region. Two low copy nuclear loci, idh-A and idh-B, indicate an allopolyploid origin of this previously undescribed species. Collomia wilkenii is endemic to northern Nevada, occurring in several locations across the breadth of the state.
25064159|Auxemma, Patagonula, and Saccellium (Cordiaceae, Boraginales) were all described as distinct from Cordia because of highly specialized fruit morphologies, and subsequent authors have almost universally continued to maintain them. However, both molecular and morphological data indicate that they are nested within Cordia, and the nomenclatural changes necessary to accommodate them in Cordia are proposed here. Complete synonomy, a key to all species formerly belonging to Auxemma, Patagonula, and Saccellium, and notes on their distributions as inferred from modern collections are provided.
25064160|Centaurium bianoris (Gentianaceae) is restricted to Majorca, the main island of the Balearic Archipelago. This tetraploid species is characterised by salmon-coloured corollas (var. bianoris), but pink (var. roseum) and yellow (var. sulfureum) varieties have also been described. An allopolyploid origin has been proposed between the diploids. C. maritimum (yellow flowers) and C. tenuiflorum var. acutiflorum (pink flowers), both occurring on Majorca and in other places of the Mediterranean basin. In this study, we tested the proposed hybrid origin of C. bianoris by using RAPD fingerprinting, and both direct and cloned sequences of the nuclear ribosomal ITS, and the chloroplast trnLF regions. Our molecular data confirmed the hypothesis of an allotetraploid origin of C. bianoris via hybridisation between C. tenuiflorum and C. maritimum, the latter being the maternal parent. The so-called varieties roseum and sulfureum appeared to be only floral morphs that may have arisen via genomic processes such as gene silencing. Hybridisation is probably the cause of the ITS sequence polymorphism observed in C. bianoris, whereas backcrosses with either parent may be responsible for the apparent bidirectional homogenisation observed in ITS clones. Finally, the polyphyletic behaviour of C. bianoris on the ITS cladogram, combined with the differential rates of homogenisation observed in ITS sequences, may denote a recurrent origin for that taxon. This result contrasts with the narrow distribution of C. bianoris, compared to that of its diploid parents, suggesting instead a single origin for this hybrid.
25064161|The Mimulus moschatus alliance consists of 13 morphologically similar species, the majority of which have been considered for conservation protection. Phylogenetic analyses of four rapidly evolving molecular DNA regions (ITS, ETS, trnL-F, and rpl16) and a morphological data set under several optimality criteria reveal that the M. moschatus alliance is composed of three geographically defined clades: the Sierra Nevada Clade (M. floribundus, M. norrisii, and M. dudleyi), the Snake River Clade (M. hymenophyllus, M. ampliatus, and M. patulus), and the Columbia River Clade (M. washingtonensis and M. jungermannioides). The relationships within and among the clades are well resolved. Numerous instances of morphological homoplasy among the clades are inferred, including three independent origins of the autogamous mating system. Although nearly half of the morphological characters are highly homoplasious, the inclusion of morphological data in the combined maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses improves topological resolution and branch support. The phylogenetic results support the specific recognition of three rare taxa (M. ampliatus, M. patulus, and M. dudleyi), previously synonymized with more widespread species. A key to the species within the M. moschatus alliance is provided.
25064162|Collinsonia (Lamiaceae) is a small genus restricted to eastern North America with four species commonly recognized: C. canadensis, C. serotina, C. tuberosa, and C. verticillata. Considerable taxonomic confusion exists within subgenus Collinsonia (all taxa except C. verticillata). Principal components and canonical variates analysis were performed on a macromorphological dataset of 23 variables scored for 118 specimens of subgenus Collinsonia. Results from field and herbarium observations and from the phenetic analyses indicate that specimens of C. serotina with four stamens (hereafter referred to as C. anisata) represent a distinct species. Specimens of C. serotina with two stamens are intermediate between C. canadensis and C. anisata and are tentatively recognized as C. punctata; further study is needed to determine their origin and evolutionary status. Collinsonia tuberosa and C. canadensis show considerable phenetic overlap and are here merged under C. canadensis. Four species of Collinsonia are now recognized: C. anisata, C. canadensis, C. punctata, and C. verticillata.
25064163|This is the first extensive molecular phylogeny for any group of Solanum in Australia. A total of 64 specimens representing 29 taxa were sampled, including 18 endemic Australian members of subgenus Leptostemonum (the "spiny solanums") section Melongena sensu Symon. Data from the rDNA ITS region were analyzed using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods to test the hypothesis that the dioecious and andromonoecious Australian species of section Melongena constitute a monophyletic group. Analyses showed support for the recognition of five clades among the Australian species of the section, but little support for the monophyly of the section itself. Australian dioecious Solanum species form two distinct clades and a number of enigmatic and previously unplaced dioecious taxa are here placed within a single clade. Three groups of andromonoecious species are also each monophyletic and are nested in a polytomy with three clusters of species from outside section Melongena. Furthermore, the phylogeny indicates that dioecy has evolved either once or twice in Australian Solanum, possibly from andromonoecious ancestry.
25064164|Studies of the genus Dicoma (Asteraceae, tribe Mutisieae s. 1.) indicate that this taxon as currently defined is paraphyletic, and in fact comprises at least three groups showing marked morphological and anatomical differences. One of these groups is differentiated from Dicoma s. str. by a large number of characters relating to the morphology and anatomy of the phyllaries, corolla, anthers, style, cypsela, and testa. This paper proposes that this group should be considered as a separate genus, for which the name Cloiselia S. Moore has nomenclatural priority. The article presents a systematic study of Cloiselia, which comprises four species: two are new (C. madagascariensis and C. humbertii) and one is a new combination (C. oleifolia).
25064174|The importance of ancient long-distance migrations in shaping the geographical structure of genera and families is becoming ever more apparent. The long-distance immigrants were not random samples of their floras, but had attributes which made them prime candidates for the intercontinental sweepstakes. High propagule dispersability was one such trait. I propose that these invasive species also must have produced large numbers of propagules across their ranges, by virtue of large population numbers and sizes. They probably were widespread, major elements in their floras. These ideas are supported by the fact that propagule pressure is a prime determinant of a contemporary species' invasion potential, as is the size of its native geographical distribution. I propose that highly dispersable and propagule-rich lineages are likely to have high speciation rates, because access to new regions affords opportunities for ecological and geographical speciation. These lineages also may persist longer, being more broadly distributed in space. The evolutionary advantage of these lineages extends to periods of climatic change.
25064175|Despite its ancient origins, worldwide distribution, and adaptation to diverse habitats, Isotes species have a highly conserved morphology, making it difficult to resolve phylogenetic relationships using morphological characters. In this paper, we report the results from various analyses (maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference) for Isotes species from around the world based on nucleotide sequences from the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and chloroplast atpB/rbcL intergenic spacer regions. The trees resulting from our analyses of the combined data contain six major well-supported clades (bootstrap  90%, posterior probabilities = 1.00): A clade with possible Gondwanan affinities (I. australis, I. coromandelina, I. panamensis, I. cubana, I. jamaicensis); a South African clade (I. capensis, I. toximontana, I. stellenbossiensis, I. stephansenii); a largely Northern Hemisphere clade (I. nuttallii, I. orcuttii, I. minima, I. dixitei, I. abyssinica, I. olympica, I. longissima, I. velata); an Asian/Australasian clade (I. drummondii, I. gunnii, I. pusilla, I. kirkii, I. muelleri, I. taiwanensis, I. japonica, I. yunguiensis, I. habbemensis); a Mediterranean clade (I. histrix and I. setacea); and a poorly resolved clade consisting of 12 new world species (American species complex). Our results are compared to past classifications and various biogeographical scenarios are explored.
25064176|Recent phylogenetic investigations of Cupressoideae have found evidence to suggest that Cupressus is not monophyletic. This study tested the division of Cupressus into an Old World clade and a New World clade with complete sampling of the 28 extant species. Data from anatomy, biochemistry, micromorphology, reproductive development, reproductive morphology, and vegetative morphology were combined with molecular sequence data (matK, NEEDLY intron 2, nrITS, rbcL, and trnL) to produce the most complete hypothesis of evolutionary relationships within Cupressoideae to date. Callitropsis, Cupressus, and Juniperus formed a well-supported monophyletic group (100%). Within this clade, the only demonstrably monophyletic genus was Juniperus (100%). Monophyly of the 12 Old World species of Cupressus was well supported (100%). Old World species of Cupressus were sister to Juniperus (99%). Callitropsis and the 16 New World species of Cupressus were resolved as the sister group to the Old World Cupressus plus Juniperus clade (100%), rendering Cupressus polyphyletic. The relationship between Callitropsis and the New World species of Cupressus was not resolved. Based on the results of the combined analysis, generic circumscriptions were modified: Cupressus was restricted exclusively to Old World species and Callitropsis was expanded to include the New World species previously classified as Cupressus (seventeen new combinations in Callitropsis were made).
25064177|The genus Aristolochia sensu lato contains over 400 species from warm temperate to tropical regions worldwide. Taxonomic treatments of Aristolochia have been ambiguous and controversial. In a recent cladistic analysis based on morphological characters, it was proposed that the genus should be divided into four genera in two subtribes. To reconsider the systematics of Aristolochia sensu lato, we reconstructed its phylogeny based on nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast rbcL gene and the nuclear-encoded phytochrome A (phyA) gene for 19 representative species and the chloroplast matK gene of over 80 species. All phylogenetic trees produced with the three genes indicate that Aristolochia sensu lato is a monophyletic group, consisting of two lineages that correspond to the subtribes Aristolochiinae and Isotrematinae. The matK phylogeny shows that each of the lineages includes two sublineages. The Aristolochiinae clade is composed of the Aristolochia sensu stricto and Pararistolochia clades, and the Isotrematinae clade of the Isotrema and Endodeca clades. Chromosome numbers, including newly reported counts for 30 species, are predominantly congruent with the phylogeny: the Aristolochiinae clade shows chromosome numbers of 2n = 6, 12, 14, or 16, while the Isotrematinae clade is characterized by 2n = 32. In the Isotrematinae clade, the paralogous relationships of the phyA gene suggest that polyploidization might have occurred.
25064178|Ophiochloa bryoides, a new species in the Brazilian endemic genus Ophiochloa, is described and illustrated. It is similar to O. hydrolithica, the only currently known species in this genus, from which it differs because of its diminutive annual habit, the absence of an axillary inflorescence, and the occurrence of a single apical seta on the lower lemma. The affinity of Ophiochloa with Axonopus is briefly discussed. Resumo. Ophiochloa bryoides, uma nova espcie de Ophiochloa, um gnero endmico do Brasil,  descrita e ilustrada. A espcie  relacionada  O. hydrolithica, a nica espcie conhecida desse gnero, da qual difere pelo hbito anual, pelo tamanho diminuto, pela ausncia de uma inflorescncia axilar, e pela ocorrncia de uma nica seta apical no lema inferior. A afinidade de Ophiochloa com Axonopus  discutida brevemente.
25064179|In a recent treatment, the genus Panicum was restricted to subgenus Panicum based on molecular, morphological, and anatomical data. Also, other species of Panicum were transferred to different genera of the Paniceae, such as Dichanthelium, Hymenachne, Phanopyrum, and Steinchisma, while the remaining American species of Panicum were temporarily placed as incertae sedis taxa. Therefore, these incertae sedis species are in need of a new taxonomic status within the tribe. In this study, the taxonomic position of Panicum aristellum, an endemic species of central and southeastern Brazil, is evaluated using morphological and anatomical characters, together with sequence data from ndhF, a molecular marker from the chloroplast. The sequence of Panicum aristellum was analyzed together with other species of the subfamily Panicoideae. This species grouped with the genus Canastra in a well-supported clade. Several synapomorphies characterized the clade: caespitose plants, keeled sheaths, aristate spikelets, scabrous bracts, the number of nerves of the glumes and lower lemma, the presence of a lower palea and lower flower, a non-indurate upper anthecium, and a similar geographical distribution. In addition, both species are
25064180|A new species, Panicum complanatum from southeastern Brazil is described and illustrated, including a key to distinguish it from similar taxa. Panicum complanatum belongs to Panicum subg. Panicum and is characterized mainly by the presence of a regular row of flattened, long hairs at the ventral base of the upper lemma and palea.
25064181|The phylogeny of the Elaeodendron group was inferred in a simultaneous analysis of morphological characters together with nuclear (ITS and 26S rDNA) and plastid (matK, trnL-F region) genes. The circumscription of genera in this group has long been controversial, particularly with respect to Cassine and Elaeodendron. Cassine, narrowly defined so as to include three species native to southern Africa, was unambiguously supported as distinct from Elaeodendron. The widely distributed genus Elaeodendron was supported as a natural group, sister to Pleurostylia. Brexia, which has been variously assigned to the Escalloniaceae, Brexiaceae, and Grossulariaceae, was unambiguously supported as the sister group to the clade of Elaeodendron and Pleurostylia. Preliminary species sampling supported Empleuridium, which had been classified within the Rutaceae, as closely related to Mystroxylon, Pseudosalacia, and Robsonodendron. Allocassine and Lauridia were resolved as closely related to one another, supporting their previously inferred relationship. Maurocenia and Cassine were supported as closely related to one another, with evidence for Maurocenia being nested within Cassine. Lydenburgia abbottii was resolved as closely related to Lydenburgia cassinoides, supporting its transfer from Catha. Three new combinations are made: Elaeodendron bupleuroides (Guillaumin) R.H. Archer, Elaeodendron parvifolium R.H. Archer, and Elaeodendron pininsulare Hrl. subsp. poyaense (I.H. Mller) R.H. Archer.
25064182|Nylandtia (Polygalaceae) is a small South African genus of two or more species distributed mainly in the Cape region. Previous studies based on anatomical, morphological and molecular data have already revealed a close relationship between Nylandtia and Muraltia, a genus of 117 species that is nearly endemic to South Africa. New evidence from molecular studies of family Polygalaceae and genus Muraltia shows that Nylandtia is derived from genus Muraltia, and is nested in Muraltia subgenus Psiloclada. These results have prompted a morphological re-evaluation of the genera Nylandtia and Muraltia, supporting the conclusion that the two species of Nylandtia currently recognized, N. spinosa and N. scoparia, should be included in subgenus Psiloclada within the genus Muraltia. Only one nomenclatural change is necessary: Muraltia spinosa (L.) F. Forest & J. C. Manning, comb. nov.
25064183|Enriquebeltrania, a genus of trees and shrubs endemic to Mexico, traditionally has been included in Euphorbiaceae (tribe Adelieae, subfamily Acalyphoideae). It was previously thought to be monotypic with a disjunct distribution on the Yucatan Peninsula and along the Pacific coast in Jalisco and Sinaloa. There is some question about whether Enriquebeltrania should be treated as distinct from Adelia. Morphological and molecular characters (trnL-F spacer and rbcL DNA sequences) were utilized in phylogenetic analyses to determine if Enriquebeltrania belongs to the tribe Adelieae, to test whether it should be recognized as a genus separate from Adelia, and to determine the number of species that should be recognized. Results indicate that Enriquebeltrania does not belong to tribe Adelieae, that it should be recognized as a genus separate from Adelia, and that it consists of two species. The second species, Enriquebeltrania disjuncta, is named and described here.
25064184|AFLP and morphological data were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of Polylepis (Rosaceae). Results from the morphological analysis correlate well with earlier hypotheses about the evolution of the genus, showing a transition from tall, thin-leaved trees with large inflorescences to small trees with thick leaves and reduced inflorescences. While a basic phylogenetic signal is also discernible in the AFLP analysis, it is partly eclipsed in that samples from different species sometimes cluster according to geographic proximity rather than systematic affiliation. This structure is interpreted as indicative of frequent hybridization and introgression.
25064185|We investigated the colonization of the Indian Ocean archipelago of Socotra through phylogenetic analysis of Aerva (Amaranthaceae) based on nuclear and plastid DNA sequence data. The biogeographic history of the genus was tracked using ancestral area reconstructions and molecular dating. Three independent colonization lineages from the Eritreo-Arabian subregion of the Sudano-Zambesian Region were revealed: one endemic clade comprising Aerva revoluta/A. microphylla and once within A. lanata and A. javanica. Our results provide further support for the dominance of Eritreo-Arabian affinities in the flora of Socotra, in contrast to more rare affinities to Madagascar, the Mascarenes, southern Africa, and tropical Asia. Our data point towards colonization via dispersal, rather than a vicariance origin of the island elements. The overall biogeographic patterns of Aerva show only limited concordance with other taxonomic groups distributed on Indian Ocean islands.
25064186|The Chenopodiaceae includes taxa with both
25064187|The delimitation of the genus Hoya, with at least 200 species distributed from India and China to Australia, from its closest relatives in the Marsdenieae has long been problematic, precluding an understanding of the evolution and biogeography of the genus. Traditional circumscriptions of genera in the Hoya alliance have relied on features of the flower, but these overlap extensively between clades and may be evolutionarily labile. We obtained chloroplast DNA sequences to infer the phylogenetic relationships among a sample of 35 taxa of Hoya and 11 other genera in the tribe Marsdenieae, namely Absolmsia, Cionura, Dischidia, Dregea, Gongronema, Gunnessia, Madangia, Marsdenia, Micholitzia, Rhyssolobium, and Telosma. Trees were rooted with representatives of Asclepiadeae, Ceropegieae, Fockeeae, Periplocoideae, and Secamonoideae. Hoya and Dischidia form a monophylectic group, but the phylogenetic signal in the chloroplast data analyzed here was insufficient to statistically support the mutual monophyly of the two genera. A monophyletic Hoya, however, must include the monotypic Absolmsia, Madangia, and Micholitzia, a result congruent with their flower morphology. The data also identified several well-supported groups within Hoya. The morphologically unusual Gunnessia belongs firmly in the Marsdenieae, but it is not close to Hoya and Dischidia.
25064188|Erato DC. contains five species, distributed from Costa Rica to Bolivia, with its main center of diversity in Ecuador. The revision includes a new species endemic to Costa Rica and Panama, Erato costaricensis E. Moran & V. A. Funk. Morphological and molecular data support Erato as a monophyletic group, sister to Philoglossa. The phylogenetic analysis based on morphology used Munnozia Ruiz & Pavon, Chrysactinium (H.B.K.) Wedd., and Philoglossa DC. as outgroups. The phylogeny supports the monophyly of Erato, but the relationships among the species within Erato have only weak support. The genus is believed to be a recent radiation because of the morphological similarity among the taxa and their location in some of the youngest areas of the Andes. /// El genero Erato contiene 5 especies, distribuidas desde Costa Rica hasta Bolivia, con su centro de distribucin en Ecuador. Este revista incluye una nueva especie que es endmica de Costa Rica y Panam, Erato costaricensis E. Moran & V. A. Funk. Datos morfolgicos y genticos confirman la hiptesis que Erato es un grupo monofiltico hermano a Philoglossa. El anlisis filogentico utiliz Munnozia Ruiz & Pavn, Chrysactinium (HBK) Wedd. y Philoglossa DC. como grupos externos. La filogenia confirma Erato como un grupo monofiltico, pero los relaciones dentro de Erato solo tienen soportes dbiles. Cren que el genero es una radiacin reciente a causa de la semejanzas morfolgicas entre de las especies y porque occurien en unos de los reas mas jvenes de los ndes.
25064189|Hypochaeris is thought to have arrived in South America by dispersal over the Atlantic Ocean from NW Africa during the Pliocene or Pleistocene. We used amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) to unravel specific limits and relationships in the South American group of Hypochaeris (c. 45 species). The Moroccan endemic Hypochaeris angustifolia, which is sister to the entire South American group, was used as outgroup. Our AFLP analysis comprises 415 individuals from 32 South American species and is based on six primer combinations with 670 fragments scored. It provides important information for the delimitation of species and detection of closely related species pairs or groups. Most species are monophyletic and supported with > 90% bootstrap proportion. Hybridization is suggested between Hypochaeris chillensis and H. microcephala in Brazil. The internal nodes (or "backbone") of the tree are not highly supported, but six major phylogenetic groups (also showing similarity in distribution and growth form) center around Hypochaeris apargioides, H. chondrilloides, H. microcephala, H. pampasica, H. sessiliflora, and H. tenuifolia. These results suggest that rapid migration into different geographical regions played an important role in the initial diversification of Hypochaeris in South America.
25064200|Nuclear ribosomal (26S) and chloroplast (trnL-trnF and atpB-rbcL spacer) genomic regions were sequenced from 29 exemplars of Timmiaceae and five outgroup taxa. Phylogenetic hypotheses were tested from analyses of the individual regions and a combined dataset, using both parsimony and Bayesian inference methods. Estimates of branch support were established using bootstrap analyses and Bayesian posterior probabilities. The analyses were used to test the monophyly of the species and the relationships among taxa in Timmiaceae, previously based on morphology. Phylogenetic inferences suggest that Timmia austriaca, T. megapolitana s.s., T. megapolitana subsp. bavarica, and section Norvegica represent monophyletic taxa. Timmia norvegica s.s., T. norvegica var. excurrens, and T. sibirica were non-monophyletic, but together form a single clade. We, therefore, recommend recognizing them as a single taxon, T. norvegica. A key to the taxa is presented.
25064201|The ranges of great camas (Camassia leichtlinii) and small camas (C. quamash) overlap extensively in the western United States. Previous systematic treatments of the genus are inconclusive, as a recent flora classifies C. leichtlinii as a subspecies of C. quamash. We investigated species boundaries and putative hybrid zones at multiple sites in the Willamette Valley of Oregon and in allopatric populations ranging as far north as British Columbia. Genotypic inferences from allozyme electrophoresis of 218 individuals yielded 12 resolvable loci across three buffer systems. Lower mean Nei's genetic identity (I) in interspecific pairwise comparisons (0.76) than in intraspecific comparisons (0.91 for C. quamash and 0.89 for C. leichtlinii) indicates that these taxa are readily distinguishable using allozymes. Furthermore, four alleles uniquely characterize either C. leichtlinii or C. quamash and five additional alleles are common in one species but rare in the other. In different, sympatric populations, C. quamash and C. leichtlinii also varied in interspecific genetic identity (Nei's I = 0.66-0.87), and in the additivity of allozyme patterns for plants identified as putative hybrids based on morphology. Principal Component Analysis (PCA), hybrid indices, and the relatively large interspecific Nei's I suggest that hybrid formation and introgression are discontinuous, occurring extensively only at one site. For all populations, allozyme data support species-level distinction of C. quamash and C. leichtlinii.
25064202|Recent molecular data indicate that "Panicum" section Bulbosa does not belong in the genus Panicum. Previously published phylogenies strongly support its inclusion in the "bristle clade," a monophyletic group in the Paniceae that includes the genera Setaria, Cenchrus, and Pennisetum, among others. The morphological synapomorphy for the clade is the presence of bristles (sterile branchlets) in the inflorescence, but Panicum bulbosum has no bristle-like structures at any stage of development, and is otherwise morphologically quite distinct from any of its close relatives. We have evaluated several possible taxonomic placements for section Bulbosa, reflecting the need to remove it from Panicum. Our conclusion, based on previously published molecular and current morphological data, is to erect a new genus, Zuloagaea, to accommodate section Bulbosa. We have also evaluated whether there are one, two, or three taxa within sect. Bulbosa. We have used principal components analysis of 33 morphological characters and find no distinct morphological groups within the section, and hence conclude that the group represents a single species.
25064203|Floral morphology of 16 species of Gunnera representing all six subgenera is examined and described using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The evolution of 19 flower morphological characters is discussed. Eight of these characters are optimized on a current phylogenetic tree. Character evolution tends to be generally continuous over different clades and several parallel evolutionary patterns of floral reduction can be identified within the family. At one extreme stand species such as G. manicata and G. perpensa with mainly bisexual flowers bearing well-developed sepals and petals, and at the other stand species such as G. magellanica and G. herteri with perianthless staminate flowers, and pistillate flowers with only gynoecia and sepals. In between one finds a range of flower morphologies, bisexual or not, with petals and sepals present or absent, or discernable as reduced organs. Character-state reconstruction and morphological evidence suggest that flowers in Gunneraceae were bisexual in origin with a reduction leading to simple unisexual flowers. Among the examined characters, absence of reduced organs in the other gender, spathulate petals in the staminate flower, long styles, and the presence of well-developed bracts are typical for species of subg. Milligania. Basally connected sepal lobes with a strongly swollen base and reduced blade is found in all species of Panke and in G. magellanica (subg. Misandra). Selected synapomorphies are consistent with the deep phylogenetic division of Gunnera between the New and Old Worlds.
25064204|The North American genus Tidestromia (Amaranthaceae: Gomphrenoideae), with high levels of endemism in the Chihuahuan Desert, is subjected to phylogenetic analysis using 19 morphological characters. Species from genera most closely related to Tidestromia (Alternanthera, Froelichia, Gossypianthus, and Guilleminea), as well as the more distantly related genus Iresine, were used as outgroups. The monophyly of Tidestromia is well supported by four synapomorphies: alternate leaves, dichasial inflorescences, and pollen that is psilate (homoplasious) and with mesoporia that are narrowed distally. The single most parsimonious tree resolved T. valdesiana as sister to the rest of Tidestromia, which is apomorphically diagnosed by the presence of involucres. The annual habit supports a clade comprising T. carnosa, T. lanuginosa, and T. tenella, which is nested among the species with involucres. The phylogenetic relationships of the rest of the taxa remain unresolved. Traditional morphological evidence thus is important for circumscribing the genus Tidestromia, but shows limited utility for resolving species groups within this genus.
25064205|In many arctic-alpine plant groups, reticulate evolutionary histories have resulted in problems with species delimitation and phylogenetic reconstruction. In the Saxifraga rivularis complex (2n = 26, 52), the number of species accepted ranges from a single polymorphic one (S. rivularis s.l.) to several (the circumpolar S. hyperborea, the amphi-Atlantic S. rivularis, the three amphi-Pacific species S. bracteata, S. flexuosa, and S. arctolitoralis, and S. debilis in the Rocky Mountains). A combination of molecular (AFLPs), flow cytometrical, and morphological data from samples covering most of the distribution range was used to delimit taxonomic species and to unravel their evolutionary relationships. Four lineages with distinct morphological differences were recognized, representing four species: the diploids S. bracteata, S. hyperborea (including S. flexuosa), and S. debilis, and the tetraploid S. rivularis (including S. arctolitoralis). Based on a synthesis of the available data we provide a taxonomic revision of the complex and propose one rank change (S. rivularis subsp. arctolitoralis comb. et stat. nov.). Genome sizes as well as the intermediate position of the S. rivularis lineage in the molecular and morphological analyses suggest a single allopolyploid origin from the S. bracteata and the S. hyperborea lineages, most likely in Beringia.
25064206|The monotypic genus Guamatela was originally described from Guatemala and has also been collected in Honduras and Mexico. This taxon has been placed in tribe Neillieae of Rosaceae based on its follicular fruits and persistent stipules, but it is anomalous in the tribe due to lack of endosperm, while some of its other characters, such as opposite leaves, lack of a well developed hypanthium, and fused styles, are unusual for the entire family. No other taxonomic placement has ever been proposed for Guamatela, however, and morphological characters alone do not suggest any likely alternative. DNA was extracted from two herbarium specimens of G. tuerckheimii, one collected in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico in 1969 and the other in the department of El Progreso, Guatemala in 2000. Phylogenetic analyses of the chloroplast rbcL, atpB, and matK genes amplified from the materials, along with sequences from representatives of most major eudicot groups, strongly support Guamatela as a member of the rosid order Crossosomatales, as circumscribed in APG II. None of the molecular data supports the inclusion of Guamatela in any described family in the order, and the unique combination of morphological characters does not fit the description of any of those families. Based on these results, we here propose the new family Guamatelaceae to accommodate this genus.
25064207|Phylogenetic reconstructions in the Mediterranean genus Erodium are for the first time performed using two matrices: one with 96 trnL-trnF sequences from Erodium (90 accessions plus four outgroups) and the other with 72 trnL-trnF sequences plus 23 morphological characters (66 species of a total of 74), using Maximum Parsimony (MP) and Bayesian Inference (BI). An association between reproductive properties (high selfing rates, flower asymmetry, insect-attraction structures), life form, and breeding system distributed in different lineages suggests multiple shifts from allogamy to autogamy in the course of evolution, whereas dioecy has occurred only once. The phylogenetic analyses revealed a remarkable capability for dispersal in Erodium because closely related species occur in different continents. Major lineages containing sublineages of species also from several continents lead us to interpret ancient dispersal activity. Establishment of Mediterranean-like climates in most continents may have been crucial in the evolution of Erodium, as manifested by occurrence of species of the Mediterranean floristic region in the four major lineages. The body of knowledge accumulated from molecular phylogenetics and morphology lead us to conclude that the Mediterranean region harbors the major center of diversity of Erodium, where active radiation in dry, disturbed environments, is still operating.
25064208|Cuphea is an endemic genus of the New World and the most speciose member of the Lythraceae with ca. 260 species classified in two subgenera and 13 sections. As a first attempt to construct a phylogenetic framework for the genus, data from morphology and nuclear ITS sequences for 53 species and four outgroup taxa were analyzed. Independent results employing morphological and molecular datasets confirmed Cuphea as monophyletic with Pleurophora as sister. The morphological strict consensus tree was substantially unresolved. The ITS parsimony and maximum likelihood phylogenies indicated South America as the initial center of diversification and identified a deep trichotomy, one branch of which was equivalent to subg. Cuphea. The ITS analyses also recognized seven well-supported clades, each composed of members from two to four taxonomic sections. Species of section Melvilla appear in five of the seven clades, supporting the hypothesis that the large, intensely-colored, bird-pollinated floral tubes that define the section are convergent, having evolved from smaller, more promiscuously-pollinated, green-tubed flowers. Sixteen endemic North American species have a single South American origin and form the core of a secondary center of Cuphea diversification in Mexico. The ITS analyses provide initial phylogenetic hypotheses for the genus that clarify relationships previously obscured by the highly homoplastic nature of the morphological taxonomic characters.
25064209|A combined parsimony analysis of the species of Phaseolus and closely related New World genera was performed with sequences from the nuclear ribosomal ITS/5.8 S and plastid trnK loci. Species relationships are resolved with high parsimony bootstrap support at all hierarchical levels. All species of Phaseolus, except five enigmatic ones, belong to one of eight clades. These eight clades show some morphological, ecological, or biogeographical distinction, and are informally recognized in a phylogenetic classification. The five enigmatic species, Phaseolus glabellus, P. macrolepis, P. microcarpus, P. oaxacanus, and P. talamancensis are weakly resolved as the sister clade to the Tuerckheimii group. An evolutionary rates analysis that biases for old age estimates suggests that the Phaseolus stem clade is the same age as the New World Phaseolinae crown clade with a maximum age of ca. 8 Ma. The Phaseolus crown is estimated to be no older than ca. 6 Ma, and the average age of the eight well supported crown clades within Phaseolus is ca. 2 Ma. The maximum age estimate of a Late Pliocene to Pleistocene diversification of Phaseolus post-dates the major tectonic activity in Mexico where Phaseolus diversity is centered.
25064210|Pomaria, traditionally placed in Hoffmannseggia or Caesalpinia, is shown to be a well-supported group of 15 species related to the Erythrostemon group of Caesalpinia sensu lato. Monophyly is well supported by analyses of both nuclear and chloroplast DNA data and by the presence of several unique morphological characters. Nine species of the genus are distributed in the arid and montane regions of the southwestern United States and adjacent Mexico, three species occur in temperate eastern South America, and three species are native to southern Africa. The genus thus exhibits both a New World amphitropical and a New World-African amphi-Atlantic distribution pattern. A biogeographical analysis suggests two dispersals within the genus account for the present distribution: one from North America to Africa and second from North America to South America.
25064211|The genus Adenia provides a natural experiment to investigate the evolution of growth form. Within the group, trees, shrubs, herbs, vines, and lianas are present. Using ITS1 + 5.8S + ITS2 sequence data, a phylogeny of 67 of 100 species of Adenia is inferred using parsimony and Bayesian analyses. Specific hypotheses of monophyly are also tested to couch the analyses of growth form evolution within a phylogenetic framework. Within the context of this phylogeny, synapomorphies for major clades are discussed, as are patterns of growth form evolution. Absolute divergence times of nodes are estimated using penalized likelihood, and speciation rate based on these times is inferred to be fast relative to some other lineages of life. By reconstructing evolutionary history on a sample of trees from the posterior distribution of the Bayesian analysis, it is estimated that succulent stems evolved ca. four times, and tubers ca. eight. Transitions between markedly different growth forms occur on the scale of a few hundred thousand to a few million years, and close relatives frequently have different forms with no intermediates. The rapid diversification rates, fast morphological transitions, and multiple origins of water storage tissue in roots and shoots are hypothesized to result from a shared developmental program for water storage tissue that is flexibly turned on and off during evolution in stems and roots.
25064212|A new species of Cipoia (Podostemaceae) from the state of Minas Gerais (Brazil) is described and illustrated: Cipoia ramosa. It is distinguished from the only other species in the genus, C. inserta, by its branched stems, stipules composed of two tooth-shaped appendages adjacent to the leaf base, anther thecae that remain at a prominent angle during and after anthesis, and an ovary that is longer than the stigmas at anthesis. Resumo.  descrita e ilustrada uma nova espcie do gnero Cipoia (Podostemaceae) para o Estado de Minas Gerais (Brasil): Cipoia ramosa. Ela se distingue da outra espcies do gnero, C. inserta, por possuir caule ramificado, estpulas compostas por dois apndices dentados adjacentes  base foliar, tecas que permanecem em ngulo proeminente durante, e depois da antese e ovrio maior do que o estigma na antese.
25064213|Ziziphus comprises approximately 170 species native to the tropics and subtropics. Two economically important species, Z. jujuba and Z. mauritiana, are cultivated for their fruit. Given the economic importance of these two species, we undertook a reexamination of the intrageneric phylogenetic relationships to identify their closest relatives and to test two alternative intrageneric classifications. These two classifications were tested by using a simultaneous analysis of morphological characters together with nuclear (ITS and 26S rDNA) and plastid (trnL-F) genes. The Old World and New World species of Ziziphus formed two separate well-supported clades. The Old World species of Ziziphus are more closely related to Paliurus than to the New World species, thereby rendering Ziziphus paraphyletic. Sarcomphalus is placed within the New World Ziziphus clade, which supports the transfer of Sarcomphalus to Ziziphus. The earlier placement of Condaliopsis in Ziziphus was supported for one species previously placed in Condaliopsis, Z. obtusifolia, but was contradicted for the other Condaliopsis-like species, Z. celata. Ziziphus celata is more closely related to Rhamneae than it is to Paliureae.
25064214|Phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequences from chloroplast regions and nuclear ribosomal ITS was conducted to test the monophyly of Cestrum sect. Habrothamnus and investigate its relationships with other sections of Cestrum. Molecular divergence was very low among the sampled species, suggesting a rapid diversification in Cestrum. Individual and combined analyses of these molecular data sets using maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference reject the monophyly of the traditionally recognized sections of Cestrum, including sect. Habrothamnus. Infrageneric classifications will require significant revision. Nevertheless, the resolved monophyletic clades in this molecular analysis are geographically structured.
25064215|South American Microgyne Less. is resurrected from the synonymy of Microgynella. Microgyne Cass. is a nomen nudum and therefore not validly published. The replacement generic name Microgynella, a homotypic synonym of Microgyne Less., is illegitimate and superfluous. A revision is presented for the two species of Microgyne, one herein described as new. The new species, Microgyne marchesiana, is described from Uruguay and is diagnosed by pinnatifid leaves, whitish pappus, and a thick testa. A neotype is designated for Microgyne trifurcata Less. Detailed descriptions and illustrations are provided for the two species, together with additional data on anatomy.
25064216|Sequence data from the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) were used to infer phylogenetic relationships within a morphologically, karyologically, and geographically well-defined group of species of Campanula (Campanulaceae), the Isophylla group. Although belonging to the same clade within the highly paraphyletic Campanula, the Rapunculus clade, members of the Isophylla group do not form a monophyletic group but fall into three separate clades: (i) C. elatines and C. elatinoides in the Alps; (ii) C. fragilis s.l. and C. isophylla with an amphi-Tyrrhenian distribution; and (iii) the garganica clade with an amphi-Adriatic distribution, comprised of C. fenestrellata s.l., C. garganica s.l., C. portenschlagiana, C. poscharskyana, and C. reatina. Taxa currently classified as subspecies of C. garganica (garganica, cephallenica, acarnanica) and C. fenestrellata subsp. debarensis are suggested to be best considered separate species. The molecular dating analysis, although hampered by the lack of fossil evidence, provides age estimates that are consistent with the hypothesis that the diversification within the garganica clade was contemporaneous with the climatic oscillations and corresponding sea-level changes during the late Pliocene and Pleistocene. Dispersal-vicariance analysis suggests that the garganica clade originated east of the Adriatic Sea, from where it reached the Apennine Peninsula.
25064223|The occurrence of reticulations in the evolutionary history of species poses serious challenges for all modern practitioners of phylogenetic analysis. Such events, including hybridization, introgression, and lateral gene transfer, lead to evolutionary histories that cannot be adequately represented in the form of phylogenetic trees. Although numerous methods that allow for the reconstruction of phylogenetic networks have been proposed in recent years, the detection of reticulations still remains problematic. In this paper we present a Hybrid Detection Criterion (HDC) along with a statistical procedure that allows for the identification of hybrid taxa. The test assesses whether a putative hybrid is consistently intermediate between its postulated parents, with respect to the other taxa. The performance of the statistical method is evaluated using known hybrids of the genus Aphelandra (Acanthaceae) using two network methods: reticulograms and split decomposition graphs. Our results indicate that the HDC test is reliable when used jointly with split decomposition. On the other hand, the test lacks power and provides misleading results when using reticulograms. We then show how the procedure can be used as a tool to identify putative hybrids.
25064224|Using six plastid regions, we present a phylogeny for 26 species of the heterosporous fern genus Marsilea. Two well-supported groups within Marsilea are identified. Group I includes two subgroups, and is relatively species-poor. Species assignable to this group have glabrous leaves (although land leaves may have a few hairs), sporocarps lacking both a raphe and teeth, and share a preference for submerged conditions (i.e., they are intolerant of desiccation). Group II is relatively diverse, and its members have leaves that are pubescent, sporocarps that bear a raphe and from zero to two teeth, and the plants are often emergent at the edges of lakes and ponds. Within Group II, five subgroups receive robust support: three are predominantly African, one is New World, and one Old World. Phylogenetic assessment of morphological evolution suggests that the presence of an inferior sporocarp tooth and the place of sporocarp maturation are homoplastic characters, and are therefore of unreliable taxonomic use at an infrageneric level. In contrast, the presence of a raphe and superior sporocarp tooth are reliable synapomorphies for classification within Marsilea.
25064225|Polystichum has often been treated as a sub-cosmopolitan genus of 180-230 species (i.e., Polystichum s.l.), but several segregate genera, such as Cyrtogonellum, Cyrtomidictyum, Cyrtomium, Phanerophlebia, and Sorolepidium, have been recognized in various treatments. Together, these genera constitute the polystichoid ferns. We used a data set of 47 species of the polystichoid ferns and three outgroups, including new rbcL sequences for six species in Asia, to address their phylogeny. Maximum-parsimony (MP) and Bayesian inference analyses were performed. The polystichoid ferns were resolved to include four major clades, the tropical American Phanerophlebia clade, the Cyrtomium s.s. clade, the Polystichum s.s. clade, and an eastern Asian clade containing Cyrtomium subser. Balansana, Cyrtogonellum, three sections of Polystichum, and Cyrtomidictyum (the BCPC clade). The Cyrtomium s.s. clade included 15 species of the genus but excluded subser. Balansana. The Polystichum s.s. clade was resolved as being monophyletic with relatively low bootstrap support, as long as Sorolepidium is included in Polystichum. The overall topology retrieved by the Bayesian analysis was similar to that of the MP tree, but generally had higher internal support. Based on the molecular phylogeny, three sections of Polystichum s.l., i.e., sect. Sphaenopolystichum, sect. Haplopolystichum, and sect. Crucifilix, may be more closely related to other members of the BCPC group. The eastern Asian BCPC group shared once-pinnate fronds, except for Polystichum sect. Sphaenopolystichum. Morphologically, once-pinnate leaf dissection and reticulate venation appear to be ancestral in the polystichoid ferns.
25064226|Subtribe Bletiinae (Epidendreae, Orchidaceae) is comprised of three neotropical, terrestrial, deciduous genera: Basiphyllaea, Bletia and Hexalectris. Basiphyllaea and Bletia are chlorophyllous, while Hexalectris is mycoheterotrophic. Morphological, molecular (ITS and trnL-F IGS DNA sequences) and combined phylogenetic analyses of subtribe Bletiinae were done to estimate the relationships of the genera and species. The best supported hypothesis of relationships was retrieved from the ITS analysis, which included more taxa than the combined analyses and had more phylogenetically informative characters. Basiphyllaea and Hexalectris are closely related and further studies are recommended to clarify the limits of these genera. In subtribe Blettiinae achlorophyllous plants are derived from chlorophyllous plants and plicate leaves are derived from conduplicate leaves. With regard to stems, coralloid stems were derived from tuberoid stems with small shoots.
25064227|In the present study, several multivariate analyses were carried out to assess the taxonomic relationships among European species of the genus Anthoxanthum. A total of 1787 Anthoxanthum specimens representing all European taxa were analyzed. Thirty macro-morphological (13 quantitative and 17 qualitative) and 29 micro-morphological (7 quantitative and 22 qualitative) characters were considered. First, resemblances between specimens were established independently for macro- and micro-morphological characters using Gower's similarity coefficient, and were represented by means of principal coordinates and cluster analyses. Subsequently, different multivariate analyses were applied to quantitative and qualitative macromorphological data to determine the most discriminant characters and the accuracy of the present taxonomic structure of the genus. Finally, dissimilarities among groups of individuals -species and populations- were estimated using the information radius measure and then represented in different dendrograms. Within annuals, Anthoxanthum gracile is clearly differentiated morphologically, yet no compelling morphological differentiation can be found between Anthoxanthum aristatum and Anthoxanthum ovatum. Moreover, the definition of subspecies in the annual taxa is not supported by our results. Then, within perennials, although the morphological relationships among Anthoxanthum amarum, Anthoxanthum odoratum and Anthoxanthum alpinum have also been resolved, further research is needed to assess the taxonomic position of the Macaronesian endemic Anthoxanthum maderense.
25064228|This study comprised a scanning electron microscope survey of abaxial epidermal features in subfamily Danthonioideae, with emphasis on North American Danthonia. The survey included 21 taxa, encompassing seven genera (Austrodanthonia, Cortaderia, Danthonia, Merxmuellera, Notodanthonia, Rytidosperma, Tribolium) and the eight North American Danthonia species. We investigated micromorphological characters to determine taxonomic utility and whether North American representatives of Danthonia are distinct. We examined micromorphological epidermal features: macrohairs, bicellular microhairs, prickle hairs, silica bodies, and stomata. We found no distinguishing characters at the subfamilial level. Danthonia is characterized by the absence of abaxial stomata and presence of bicellular microhairs with basal and terminal cells of equal length and microhairs with long basal cells relative to terminal cells. Prickle hairs in the abaxial epidermal costal regions of four species of North American Danthonia are reported for the first time.
25064229|Phylogenetic relationships among subfamilies of the well supported PACCAD clade of Poaceae remain uncertain. Several genera such as Micraira and Eriachne were considered incertae sedis in the most recent subfamilial classification of the grasses, but these two genera formed a well-supported clade in an analysis based on chloroplast and structural data. Another genus, Isachne, traditionally classified in the Panicoideae, also formed part of this well-supported clade. Despite strong molecular support for the clade, thus far no morphological synapomorphy has been found. Nevertheless, the strongly supported monophyly of this clade allowed us to suggest the recognition of a new subfamily within the PACCAD clade. Since there was already a name available, in this paper we propose the reinstatement and emendation of the circumscription of Micrairoideae. The reinstatement of Micrairoideae changes the acronym PACCAD to PACCMAD for this large clade of grasses.
25064230|Using ITS and atpB-rbcL spacer sequences of 38 (of 55) species of the highly disjunct Eurasian/North African Epimedium and all three species of its western North American sister genus Vancouveria, we reconstructed the phylogeny of these two genera and dated major splits with a molecular clock approach. Epimedium was found to be monophyletic with a stem age dated to between 9.7 and 7.4 million years ago (My). Within Epimedium, almost all sections as recognized in the most recent classification of the genus were found to be monophyletic but subg. Epimedium was found to be paraphyletic in relation to subg. Rhizophyllum. Range formation in Eurasia proceeded as follows: in a first step, the western Himalayan part of the generic distribution area (sect. Polyphyllon) was separated from the remainder, followed by a split between the Chinese distribution area (sect. Diphyllon) and the remainder, the separation of the highly disjunct range of E. prinnatum from the Caucasus plus E. perralderianum from North Africa (subg. Rhizophyllum) and the remainder, and in a last step the separation of the European E. alpinum plus the Turkish E. pubigerum from the range of the genus in Japan, Korea, northeastern China and Far Eastern Russia (sects. Epimedium and Macroceras). These results imply that the European mountain species are not most closely related to taxa in mountain areas towards the east (e.g., Caucasus, Himalayas) but rather to taxa in the Far East. Accordingly, in Epimedium the link between western Eurasia and eastern Asia apparently was not through intervening mountain regions but probably through a more northerly deciduous forest belt which does not exist any longer. The largest number of species of Epimedium is found in China (sect. Diphyllon: 44 species mainly in Hubei, Sichuan and Guizhou provinces). The age of this clade was dated to 0.52 to 0.4 My. This implies that the diversification of this group probably is the result of frequent range shifts in the Quaternary.
25064231|Geranium subsect. Mediterranea (Geraniaceae) consists of ten species. The highest diversity of the group is located in the Caucasus and neighbouring areas of Turkey and Iran, with five endemic species. Other species reach western Europe and northwestern Africa. In contrast to the current literature, we consider G. montanum and G. ibericum subsp. jubatum to be synonyms of G. ibericum. A univariate morphometric study revealed some valuable quantitative characters useful for the identification of these species. Micromorphological features of pollen, stigmas, seeds, and mericarps were investigated by SEM. A new key is provided, as well as new and detailed descriptions. Geranium Kurdicum is here illustrated for the first time. Eleven lectotypes are designated, and distribution maps are presented. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses of chloroplastic trnL-trnF and ribosomal nuclear ITS regions suggest that sect. Mediterranea is monophyletic. Two clades are recovered, one including the annual species and other with the perennials, in which G. tuberosum (subsect. Tuberosa) emerges within a paraphyletic subsect. Mediterranea. /// Geranium subsect. Mediterranea (Geraniaceae) est formada por diez especies. El Cucaso es la regin ms rica con cinco especies endmicas, pero alguna alcanza incluso el oeste de Europa y noroeste de frica. En este estudio consideramos G. montanum, y G. ibericum subsp. jubatum como sinnimos de G. ibericum. Un anlisis morfomtrico permiti evaluar los caracteres cuantitativos y seleccinar los ms adecuados para la clave de identificacin. Se investigaron tambin las caractersticas micromorfolgicas del polen, el estigma, la semilla y el mericarpo. Se presenta una nueva clave, as como nuevas y detalladas descripciones y mapas de distribucin para cada una de las especies y se eligen once lecttipos. Geranium kurdicum es aqu dibujado por primera vez. Anlisis de mxima parsimonia y bayesianos de las regiones ITS ribosmica nuclear y trnL-trnF cloroplstica sugieren que la sect. Mediterranea es monofiltica. Se recuperan dos clados principales, uno con las especies anuales y otro con las perennes entre las que se incluye G. tuberosum (subsect. Tuberosa) dentro de una subsect. Mediterranea parafiltica.
25064232|The disjunction of the mesic coniferous forests of the Pacific Northwest (PNW) has long been of interest to biogeographers, and several hypotheses have been posed to explain the disjunct distribution pattern. Analysis of intraspecific chloroplast DNA variation (1785 bp of matK and 400 bp of rpl16) in Salix melanopsis allows these hypotheses to be tested. Our study confirmed the existence of three genetic races (uncorrected sequence divergence ranged from 0.7-1.1%) within the species, which differ in distribution and ecology. The mesic race, associated with mesic coniferous forests, was the focus of this study. This race consists of two major lineages (uncorrected sequence divergence ranged up to 0.28%), one of which is associated with an apparent glacial refugium south of glaciation in the northern Rocky Mountains. The three haplotypes that comprise the first lineage are largely segregated into separate river canyons that comprise the "Greater Clearwater Refugium". The other major lineage includes three haplotypes that occur throughout the PNW, except in the core of the Clearwater refugium. Vicariance is implicated in the origin of this latter lineage. Dispersal both before and during the Holocene appears to have occurred: the colonization of the Cascade Range from the Rocky Mountains, and later the dispersal of the Cascade haplotype into the area formerly buried by Cordilleran ice. More limited dispersal of Rocky Mountain haplotypes has resulted in contact zones with elevated haplotype diversity. The results of this study allow us to refine previous phylogeographic hypotheses of the PNW. Phylogenetic relationships within Salix sect. Longifoliae, the group that includes S. melanopsis, were also inferred. The sequence data produced phylogenetic hypotheses that were congruent with those obtained from an earlier analysis of cpDNA restriction site data.
25064233|In 2002, a monophyletic group previously unrecognized within Brassicaceae was identified through phylogenetic analysis of morphological characters in combination with data from three DNA sequences (Bailey et al.: Syst. Bot. 27: 318-332). As understood at that time, the halimolobine alliance (herein tribe Halimolobeae) comprised ca. 44 species from Halimolobos, Mancoa, Pennellia, and Sphaerocardamum. Within this group, a number of nomenclatural problems have remained unaddressed, including the polyphyly of both Halimolobos and Mancoa. With a developing understanding of Brassicaceae phylogeny, the Halimolobeae is robust in the context of higher level analyses and therefore in need of formal nomenclatural revision. The present study uses new and existing data in phylogenetic analyses based on trnL-F, ITS, and pistillata intron 1 data along with SEM studies of Synthlipsis elata and S. greggii to provide the bases for recircumscription of taxa assigned to the Halimolobeae. As recognized herein, the tribe includes five genera [Exhalimolobos, Halimolobos (including Synthlipsis elata), Mancoa, Pennellia, and Sphaerocardamum] and 39 species with two centers of distribution, one in north-central Mexico and the other in the Andes. A synopsis and keys to all taxa of the tribe are presented. Fifteen new combinations are proposed (E. arabioides, E. berlandieri, E. burkartii, E. hispidulus, E. palmeri, E. parryi, E. pazense, E. polyspermus, E. weddellii, H. elatus, H. henricksonii, H. pubens, H. stylosus, P. lechleri, and P. parvifolia).
25064234|Palaua, a genus of 15 species endemic to the fog-influenced lomas formations amidst the coastal deserts of Peru and Chile, is characterized by its unique irregularly arranged, superimposed carpels. The only exception to this character is P. sandemanii, which has carpels arranged in a single whorl, the state observed in the potential sister groups. To investigate the monophyly of Palaua and to compare previous infrageneric classifications in a phylogenetic framework, parsimony and Bayesian analyses were performed using plastid (psbA-trnH intergenic spacer) and nuclear (internal transcribed spacers 1 and 2) DNA sequences. There is evidence for three clades within a monophyletic Palaua: one comprising the two small-flowered species, P. inconspicua and P. modesta, as sister to the rest of the genus, a second uniting all species with dissected leaves, and a third containing the rest of the genus (species with entire to shallowly lobed leaves; except P. guentheri). In contrast to our expectations, P. sandemanii could not be confirmed as sister to the rest of the genus, but rather is nested within a monophyletic Palaua. Parsimony-based reconstruction of the evolution of carpel arrangement showed that there was a change in Palaua from superimposed, irregularly arranged carpels to uniseriate carpels in P. sandemanii; however, Templeton and Shimodaira-Hasegawa tests did not reject the alternative hypothesis that the uniseriate carpels are ancestral. Besides carpel arrangement, leaf division (and not growth form) seems to be an appropriate character for infrageneric classification.
25064235|Morphological and molecular data were analyzed using parsimony to trace character evolution within Anagallis s.l., including Anagallis, Asterolinon, Pelletiera, Lysimachia nemorum, and L. serpyllifolia, which are distributed among two sister clades. The first clade, comprising Anagallis arvensis, A. foemina, A. monelli, Asterolinon, Pelletiera, Lysimachia nemorum, and L. serpyllifolia is supported by synapomorphies such as an annual, repeatedly branching habit, sessile leaves, flowers in almost all leaf axils, and membranous slightly dentate calyx margins, of which all but the last are homoplasious within Anagallis s.l.. The second clade, comprising Anagallis species only, is supported by a large number of synapomorphies, of which the majority are floral features. Placement of ten taxa, for which no DNA was available, is proposed based on morphological characters evaluated in the light of the result of the phylogenetic analysis of sequenced taxa.
25064236|Five new species of Gonolobus (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae) are described from the Lesser Antilles: G. absalonensis, G. dussii, G. iyanolensis, G. waitukubuliensis, and G. youroumaynensis. The species exhibit distinct differences in floral characters, including the structure of corolline and gynostegial coronas. Gonolobus martinicensis is lectotypified. A key to Gonolobus in the Lesser Antilles is provided.
25064237|Labordia lorenciana is described and illustrated from Kaua'i, Hawai'i, U.S.A. This new species most closely resembles the O'ahu endemic species Labordia kaalae C. N. Forbes, from which it differs in having leaf bases deeply cordate to auriculate, adaxial leaf surfaces puberulent, and fruit valves 25-37 mm long, and longitudinally striate. Known from only four individuals, Labordia lorenciana is amongst ca. 120 other rare Hawaiian taxa that are limited to less than 50 individuals and is currently being cultivated for conservation.
25064238|We here describe and illustrate the new species Solanum humboldtianum Granados-Tochoy & S. Knapp and evaluate its conservation status. The species can be categorized as endangered (EN) and is threatened by urban and agricultural expansion and deforestation and is the first Colombian species of Solanum to receive this status. Solanum humboldtianum was first collected by the great naturalists Alexander von Humboldt and Aime Bonpland in the early part of the 19th century, but the specimens have lain unrecognised in herbaria for over 200 years. We document phenology, distribution and other ecological data for the species, and discuss the importance of the unification of herbarium work and in-depth field study of rare taxa such as this. We also discuss the relevance of older collections to the study of biodiversity and conservation today.
25064239|Phylogeny reconstructions based on DNA sequences from nuclear ribosomal internal and external transcribed spacers and plastid trnT-trnF regions were used to examine the taxonomy and biogeography of North American Gaillardia (Asteraceae). Phylogenetic analyses based on maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference criteria consistently recovered several well-supported clades. Gaillardia comosa, G. gypsophila, and G. suavis, forming sect. Agassizia, were placed sister to the rest of Gaillardia, in which the two major clades correspond to sects. Gaillardia and Hollandia. Section Hollandia consists of the Gulf Coast G. aestivalis complex. Three major, well supported clades were consistently recovered in sect. Gaillardia: (1) G. multiceps and G. turneri were sister to an Intermountain clade of G. parry, G. spathulata, and G. flava; (2) a paraphyletic G. pinnatifida and G. arizonica; and (3) G. pulchella, G. aristata, G. amblyodon, G. coahuilensis, G. mexicana, G. henricksonii, and G. powellii. Dispersal-Vicariance Analysis reconstructed a Chihuahuan Desert origin for Gaillardia, an inference consistent with earlier hypotheses. Major range expansions in Gaillardia included the following: (1) eastward expansion into central Texas and along the Gulf Coast in sect. Hollandia; (2) northwestern expansion, resulting ultimately in the Intermountain clade, but including also G. multiceps and G. turneri; (3) northward expansion of the G. pinnatifida complex; (4) easterly and especially northward expansion of G. amblyodon, G. pulchella, and G. aristata; and, possibly, (5) northward expansion onto the Great Plains by G. suavis.
25064243|A fern from Madagascar is described and illustrated as a new species, Elaphoglossum nidusoides. We investigated its phylogenetic relationships within Elaphoglossum based on analyses of three non-coding plastid loci (trnL-trnF, rps4-trnS, atpB-rbcL) in 30 species representative of the diversity of the sections in the genus. Our results show that E. nidusoides belongs to section Squamipedia. This is an unexpected phylogenetic position because the new species has a short-creeping rhizome, phyllopodia, fronds glabrous or nearly so and more than 15 cm long, and lacks the characteristic peg-like aerophores on the rhizome. Nevertheless, its position as sister to another Malagasy species, E. marojejyense, is supported by the succulent fronds.
25064244|Illiciaceae comprise the single genus, Illicium, and approximately 30-40 species distributed in southern and eastern Asia, the southeastern United States, Mexico, and the Greater Antilles. On the basis of perianth morphology, current taxonomic treatments recognize two sections that do not correspond to geographic distributions. A recent phylogenetic study using ITS sequences found strong support for separate Old and New World clades, but did not include all New World species. We elaborate on this previous study by including all known New World species of Illicium, as well as additional Asian species, using ITS and the plastid loci trnL, the trnL-F spacer, and trnG. We estimated divergence times within Illicium using penalized likelihood and multiple fossil calibration points. Our results support separate New and Old World clades, and we re-circumscribe current sectional groupings based on these data. The Illicium crown group appears to have arisen during the Cretaceous, with New World extant taxa diversifying as recently as the late Miocene or early Pliocene. These dates are consistent with recent fossil evidence and molecular estimates for minimum ages of the angiosperms, and for timing of diversification events in other ancient groups, such as Nymphaeales and Chloranthaceae.
25064245|This study presents the first phylogenetic analysis of tribe Chamaedoreeae (Arecaceae), using parsimony and Bayesian analyses of plastid DNA sequences (matK, rps16 intron, 3' region of ndhF, and trnD-trnT). The tribe includes more than 115 species, and has a disjunct distribution with four genera in Central and South America and one genus in the Mascarene Islands. While the placement of Chamaedoreeae within Arecaceae has been controversial, the monophyly of this tribe is well supported by plastid DNA sequence data. All genera in Chamaedoreeae are resolved as monophyletic with high support, but relationships among genera are not fully resolved. The placement of Hyophorbe and the monotypic Wendlandiella as sisters to the remaining genera indicates that solitary flowers and dioecy arose at least twice within this tribe, once in Wendlandiella and once in Chamaedorea. Although a low substitution rate of palm plastid DNA has been widely noted, the results of this study show high resolution at the species level, especially within the largest genus, Chamaedorea, indicating that plastid DNA is useful for the inference of relationships at low taxonomic levels in some groups of palms.
25064246|A cladistic analysis of Lymania was conducted using morphology and sequences from three chloroplast DNA regions: the matK coding region and the psbA-trnH and trnL-trnF intergenic spacers. The monophyly of the genus and the phylogenetic relationships among related genera were examined. Of the nine Lymania species, eight are endemic to southern Bahia, Brazil. Lymania is the first genus in Bromeliaceae subfamily Bromelioideae to be subjected to a combined morphological and molecular analysis. The genera of Bromelioideae have been particularly difficult to classify and there has been disagreement about their interrelationships and monophyly. Morphological data show better resolution than molecular data alone. The partition homogeneity test supported a combined analysis of the two data sets, yielding a single most parsimonious tree. In the combined analysis, monophyly of Lymania is moderately supported, and the genus is closely related to species of Aechmea subg. Lamprococcus and subg. subg. Ortigiesia. The morphological distinctiveness coupled with low molecular divergence indicates relatively recent and rapid speciation within Lymania. The combined analysis of morphological and molecular data as done in this study provides a framework for future research on other Bromelioideae genera that could foster better taxonomic rearrangements.
25064247|Proteoideae (27 genera, 655 species) are one of the largest clades in the early-diverging eudicot family Proteaceae and are distributed in Australia, New Caledonia, and Africa. New palynological observations using scanning and transmission electron microscopy are reported for 15 genera and 49 species, which complement previous work on the subfamily. These are integrated with an extensive review of all literature data available to provide a summary of pollen morphology and variation in each genus of Proteoideae, using a new rigorous method of character scoring. The results are discussed in the context of recent phylogenetic analyses of Proteaceae. The monophyletic Leucadendreae, comprising two Australian genera and a large clade of 10 southern African genera, appear to be relatively homogenous in pollen morphology, especially in ultrastructure of the apertural region. In addition, two other african genera, Faurea and Protea, share very similar pollen characters, some of which appear to be apomorphic, consistent with strong phylogenetic evidence for their sister group relationship. Beauprea, Eidothea, Faurea, Protea, and Stirlingia share a distinct pattern of foot layer disintegration at the apertural region and complete lack of endexine. The occurrence of the same apertural type in the early-diverging Persoonioideae suggests that it is plesiomorphic in Proteoideae and Proteaceae as a whole. This study highlights the phylogenetic potential of ultrastructural characters in Proteaceae and high levels of homoplasy and polymorphism in other characters including pollen shape and tectum sculptural patterns.
25064248|Most floral diversity in the core eudicots is based on a groundplan that includes among its most distinctive elements a bipartite perianth and pentamerous merosity combined with a bicarpellate gynoecium. To obtain insights into the origins of this groundplan, the evolution of its structural components in Hamamelidoideae (Hamamelidaceae, Saxifragales, core eudicots) is explored. Phylogenetic hypotheses were obtained from independent analyses of morphological and molecular data, and from two alternative approaches to integrating morphological and molecular data from living and fossil taxa. In spite of the large numbers of missing data cells, fossils were unambiguously placed within particular clades in the well resolved but poorly supported trees obtained from morphological data. Phylogenetic analyses of individual and combined molecular data sets using different optimization criteria resulted in congruent trees that share most strongly supported nodes. No well-supported incongruence existed among the morphological and molecular trees. A total evidence analysis including only complete taxa was congruent with molecular trees, but resolution decreased substantially as incomplete taxa and incomplete characters were included. A parsimony analysis of morphological data constrained with the strongly supported nodes from the total evidence tree resulted in the same backbone relationships as the molecular trees and in the unambiguous placement of fossil taxa; however, relationships within some clades were unique. The floral characters of ancient fossils and their nested placement in the phylogeny indicate stasis in floral structure since the origin of major lineages of Hamamelidoideae. Individual elements of floral structure display independent evolutionary histories, suggesting that the core eudicot floral groundplan evolved through the accretion of components which originated at different points during angiosperm history: some outside the eudicots, and others, namely the bipartite perianth and the pentamerous merosity, most likely within core eudicots.
25064249|Phylogenetic relationships among the tribes of Onagraceae were studied using sequences of PgiC, a nuclear gene encoding cytosolic phosphoglucose isomerase. Fragments of 21 genes were examined from plants of 15 species representing 11 of the 17 genera in the family and seven of the eight tribes (the newly proposed Gongylocarpeae was not studied). Maximum likelihood analysis provided a phylogenetic tree with 100% bootstrap support for all but one of the clades that indicate tribal relationships, and corroborated results of recent studies based on chloroplast genes and nuclear ITS sequences. PgiC appears to have a greater rate of divergence than the chloroplast genes and provides much phylogenetically useful data. Two PgiC genes were found in each of the two species sampled in Epilobium; they formed two sister clades, with each species having one gene of each type, showing that the species descended from a single ancestral tetraploid. The two species, E. brachycarpum and E. canum, are not closely related, and previous studies showed that the smallest clade including both contained six of the seven sections of Epilobium. Thus, all species of Epilobium except those in section Epilobium (which was not studied) share a common tetraploid origin, refuting the "Stebbins/Raven" model of the origin of tetraploidy in this genus.
25064250|A long history of hybridization and introgression in the evolution of Betula has made the use of chloroplast genes to infer interspecific relationships prone to errors. Single and low copy nuclear genes, however, may offer some hope for accurately reconstructing phylogenetic relationships of Betula and inferring the origin of polyploid species. In this study, sequences of the third intron of nuclear nitrate reductase (Nia) were used to estimate relationships of known diploid species of Betula. Two distinct types of the Nia gene were observed in Betula. Sequences of one type were gathered from all sampled species; those of the second type, obtained from only B. nana, were not used in phylogenetic analyses. Cloned sequences of the Nia gene varied little within individuals or species. Maximum parsimony and likelihood analyses generated robust phylogenies with similar relationships. Betula alnoides and B. maximowicziana of subgenus Betulaster formed a well supported clade, which is characterized by the racemose pistillate inflorescence. Shrubby species (B. nana and B. michauxii) of a traditionally recognized group did not form a clade. Instead, B. nana was most closely related to white-barked species (e.g., B. pendula, B. platyphylla, and B. populifolia) and together they formed a clade with B. nigra. In contrast, B. michauxii is closely allied with B. lenta. Our results suggest that subgenera Betulaster and Betula are monophyletic, while subgenera Chamaebetula and Neurobetula are polyphyletic.
25064251|The genus Rosa (roses) comprises approximately 190 shrub species distributed widely throughout the temperate and subtropical habitats of the northern hemisphere. Despite numerous recent studies examining phylogenetic relationships in the genus, relationships remain obscure due to problems such as poor identification of garden specimens, hybridization in nature and in the garden, and low levels of chloroplast and nuclear genome variation. Phylogenetic analyses of non-coding chloroplast sequences from the trnL-F region and psbA-trnH intergenic spacer for 70 taxa show slightly more variation than previous analyses of the genus. Bayesian and parsimony analyses suggest that subg. Rosa can be divided into two large clades, each with low internal resolution. One comprises species from sections Carolinae, Cinnamomeae and Pimpinellifoliae p.p., whilst the other consists of all of the remaining sections of subg. Rosa (Banksianae p.p., Bracteatae, Caninae, Indicae, Laevigatae, Rosa, Synstylae and Pimpinellifoliae p.p.). A fairly complete sampling of field-collected North American taxa has been incorporated in this analysis. Analyses indicate that migration into North America occurred at least twice within this primarily Old World genus. Most North American taxa, except R. setigera and R. minutifolia, fall into a single clade that includes Asian and European taxa. Analyses also are consistent with the notion that cultivated commercial roses have a relatively narrow genetic background. Six of the seven primary taxa believed to be involved in the creation of domesticated roses are found within the same large clade that mostly includes Asian and European taxa.
25064252|A phylogenetic analysis of Rhus (Anacardiaceae) was conducted using nuclear and chloroplast sequences. The nuclear (Nia-i3) and chloroplast (trnC-trnD) sequence data generated in this study were compared with previously published phylogenies of Rhus based on nuclear ribosomal ITS data and chloroplast trnL-F and ndhF sequences. The Nia-i3 data provided more parsimony-informative characters than ITS; the trnC-trnD data provided the most parsimony-informative characters among three chloroplast markers. All data sets support the monophyly of Rhus. Within Rhus, nuclear data support the monophyly of subgen. Lobadium and the monophyly of subgen. Rhus. Chloroplast data suggest a paraphyletic subgenus Lobadium with R. microphylla and R. rubifolia of subgen. Lobadium placed within subgen. Rhus. Rhus coriaria and R. michauxii of subgen. Rhus also have discordant positions in cpDNA and nuclear trees. Each species with discordant positions (R. coriaria, R. microphylla, R. michauxii and R. rubifolia) has a single allele or different alleles of the same species forming a monophyletic group in the nuclear ITS and Nia-i3 data. Incongruence among nuclear and chloroplast datasets, together with the phylogenetic positions, sympatric distributions, and morphological intermediacy of discordant taxa, suggest possible reticulate evolution among members of Rhus.
25064253|The gypsophilic flora of the Chihuahuan Desert forms a large and potentially old edaphic assemblage. We examine the age and biogeography of gypsophily in Tiquilia subg. Eddya, a Chihuahuan Desert plant group entirely composed of gypsophiles (restricted to gypsum) and gypsovags (growing on and off gypsum). A strongly supported phylogeny of the subgenus was generated using sequence data from matK, ndhF, rps16, ITS, and waxy. Combined analyses of these data suggest that the most recent common ancestor of subg. Eddya was a gypsovag and that gypsophily has evolved twice. Individual DNA sequence region analyses that include a broad geographic sampling of all species in the subgenus reveal a complex evolutionary history shared among the narrowly distributed gypsophiles T. tuberculata and T. turneri and the gypsovags T. gossypina and T. mexicana, including putative hybridization. They also reveal a high level of geographically correlated intraspecific variation in the widespread gypsophile T. hispidissima. Gypsophily is inferred to have been present in subg. Eddya by the early Pliocene. The concordance of the biogeographic patterns of gypsophily in subg. Eddya with that of other Chihuahuan Desert gypsophiles suggests that a broad phylogeographic pattern may be shared among many gypsophilic plant groups in this region.
25064254|The taxonomy and phylogenetic position of Thomandersia were investigated through a comprehensive study of herbarium specimens and analyses of DNA sequence and non-sequence data. Phylogenetic analysis of all available evidence placed Thomandersia within Lamiales but outside Acanthaceae, the family in which it has traditionally been classified. Moreover, Thomandersia is shown to be a morphologically distinct clade, lying outside all currently circumscribed families of Lamiales. We therefore propose resurrection of family Thomandersiaceae. Phylogenetic analyses provide moderate support for a sister group relationship between Thomandersiaceae and Schlegeliaceae. In addition, the morphological variation within and between species is described and six species are recognized. A new taxonomic treatment of these six species, including an improved key, descriptions, illustrations and distribution maps, is provided.
25064255|Solanum, with approximately 1,500 species, is the largest genus in the Solanaceae and includes economically important species such as the tomato, potato, and eggplant. In part due to its large size and tropical center of diversity, resolving evolutionary relationships across Solanum as a whole has been challenging. In order to identify major clades within Solanum and to gain insight into phylogenetic relationships among these clades, we sampled 102 Solanum species and seven outgroup taxa for three DNA sequence regions (chloroplast ndhF and trnT-F, and nuclear waxy) and analyzed the data using parsimony and Bayesian methods. The same major Solanum clades were identified by each data partition, and the combined analysis provided the best resolved hypothesis of relationships within the genus. Our data suggest that most traditionally recognized Solanum subgenera are not monophyletic. The Thelopodium clade is sister to the rest of Solanum, which is split into two large clades. These two large clades are further divided into at least 10 subclades, for which informal names are provided and morphological synapomorphies are proposed. The identification of these subclades provides a framework for directed sampling in further phylogenetic studies, and identifies natural groups for focused revisionary work.
25064256|Tetraplasandra, Reynoldsia, and Munroidendron form a complex of closely related genera (14 species) distributed from Tahiti, Samoa, and the Marquesas, to the Hawaiian archipelago. In this paper, we investigate evolutionary relationships within this group using morphological and DNA sequence variation to test the monophyly of the Hawaiian species (the Tetraplasandra group), generic limits of Tetraplasandra, Reynoldsia, and Munroidendron, and the validity of current classifications. Parsimony analyses using two molecular markers, the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and the 5S non-transcribed spacer (5S-NTS) of the nuclear rDNA genes, and 39 morphological and anatomical characters were conducted using all species of Tetraplasandra (excluding the recently resurrected species T. lydgatei), Reynoldsia, and Munroidendron, plus three species (four for morphological data) of the outgroup genus Gastonia. The results support a monophyletic Hawaiian Tetraplasandra group, a sister relationship between Munroidendron and R. sandwicensis, and a polyphyletic Reynoldsia. Here we build on previous molecular analyses of the Tetraplasandra group and propose the next steps necessary to recognize new generic boundaries. Changes in floral morphology within Tetraplasandra correspond to monophyletic groupings. Species with hypogynous flowers cluster together and species with floral characters suggestive of ornithophily cluster together.
25064257|We used parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of chloroplast DNA to examine the relationships of native North American Hieracium (hawkweeds; Asteraceae) with non-native Hieracium species being studied for classical biological control. Thirty-six taxa were included; these representing the three morphologically-based subgenera: Pilosella from Eurasia, the circumboreal Hieracium, and Chionoracium from North and South America. Results from the trnT-F and petN-psbM sequence data strongly support the morphologically based classifications. An exception is the placement of H. canadense within subgenus Chionoracium, rather than subgenus Hieracium, which may be due to chloroplast capture. Placement of the genus Andryala within Hieracium subgenus Pilosella is also supported. Additionally, species in subgenus Pilosella targeted for classical biological control are still supported as being in a separate subgenus from native North American taxa.
25064261|A new rheophytic liverwort species, Lejeunea topoensis (Lejeuneaceae), is described from the Andes of Ecuador and southern Brazil. The new species is intermediate between Lejeunea and Neopotamolejeunea, combining short leaf insertions typical of the former genus, and robust stems and pinnate branching with numerous short sexual branches characteristic of the latter. Neopotamolejeunea is therefore reduced to subgeneric status under Lejeunea. The discovery of L. topoensis adds a further species to the growing list of taxa with disjunct distribution in the Andes and the Atlantic coastal region of Brazil. It is postulated that the disjunct range resulted from long-distance dispersal, although it might to some extent reflect under-representation of collections. The new name L. juruana, replacing Neopotamolejeunea uleana, is proposed. Cheilolejeunea rupestris is a new synonym of C. beyrichii.
25064262|To clarify long-standing disagreements about the taxonomic and phylogenetic status of Sphagnum macrophyllum and S. cribrosum, twenty-five samples of S. macrophyllum and twenty-four of S. cribrosum, including the rare wave-form morphotype, were sampled from ten states of the eastern United States. The data set included intensive sampling from three populations in North Carolina. Three anonymous genomic regions (rapdA, rapdB and rapdF) were sequenced for all the samples; two (nuclear) LEAFY introns (LEAFY1 and LEAFY2) and one chloroplast locus (trnG) were sequenced for all the samples excluding the twenty-two within-population North Carolina samples. The results showed that S. macrophyllum and S. cribrosum are reciprocally monophyletic with maximum parsimony bootstrap support and significant Bayesian posterior probabilities. Genetic analyses based on neutral coalescence models suggest that the simplest allopatric speciation model-the isolation model with no subsequent gene flow and constant population sizes-cannot be rejected. Nevertheless, some topological conflicts among loci suggest the possibility of limited interspecific hybridization. This study also showed that the morphologically distinctive wave-form is nested within S. cribrosum and wave-form samples from Singletary Lake make up a clade of nearly identical plants. Interestingly, S. macrophyllum and S. cribrosum are morphologically highly similar but are reciprocally monophyletic and highly differentiated, whereas the unique and morphologically divergent wave-form is genealogically derived from within normal S. cribrosum.
25064263|Cheilanthoid ferns have a worldwide distribution and are found in rocky and seasonally dry habitats. Difficulty in deciphering natural lineages of cheilanthoids has been attributed to morphological convergence associated with adaptation to xeric environments. The goal of this study was to investigate the monophyly of the genus Pellaea by generating a DNA sequence-based cheilanthoid phylogeny. DNA sequences of the chloroplast rps4 gene and rps4-trnS intergenic spacer (IGS) were generated from 105 exemplars; chloroplast trnL-F IGS sequences were also generated from 60 of these samples. Results show that Pellaea sensu Tryon and Tryon is polyphyletic; Pellaea sections Holcochlaena and Ormopteris are distant relatives of sections Pellaea and Platyloma and have closer relationships with Doryopteris. A monophyletic circumscription of "pellaeoid" ferns is here defined to include traditional P. sect. Pellaea, P. sect. Platyloma, Astrolepis, and elements of Paragymnopteris and Paraceterach, all of which form a clade sister to Argyrochosma. Several other novel systematic implications of cheilanthoid relationships are also presented. The distribution of base chromosome numbers across the cheilanthoid phylogeny reveals potential synapomorphies of x = 29 for the pellaeoid clade and x = 27 for Argyrochosma, and suggests a trend toward reduction in base number during cheilanthoid evolution. Current geographic distribution of cheilanthoid ferns suggests a history of multiple introductions into the Old World from several ancestral New World lineages.
25064264|Peach palm (Bactris gasipaes Kunth.) is the only Neotropical palm domesticated since pre-Columbian times. It plays an important role not only at the local level due to its very nutritious fruits, but also in the international market for its gourmet palm heart. Phylogenetic relationships of the peach palm with wild Bactris taxa are still in doubt, and have never been addressed using molecular sequence data. We generated a chloroplast DNA phylogeny using intergenic spacers from a sampling of cultivars of Bactris gasipaes as well as putative wild relatives and other members of the genus Bactris. We estimated phylogenetic relationships using maximum parsimony (MP), maximum likelihood (ML), and Bayesian analysis. Our results indicated a close affinity between three taxa: Bactris gasipaes var. gasipaes, B. gasipaes var. chichagui, and B. riparia. There was no clear differentiation between these three taxa at the level of chloroplast sequences, and they shared a unique inversion that we characterized in this paper. Bactris setulosa, a species potentially related to the Bactris gasipaes complex, appeared highly divergent, and seemed to be a composite taxon with affinities outside the complex. We also investigated nuclear microsatellite polymorphisms at 8 loci within Bactris gasipaes, B. riparia, and B. setulosa, finding a pattern of relationships in agreement with the cpDNA data. The results presented here are important for future studies on domestication and crop improvement of Bactris gasipaes.
25064265|Molecular phylogenetic analyses using the chloroplast marker ndhF and a single copy nuclear marker, knotted1, show that the panicoid grasses bearing sterile branches (bristles) in their inflorescences form a monophyletic group. The genus Cenchrus is monophyletic, and monophyly of Pennisetum cannot be ruled out. Setaria is not monophyletic, either as a whole, excluding the palm-leaved species from section Ptychophyllum, or excluding various uncertainly placed species such as S. grisebachii. There is also no evidence that Setaria and Paspalidium form a monophyletic group. The Australian genera Zygochloa, Spinifex, and Pseudoraphis are placed in the 'bristle clade', confirming that inflorescences of these grasses are homologous with the inflorescences composed of spikelets and sterile branchlets (bristles). Comparison of the nuclear and chloroplast gene trees identifies several taxa as tetra- or higher polyploids; these are confirmed by southern hybridization. In particular, the Australian species of Paspalidium are allopolyploid, a novel and unexpected result. Zuloagaea bulbosa, a species that lacks the synapomorphic bristles in its inflorescence, is confirmed as a morphologically anomalous member of the clade, and is clearly allopolyploid. This study demonstrates the utility of knotted1 as a phylogenetic marker; we show that it is single copy in diploid taxa and that it exhibits adequate variation to distinguish closely related species. Interestingly, inflorescence morphology correlates only partially with relationships suggested by either nuclear or chloroplast trees, suggesting that inflorescence form is easily changed over evolutionary time.
25064266|The tribe Stipeae occurs in temperate and warm temperate grasslands of Eurasia, Australia, and America. Although generic circumscription within the tribe has recently undergone significant changes, the American genus Piptochaetium has been clearly defined by morphological and anatomical characters. It includes 36 species and 2 varieties, most of them widely distributed in temperate grasslands of South America. Phylogenetic analyses were conducted in Piptochaetium and allied genera of the Stipeae, in order to test the monophyly of the genus, re-examine infrageneric taxa, and analyze relationships among species of this genus and allied genera of Stipeae. Two chloroplast molecular markers, trnL-F and rpl16, as well as morphology were used. Topology between morphological and molecular data mainly differs in the relationships of Piptochaetium with Anatherostipa and Piptatherum. Molecular and combined analyses yielded two major clades in the tribe: the x = 11 Clade with Piptochaetium, Aciachne, Anatherostipa, and Jarava vaginata, and the Aneuploid Clade with Jarava, Nassella, and Piptatherum. Monophyly of Piptochaetium was confirmed by morphological and total evidence (morphology and DNA data) analyses. Monophyly of sect. Podopogon, sect. Piptochaetium and Nassella were only supported by the total evidence analysis. Circumscription of Jarava is also discussed.
25064267|Misodendrum comprises eight species of aerial hemiparasites endemic to temperate forests of Chile and Argentina that parasitize Nothofagus. This mistletoe is unique in that it has feathery staminodes on its wind dispersed achenes. Previous classifications included two subgenera, Misodendrum (two sections) and Angelopogon (three sections). The present study tested this classification using two chloroplast genes (trnL-F and matK) and 31 morphological characters. Maximum parsimony, likelihood and Bayesian analyses were performed for individual and combined partitions. Results from analyses of the separate partitions differed only in the positions of M. linearifolium and M. quadriflorum; however, the 2-gene tree gave higher support for M. quadriflorum as sister to all other species. Misodendrum brachystachyum and M. oblongifolium form a well supported clade that is sister to one composed of M. punctulatum, M. gayanum, and M. angulatum. These phylogenetic relationships generally agree with previous taxonomic classifications. Subgenus Misodendrum, characterized by warty stems and two stamens, here resolves as a polytomy: M. punctulatum, M. gayanum, and M. angulatum. Subgenus Angelopogon, characterized by the plesiomorphies three stamens and foliacious bracts, is paraphyletic given our rooting. Misodendrum brachystachyum and M. oblongifolium (section Archiphyllum) differ morphologically only by the length of their fruiting staminodes.
25064268|We undertook a phylogenetic study of the genus Piptadenia with a sample of 18 of ca. 27 recognized species using DNA sequences from the plastid trnL-F and trnK/matK regions. Parsimony jackknife results support the hypothesis that Piptadenia is polyphyletic and that there are three independent lineages. The largest groups of species form a monophyletic lineage that is sister to Mimosa and corresponds closely to Piptadenia section Piptadenia sensu Barneby. Three species (P. obliqua, P. moniliformis, and P. leucoxylon) of section Pityrocarpa are sister to species of Pseudopiptadenia in a lineage with Parapiptadenia, Microlobius and Stryphnodendron. Piptadenia viridiflora is distantly related to sects. Piptadenia and Pityrocarpa. Section Piptadenia is characterized by the presence of prickles (aculei), a potential synapomorphy linking it to Mimosa, and exserted, racemose or paniculiform inflorescences of aggregated spikes. Piptadenia viridiflora has stipular spines and 1-2 axillary, spicate primary inflorescences. Species of sect. Pityrocarpa are unarmed trees (sometimes with hardened, persistent stipules) whose flowers have recurved petals and an ovary on a long gynophore. We recommend that Piptadenia viridiflora be removed to a new genus, and that Piptadenia be restricted to the other species of sect. Piptadenia. We resurrect the generic name Pityrocarpa to encompass the Pityrocarpa clade and make the following new combinations: Pityrocarpa moniliformis, Pityrocarpa obliqua ssp. brasiliensis, and Pityrocarpa leucoxylon.
25064269|Two new African species of Acalypha (Euphorbiaceae subfamily Acalyphoideae) are described and illustrated. Acalypha guineensis from Guinea and Sierra Leone is most similar to A. manniana, from which it differs by its smaller size, shorter peduncles on the pistillate inflorescences, smaller pistillate bracts with shorter and fewer teeth that are broadly triangular rather than linear-triangular, and velutinous rather than setose ovaries. Acalypha cupricola, endemic to copper-rich soils in the southern Democratic Republic of the Congo, belongs to the same species group as A. clutioides, A. dikuluwensis, and A. fuscescens, but can be distinguished from all three by its greater stature and more densely pubescent leaves. This name previously was a nomen nudum, and we also review other invalid names published by Robyns with A. cupricola.
25064270|A comprehensive taxonomic revision of the genus Adelia (Euphorbiaceae s.s.) is presented. Although fourteen species have previously been recorded in the genus, we recognize only nine species based on observations of herbarium material and living plants. The utility of specific taxonomic characters is also evaluated, with particular emphasis on leaf characters as well as characters from staminate and pistillate flowers. Detailed taxonomic descriptions are given for every species including phenological data and iconography. Adelia tenuifolia is excluded from the genus, because it was concluded that it belongs in Bernardia as initially described.
25064271|Mespilus and Crataegus are sister genera in Rosaceae tribe Pyreae. Mespilus has been seen to comprise not only the medlar, Mespilus germanica, of western Eurasia but also the Arkansas, U.S.A. endemic, Mespilus canescens. Crataegus, on the other hand, consists of 140-200 species found throughout the northern hemisphere. Diagnoses of these two genera rely on morphological features of leaves, flowers and fruits. However, character states supposed to be diagnostic of Mespilus occur in species of Crataegus. We used two nuclear (ribosomal ITS and LEAFY intron2) and four intergenic chloroplast DNA regions (trnS-trnG, psbA-trnH, trnH-rpl2, and rpl20-rps12) to estimate the phylogeny of Mespilus and Crataegus. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analyses all corroborate the sister group relationship between Crataegus and Mespilus, and Crataegus brachyacantha sister to the rest of Crataegus. However, incongruence between chloroplast and nuclear data supports the hypothesis of a hybrid origin for Mespilus canescens, with Crataegus brachyacantha or its ancestor as the maternal parent. Accordingly, we (1) restric Crataegus section Brevispinae to Crataegus brachyacantha (2) distinguish the Arkansas endemic as a nothospecies; (3) describe a new section and a new nothosection within Crataegus to contain the former species of Mespilus and Crataemespilus; and (4) make two new combinations under Crataegus.
25064272|Gelsemiaceae consist of two intercontinental disjunct genera: Gelsemium (3 species) and Mostuea (9 species). Gelsemium is distributed in eastern Asia and eastern North America, while Mostuea is disjunct between South America and Africa. In this study, sequences of three chloroplast genes (ndhF, rbcL, and matK) and the external transcribed spacer (ETS) of the ribosomal DNA region were used to examine phylogenetic relationships of Gelsemiaceae. Our results support the monophyly of Gelsemiaceae, Mostuea, and Gelsemium; however, more data are needed to resolve relationships of Gelsemiaceae with other families of Gentianales. Within Mostuea, M. surinamensis of South America is sister to the clade containing African species, indicating that it is unlikely that M. surinamensis is an introduced species from Africa since the morphology of the species is also different from all of the African species. North American species of Gelsemium form a clade that is sister to G. elegans of eastern Asia, which is consistent with flower and fruit morphology. Both Mostuea and Gelsemium show the most common phylogenetic patterns of intercontinental disjunct genera: reciprocal monophyly of species on separate continents.
25064273|Phylogenetic relationships among species of the large genus Ruellia (Acanthaceae) have never been studied. Ruellia, with approximately 300 species, is geographically widespread and morphologically diverse. Molecular data for 196 specimens from the nuclear ribosomal ITS region and the chloroplast trnG-trnR region were used to test monophyly of the genus against closely related genera in Ruellieae, to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships among species of Ruellia on a global scale, to re-evaluate previous morphology-based classifications, and to examine the utility of morphological characters, especially corolla morphology, for future sectional delimitation. Bayesian and parsimony analyses indicate four genera are evolutionarily allied to Ruellia. Acanthopale is sister to Ruellia s. l. with strong support. Blechum, Eusiphon, and Polylychnis are nested within Ruellia s. l., and species in Eusiphon and Polylychnis are here formally transferred to Ruellia resulting in the new combinations Ruellia geayi and Ruellia fulgens. Ruellia s. l., including Blechum, Eusiphon, and Polylychnis, is monophyletic but only weakly supported by parsimony. Within Ruellia, Old World taxa form a basal grade and New World taxa are monophyletic and nested within the Old World grade. Alternative hypotheses involving non-monophyly of New World Ruellia were significantly less parsimonious and less likely. Within New World Ruellia, many clades are informally recognized, several of which reflect previous taxonomic groupings to some extent. Constraining all putatively hummingbird-pollinated taxa to monophyly was strongly rejected. This suggests that corolla morphology has undergone convergent evolution and is therefore likely an inappropriate character for sectional delimitation, contrary to previous use.
25064274|Tabebuia is one of the most commonly encountered genera of Bignoniaceae in the neotropics. Previous research has suggested that this genus may be paraphyletic and contain the tribe Crescentieae. Molecular sequence data of the chloroplast trnL-F and ndhF regions were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of Tabebuia, Crescentieae and related genera. A previously unrecognized clade of Neotropical, arboreal Bignoniaceae characterized by palmately compound leaves was identified and is referred to as the Tabebuia alliance. Within this group, Tabebuia is confirmed to be paraphyletic, since it includes Crescentieae, Spirotecoma, and Ekmanianthe. The position of Zeyheria, Godmania, and Cybistax with relation to Tabebuia is equivocal. Sparattosperma is sister to the rest of the Tabebuia alliance. Spirotecoma is inferred to be sister to Crescentieae. The phylogeny of Tabebuia presented here corresponds to the species groups established by Gentry, while at the same time highlighting the need for taxonomic revisions. When considered on a biogeographic scale, the phylogeny indicates a minimum of four dispersal events from the mainland to the Greater Antilles.
25064275|Recent molecular studies have shown Tabebuia to be polyphyletic, thus necessitating taxonomic revision. These revisions are made here by resurrecting two genera to contain segregate clades of Tabebuia. Roseodendron Miranda consists of the two species with spathaceous calices of similar texture to the corolla. Handroanthus Mattos comprises the principally yellow flowered species with an indumentum of hairs covering the leaves and calyx. The species of Handroanthus are also characterized by having extremely dense wood containing copious quantities of lapachol. Tabebuia is restricted to those species with white to red or rarely yellow flowers and having an indumentum of stalked or sessile lepidote scales. The following new combinations are published: Handroanthus arianeae (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. billbergii (Bur. & K. Schum). S. Grose subsp. billbergii, H. billbergii subsp. ampla (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. botelhensis (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. bureavii (Sandwith) S. Grose, H. catarinensis (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. chrysanthus (Jacq.) S. Grose subsp. chrysanthus, H. chrysanthus subsp. meridionalis (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. chrysanthus subsp. pluvicolus (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. coralibe (Standl.) S. Grose, H. cristatus (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. guayacan (Seemann) S. Grose, H. incanus (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. lapacho (K. Schum.) S. Grose, H. pulcherrimus (Sandwith) S. Grose, H. pumilus (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. riodocensis (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. selachidentatus (A. H. Gentry) S. Grose, H. serratifolius (Vahl) S. Grose, H. spongiosus (Rizzini) S. Grose, H. subtilis (Sprague & Sandwith) S. Grose and H. uleanus (Kraenzl.) S. Grose.
25064276|To test the hypotheses that Oreomyrrhis species form the sister clade of North American Chaerophyllum and thus render the mainly Eurasian Chaerophyllum paraphyletic, two chloroplast intergenic spacers (atpB-rbcL and trnS-trnG) were analyzed. Phylogenetic estimates using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference of separate and combined matrices strongly support the monophyly of Oreomyrrhis and its sister-group relationship with North America Chaerophyllum. Chaerophyllum temulum, the type species of Chaerophyllum, is the sister taxon to the clade composed of Oreomyrrhis and North American Chaerophyllum. Relationships among other major clades of Chaerophyllum are congruent with previous studies. Based on these phylogenetic estimates, all currently recognized taxa of Oreomyrrhis are synonymised with Chaerophyllum. The unranked names, North American clade and Oreomyrrhis clade, are advocated to designate the two well-supported clades within Chaerophyllum sect. Chaerophyllum. The proposed nomenclatural changes include three new names, Chaerophyllum australianum, Chaerophyllum guatemalense, and Chaerophyllum novae-zelandiae, and 26 new combinations, Chaerophyllum andicola, Chaerophyllum argentum, Chaerophyllum azorellaceum, Chaerophyllum basicola, Chaerophyllum borneense, Chaerophyllum brevipes, Chaerophyllum buwaldianum, Chaerophyllum colensoi, Chaerophyllum colensoi var. delicatulum, Chaerophyllum colensoi var. hispidum, Chaerophyllum colensoi var. multifidum, Chaerophyllum daucoides, Chaerophyllum eriopodum, Chaerophyllum gunnii, Chaerophyllum involucratum, Chaerophyllum lineare, Chaerophyllum nanhuense, Chaerophyllum orizabae, Chaerophyllum papuanum, Chaerophyllum plicatum, Chaerophyllum pulvinificum, Chaerophyllum pumilum, Chaerophyllum ramosum, Chaerophyllum sessiliflorum, Chaerophyllum taiwanianum, and Chaerophyllum tolucanum.
25064277|Balsamorhiza and Wyethia together comprise 24 species native to western North America. All species in the two genera are perennial herbs with large taproots and chromosome base numbers of x = 19. The species of Balsamorhiza have exclusively basal leaves while the species of Wyethia have cauline leaves (in addition to basal leaves in some species). The relationships among the species of Balsamorhiza and Wyethia were examined using sequences from the nuclear internal transcribed spacer and external transcribed spacer regions and the chloroplast 3' trnK intron. Twenty-three species of Balsamorhiza and Wyethia and eight outgroups were sampled. The analyses support the monophyly of the Balsamorhiza/Wyethia clade. Wyethia ovata, a species from southern California and northern Baja California, is sister to the other members of the Balsamorhiza/Wyethia clade. Balsamorhiza is strongly supported as monophyletic and is the sister to the rest of Wyethia. The mostly Californian Wyethia section Agnorhiza, which lacks basal leaves, is not monophyletic. The remainder of the Wyethia species, traditionally placed in sections Alarconia and Wyethia, form a clade in the molecular trees and share synapomorphic large basal leaves.
25064278|Encelia, Enceliopsis, and Geraea are three closely related genera of shrubs and herbs distributed in the arid lands of western North and South America. Resolution of relationships within Encelia has traditionally been difficult because there is some morphological overlap among species, and species hybridize when sympatric. In this study, we used DNA sequence data from two nuclear regions (ITS and ETS) and two chloroplast regions (psbA-trnH and trnS-trnfM) to infer phylogenetic relationships among 19 species, subspecies, and varieties of Encelia. Eight species of Enceliopsis, Geraea, Simsia, and Bahiopsis were also included as outgroups. These data support previous hypotheses suggesting that Encelia is monophyletic and sister to Enceliopsis + Geraea. In addition, our data provide evidence for two major subclades within Encelia that are supported by morphological synapomorphies. However, little differentiation was observed among species of Encelia within subclades. This lack of differentiation may be the result of a recent diversification of the genus including recent radiation in the Peninsular Desert.
25064285|Pinus chiapensis is a threatened species of pine from southern Mexico and Guatemala. It was first described as a disjunct variety of P. strobus from the eastern United States and Canada. Subsequent morphological work indicates that P. chiapensis is a distinct species, but this interpretation is controversial. To explore the distinctiveness of this taxon, we sequenced three low-copy, unlinked nuclear loci in multiple accessions of P. chiapensis and its three most probable progenitors (P. ayacahuite, P. monticola, and P. strobus). Pinus chiapensis had the lowest combined nucleotide diversity of the four species (0.0031), and had only a single allele rangewide at one locus. Pinus chiapensis does not share alleles with any of the possible progenitors and all of its alleles are monophyletic at two of the three loci. At the third locus, allelic nonmonophyly is statistically indistinguishable from monophyly. While our results show that P. chiapensis is at least as distinct as the remaining three widely accepted species, determination of the most recent common ancestor is complicated by lack of allelic monophyly within potential progenitors and interlocus variability. Based on our sample of individuals and loci, P. ayacahuite appears to be the least likely progenitor, but there is no clear resolution of whether P. chiapensis is more closely related to P. monticola or P. strobus.
25064286|A description and illustration of a new species of Licuala, L. hainanensis, from Hainan, China is given. This species, endemic to Hainan, was previously confused with the widespread L. spinosa. The distribution of the new species is mapped, and it is compared and contrasted to morphologically similar species from Vietnam. Evidence is presented that L. hainanensis is both dioecious and sexually dimorphic, based on its flower and rachilla morphology. Other potential cases of sexual dimorphism in Licuala are discussed.
25064287|The genus Zeugites P. Browne encompasses ten species of neotropical grasses. To infer the phylogenetic relationships of the species, parsimony analyses of morphological data and DNA sequences from a nuclear region (ITS) and two non-coding plastid regions (the trnL intron and the trnL-trnF intergenic spacer) were undertaken for each data set separately and in combination. The combined analysis is presented as our preferred phylogenetic hypothesis because of its better resolution and higher support for the clades. Zeugites is monophyletic only if Calderonella sylvatica is included in it. Our analyses recover two major clades within Zeugites: Clade I, formed by Zeugites pittieri, Zeugites latifolia, Zeugites sylvatica (Calderonella sylvatica), Zeugites sagittata, and Zeugites capillaris; and Clade II, including Zeugites hackelii, Zeugites smilacifolia, Zeugites munroana, Zeugites pringlei, Zeugites mexicana, and Zeugites americana. The monospecific genus Pohlidium is strongly supported as sister of Zeugites (including Calderonella) but it is maintained as a different genus due to noticeable differences in spikelet and inflorescence morphology.
25064288|Sequences of the chloroplast genes matK and rbcL and nuclear ribosomal ITS2 were used for phylogenetic analyses of Berberidaceae. Three major clades were recognized, corresponding to the chromosome base numbers x = 6, 7, and 8/10. Bongardia was sister to the clade containing Achlys and the Podophyllum group, which consists of Diphylleia, Sinopodophyllum, Podophyllum, and Dysosma. The estimated times of divergence of six disjunct genera between Eurasia and North America ranged from 7.5  2.3 Ma to 1.0  0.7 Ma. The intercontinental disjunct lineages of Berberidaceae may have originated in eastern Asia and then migrated to Europe and North America. However, long-distance dispersal may explain the distribution pattern of Achlys. Desert xerophytes of Berberidaceae in southwestern Asia originated in response to the advent of dry climate at different times; Bongardia diverged from its closest relatives at 46.5  3.6 Ma, whereas Leontice differentiated from Gymnospermium at 10.3  3.2 Ma.
25064289|Leandra hermogenesii (section Oxymeris), a new endemic species of Melastomataceae from So Paulo, Brazil, is described and illustrated. The distinguishing characteristics of the species include its leaves, which are subcartaceous, ovate to broadly ovate, 5(-7)-plinerved, 5.6-9.6 cm wide, and have a rounded base, its smaller bracts, bracteoles, and glabrous petals, and its larger ovary. A discussion and an identification key to morphologically related species are also presented.
25064290|The tribe Detarieae s.l. (Caesalpinioideae: Leguminosae) contains a large number of genera that produce resins, but which previously had been placed in different generic groups. To test the monophyly of the resin-producing Detarieae and to examine phylogenetic relationships among these genera, we analyzed sequences from the chloroplast trnL intron and trnL-F spacer for more than 80 taxa and from the nuclear ribosomal Internal Transcribed Spacers (ITS) for over 50 taxa. The two chloroplast regions were highly congruent, but incongruent with the nuclear ITS data. Incongruence may be the result of hybridization, particularly in the Colophospermum and Hardwickia polyploid lineage. Resin-producing taxa are scattered among two clades, the Prioria and Detarieae s.s. clades, which together are monophyletic, but only with weak support. This group is characterized by the ability to produce bicyclic diterpenes. The phylogenetic relationships as inferred from molecular data resolved the intergeneric affinities but the main clades obtained are different from the groupings proposed by classifications based primarily on morphological characters. Based on these analyses, we propose new generic groupings that correspond to the Prioria s.s., Hardwickia, Hymenaea, Eperua s.s. and Detarium clades.
25064291|Phylogenetic relationships among the genera Dalbergia, Machaerium, and Aeschynomene were investigated with sequences from both the chloroplast DNA trnL intron and the nuclear ribosomal DNA ITS/5.8S region. A parsimony and Bayesian analysis of individual and combined data resolved a monophyletic Dalbergia that is sister to a clade comprising Aeschynomene sect. Ochopodium and Machaerium. Aeschynomene sect. Aeschynomene is paraphyletic with respect to genera such as Bryaspsis and Soemmeringia, which collectively are sister to the Dalbergia-Machaerium-Ochopodium clade. This study identifies the disparate lineages of the genus Aeschynomene and reveals that species with basifixed stipules (i.e., sect. Ochopodium) perhaps should be ranked as a distinct genus. Species of Ochopodium have the general lomented fruit morphology in contrast to the unique indehiscent samara fruits of Machaerium. The findings of this analysis also have some bearing at the infrageneric level. Limited sampling of Dalbergia sects. Triptolemea and Ecastaphyllum resolves them as monophyletic. In contrast, the traditional infrageneric classification of Machaerium does not show much agreement with molecular groups. Additional sampling of Aeschynomene and Machaerium species, other DNA sequences, and morphological data are needed to resolve the exact relationship of sect. Ochopodium to Machaerium, as well as validate the infrageneric classification of Machaerium.
25064292|During a recent survey of Malagasy Garcinia, we uncovered several herbarium collections sharing the general floral morphology of G. verrucosa, the sole member of the Xanthochymus Group in Madagascar but differing in a number of leaf, flower and fruit characters. Further inspection of specimens deposited in herbaria particularly rich in Madagascar collections led us to conclude that these unassigned collections represent two new species of Malagasy Garcinia, which we describe here under the names, G. capuronii and G. lowryi. Garcinia verrucosa differs from both new species by having larger ( 8 vs.  5 mm long) flowers and fruits without ridges or lobes. Garcinia capuronii is easily distinguished from G. lowryi by its larger (26-41.4 vs. 1-10.5 cm long), bullate (vs. plane) leaf blades, and strongly 8-ridged (vs. shallowly (3)4-lobed) fruits. Based on IUCN criteria, the widespread G. lowryi should be considered a species of Least Concern (LC), whereas G. capuronii, a species known only from its type, is provisionally assigned to the Critically Endangered (CE) category.
25064293|A revision of the seven paleotropical species of Plukenetia (Euphorbiaceae) is given. Three sections or species groups are recognized. Two genera, Tetracarpidium (synonym Angostylidium) and Pterococcus, are treated here as sections of Plukenetia. The monotypic P. sect. Angostylidium includes the African species P. conophora, while P. sect. Hedraiostylus (synonym P. sect. Pterococcus) comprises two African species (P. africana and P. procumbens) and one Asian species (P. corniculata). A third species group restricted to Madagascar is distinguished by an androecium of sessile anthers on an elongate receptacle, and comprises three species, two described here. Plukenetia decidua, from southeastern Madagascar, is close to P. madagascariensis and shares styles partly fused into a cylindrical column, but differs in its narrower ovate or triangular-ovate leaf blades, smaller eglandular bracts, racemes with flowers single per node, and fewer anthers on a shorter ellipsoid receptacle. Plukenetia ankaranensis from northern Madagasar is distinguished from the previous two species by its styles entirely fused into an enlarged obovate stylar column. A key to the seven paleotropical species is provided and their relationship to neotropical species is discussed.
25064294|The genus Alchornea in the Malay Archipelago (= Malesia) and Thailand comprises only five instead of eleven species as recognized by current literature. They can be divided into two groups. One group, section Cladodes, with only one variable, widespread species (India to Australia) has obovate leaves and lacks stipellae (A. rugosa, including A. pubescens and A. petalostyla). The other group, section Stipellaria, has ovate leaves and stipellae. In this group, A. tiliifolius (including A. villosa) and A. parviflora (including A. borneensis, possibly A. adenophylla, and what was known as A. trewioides in Thailand) are widespread species (India to West Malesia); Alchornea sicca (including the Indochinese A. coudercii) is found in the Philippines and Indochina, and A. rhodophylla is only present on Penang Island in Peninsular Malaysia. The main distinguishing characters can be found in the indumentum, shape of the leaves, stipellae, roughness of the ovaries and fruits, size of the bracts and pistillate sepals. Alchornea trewioides, formerly recorded for Thailand, extends only to S.E. China and N. Vietnam; it can be distinguished from the closely similar A. liukiuensis from Taiwan and the Ryukyu Islands.
25064295|This study investigates species boundaries in the polyploid complex of Rosa sect. Cinnamomeae east of the Rocky Mountains. This complex is characterized by extensive intra-specific polymorphism that is the consequence, in part, of hybridization and polyploidy. An objective multivariate approach is employed to delimit species in the complex, which involved cluster and ordination analyses of 25 quantitative morphological characters and of amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). Because polyploid individuals blurred species boundaries in the complex, they were discriminated a priori using stomata guard cell lengths in order to investigate species boundaries at each ploidy level separately. Four distinct species were found at the diploid level: R. blanda - R. woodsii, R. foliolosa, R. nitida and R. palustris. According to the morphological and molecular data, R. blanda and R. woodsii are indistinguishable and should be considered as a single species. Three species were identified at the polyploid level, R. arkansana, R. carolina, and R. virginiana, albeit with evidence of hybridization between them. The genetic and morphological similarity between individuals of the polyploid species and those of the different diploid species allowed us to identify possible parents for the polyploid species. Rosa arkansana likely originated from R. blanda (incl. R. woodsii), R. carolina from a hybrid between R. blanda and R. palustris, and R. virginiana from R. palustris. Although the multivariate approach was not able to differentiate species when all individuals were considered together, a classification tree showed that it is indeed feasible to identify species in the complex without prior knowledge of the ploidy level of individuals.
25064296|Plastid (trnL intron and trnL-F spacer) and nuclear (ITS-1 and ITS-2 rDNA) regions were analyzed to infer the phylogeny and evaluate the classification of Rutaceae subfamilies Rutoideae and Toddalioideae. The inferred phylogeny lends support to merging these two subfamilies established by Engler based on different fruit types. Moreover, Phellodendron, Tetradium, Toddalia, and Zanthoxylum were resolved as a clade, supporting the proposal for a 'proto-Rutaceae' group. The molecular data also showed that members of Euodia sensu lato should be placed in three different genera: Tetradium, Euodia, and Melicope. The latter two genera are more closely related to Acronychia than they are to Tetradium. Except for the discrepancy in the position of Melicope vitiflora, the cladistic results are congruent with the morphological and biochemical interpretations made by two previous authors.
25064297|The Diosmeae are typical members of the Cape flora. Although the species-level taxonomy has recently received much attention, the generic limits have remained uncertain. In this study plastid DNA (psbA-trnH, atpB-rbcL, and rpl16) were sampled from across the morphological spectrum of species and analysed using parsimony and Bayesian inference. The combined results show Diosmeae to be monophyletic and a number of genera to be polyphyletic. These data are mostly incongruent with the morphology data and suggest that, together with broader sampling of molecular data, more careful examination of morphological characters is needed prior to the adjustment of generic circumscriptions.
25064298|Gonolobus foetidus species from southern South America is transferred to Matelea, being characterized by its horizontal pollinia and anthers lacking dorsal appendages (Matelea foetida). A new species, Matelea calchaquina, from arid environments of northwestern Argentina is described and illustrated; data on its habitat, distribution, and phenology is provided. This is a distinctive species within Matelea due to its white flowers with narrow, tubular corollas, which suggest pollination by nocturnal moths. The difficulties in delimiting genera of Gonolobinae based on floral characters are discussed. A key to the species of Matelea from Argentina is included.
25064299|Two new species of Matelea (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae, Gonolobinae) are described from northern South America: M. fontana and M. pacifica. The species belong to the Ibatia-Matelea complex, but exhibit distinct differences in floral characters from previously known taxa, including the structure of gynostegial coronas. A key and descriptions to members of the northern South American and West Indian Ibatia-Matelea complex is provided, including M. cumanensis, M. maritima, and M. rubra. Asclepias maritima, Cynanchum fimbriatum, and Ibatia muricata are lectotypified.
25064300|Rhopalobrachium is an endemic New Caledonian genus of Rubiaceae with controversial tribal position, because its protologue was apparently based on two distantly related species, Rhopalobrachium fragrans and Rhopalobrachium congestum. Despite its new circumscription as a monotypic genus (Rhopalobrachium fragrans) the tribal placement of Rhopalobrachium remained unknown. We investigated, for Rhopalobrachium fragrans, all morphological characters currently used for circumscribing tribes in the subfamily Ixoroideae sensu lato. The species has axillary inflorescences, with valvate flower aestivation, drupaceous fruits with a single pendulous ovule per locule, and 3-pororate pollen grains. We also performed Bayesian and parsimony analyses based on two chloroplast markers, rps16 intron and trnT-F region, to assess the phylogenetic position of Rhopalobrachium within Ixoroideae sensu lato. These analyses produced well-resolved and strongly supported topologies. The results of both the morphological survey and phylogenetic analyses indicated a position of Rhopalobrachium fragrans in the tribe Vanguerieae and a close relationship with the Pacific genus Cyclophyllum.
25064301|The enigmatic genus Rhopalobrachium from New Caledonia is proposed as a synonym of the Pacific genus Cyclophyllum, in the tribe Vanguerieae. Recent fieldwork has resulted in new material and field observations that were used in conjunction with herbarium material to examine the morphology and ecology of Rhopalobrachium fragrans. Based on these data, a new combination, Cyclophyllum fragans, was proposed. A lectotype was chosen and a species description and a bibliographic review are included. Following the IUCN criteria, Cyclophyllum fragrans is considered endangered.
25064302|Sequences from the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear DNA (ITS) and the trnL-F regions of chloroplast DNA for fifteen species of Chirita and seven species of Chiritopsis were used to assess phylogenetic relationships between Chiritopsis and Chirita section Gibbosaccus. Parsimony and Bayesian inference (BI) analyses were conducted using separate nuclear and chloroplast data sets, as well as a combined data set. Phylogenetic trees resulting from separate analyses proved highly congruent and the combined analysis of the two data sets produced a well-supported topology of the species and sections examined. Section Gibbosaccus proved paraphyletic and Chiritopsis polyphyletic in all analyses. Our results provide evidence that the species of Chiritopsis are embedded in section Gibbosaccus and were derived at least twice from within section Gibbosaccus. Finally, we reconsider the morphological evolution and adaptation between and within the two genera. The present analyses indicate that nomenclatural changes will be needed to reflect more accurately relationships in the Gibbosaccus-Chiritopsis complex. Only about 10% of the species in Chirita have been sampled and further data are required before any taxonomic changes can be suggested.
25064303|Within the parasitic genus Cuscuta, three subgenera have been recognized based on characters of the styles and stigmas. Cuscuta subgenus Cuscuta, with free styles and conical to elongated stigmas, is the most diversified in the Old World with about 25 species. We present the first phylogenetic study of the subgenus using nuclear ITS rDNA and chloroplast trnL intron sequences. Sequences of almost all species of the subgenus were obtained and several individuals of particular taxonomic difficulty or wide geographical distribution were sampled. Both maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses were performed to evaluate the monophyly of the sections previously accepted in Yuncker's monograph and to investigate phylogenetic relationships between the species. The monophyly of the subgenus could not be tested with our sampling but using three species of subgenus Monogyna as outgroup, the South African section Pachystigma was sister to the remaining species of subgenus Cuscuta. Section Epistigma plus C. capitata are resolved as monophyletic in all analyses. The distinctive C. babylonica was sister to that clade on the ITS trees but it was not resolved on the trnL trees. Two monophyletic groups within section Cuscuta, first identified here, included the species of tropical African distribution in one case and C. europaea, C. approximata, and C. balansae in the other. Factors influencing the taxonomic difficulty of many species in the subgenus include lack of morphological characters, parallelism and gene flow between closely and not so closely related species. Evidence of reticulation events or within species recombination were obtained by both polyphyletic intra-individual ITS sequences and conflicting topologies of the nuclear and plastid trees.
25064304|DNA sequences from five chloroplast DNA regions (the rpl16 and rps16 introns and the psbA-trnH, ycf4-cemA, and trnT-L spacers), and the nuclear ribosomal internal and dexternal transcribed spacer (ITS and ETS) regions, were analyzed using maximum parsimony and Bayesian methods to explore the putatively complicated history of the mainly North American genus Arnica. The chloroplast regions were found to contain minimal variation in Arnica. Of 3710 nucleotides, only 119 were variable and 45 informative. However, combined with the ribosomal DNA data, the analysis yielded a number of well-supported clades. Strong support for the monophyly of Arnica was found in both the separate and combined analyses but none of the five currently recognized subgenera was resolved as monophyletic in any of the analyses. Arnica (Whitneya) dealbata and A. mallotopus (Mallotopus japonicus), two species that were previously placed outside Arnica, were confidently confirmed as members of the genus. The analyses revealed that A. nevadensis (subg. Austromontana) is most closely related to A. dealbata and that A. mallotopus forms a strongly supported clade with A. unalaschcensis (subg. Andropurpurea). Earlier biogeographical hypotheses that suggested an arctic origin and southward spread of the genus are not supported by our analyses. Hybridization, homoplasy, and rapid evolution are possible explanations for conflicts between the chloroplast and nuclear ribosomal data sets and for low support of the deeper nodes.
25064312|The impact of unknowingly including a hybrid or an allopolyploid in which rDNA homogenization (via gene loss, concerted evolution, or some other mechanism) has not occurred to completion in a phylogenetic analysis of internal transcribed spacer (ITS) or external transcribed spacer (ETS) sequences is unclear. To investigate the impact of polymorphic sites on phylogeny reconstruction, we used ITS and ETS sequence data for diploids and allotetraploids in Tragopogon, as well as ITS data for diploid and allopolyploid species of Paeonia and Glycine, and for diploids and their hybrids in Rubus. Only very general predictions can be made regarding the placement of these polymorphic sequences. The polymorphic sequences of hybrids and allopolyploids appear (1) with a diploid parent (but not necessarily the one with which it shares more apomorphies), (2) at or near the base of the clade containing one or both parents, or (3) in a basal position relative to all other ingroup taxa in the data set. The inclusion of a polymorphic sequence may be accompanied by an increase in the number of shortest trees, less resolution in the strict consensus, and a decrease in bootstrap support for some nodes; CI and RI values are little, if at all, affected. In no case did the addition of a sequence from a hybrid or allopolyploid alter the overall topology in a major way. Our results generally parallel those of phylogenetic studies that include
25064313|Phylogenetic relationships among the seven genera of the Hypopterygiaceae, represented by 14 of the 21 species recognized in the family, were reconstructed based on variation in nucleotide sequences of six nuclear, mitochondrial, and plastid loci. Monophyly of the Hypopterygiaceae is strongly supported, whereas the genera Cyathophorum and Dendrohypopterygium are unambiguously polyphyletic. Cyathophorum bulbosum and C. adiantum make up a lineage sister to the remainder of the family. A lineage comprising four monotypic genera (Arbusculohypopterygium, Canalohypopterygium, Catharomnion, and Dendrocyathophorum) is sister to Lopidium plus a heterogenous clade that includes Dendrohypopterygium, Hypopterygium, Cyathophorum hookerianum, and C. parvifolium. The later two species are transferred to Hypopterygium as H. hookerianum and H. parvifolium. The Hypopterygiaceae are distinguished from their sister family, the Hookeriaceae, by their anisophylly, and by a border of two or more differentiated cells on lateral leaves, although this character also occurs in some Hookeriaceae and has been lost at least twice in the Hypopterygiaceae. Intermediate cells in the axillary hairs arose early in the evolution of the family but are lacking in the two species of Cyathophorum that form a sister group to the remainder of the Hypopterygiaceae.
25064314|To resolve phylogenetic relationships among all genera and subgenera in Osmundaceae, we analyzed over 8,500 characters of DNA sequence data from seven plastid loci (atpA, rbcL, rbcL-accD, rbcL-atpB, rps4-trnS, trnG-trnR, and trnL-trnF). Our results confirm those from earlier anatomical and single-gene (rbcL) studies that suggested Osmunda s.l. is paraphyletic. Osmunda cinnamomea is sister to the remainder of Osmundaceae (Leptopteris, Todea, and Osmunda s.s.). We support the recognition of a monotypic fourth genus, Osmundastrum, to reflect these results. We also resolve subgeneric relationships within Osmunda s.s. and find that subg. Claytosmunda is strongly supported as sister to the rest of Osmunda. A stable, well-supported classification for extant Osmundaceae is proposed, along with a key to all genera and subgenera.
25064315|Recent molecular investigations have elucidated the generic and subgeneric relationships of most vittarioid genera (Pteridaceae sensu lato pro parte). However, the phylogenetic placement of Monogramma and Rheopteris remains to be examined. The inclusion of the monotypic Rheopteris in the vittarioids has been questioned since its description half a century ago, and although the placement of Monogramma within the vittarioids is well supported with nonmolecular characters, its relationship to other members of the vittarioid clade is unknown. We present new phylogenetic evidence from plastid rbcL sequence data indicating that Rheopteris cheesmaniae is well supported as a member of the vittarioid clade, and that Monogramma is polyphyletic. Data from molecular and nonmolecular characters suggest that a clade containing Rheopteris and part of Monogramma (i.e. those species sometimes recognized in the genus vaginularia) represents the earliest diverging lineage within the vittarioids, and that remaining members of Monogramma are derived from within Haplopteris. Our study supports the separation of Vaginularia from Monogramma sensu stricto.
25064316|A molecular phylogenetic analysis using the sequences of atpB, rbcL, accD, atpB-rbcL spacer, and rbcL-accD spacer was made for Davalliaceae with a focus on four systematically uncertain and nomenclaturally influential species. The result shows that Davalliaceae comprises six clades. Davallia plumosa is sister to Scyphularia pentaphylla and S. pycnocarpa. Scyphularia triphylla is sister to a clade comprising other Scyphularia, Davallia plumosa, D. solida, and related species, indicating that imparipinnate leaves are derived twice within the clade. Humata heterophylla is sister to the H. polypodioides group, one of two groups of Humata, in which Davallia corniculata is nested. Paradavallodes multidentatum is nested in Araiostegia + Davallodes, which is a polymorphic basal clade. African Davallia chaerophylloides is allied to an Asian and Pacific group comprising D. denticulata and related species.
25064317|Morphology, species delimitation, and interspecific relationships were evaluated in a phylogenetic context in the aquatic monocotyledon genus Vallisneria using a combination of morphological and molecular (nrITS, rbcL, trnK 5' intron) data. Contrary to previous studies that recognized few species worldwide, we distinguished 12 species by molecular data, and an additional 2-3 species by morphological differences within groups that were invariant at the molecular level. Two new Vallisneria species (V. australis, V. erecta) are formally described. Other potentially novel species were detected from the cultivated material examined but require further study to elucidate their taxonomic status. Phylogenetic analyses indicated that vittate (caulescent) species (including Maidenia rubra) are not basal, but nested between two groups of rosulate (rosette) species. To preserve Vallisneria as monophyletic, a new combination is made (V. rubra) that accommodates the transfer of M. rubra to Vallisneria. Several taxonomic characters associated with the stigma morphology of pistillate flowers were found to represent suites of features related to pollination. In most cases, these character suites corresponded to a particular arrangement of filaments in the staminate flowers. The precise geographical origin of Vallisneria remains difficult to determine. However, we conclusively documented the presence of the Old World V. spiralis in Texas (United States), which constitutes the first authentic record of this nonindigenous species in North America.
25064318|Taxonomic features of species of Panicum, previously classified in section Cordovensia, subgenus Dichanthelium, of Panicum, are reviewed and compared with those of other taxa in the Paniceae. The new genus Parodiophyllochloa is proposed on the basis of ecological and morphological features (i.e. plants growing at the edge of forests, with membranous ligules, lower glume more than 1/2 the spikelet length, lower palea and lower flower absent, and upper anthecium indurate with simple papillae all over its surface) and chloroplast ndhF sequences to include six species ranging from Mexico to Argentina. The new combinations: Parodiophyllochloa cordovensis, P. missiona, P. ovulifera, P. pantricha, P. penicillata, and P. rhizogona are proposed. The new genus is compared with other genera of the Paniceae.
25064319|Relationships within the Polygonaceae have been recently examined using rbcL sequences, with an emphasis on Polygonum and its segregates. Here we test these results with respect to Polygonum (sensu lato) with an expanded dataset, including additional species and gene regions. Specifically, we focus on inferring the relationships of Eupersicaria (Polygonum sect. Persicaria in many prior treatments), using the chloroplast genes rbcL, trnL-F, trnK intron-matK, and psbA-trnH IGS, and nuclear ribosomal ITS sequences. We conclude that Eupersicaria is monophyletic and most closely related to Tovara and Echinocaulon. In turn, this clade is most closely related to Cephalophilon. The sister group of this entire Persicaria clade contains Bistorta and a clade including Aconogonon and Koenigia, which supports the monophyly of the Persicarieae. Within Eupersicaria there appears to be a deep split between P. amphibia and the remaining species, and there is strong conflict regarding the placement of P. punctata. These results set the stage for a more detailed phylogenetic analysis of Eupersicaria.
25064320|Polygonaceae has long been recognized as a monophyletic family but the circumscription of groups within it has been in constant flux. Two groups currently recognized are the subfamilies Eriogonoideae and Polygonoideae. An analysis using three chloroplast regions (rbcL, matK, and ndhF) and increased taxon sampling of Eriogonoideae does not support this delimitation. The second intron and portions of the flanking exons of the nuclear gene LEAFY, were used to explore phylogenetic utility in Polygonaceae. The intron showed high levels of variability and was useful at low taxonomic levels, but not alignable outside of Eriogonum and allied genera. Phylogenetic analysis of data from the flanking exons of the second intron of LEAFY generally supports the major groupings found in the chloroplast analysis. A new definition of the subfamilies is proposed. Polygonoideae is restricted to what has been recognized as tribes Persicarieae, Rumiceae, and Polygoneae, with the addition of Muehlenbeckia. Eriogonoideae now includes Antigonon, Brunnichia, Coccoloba, Ruprechtia, Triplaris, and Eriogonum and allied genera. The genera Eriogonum and Chorizanthe are nonmonophyletic.
25064321|As traditionally circumscribed, the family Olacaceae contains a morphologically diverse assemblage of genera that has historically caused much confusion regarding their classification. For example, Olacaceae contain parasites and nonparasites, climbing lianas and trees, and members with dichlamydous and monochlamydous perianths. This family is basalmost in the sandalwood order (Santalales), thus it represents the staging ground for many innovations that evolved in subsequent groups. The present molecular phylogenetic study has obtained DNA sequence data (nuclear SSU rDNA and chloroplast rbcL and matK) for all but two of the 28 genera in this group. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses have resolved seven clades, well-supported by molecular and morphological characters. Root hemiparasitism appears to have first evolved in the clade containing Ximenia whereas clades between that one and the outgroup appear to be entirely autotrophic.
25064322|Santalaceae sensu stricto, the type family for the sandalwood order (Santalales), include approximately 40 genera and over 550 species distributed worldwide. Because the family possesses plesiomorphic and generalized traits that occur throughout the order, this diverse assemblage of hemiparasitic plants has been difficult to characterize and differentiate from related families. We present phylogenetic analyses of all genera of Santalaceae, as well as Viscaceae and selected Opiliaceae, using DNA sequences from nuclear small-subunit ribosomal DNA as well as the chloroplast genes matK and rbcL. The concatenated data set, analyzed with parsimony, likelihood, and Bayesian inference, gave congruent results, with the majority of clades fully resolved. Our results reveal that the family is polyphyletic and that the genera of Santalaceae, as traditionally classified, occur in nine well-supported clades. The South American herbaceous perennial genera Arjona and Quinchamalium are sister to Schoepfia (Schoepfiaceae). The Australian genus Anthobolus emerges as a member of Opiliaceae. Viscaceae remain intact and are well supported as monophyletic. The remaining genera included in Santalaceae occur in six well supported clades, but the relationships among these clades are not fully resolved. These clades are, based on a component generic name, Comandra, Thesium, Cervantesia, Nanodea, Santalum and Amphorogyne. Morphological features diagnostic of these clades are discussed with the intention that these results will serve as the foundation for a revised classification.
25064323|Two new species of Schoenocaulon from Mexico, S. framei and S. oaxacense, are delimited by analyses of ITS sequence data and characterized by distinct morphology and biogeography. Schoenocaulon framei, a segregate from the polyphyletic S. comatum s.l., is described for the first time; S. oaxacense is elevated to species rank, based on S. caricifolium var. oaxacense, one of two monophyletic varieties comprising polyphyletic S. caricifolium s.l. Schoenocaulon framei is distinguished by unusual sunken stomata on the abaxial leaf surface and ligulate, weakly auriculate tepals, each with a smooth basal nectariferous zone; the basal perigonal gland of S. oaxacense is a glandular depression, and its tepals are ligulate. Both new species also are well-supported cladospecies with ITS sequence data according to the apomorphic species concept. Our results confirm the importance of molecular phylogenetic analyses in decisions relating to species circumscription, especially when such analyses are carefully correlated with morphological markers. The study also demonstrates the ease in applying the major phylogenetic species concepts and suggests that the apomorphic and diagnostic phylogenetic species concepts may result in identical specific circumscriptions.
25064324|The Cucurbitaceae genus Austrobryonia, with four species endemic to Australia, is described, illustrated, and placed in a phylogenetic context based on molecular and morphological data. In the Flora of Australia (Telford 1982), all four species were provisionally included in Mukia, but not formally described. Austrobryonia argillicola, A. centralis, A. micrantha, and A. pilbarensis are adapted to arid central regions of Australia. All species are known from several (7-27) localities, and their distributional ranges are allopatric. A phylogenetic analysis of plastid and nuclear DNA sequences that includes all four species in a family-wide context revealed that Austrobryonia is the closest living relative to a Eurasian and Mediterranean clade consisting of Bryonia L. and Ecballium L. An rbcL molecular clock, calibrated with Cucurbitaceae fossils, dates this rare biogeographic disjunction to minimally 42 my ago (with an error of ca.  25%), while the crown group of Austrobryonia may be about 8 my old.
25064325|Tribe Podalyrieae is a group of papilionoid legumes that are largely endemic to the Cape Floristic Region of South Africa, possessing fire survival strategies with both nonsprouting and sprouting species. A phylogenetic study of the tribe was undertaken using gene sequences obtained from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA as well as the plastid rbcL gene (107 species). Several clades were identified within the tribe. Subtribe Xiphothecinae consists of the genera Amphithalea and Xiphotheca. Subtribe Podalyriinae was paraphyletic. Based on the results of this study, Liparia (except L. calycina) and Podalyria are sister genera with Stirtonanthus sister to both of these. While Podalyria and Stirtonanthus are monophyletic, the monophyly of Liparia is still uncertain. Virgilia and Calpurnia are closely related and Cyclopia retains an isolated, monophyletic position within the tribe. Cadia is monophyletic and sister to the rest of the Podalyrieae. The placement of this genus has, until now, been uncertain due to their actinomorphic flowers that are unusual among papilionoid legumes. The data from this study indicate that actinomorphic flowers may be interpreted as an apomorphy for Cadia and it shares many characters with Podalyrieae. We therefore propose that Cadia be transferred to Podalyrieae from the paraphyletic tribe Sophoreae. The age of the root node of the tribe Podalyrieae s.s. was estimated at 30.5  2.6 million years (Ma) using nonparametric rate smoothing (NPRS) and 34.7 Ma (confidence intervals: 25.1-44.1 Ma), using a Bayesian relaxed clock, indicating that a major radiation has taken place during the middle to late Miocene and early Pliocene. Finally, we found that nonsprouting species have a higher rate of molecular evolution than sprouting species.
25064326|Quercus ellipsoidalis (Hill's oak), an endemic of east-central North America, is morphologically similar to Q. coccinea (scarlet oak) and is subsumed into that species in several floristic treatments. This study uses data from more than 250 amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers to investigate whether Q. coccinea and Q. ellipsoidalis are genetically distinct from one another. Whereas Q. coccinea and Q. ellipsoidalis separate from one another in all analyses, Q. velutina (black oak) populations collected from the geographic range of both Q. coccinea and Q. ellipsoidalis do not separate out by geographic region. This, combined with the strong differentiation between Q. coccinea and Q. velutina but weak differentiation between Q. ellipsoidalis and Q. velutina, supports the view that Q. coccinea and Q. ellipsoidalis are not simply regional variants of a single taxon. Moreover, while there is no evidence from the molecular data we collected of hybridization between Q. coccinea and Q. ellipsoidalis, the data suggest that there may be gene flow between Q. ellipsoidalis and Q. velutina. A clearer understanding of the relationships among these taxa is essential to understanding the taxonomy of Quercus section Lobate in eastern North America.
25064327|Gesneriaceae tribe Gloxinieae is a diverse clade of approximately 19 genera and 215 species. As with many tropical lineages, patterns and timing of diversification are poorly understood. This is a particular difficulty in groups such as the Gesneriaceae that have no fossil record. Here we explore maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference of phylogenetic relationships in the tribe based on nuclear, chloroplast, and morphological data sets, use Fitch parsimony optimization (FPO) and dispersal vicariance (DIVA) analyses to explore biogeographic patterns in the Gesnerioideae, and use penalized likelihood calibrated by geological events in the Caribbean and South America to explore timing of movement of lineages among Caribbean, Central American, and South American land masses and islands. Likelihood and Bayesian analyses increase support of previous hypotheses of relationships using parsimony and provide additional resolution in some parts of the phylogeny. FPO and DIVA analyses suggest that the most likely scenario for movement among Central American, Caribbean, and South American areas was either an early dispersal to Central America and the Caribbean prior to diversification of the Gloxinieae clade with subsequent back dispersal to South America, or the ancestor of the Gloxinieae had a broad distribution across Central America and Andean/western South America. Estimations of the timing of movement of these lineages among these land masses suggests that the Greater Antilles/Aves Ridge landbridge likely played a role in dispersal events and that the Gloxinieae/Gesnerieae lineage likely arrived in the Central America/Caribbean zone at least 26 million years ago.
25064328|Within the past decade, Scrophulariaceae sensu lato has been shown to be polyphyletic and, as a result, is currently undergoing major systematic revision. The traditionally recognized family is now generally considered to comprise several smaller families including the newly expanded Plantaginaceae, a family of 12 tribes, 92 genera, and approximately 2000 species. Recent evidence from molecular phylogenetics supports the inclusion of the tribe Gratioleae within the Plantaginaceae. Gratioleae includes 16-40 genera, depending on generic circumscription, many of which have yet to be assessed phylogenetically. Amphianthus is a monotypic genus whose systematic affinities have long been poorly known. We included Amphianthus, 10 additional Gratioleae genera, and several outgroup genera from Plantaginaceae in a phylogenetic investigation to examine the relationships of Amphianthus. We present the most complete phylogeny of the Gratioleae to date and provide evidence from chloroplast DNA sequences of the ndhF gene and the trnS-trnG-trnG intergenic spacer and intron that unequivocally place Amphianthus within Gratiola, and discuss the morphological evidence supporting our findings. Based on this evidence, we transfer the sole species of Amphianthus (Amphianthus pusillus) to Gratiola, establishing the new name Gratiola amphiantha and placing Amphianthus in synonymy with Gratiola.
25064329|Solanum series Conicibaccata contains about 40 wild potato (section Petota) species distributed from southern Mexico to central Bolivia. It contains diploids (2n = 2x = 24), tetraploids (2n = 4x = 48) and hexaploids (2n = 6x = 72) and some polyploids are likely allopolyploids. Our morphological phenetic study in an Andean site in central Peru (12S, 3200 m altitude) is a replicated study from one done in the north central United States (45N, 180 m elevation) but uses more species (28 vs. 25), accessions (173 vs. 100), and morphological characters (72 vs. 45) and also includes members of related series Piurana. Both US and Peruvian studies provide phenetic support with Canonical Discriminant Analyses (but poorly if at all with Principal Components Analyses) to distinguish the following species or species groups in series Conicibaccata: 1) S. agrimonifolium and S. oxycarpum as a possible single species, and 2) S. longiconicum (tetraploids from Mexico and Central America), 3) the South American Conicibaccata diploids as a possible single species, except for 4) S. trinitense that is distinctive, 5) the South American tetraploids as a group except for 6) S. flahaultii that is distinctive. However, character states among these species or species groups are often present only by using a range of widely overlapping character states (polythetic support). We suspect that our continuing molecular studies will support the synonymy of many of these species.
25064330|The systematic position of Feddea (Asteraceae) has been enigmatic ever since its publication in 1925. The latest taxonomic accounts of the family left it either unplaced within subfamily Asteroideae or unplaced within tribe Inuleae. Macro-morphological and electron microscopy data (scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy) indicated that Feddea is not part of an early branching lineage of the Asteraceae, contrary to what had been suggested in initial taxonomic accounts. Feddea has style branches with a 2-banded (vs. continuous) stigmatic surface, thus differing from early diverging lineages of the family. Among Asteroideae, Feddea is diagnosed by discoid capitula with all florets bisexual, long-caudate anthers, noncarbonized cypselae, and pollen with a narrow cavus region, columellae without internal foramina, but with a complex basal columellate layer. A phylogenetic reconstruction based on nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast gene ndhF showed that Feddea is sister to the Heliantheae s.l. There were, however, no clear morphological synapomorphies shared with that tribe and we therefore propose Feddeeae as a new unispecific tribe to accommodate this critically endangered genus restricted to Eastern Cuba.
25064331|The circumscription and infrageneric classification of Campanula is highly controversial. Independent and combined data from nuclear and chloroplast sequences (trnL-trnF, ITS) were analyzed with Bayesian and parsimony methods to elucidate the phylogenetic relationships of Campanula and allied genera, and explore the biological processes that occurred during the evolution of this genus. The main sections and subgenera of Campanula and related genera were sampled extensively. Chromosome numbers, corolla types, habit and capsule dehiscence were mapped on the trees to search for evolutionary patterns. The phylogenetic analyses revealed that Campanula, as currently circumscribed, is not monophyletic. This genus is divided into two main clades: a large core of Campanula species that includes related genera (Adenophora, Asyneuma, Azorina, Campanulastrum, Diosphaera, Edraianthus, Githopsis, Hanabusaya, Heterocodon, Legousia, Michauxia, Petromarula, Physoplexis, Phyteuma, Trachelium, and Triodanis), and a clade constituted by Musschia plus two Campanula species. The large core of Campanula is divided into two main groups, a rapunculoid and a campanuloid group. Both Bayesian and Parsimony analyses indicate that the main morphological characters used in classifications, such as flower shape and capsule dehiscence, have arisen in parallel. Strong selective pressures from pollinators are suggested to explain floral convergence. We put forward two different proposals in order to accomplish a classification of Campanula that more accurately reflects the evolution of this genus.
25064336|Although previous cladistic analyses revealed Braunia secunda and B. andrieuxii as two lineages and valid species, they have been considered synonyms due to morphological similarities and sympatric distribution. This study was undertaken to evaluate which morphological characters best distinguish these two species. A total of 180 specimens of B. andrieuxii and 112 of B. secunda from the U.S. and Mexico were examined for morphometric analyses. Digital images of capsules, leaves, and groups of leaf cells were used to extract 31 linear measurements. Specimens were subdivided into seven geographic groups to compare levels of variation within and between species with univariate and multivariate analyses. Most characters are similar among groups within species, except the length of the revolute leaf margin and apical and upper leaf cells, which are significantly different between species (ANOVA and MRT). Partitioned Canonical Variates Analyses on eight variables of leaf cells and seven variables of vegetative leaves identified significant Mahalanobis distances between the two species. These methods also revealed that the revolute leaf margin and upper leaf cells contribute most to the distinction between species.
25064337|Previous hypotheses of relationships within Dioon Lindl. indicated the presence of two large clades within the genus. However, relationships among species still remained unresolved. In this study, molecular phylogenetic analyses were performed with individual and combined data sets from the ITS region of the ribosomal DNA and the trnL-F region of the chloroplast DNA. To explore whether indels were a source of phylogenetically informative characters, indels were analyzed by excluding them from the analyses (Coding A); including them as ambiguous data (Coding B); as multistate (Coding C) and as binary characters (Coding D). We found that the rate of mutation in the ITS region is appropriate to solve most relationships at the species level. This is in contrast with the trnL-F region, which showed little variation. Our results show that most clades obtained during analyses correspond with previously recognized species within Dioon. This phylogeny groups the genus into two main clades that show clear biogeographic relationships between the species occurring along the Pacific Sierra Madre Occidental and the Atlantic Sierra Madre Oriental.
25064338|Supported by detailed phenetic macro- and micromorphological characters, ecology, chorological studies, numerical and phylogenetic analysis, and all known data about Eurasian species of Carex muricata group (sect. Phaestoglochin), together with their biogeography, we have redefined this group and its subordinate aggregates. Four new taxa are described, illustrated and compared with putative related species: Carex spicata subsp. andresii, endemic to the inner part of the Iberian Peninsula, has the perigynum beak smooth and slightly corky at the base. Carex omeyica, from the southern mountains of Spain and North Africa, has erect-spreading oval perigynia and oval brown glumes without scarious margins. Two new subspecies of C. muricata are described: C. muricata subsp. cesanensis, from European mountains, has a big trullate perigynium 4.5-5.25 mm long with a short beak, and C. muricata subsp. ashokae, from the Eastern European Mountains to the Himalaya, has an oval perigynium 5-6 mm long with a longer beak. On the other hand, C. pairae is not a taxon subordinate to C. muricata. A key to the new and related taxa belonging to the aggregate is included.
25064339|Alkali grasses (Puccinellia) are temperate and arctic grasses of coastal and alkaline habitats, with ploidy levels that range from diploid to octoploid. This paper investigates the species limits of diploid alkali grasses in the North American Arctic. We used flow cytometry to confirm that four to seven of the 13-19 initially recognized taxa in the North American Arctic are diploid. Multivariate analyses of both morphological and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) data were congruent in resolving five or six diploid species: 1) P. arctica of northern and western distribution, including P. agrostidea and P. poacea; 2) a new diploid species from Banks Island, N.W.T., Canada; 3) P. tenella subsp. langeana; 4) P. alaskana, which had been previously treated as a subspecies of P. tenella; and 5) circumpolar (except coastal Beringia) P. vahliana, from which 6) the coastal Beringian endemic P. wrightii is distinguishable only on size and for which subspecies status may be more appropriate. In common garden experiments, eleven of 21 quantitative morphological characters varied significantly between field and common garden, showing phenotypic plasticity that explains much of the difficulty in identification. We present a map showing known geographic ranges of diploid Puccinellia species in the North American Arctic.
25064340|A new species of Pariana, found only in remnants of the Atlantic moist forest in the state of Esprito Santo in eastern Brazil, is described. The inflorescence structure in the new Pariana multiflora resembles those of P. lanceolata and P. carvalhoi, two species endemic to the Atlantic moist forests in southern Bahia, and all three are considered CR (critically endangered) by IUCN Red List criteria. The new species differs mainly by a greater number of inflorescences (up to five) per fertile culm and by the purple adaxial surface of the leaf blade, as well as by conical papillae and long unicellular trichomes that are present on both adaxial and abaxial leaf blade surfaces. Description of its morphology and leaf anatomy, compared with the other two mentioned species, based on optical microscopy and scanning electron microscopy, as well as illustrations and ecological data, are provided.
25064341|Four new Brazilian species from the genus Paspalum are described and illustrated: P. phaeotrichum, P. vexillarium, P. veredense, and P. clipeum. Paspalum phaeotrichum is an annual with no obvious affinity to any known species of Paspalum, although it shares several characters with species of both P. subg. Ceresia and the 'Bertoniana' group. Paspalum vexillarium is presumably related to P. ceresia, with which it has been confused. Paspalum veredense shows affinities with both P. ellipticum and P. erianthoides. Paspalum clipeum is probably related to annual species of the 'Plicatula' group, although it lacks the dark brown upper florets typical of that group. Moreover, P. spissum, a species currently considered as a synonym under P. carinatum, is recognized on the basis of vegetative morphology, phenology and habitat. Keys to the treated species are provided when relevant, as well as a distribution map. /// Quatro novas espcies de Paspalum do Brasil so descritas e ilustradas: P. phaeotrichum, P. vexillarium, P. veredense, e P. clipeum. Paspalum phaeotrichum  uma espcie anual sem afinidades obvias com outras espcies do gnero, embora compartilhe vrios caracteres com P. subg. Ceresia e com o grupo 'Bertoniana'. Paspalum vexillarium  supostamente relacionada a P. ceresia, com a qual tem sido confundida. Paspalum veredense tem afinidades com P. ellipticum e P. erianthoides. Paspalum clipeum  provavelmente relacionada s espcies anuais do grupo 'Plicatula', embora no apresente os antcios superiores de cor marrom escura, tpicos desse grupo. Alm disso, P. spissum, uma espcie atualmente considerada como sinnimo de P. carinatum,  reabilitada com base na morfologia vegetativa, fenologia e habitat. So fornecidas chaves para as espcies tratadas, quando relevante, assim como um mapa de distribuio.
25064342|Representative taxa of the five genera of Guaduinae, a subtribe of Neotropical woody bamboos, were sampled to investigate the phylogenetic relationships of the species of the genus Otatea using morphological and molecular (cpDNA intergenic spacer trnH-psbA and the rpl16 intron) evidence. Phylogenetic analysis of a combined data set retrieved 53 most parsimonious trees in which subtribe Guaduinae is monophyletic if two species of Aulonemia (A. clarkiae and A. fulgor) are included. They were previously classified within subtribe Arthrostylidiinae. Guaduinae is supported by the lack of papillae from the abaxial surface, by an almost solid style, a short rachis extension, and oral setae present in culm and foliage leaves. Monophyly of the genera in Guaduinae (Eremocaulon, Guadua, Apoclada, Otatea, and Olmeca) was corroborated. Otatea species formed a monophyletic clade, supported by culms with three subequal ascending branches and pubescent lemmas. Eight species in Guaduinae (the four species in Otatea, Olmeca recta, O. reflexa, Aulonemia clarkiae, and A. fulgor) are distributed in southeastern Mexico in areas determined as Pleistocene refugia. Some of them possess baccoid caryopses and long culm necks, and grow in threatened vegetation types such as cloud, tropical, and tropical deciduous forests, so they are important bamboos to preserve.
25064343|The taxonomic status of Panicum section Lorea has remained as "incertae sedis" within Panicum. To resolve its position within the Paniceae and to test the monophyly of this section, phylogenetic analyses based on chloroplast sequence data (ndhF) and morphology were conducted for the Paniceae with particular emphasis on Panicum section Lorea. The results did not support the monophyly of this section. The species of this group were resolved in two clades which are not sister groups and neither of them is closely related to Panicum s.s. As a result, two new genera are proposed and described: Apochloa and Renvoizea, which are restricted to the Guiana highlands and eastern Brazil. New combinations are: Apochloa animara, A. bahiense, A. chnoodes, A. cipoense, A. eligulata, A. euprepes, A. jauana, A. lorea, A. lutzii, A. molinioides, A. poliophylla, A. sipapoense, A. steyermarkii, A. subtiramulosa, A. tijucae, Renvoizea acicularifolia, R. durifolia, R. glaziovii, R. lagostachya, R. marauense, R. restingae, R. sacciolepoides, R. teretifolia, R. trinii, and R. vaginiviscosa.
25064344|Seventeen morphological characters are described and plotted on a phylogeny of the eudicots. The distribution of perianth characters demonstrates that the currently held view that petals originated from stamens in the core eudicots is not consistent with the predominance of bract-derived petals (bracteopetals). Petals in the core eudicots have the same morphological affinities and structure as sepals or bracts, with a few notable exceptions. Depending on the most likely topology, Berberidopsidales may represent the plesiomorphic perianth condition in the core eudicots, giving rise to pentamerous flowers with sepals and petals of a similar tepaline origin. Within the core eudicots several divergent trends have led to a wide variety of perianth morphologies involving to different degrees the presence of a calyx and corolla. Different factors contribute to the development of a biseriate perianth, including the upward shift of bracts and their absorption in the flower and a progressive differentiation of tepals through shifts in petaloidy. A number of correlations in perianth evolution are highlighted, such as petaloid sepals linked with loss of petals and presence of a hypanthium, a reversal to tepal-like petals with secondary polymery in the androecium and gynoecium, or the loss of sepals linked with the development of stamen-petal tubes. The relationship between petal morphology and the molecular basis for petaloidy is discussed.
25064345|Chloroplast (trnL-F and rbcL) sequences were used to reconstruct the phylogeny of Geraniaceae and Hypseocharitaceae. According to these data Hypseocharitaceae and Geraniaceae are monophyletic. Pelargonium and Monsonia are sisters to the largest clade of Geraniaceae, formed by Geranium, Erodium and California. According to molecular dating and dispersal-vicariance analysis, the split of the stem branches of Geraniaceae probably occurred during the Oligocene, in southern Africa or in southern Africa plus the Mediterranean area. However, their diversification occurred during the Miocene, coinciding with the beginning of major aridification events in their distribution areas. An ancestor of the largest clade of Geraniaceae (Geranium, Erodium, and California) colonised a number of habitats in the northern hemisphere and in South American mountain ranges. In summary, the evolution of the Geraniaceae is marked by the dispersal of ancestors from Southern Africa to cold, temperate and often disturbed habitats in the rest of world, where only generalist pollination and facultative autogamy could ensure sufficient seed production and survival.
25064346|Two new species of Eugenia (Myrtaceae) are described from the Masoala Peninsula in Madagascar: Eugenia williamsiana and Eugenia ambanizanensis. Each has relatively large leaves among Malagasy taxa of the genus. Both species are presently known from only two collections, but since they occur in a well-protected area they are considered Least Concern under IUCN guidelines. Features of the inflorescence and floral morphology of E. ambanizanensis are atypical for Eugenia and are discussed in light of the putatively related genera Stereocaryum, Monimiastrum, and Plinia. A tentative key is provided for species of Eugenia from Madagascar in which some or all of the mature leaves are in excess of 15 cm in length. Based on published and unpublished DNA sequencing data, five species of Monimiastrum are transferred into Eugenia.
25064347|The Old World genus Trichosanthes has flowers with strikingly fringed petals, and Linnaeus therefore placed a species from Hispaniola that he only knew from an illustration (showing such fringed petals) in that genus. The species remained hidden from the attention of subsequent workers until acquiring new relevance in the context of molecular-biogeographic work on Cucurbitaceae. Based on molecular data, it is the sister to all Sicyeae, a New World clade of about 125 species in 16 genera. We here place this species in a new genus, Linnaeosicyos, describe and illustrate it, and discuss its phylogenetic context using molecular and morphological data. Judging from Dominican amber, elements of the flora of Hispaniola date back 15-20 my, and the occurrence on the island of at least five endemic species of Cucurbitaceae (Linnaeosicyos amara, Melothria domingensis, Sicana fragrans, and the sister species Anacaona sphaerica and Penelopeia suburceolata) points to its long occupation by Cucurbitaceae.
25064348|The approximately 27 New World species of Vicia (tribe Fabeae, family Leguminosae) were classified into four stylar type groups as follows: (1) a laterally compressed and evenly hairy stylar type (Le-type) group, (2) a dorsiventrally compressed and abaxially tufted hairy stylar type (Dabt-type) group, (3) a dorsiventrally compressed and evenly hairy stylar type (De-type) group, and (4) V. leucophaea that is characterized by an arcuate style with a dense ring of stylar hairs at a considerable distance from the stigma. In the present study, the stylar distinctions among the groups were confirmed by morphological and anatomical studies on the stylar characters of representative species of the groups. The phylogenetic positions of these groups were then assessed using molecular phylogenetic analysis based on sequences from the nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of the representative species. The New World Le-type stylar group was revealed to be a sister group to the Old World Le-type stylar group. The New World Dabt-type stylar group and V. leucophaea are nested within the Old World Dabt-type stylar group. These New World groups were nested well within the Old World Vicia, suggesting that the New World diversification occurred relatively recently during the evolution of Vicia.
25064349|Madagascar boasts a substantial radiation within Hibisceae (Malvaceae). Molecular data were used to determine the number of migrations to Madagascar, to clarify the timing of these radiations, and to assess the relationships among the endemic taxa. Sequences of matK and ndhF were obtained for representatives of all the Malagasy endemic genera in Hibisceae, as well as representative Malagasy species of Hibiscus and Kosteletzkya. Phylogenetic analysis of these data along with a sampling of outgroups and other major lineages of Hibisceae strongly supported the existence of an exclusively Malagasy clade, the /Megistohibiscus clade, which is sister to the rest of tribe Hibisceae. Humbertiella, Megistostegium, Perrierophytum, all the Malagasy Kosteletzkya, and a number of endemic species usually placed in Hibiscus are members of /Megistohibiscus and appear to be derived from a single introduction to Madagascar in the mid Miocene. Other sampled Malagasy Hibisceae, including the endemic genera Helicteropsis, Jumelleanthus, and Macrostelia, were resolved as members of the /Euhibiscus clade, implying at least one additional dispersal to the island.
25064350|The African-Malagasy genus Protorhus and the African-Malagasy species of Rhus s.l. have been suggested to be polyphyletic, but definitive evidence has been lacking. We investigated a clade of Anacardiaceae subfamily Anacardioideae in order to clarify evolutionary relationships of the African-Malagasy members of these two genera. Phylogenetic analysis of sequence data from cpDNA trnL-trnF, and nrDNA ETS and ITS provide strong statistical support for the 1) polyphyly of Protorhus; 2) monophyly of Malagasy Protorhus species; 3) polyphyly of Rhus section Baronia (Malagasy Rhus). These results support the need for new circumscriptions of these groups. Two new combinations are proposed, Searsia erosa and Searsia pendulina.
25064351|Allopolyploidy is recognized as an important mode of plant speciation. The allopolyploid origin of a taxon is often inferred from morphological intermediacy or a mixture of morphological characters from the putative parental taxa, especially if accompanied by geographical intermediacy of the polyploid. Here we show that in the case of Androsace cantabrica (Primulaceae), a narrow endemic from the central Cordillera Cantbrica (Spain), both lines of evidence are misleading. Instead of being an allopolyploid derivative of A. halleri (western Cordillera Cantbrica, eastern Pyrenees, Massif Central, Vosges) and A. laggeri (central Pyrenees), A. cantabrica is most likely an autopolyploid closely related to A. adfinis s. l., endemic to the southwestern European Alps. This counterintuitive biogeographic connection not only adds to the group of species showing a Cantabrian-Alpine disjunction, but, together with the unexpected link between A. chaixii, also from the southwestern Alps, and A. halleri in form of the northern Spanish local endemic A. rioxana, underlines the important role of large-scale range shifts in shaping the current distribution of European mountain taxa.
25064352|Heliotropium sect. Cochranea (Heliotropiaceae) consists of 19 species endemic to the coastal Atacama Desert of Chile and Peru. This section has one of the most restricted geographic distributions and is the largest among the South American sections of Heliotropium. We performed a phylogenetic analysis of a total of 92 species using nuclear ribosomal ITS and chloroplast ndhF, rps16, and trnL-trnF sequences, and estimated the divergence times of major lineages of the group. Our results suggest that Heliotropium sect. Cochranea is monophyletic. There are two main well-supported lineages within the section: one is H. pycnophyllum, which is sister to rest of the species in the section. Within this second lineage, H. filifolium, H. glutinosum, H. krauseanum, and a large polytomous group composed of 15 species form a tetratomy. The age estimates using the penalized likelihood method suggests a minimum age of 14.0  2.0 My for section Cochranea, and 4.6  0.9 My for the large polytomous group within it. Heliotropium sect. Cochranea may have originated in the Miocene during the major uplift of the Andes, and then radiated in the Pliocene in the Atacama Desert.
25064353|Gonolobus (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) is a New World genus comprising an estimated 100-150 species. Variation in estimated species numbers is largely the result of still poorly known tropical taxa and differences regarding generic limits. Characters historically used to delimit genera such as Gonolobus within Gonolobinae-such as laminar dorsal anther appendages and various follicle morphologies-have been controversial and their evolution remains unknown, not having been explored in a phylogenetic framework. The primary objectives of the current study were to (1) test the monophyly of Gonolobus sensu Woodson in the context of a phylogeny of New World Asclepiadeae and (2) explore the evolution of laminar dorsal anther appendages and winged follicles with respect to their potential utility in generic circumscription. Chloroplast (trnL-F, rps16) data are newly presented for sixty-three taxa of Gonolobinae, representing an increased sampling of the subtribe from a maximum of seven taxa in prior studies. These data were combined with a previously published dataset to form a 183 taxa matrix of New World Asclepiadeae. Nuclear (LEAFY) data were newly generated for forty-nine taxa of Gonolobinae. Evidence from parsimony and Bayesian analyses of chloroplast and nuclear data presented here supports the monophyly of both the subtribe and the genus Gonolobus in a narrow or broad sense. Laminar dorsal anther appendages are restricted to Gonolobus s.l. or s.s., although parsimony remains equivocal on whether they evolved once or twice. A transversion in the trnL-F spacer is shown synapomorphic for Gonolobus s.s. Two indels in LEAFY, as well as winged follicles, are shown synapomorphic for Gonolobus s.l.
25064354|We used DNA sequence data from five genic regions (nrITS; chloroplast trnL-F, trnT-L, rps16, trnS-G) to study phylogenetic relationships of the Tetramerium lineage (Acanthaceae: Justicieae). From a sample of 70 species (representing 25 genera) previously affiliated with the Tetramerium lineage, 68 are included therein. Our analyses excluded Papuasian Calycacanthus and Neotropical Streblacanthus monospermus from the Tetramerium lineage; however, two species described in Justicia (J. gonzalezii and J. medranoi) and a Malagasy species of uncertain generic affinities are nested within the lineage. A monophyletic Tetramerium lineage consists of 23 currently recognized genera with at least 168 species, more than 70% of which occur in the New World. Old World Chlamydocardia and Clinacanthus are serially sister to all other members of the lineage. Other Old World taxa consist of: Ecbolium clade (all sampled species of Ecbolium plus Malagasy Populina richardii), Megalochlamys clade (Megalochlamys, Trichaulax and the unidentified Malagasy species), and two isolated taxa (Angkalanthus and Chorisochora). All analyses strongly support monophyly of the New World Tetramerium lineage. The basal clades of New World plants, all with nototribic flowers, are: 1) the taxonomically heterogeneous but palynologically consistent Mirandea clade, and 2) the Pachystachys clade + the South American Anisacanthus clade. The second is sister to all other NW plants, referred to here as the core Tetramerium lineage. We recognize five clades within the core Tetramerium lineage related as follows: (Henrya clade (Carlowrightia parviflora clade (North American Anisacanthus clade (core Carlowrightia clade + Tetramerium)))). Macromorphological synapomorphies are unknown for the Tetramerium lineage and for many of its constituent clades. However, we propose sternotribic flowers as synapomorphic for the core Tetramerium lineage, and flowers with the lower-central lobe of the corolla modified into a keel as a synapomorphy for a lineage consisting of Tetramerium and the core Carlowrightia clade. Palynological characters provide putative synapomorphies for some clades (e.g. Ecbolium clade, Mirandea clade) and autapomorphies for several species (e.g. Mexacanthus mcvaughii, Trichaulax mwasumbii). An Old World origin is postulated for the Tetramerium lineage, and we posit a single dispersal event to America and subsequent extensive radiation there, especially in arid zones of Mexico and adjacent regions. Taxonomic implications of our results are extensive. Notably, many traditionally recognized genera (e.g. Anisacanthus, Carlowrightia, Mirandea) are not monophyletic and emphasis on floral form often has been phylogenetically misleading; for example, floral adaptations to pollination by hummingbirds have evolved at least eight times in the New World Tetramerium lineage.
25064355|Trichostema (Lamiaceae) is a North American genus comprising five sections and 18 species. Phylogenetic relationships were inferred using DNA sequences (ITS, ndhF) and morphology (63 characters). The monophyly of Trichostema is well supported in four analyses (ITS, ndhF, ITS + ndhF, ITS + ndhF + morphology), but not in the analysis based on morphological data alone. In all analyses, the monophyly of sections Chromocephalum and Trichostema is well supported. The monophyly of section Paniculatum is moderately supported, and there is conflicting evidence regarding the monophyly of section Orthopodium. Although DNA data alone suggest that T. brachiatum is not a member of section Orthopodium, its retention in section Orthopodium is equivocal in the combined DNA-morphology analyses. The submerging of the monotypic section Rhodanthum into Paniculatum by Lewis and Rzedowski is not adopted because the monophyly of this grouping is poorly supported. Biogeographic history and character evolution (life history and chromosome number) are explored in the context of the phylogeny based on the combined ITS and ndhF sequence data.
25064356|Oxypolis and Ptilimnium are two endemic genera of North America within tribe Oenantheae (Apiaceae subfamily Apioideae). Both genera are small, with 12 species currently recognized. Some members of each genus share an unusual leaf morphology. Rather than having the pinnately compound leaves that generally characterize apioid umbellifers, they have highly reduced, linear, terete, hollow, septate appendages known as rachis leaves. It has long been questioned whether the species with rachis leaves should be placed in separate genera. In this study, we use data from the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA to explore relationships within and between these genera. A total of 147 internal transcribed spacer sequences were obtained from multiple accessions of all species of Oxypolis and Ptilimnium and for several other genera from tribe Oenantheae. These included Lilaeopsis, which also has rachis leaves, and Cynosciadium and Limnosciadium, which have rachis-like leaves. These sequence data were analyzed using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods. The results from each of these analyses were congruent and suggest that neither Oxypolis nor Ptilimnium as presently defined is monophyletic. Oxypolis and Ptilimnium are each separated into two clades according to leaf morphology. The rachis-leaved Oxypolis species are provisionally recognized as the genus Tiedemannia and the rachis-leaved Ptilimnium species are provisionally recognized as the genus Harperella, pending further investigation. The relationships among these four clades and the genera Cynosciadium, Daucosma, and Limnosciadium are not clear. Nevertheless, it appears that the rachis-leaf habit has evolved multiple times in the tribe. Geographic structure is apparent in the phylogenetic trees and, pending further study, may suggest new taxa; in addition, the presence of O. occidentalis on the Queen Charlotte Islands, well-separated from other populations of this species, suggests that it may have survived the last glaciation in a refugium in this area.
25064357|A new species, Perityle harkerae (Asteraceae), endemic to southern Zacatecas, Mexico is described and illustrated. Salient morphological features of the new species are compared to those of P. jaliscana, P. feddemae, and P. glaucescens, which appear to be closely related. The new species is distinguished by its canescent and ovate to deltate-ovate leaves, and by its discoid capitula with yellow corollas. A key to the species of Perityle in western Mexico is provided. /// Una nueva especie, Perityle harkerae (Asteraceae), endmica al sur de Zacatecas, Mxico es descrita e ilustrada. Algunas caractersticas morfolgicas sobresalientes son comparadas con las de P. jaliscana, P. feddemae y P. glaucescens, que parecen ser las especies ms cercanamente relacionadas. El nuevo taxn se distingue por sus hojas canescentes, ovadas a deltado-ovadas y por sus captulos discoides con corolas amarillas. Se presenta una clave para la identificacin de las especies de Perityle en el occidente de Mxico.
25064358|A 3.7 kilobase region of chloroplast DNA that includes atpB, rbcL, and their intergenic spacer was sequenced in 61 samples from 45 species of South American Lobeliaceae plus two outgroup samples from Australia. A clade of four hexaploid Lobelia species from Chile is sister to a clade comprising Lysipomia, Siphocampylus, Centropogon, and Burmeistera. Lysipomia is a monophyletic group of small cushion-forming plants endemic to the high Andes, and is sister to the clade comprising the remaining three shrubby genera, which are most diverse in the Andes, but also extend to Central America, Mexico, and the West Indies. Siphocampylus has capsular fruit and is inferred to be paraphyletic relative to fleshy-fruited Centropogon and Burmeistera, but fleshy fruits have evidently evolved repeatedly, making Centropogon polyphyletic. Burmeistera is primarily bat-pollinated and monophyletic, having evolved from one group of species in Centropogon. The phylogenetic relationships within Burmeistera indicate that this genus underwent repeated episodes of rapid diversification when organismal diversification outpaced the accumulation of mutations in this region of chloroplast DNA.
40211910|A new species of Sphagnum section Subsecunda, S. beringiense, is described from arctic Alaska from the vicinity of Barrow along the northern coast. The species is distinguished morphologically by the light, yellow-green color of the gametophytes, multistratose stem cortex with 2-4 layers of enlarged thin-walled cells, round, medium-size (ca. 5 m diameter) outer branch leaf pores, scattered inner branch leaf pores, typically few outer stem leaf pores, and abundant, round to elliptic inner stem leaf pores. Two unique plastid DNA haplotypes occur among Barrow area plants of S. beringiense, and these differ by a minimum of three nucleotide substitutions from those of other Alaskan Sphagnum species in the section Subsecunda. Microsatellite markers show that S. beringiense is genetically variable despite the fact that all plants were sampled from within an area of a few km and neither gametangia nor sporophytes have been observed. A key to the six Alaskan species of Sphagnum section Subsecunda is provided.
40211911|Hemlock, Tsuga (Pinaceae), has a disjunct distribution in North America and Asia. To examine the biogeographic history of Tsuga, phylogenetic relationships among multiple accessions of all nine species were inferred using chloroplast DNA sequences and multiple cloned sequences of the nuclear ribosomal ITS region. Analysis of chloroplast and ITS sequences resolve a clade that includes the two western North American species, T. heterophylla and T. mertensiana, and a clade of Asian species within which one of the eastern North American species, T. caroliniana, is nested. The other eastern North American species, T. canadensis, is sister to the Asian clade. Tsuga chinensis from Taiwan did not group with T. chinensis from mainland China, and T. sieboldii from Ullung Island did not group with T. sieboldii from Japan suggesting that the taxonomic status of these distinct populations should be reevaluated. The Himalayan species, T. dumosa, was in conflicting positions in the chloroplast and ITS trees, suggesting that it may be of hybrid origin. Likelihood-based biogeographic inference with divergence time estimates infers an Eocene basal crown group diversification and an initial widespread circumpolar distribution with subsequent vicariance and extinction events leading to the current disjunct distribution.
40211912|Recently published molecular phylogenies of the Annonaceae have confirmed the long-held hypothesis that the large paleotropical genus Polyalthia is polyphyletic. Species previously assigned to Polyalthia are now known to belong to up to six distinct, generally well-supported clades. Three members of a group of six species previously referred to as the Polyalthia hypoleuca complex form a monophyletic group (with 99% bootstrap support) that is only distantly related to the other species of Polyalthia sampled. Putative morphological synapomorphies are assessed, and justification provided for validating a new generic name, Maasia. Six species names in the Polyalthia hypoleuca complex are accordingly transferred to Maasia: M. discolor, M. glauca, M. hypoleuca, M. multinervis, M. ovalifolia, and M. sumatrana.
40211913|The current infrafamilial taxonomy of the Iridaceae recognizes four subfamilies; Isophysidoideae (1:1); Nivenioideae (6: ca. 92), Iridoideae (29: 890), and Crocoideae (29: 1032). Phylogenetic analyses of sequences of five plastid DNA regions, rbcL, rps4, trnL-F, matK, and rps16, confirm most aspects of this classification and the evolutionary patterns that they imply, importantly the sisiter relationship of Isophysidoideae to the remainder of the family and the monophyly of Iridoideae. Subfamily Nivenioideae is, however, paraphyletic; Crocoideae is consistently found nested within it, sister to the core Nivenioideae, the woody Klattia, Nivenia, and Witsenia. This clade is sister to Aristea, which in turn is sister to the Madagascan Geosiris, and then to the Australasian Patersonia. We treat Aristea, Geosiris, and Patersonia as separate subfamilies, Aristeoideae and the new Geosiridaceae and Patersonioideae, rendering Nivenioideae and Crocoideae monophyletic. The alternative, uniting a widely circumscribed Nivenioideae and Crocoideae, seems undesirable because Nivenioideae have none of the numerous synapomorphies of Crocoideae, and that subfamily includes more than half the total species of Iridaceae. Main synapomorphies of Crocoideae are: pollen operculate; exine perforate; ovule campylotropous; root xylem vessels with simple perforations; rootstock a corm; inflorescence usually a spike; plants deciduous. Four more derived features of Crocoideae are shared only with core Nivenioideae: flowers long-lived; perianth tube well developed; flowers sessile; and septal nectaries present. The genera of the latter subfamily are evergreen shrubs, have monocot-type secondary growth, tangentially flattened seeds, and the inflorescence unit is a binate rhipidium. The latter feature unites core Nivenioideae with Aristea, Geosiris, and Patersonia, which have fugaceous flowers and, with few exceptions, a blue perianth. Molecular-based phylogenetic trees using sequences from five plastid DNA regions now show discrete generic clusters within Crocoideae and Iridoideae, the foundation for the tribal classification. The five tribe classification of Iridoideae, initially based on morphological characters and subsequently supported by a four plastid DNA region sequence analysis, continues to receive support using additional DNA sequences. Application of molecular clock techniques to our phylogeny indicates that the Iridaceae differentiated in the late Cretaceous and diverged from the next most closely related family, Doryanthaceae circa 82 mya, thus during the Campanian. The Tasmanian Isophysis is the only extant member of the clade sister to the remainder of the Iridaceae, from which it may have diverged 66 mya, in the Maastrichtian. The generic phylogeny shows the proximal clades of the family are all Australasian, which corroborates past hypotheses that the Iridaceae originated in Antarctica-Australasia, although its subsequent radiation occurred elsewhere, notably in southern Africa and temperate and highland South America at the end of the Eocene or later.
40211914|The monotypic genus Tamia was described by Ravenna in 2001 based on specimens of Calydorea pallens from Bolivia and West-Central Argentina (excluding Crdoba and San Luis). At the same time, Ravenna described Calydorea undulata as a new species to accommodate the excluded specimens. He used floral morphology to segregate Tamia from Calydorea. He described Calydorea as having the anthers twisted/circinate after dehiscence, whereas in Tamia, the anthers are straight. Similarly, in Tamia the upper third of the anther is adnate to the style arms while in Calydorea the anthers are free from the style branches. We here evaluate the validity of Tamia and C. undulata based on morphological and cytological approaches. An examination of living plants of both taxa showed the anthers to be straight during dehiscence and twisted when the pollen was exposed, likewise the stamens were completely free from style branches in both taxa. Both have a base chromosome number of x = 7 (C. undulata diploid, 2n = 14; T. pallens tetraploid, 2n = 28). The karyotype formula for C. undulata was 5m + 2sm and 7 m + 7 sm for T. pallens. The karyotype is bimodal in C. undulata and moderately asymmetrical in T. pallens. These chromosomal differences and differences in petal shape (the outer are flat for both taxa while the inner are geniculate in T. pallens but flat with undulate margins in C. undulata) and flower color (pale lilac with dark violet dots in T. pallens and violet-blue with violet stripes in C. undulata) suggest that these taxa are distinct species of Calydorea, where a polyploid series based on x = 7 is known. The divergence of their karyotypes is within the observed chromosomal variability of genera in Iridaceae. Thus, we conclude that Tamia should be regarded as a synonym of Calydorea, with the return of its species to Calydorea pallens, because the floral differences between them are not enough to merit generic segregation. Calydorea undulata is nonetheless a valid species.
40211915|Nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) has been used for more than a decade in species level phylogenetic analyses. While nrDNA can often be a powerful phylogenetic marker, intraindividual polymorphisms of the internal and external transcribed spacers (ITS, ETS) can lead to problems in their use for phylogeny reconstruction. Incomplete concerted evolution coupled with hybridization and incomplete lineage sorting can further exacerbate these problems. Previous phylogenetic analyses using nrDNA of Carex subgenus Vignea suggest that the current sectional classifications may be highly artificial. We endeavored to identify what influence incomplete concerted evolution, lineage sorting, and hybridization have played in the complex patterns of relationships previously inferred from ITS and ETS sequences for subgenus Vignea. Through comprehensive cloning we identified high levels of intraindividual polymorphisms and in many cases this led to the polyphyly of individuals. Furthermore, individuals identified with novel mutations in the 5.8S ribosomal subunit did not show a significant deviation in G-C percentage and free energy. Based on these results we suggest that nrDNA contains multiple paralogs in many species and clades within Carex subgenus Vignea which greatly complicates its use for phylogenetic inference of relationships and future studies in Carex need to take this into account.
40211916|We used a combination of amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLP) and morphological data from 272 individuals from 59 populations to investigate the species-level taxonomy of Carex roanensis and allied species. There were two taxonomic problems in this group: identifying the appropriate taxonomic status for Carex roanensis, and clarifying the distinctions (if any) between C. virescens and C. swanii. Principal coordinate analysis of the morphological data suggested four entities corresponding to C. aestivalis, C. roanensis, C. swanii, and C. virescens, but clear discrimination was not possible. In contrast, the AFLP data showed marked discontinuities among these four species, placing even morphological intermediates into one of four groups. Analysis of molecular variance revealed significant population differentiation within each species, but only C. virescens had any detectable differentiation between geographic regions. This study confirms the species-level distinction between the common and widespread taxa C. swanii and C. virescens, as well as that of the globally rare Appalachian endemic C. roanensis.
40211917|The Distichlis clade comprises Distichlis (7 species), Monanthochloe (2), and Reederochloa (1). All species except D. distichophylla (endemic to Australia) and D. spicata (widespread in the New World) are restricted either to North or South America. We investigated phylogenetic relationships within the clade using chloroplast (trnL-F and ndhF) and nuclear ribosomal (internal transcribed spacers and 5.8S) DNA sequences. We also studied lemma micromorphology, leaf blade anatomy, macromorphology, and biogeography in a phylogenetic context. The Distichlis clade is strongly supported in the molecular analyses. A morphological synapomorphy for the clade is the presence of a single papilla on the center of each subsidiary cell of lemma stomata. Other diagnostic features include dioecy, rhizomes or stolons, conspicuously distichous leaves, 5-13 lemma nerves, dumbbell- or flask-shaped bicellular microhairs with sunken basal cells, and growth in alkaline or saline soils. The nuclear and chloroplast phylogenies indicate that Monanthochloe and Reederochloa are nested within a paraphyletic Distichlis, and a number of structural characters, including leaf blade length, number of spikelets per inflorescence, and number of florets per spikelet, also fall within the range of variation in Distichlis. Therefore, we propose expanding the circumscription of Distichlis to include Monanthochloe and Reederochloa, and make the following new combinations: Distichlis acerosa, D. eludens, and D. littoralis. Biogeographical analysis revealed that the group likely originated in North America followed by a number of long-distance dispersal events, including back dispersals.
40211918|A new morning glory from the northern-most reaches of tropical forests in North America, Merremia cielensis, is described and illustrated. This narrow endemic from Tamaulipas, Mexico, shares close relationships with a complex of yellow-flowered merremias that produce indehiscent capsules with translucent pericarps. Merremia cielensis can be readily distinguished from all other Mexican merremias on the basis of cordate leaves, a ruddy, accrescent calyx during fruition, and a four-seeded capsule.
40211919|During a revision of Solanum section Erythrotrichum, four species, two from Brazil and two from Peru, were recognized as new and are described here. Solanum absconditum, from northeastern and northern Brazil, is similar to S. paludosum. It differs in its cordate to cordate-lanceolate, acuminate, and weakly bicolorous leaf blades that are yellowish to ferruginous above, the corolla tube 4-6 mm long, and the epicarp with stipitate-stellate trichomes. Solatium eitenii, from the "cerrado" of Maranhao, Brazil, resembles both S. decompositiflorum and S. rhytidoandrum, from which it can be distinguished by its long and pendent inflorescence and its calyx with a very short tube and oblanceolate lobes. Solanum megaspermum, from Peru, has similarities with S. mesopliar thrum, from which it differs by the triangular and very short calyx lobes (1.5-2 mm) and the scabrous and deciduous indumentum with somewhat stiff porrect-stellate trichomes. Solanum urubambaense from Cuzco, Peru, is similar to the Bolivian S. abutilifolium, but differs by its oblong-lanceolate anthers, strigose ovary, and trichomes with a reduced central ray. The species are described, illustrated and compared with similar species; commentaries on their affinities and distribution are also included. A key to the species of the section Erythrotrichum is provided.
40211920|There are about 190 wild potato (Solarium L. section Petota Dumort.) species distributed from the southwestern United States to central Argentina and adjacent Chile and Uruguay. The morphological similarity of many of its constituent species has led to widely conflicting taxonomic treatments. Solanum series Piurana Hawkes is one of 21 series recognized in section Petota in the latest comprehensive taxonomic treatment by Hawkes in 1990. They are distributed from southern Colombia, south through Ecuador to central Peru. The limits of the series and validity of its constituent species are unresolved. We provide the first comprehensive morphological phenetic study of the series, to include putatively related species in ser. Conicibaccata, Cuneoalata, Ingifolia, Megistacroloba, Simplicissima, Tuberosa, and Yungasensa, through an examination 188 living germplasm accessions of 33 species, planted in replicated plots in a field station in Andean Peru. Only four morphologically well-defined groups were supported. Continuing work is exploring molecular support for these species in these eight series.
40211921|Solatium medians is a widely distributed species of wild potato (Solarium sect. Petota), growing along the coastal lomas and up the western slopes of the Andes Mountains from central Peru and northern Chile, from 200-3800 m elevation. Fertile diploid and sterile triploid cytotypes are common, are believed to be associated with morphological variants, and are formally named as subspecies. A morphometric study based on principal components and canonical discriminate analyses of characters obtained from herbarium specimens tests the circumscription of these subspecies and other currently recognized species that are very similar to S. medians. The results show so much overlap of these taxa that it is impractical to use morphology to define species or to provide reliable keys or identifications. We synonymize ten names under S. medians: S. medians var. angustifoliolum, S. medians var. majorifrons subvar. majorifrons, S. medians var. majorifrons subvar. protohypoleucum, S. medians var. autumnale, S. sandemannii, S. tacnaense, S. weberbaueri var. decurrentialatum, S. tacnaense f. decurrentialatum, S. weberbaueri, S. weberbaueri var. poscoanum. We also treat S. neoweberbaueri as a closely related species to S. medians. We consider the synonymy in S. medians to be part of a much larger need for reduction of names in sect. Petota.
40211922|Incongruence among different estimates of species relationships in plants, from different molecules, cytogenetic data, biogeographic data, morphological/anatomical data or other sources, has been used frequently as an indication of introgression, hybrid species origin, or chloroplast (cp) capture. In plants, these incongruences are most often seen between data derived from the nuclear vs. the cp genomes and the nuclear markers used for comparison usually have been from the nuclear ribosomal (nr) internal transcribed spacer region (ITS). The amount of genomic material shared between introgressing species can be highly variable. In some of these cases, other nuclear genomic regions have moved between species without leaving a signature on the nrlTS. An example of well-supported phylogenetic incongruence is the placement of Dubautia scabra (DC.) D. D. Keck in the Hawaiian silversword alliance (HSA); evolutionary hypotheses for D. scabra based on molecular as opposed to cytogenetic data are strongly discordant. In this paper, we test these two conflicting phylogenetic hypotheses regarding the evolutionary relationships of Dubautia scabra using evidence from six low-copy nuclear genes, as well as multiple chloroplast noncoding regions and nrlTS. The nrlTS region is also examined for the presence of multiple copy types. Incongruence between inferred relationships based on nuclear chromosomal arrangements and molecular phylogenetic data from chloroplast DNA and nrlTS is resolved in favor of a hypothesis of ancient hybridization rather than cytogenetic homoplasy involving dysploidy. Most single-copy nuclear genes track histories of D. scabra compatible with cytogenetic data whereas chloroplast and nrlTS data track a common, different history that appears to reflect hybridization with a chromosomally distinct lineage that also occurs on Maui Nui and Hawai'i (the Big Island).
40211923|Menyanthaceae consist of five genera of aquatic and wetland plants distributed worldwide. The three monotypic genera (Liparophyllum, Menyanthes, and Nephrophyllidium) are clearly differentiated morphologically, but the two larger genera (Nymphoides and Villarsia) contain several taxa of uncertain affinity. We undertook a phylogenetic analysis, using a combination of morphological and molecular data, to resolve relationships among species and to evaluate the current circumscription of genera. DNA sequence data for nuclear (ITS) and chloroplast (rbcL and trnK/matK) gene regions were largely congruent (by partition-homogeneity test), and a combined data phylogeny revealed several strongly supported relationships. Analyses using asterid outgroup taxa supported the monophyly of Menyanthaceae. Menyanthes trifoliata and Nephrophyllidium crista-galli comprised a clade sister to the remainder of the family. Species of Nymphoides, except N. exigua, resolved to a single, deeply-nested clade, indicating that the floating-leaved habit is derived evolutionarily within the family. The genus Villarsia comprised a paraphyletic grade toward Nymphoides, wherein the species resolved to three assemblages: (1) a shallowly nested clade containing V. albiflora, V. calthifolia, V. marchantii, V. parnassifolia, V. reniformis, and V. umbricola; (2) an isolated South African clade including V. manningiana and the type species, V. capensis; and (3) a heterogeneous clade of taxa from three genera, including V. exaltata, V. lasiosperma, and V. latifolia, plus the anomalous species V. capitata, V. congestiflora, Liparophyllum gunnii, and Nymphoides exigua. Our results indicate that the genera Menyanthes, Nephrophyllidium, and Nymphoides should be retained as circumscribed, with the exception that Nymphoides exigua should be restored to Villarsia. The genus Villarsia, however, eventually should be subdivided among monophyletic lineages, whereby in the strict sense Villarsia would contain only South African taxa.
40211930|Amblyolejeunea, a poorly known monospecific genus from Ecuador and Guadeloupe, does not merit generic recognition and is proposed as a synonym of Lejeunea (Lejeuneaceae, Marchantiophyta) based on detailed study of the gametophyte and sporophyte. The new combination, Lejeunea fulfordiae comb, nov., is proposed. Detailed description and illustrations of Lejeunea fulfordiae are provided. It is recommended that the species be placed on the world red list of threatened bryophytes.
40211931|Although polyploidy is rampant in ferns and plays a major role in shaping their diversity, the evolutionary history of many polyploid species remains poorly understood. Nuclear DNA sequences can provide valuable information for identifying polyploid origins; however, remarkably few nuclear markers have been developed specifically for ferns, and previously published primer sets do not work well in many fern lineages. In this study, we present new primer sequences for the amplification of a portion of the nuclear gapCp gene (encoding a glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase). Through a broad survey across ferns, we demonstrate that these primers are nearly universal for this clade. With a case study in cheilanthoids, we show that this rapidly evolving marker is a powerful tool for discriminating between autopolyploids and allopolyploids. Our results indicate that gapCp holds considerable potential for addressing species-level questions across the fern tree of life.
40211932|We describe a new species of Microgramma (M. microsoroides) from the Atlantic Forest of Brazil, present a phylogeny of Microgramma, and provide a new generic circumscription. Microgramma comprises ca. 30 species in the Neotropics and perhaps two species in Africa and on islands in the Indian Ocean. Several species are contentious with regard to generic placement, and have been treated within Pleopeltis, Polypodium, and Solanopteris. From all known species of Microgramma, the new species differs by the sori forming irregular rows between adjacent primary veins. This finding is quite surprising, inasmuch as all other species in the genus have sori in two very strict rows, one row on each side of the midrib. The monophyly of Microgramma, as newly redefined, is strongly supported in chloroplast DNA-based phylogenetic analyses, using the genes rbcL and rps4, the rps4r-trnS intergenic spacer, and the trnL-trnF intergenic spacer on 13 samples from 12 species. The new species is nested within Microgramma as sister to Microgramma megalophylla. Recognition of the relationships of M. microsoroides calls into question certain soral characters traditionally used to define genera of Polypodiaceae, as well as genera of ferns in other families. Sorus placement is notoriously variable in some genera and in many different families of Polypodiales.
40211933|A fossil from the Early Eocene London Clay flora of southern England provides the earliest confirmed seed record of Myristicaceae (Magnoliales). The specimen, which was fractured transversely to show internal structure, reveals prominent longitudinal ruminations of the kind found today only in the Myristicaceae. We describe this fossil as Myristicacarpum chandlerae sp. nov. and discuss its phylogenetic and biogeographic implications. Its Early Eocene age might seem to contradict molecular evidence that Myristicaceae diversified in the Miocene, but this depends on whether it belongs in the crown group of the family or on the stem lineage leading to it. To address this question, we review the distribution of ruminations, aril type, and seed size and shape on a molecular and morphological phylogeny of extant Myristicaceae. Myristicacarpum chandlerae resembles some extant genera and not others in presence of ruminations, small size, and elongate shape, but these characters are highly homoplastic in living Myristicaceae and are equally consistent with a position in the crown group or on the stem lineage. However, biogeographic arguments favor a pre-Miocene age for the crown group. Myristicaceae join a growing list of taxa in which modern-appearing fossils predate ages inferred from molecular divergences.
40211934|Piper is one of the largest genera of flowering plants. The uniformity of its small flowers and the vast number of species in the genus has hindered the development of a stable infrageneric classification. We sampled 575 accessions corresponding to 332 species of Piper for the ITS region and 181 accessions for the psbJ-petA chloroplast intron to further test previous hypotheses about the major clades within Piper. Phylogenetic analyses were performed for each marker separately and in combination. The ITS region alone resolves eleven major clades within Piper, whereas the psbJ-petA intron fails to recover four of these major groupings and provides no resolution at the base of the phylogeny. The combined analysis provides support for ten monophyletic groups and offers the best hypothesis for relationships in Piper. Our massive ITS dataset allows us to assign confidently a large number of species in this "giant" genus to a major clade. Piper is here divided into ten major clades for which we provide a morphological description. Various clades and subclades are newly identified here: Peltobryon, Schilleria, Isophyllon, P. cinereum/P. sanctum. The clades described here provide a solid framework for future, and more focused, evolutionary studies. New names and combinations proposed herein include Piper bullulatum, P. hooglandii, and P. melchior.
40211935|The section Multiflorae of Bomarea subgenus Bomarea s.str. is revised. Seventy-nine species of Bomarea s.str. occur from Mexico (23N) to Chile (40S) on the western side of the Andes and on the eastern side to 28S in Argentina. The 33 species of section Multiflorae can be found from 19N to 18S. North of Honduras and south of northern Peru they only grow on the eastern slopes of the American Cordilleras. Their distribution is nearly congruent with the distribution of cloud forests. Different species occur from 1500 m to 4500 m; they grow mostly twining, sometimes suberect to erect. They can be found in the cloud forests, the puna, and pramo. This section includes hummingbird pollinated and insect pollinated species. To date, 75 binomials are validly published, and, in this publication, 33 species are accepted. The distribution, morphology, variability, and ecology of the Multiflorae species are discussed.
40211936|Authors have debated the taxonomic status of Juncus longii almost since its description in 1937. Some authors treat the J. marginatus complex, to which J. longii belongs, as comprised of three species (J. biflorus, J. longii and, J. marginatus), whereas other authors recognize only one species (J. marginatus). Univariate and multivariate statistical analyses of measurements of twelve morphological characters suggest that Juncus longii is a species distinct from J. marginatus and J. biflorus. Ecological differences are also apparent. Juncus longii is restricted to early successional seepages with exposed soils. Juncus marginatus and J. biflorus, however, are found in less specialized habitats. Syntopic occurrences of J. longii with J. marginatus and J. longii with J. biflorus suggest the morphological differences used to identify these species are not a reflection of environmental conditions. Juncus longii is endemic to the southeastern United States, whereas J. biflorus and J. marginatus are more broadly distributed across eastern North America, Central America and central South America.
40211937|Tripogon cope Newmaster S. G., V. Balalasubramaniam, M. Murugesan, & S. Ragupathy a new species from South India, is described and illustrated. A key for the identification of all Indian Tripogon species is included. A detrended correspondence analysis identified 21 groups of taxa including the sp. novum from the 48 samples, analyzing 36 morphological characters. A discriminant function analysis was used to rigorously test the classification of specimens provided in the cluster analysis. This study provides preliminary evidence of morphometric variation within and among species of Tripogon, which allows further development of hypothesis concerning species boundaries. Discussions concerning ecological data and distribution are presented in the context of conservation initiatives of rare and endemic Tripogon taxa within India.
40211938|A comprehensive taxonomic revision of the genus Luziola (Poaceae: Oryzeae) is presented. Based on observations of herbarium material and living plants of the twelve previously recognized species of Luziola, we recognize nine species in the genus. The utility of specific taxonomic characters is also evaluated, with particular emphasis on inflorescence, lemma and palea characters. Detailed taxonomic descriptions are given for every species including phenological data, chromosome number and uses. Morphological and anatomical structures related to an aquatic habitat are also discussed. The names Luziola doelliana Prod. and Luziola leiocarpa Lindm. are lectotypified. Luziola caespitosa, L. subintegra, and L. spruceana are illustrated. /// Se presenta la revisin taxonmica del gnero Luziola (Poaceae: Oryzeae). De las doce especies que se consideraban en el gnero, en esta revisin se reconocen nueve especies con base en las observaciones realizadas en material de herbario y de plantas vivas. La utilidad de algunos caracteres taxonmicos ha sido evaluada con nfasis en la inflorescencia, lema y palea. Se presentan descripciones taxonmicas detalladas para cada especie, incluyendo informatin sobre fenologa, nmero cromsomico y usos. Se discuten algunas estructuras morfolgicas y anatmicas que estn relacionadas con el hbito acutico. Los nombres Luziola doelliana Prod. y Luziola leiocarpa Lindm. fueron lectotipificados. Se ilustran Luziola caespitosa, L. subintegra y L. spruceana.
40211939|We conducted phylogenetic analyses of molecular data (ITS, trnH-psbA, trnC-trnL, and trnK-rps16) for 71 species of stipoid grasses. Of these species, 30 are native to South America, seven are native to Mexico and/or the southwestern United States, 15 to other parts of North America, 12 to Eurasia and/or the Mediterranean region, and seven to Australia. The outgroup was Glyceria declinata, a member of the Meliceae, a tribe that is in the same clade as and possibly sister to, the Stipeae. The purpose of the study was to evaluate alternative generic treatments of the South American Stipeae, all of which are based on morphological and anatomical information. Questions of particular interest were the merits of recognizing Amelichloa and of including Stipa subgg. Pappostipa and Ptilostipa in Jarava. Trees obtained from separate analyses of the ITS and cpDNA data were poorly resolved. The majority rule consensus tree obtained from the combined data provided strong support for the monophyly of only two currently recognized genera, Piptochaetium and Hesperostipa. There was strong support for a lineage comprising Amelichloa, Jarava s. str., most North American species of Achnatherum, and most samples of Nassella. Amelichloa was included within a poorly resolved Nassella clade that was sister to the Jarava clade. Austrostipa, with the exception of one sample, was monophyletic and sister to the poorly supported Achnatherum-Amelichloa-Nassella-Jarava clade. Stipa subg. Pappostipa formed a separate strongly supported clade if the North American samples of S. speciosa were excluded from consideration. None of the trees support including S. subg. Pappostipa in Jarava. For S. subg. Ptilostipa we obtained no ITS data and cpDNA data for only one species. The cpDNA data placed the species in a clade with two Nassella species.
40211940|During germplasm explorations within Zambia in 1984, seven Cucumis accessions were collected that could not be identified to species. Two of the accessions were studied in-depth. Based on phenotypic characters, they were closest to Cucumis pustulatus. In ITS analyses of all available Cucumis species and the accessions, the two accessions grouped with 100% bootstrap support in a clade comprising C. anguria, C. dipsaceus, C. insignis, and C. pustulatus. The accessions differed from these four Cucumis species by the following characters: plants pilose, male inflorescences paniculate with 6-30 flowers, staminate-flower calyx lobes linear, pistillate-flower pedicels long and cylindrical, and a genetic difference of 4 base pairs in their ITS sequences. Controlled crosses were made within and between the two accessions and between each of them and C. pustulatus. Fruits were produced from crosses made within and between the two accessions, but attempts involving C. pustulatus were unsuccessful. The two accessions are described as a new species, Cucumis zambianus. Six of the seven unidentified Cucumis collections from Zambia are identified as C. zambianus herein. They were all collected in the northwestern corner of Zambia, but the new species is also expected to occur in eastern Angola and southern Zaire.
40211941|To search for the sister taxon of Acacia s.s. (tribe Acacieae) and to further knowledge of the phylogeny of the related tribe Ingeae, we have sequenced two regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS and ETS). Sixty species from tribe Ingeae (26 genera), together with representatives from each of five lineages of tribe Acacieae, have been sampled. Ingeae and Acacia s.s. form a well supported clade, with a monophyletic Acacia s.s. nested within a paraphyletic Ingeae. Based on our sampling, the closest relative of Acacia s.s. is most likely one of the Australian species of the genus Paraserianthes s.l: Paras. lophantha subsp. lophantha or Paras, toona. Related to Acacia s.s. and Paraserianthes s.l. is a group of Ingeae from Australia and South East Asia: Archidendron p.p., Archidendropsis, Pararchidendron, and Wallaceodendron. This study is a preliminary step in resolving the intergeneric relationships of tribe Ingeae. Genetic relationships within Ingeae appear to conform to morphological groups previously identified as genera and informal alliances; some notable exceptions are discussed.
40211942|Tribe Crotalarieae is a large and diverse group of papilionoid legumes that largely occur in Africa. A systematic study of generic relationships within the tribe was undertaken using nucleotide sequences from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA, the plastid gene rbcL, and morphological data. The Crotalarieae are supported strongly as monophyletic and sister to the tribe Genisteae. Lebeckia, Lotononis, and Wiborgia are all paraphyletic in the molecular analyses and morphological data support the division of Lebeckia into three more natural genera (one of which includes the monotypic North African Spartidium). Four major lineages were identified within the tribe based on sequence data: the "Cape" group, comprising Aspalathus, Lebeckia, Rafnia, Spartidium, and Wiborgia; the Lotononis group, comprising Lotononis pro parte, Pearsonia, Robynsiophyton, and Rothia; a group comprising Lotononis section Leptis, L. section Listia, and allies; and the Crotalaria group, comprising Bolusia, Crotalaria, and Lotononis hirsuta (Lotononis section Euchlora). Morphological analysis yields a similar topology, except that Lotononis is monophyletic if L. hirsuta were excluded. When the molecular and morphological data sets are combined, the same major clades are retrieved as in the molecular analysis, with the notable exception that Lotononis and Lebeckia senso stricto are supported as monophyletic. The results from this study have important implications for the classification of the tribe Crotalarieae and present an important step towards a natural and phylogenetic generic classification for the tribe.
40211943|A molecular and morphological phylogenetic analysis of South American Podocominae is herein performed. Taxa of both South American and Australasian Podocominae as well as members of other subtribes of Astereae were included in the analyses. Sequence data from the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS), and the plastid trnL-trnF intergenic spacer regions were used in the molecular analysis to assess relationships among the South American genera of Podocominae. The trnL-trnF intergenic spacer provided only six informative characters. In contrast, the ITS region was more variable. Our results showed that: 1) neither the South American genera of Podocominae nor the whole subtribe Podocominae are monophyletic; 2) South American and Australasian genera, initially placed in the subtribe Podocominae on the basis of morphological characters, show no evidence of close relationship in our phylogenetic analyses based on molecular data; 3) Our results do not confirm Podocoma in its current concept as monophyletic; 4) Asteropsis, Inulopsis, Microgyne, and Sommerfeltia form a close assemblage; 5) Microgyne is monophyletic when molecular and morphological phylogenetic analyses are performed, thus supporting previous morphology based studies; and 6) the morphological characters used to define the subtribe Podocominae are homoplastic in the context of the present morphological and DNA sequence based phylogenetic analyses.
40211944|Recent phylogenetic analyses of the Dipsacales strongly support a Caprifolieae clade within Caprifoliaceae including Leycesteria, Triosteum, Symphoricarpos, and Lonicera. Relationships within Caprifolieae, however, remain quite uncertain, and the monophyly of Lonicera, the most species-rich of the traditional genera, and its subdivisions, need to be evaluated. In this study we used sequences of the ITS region of nuclear ribosomal DNA and five chloroplast non- coding regions (rpoB-trnC spacer, atpB-rbcL spacer, trnS-trnG spacer, petN-psbM spacer, and psbM-trnD spacer) to address these problems. Our results indicate that Heptacodium is sister to Caprifolieae, Triosteum is sister to the remaining genera within the tribe, and Leycesteria and Symphoricarpos form a clade that is sister to a monophyletic Lonicera. Within Lonicera, the major split is between subgenus Caprifolium and subgenus Lonicera. Within subgenus Lonicera, sections Coeloxylosteum, Isoxylosteum, and Nintooa are nested within the paraphyletic section Isika. Section Nintooa may also be non-monophyletic. Our analysis of the genus Lonicera highlights instances of homoplasy in several morphological characters (e.g. hollow stems in subgenus Caprifolium and section Coeloxylosteum in subgenus Lonicera). Furthermore, our data indicate possible instances of hybridization in section Nintooa and biogeographic disjuctions between the Old and New Worlds (e.g. subsections Distegiae and Alpigenae).
40211863|Microsatellite markers were used to test whether two recently described species of Sphagnum (Bryophyta), S. atlanticum R. E. Andrus and S. bergianum R. E. Andrus, represent distinct gene pools. The first species is considered endemic to eastern North America while the second species has been reported from Alaska and Newfoundland. The results indicate that S. atlanticum does not differ genetically from the closely related species, S. torreyanum, also restricted to eastern North America. In fact, some samples that are identical across all 15 microsatellite loci have been distinguished morphologically as these two species. Plants of S. bergianum from Alaska are closely related genetically to Alaskan plants of the similar species, S. subfulvum, whereas Newfoundland plants of S. bergianum are more closely related to Newfoundland plants of S. subfulvum. Alaskan versus Newfoundland plants of S. subfulvum s. l. (including S. bergianum) are differentiated at microsatellite loci. Another closely related species, S. subnitens, is distinct from S. subfulvum and S. bergianum. Sphagnum atlanticum is synonymized under S. torreyanum and S. bergianum is synonymized under S. subfulvum.
40211864|A new fern species, Polystichum weimingii (sect. Metapolystichum, Dryopteridaceae), is described from southern Yunnan, China. The new species is morphologically most similar to P. discretum. Compared to P. discretum, P. weimingii has a smaller habit, lanate (linear and curly), brown rachis scales, and pinnules without obvious aristate spines on the margin. In contrast, P. discretum is larger, has linear, dark brown rachis scales, and has pinnules with obvious aristate spines on the margin. The new species also differs from P. discretum in spore morphology. Features of the new species in anatomy of lamina epidermis, spore morphology, geographical distribution, and ecology are given. The relationships with three other closely related species in Polystichum ser. Linearia are discussed.
40211865|Guided by systematic studies on Melpomene, we tested the monophyly of the genus by analyzing sequences of cpDNA (atp, rbcL) and morphological characters for 24 of the 29 recognized species. The atp data did not yield any resolution of the investigated group. The other data sets each supported the monophyly of the genus, as did all data combined, and indicate it to be sister to the Lellingeria apiculata group as proposed in previous studies. While the morphologically distinct M. leptostoma and M. gracilis are basal lineages with long branch lengths, most of the relationships within the core genus are weakly supported and have very short branch lengths. This indicates a recent radiation of the genus in the northern Andes, its center of diversity, apparently under the influence of the fast uplift of the mountain range and of glacial fluctuations of the vegetation zones, with subsequent dispersals to the Guyana Highlands, the Brazilian shield, and Africa.
40211866|A new species, Smilax pilosa, is described from the Serra do Brigadeiro State Park, in Minas Gerais State, Brazil. Smilax pilosa is the only Brazilian species of this genus having a dense indumentum covering the entire abaxial surface of the leaf. The new species is similar to Smilax muscosa Toledo but differs in that the latter has only a sparse indumentum restricted to the veins of the abaxial leaf face. The present study examines the affinity between the two species, reports the newly extended geographic distribution of Smilax muscosa into Espirito Santo State, and presents a key to the 22 species of Smilax that occur in Minas Gerais.
40211867|Paspalum, an American genus of the x = 10 Paniceae clade, includes about 330 species, four subgenera, and 27 informal groups. Within the genus, the Quadrifaria and Virgata groups are well-represented in South and Central America. Interspecific variability make the delimitation of these groups difficult; hence several species have been included or excluded from Quadrifaria or Virgata depending on the taxonomic treatment. In previous analyses, the Quadrifaria and Virgata groups of Paspalum were polyphyletic. Here we present a new appraisal of the classification of both groups based on the phylogenetic analyses of DNA data from the chloroplast: the rpl16 intron, and the region comprising the trnL and trnF genes. A monophyletic Virgata clade is recovered, consisting of nearly all the species listed in an unpublished manuscript. The Quadrifaria group is restricted to P. quadrifarium and P. quarinii. Other clades grouped species traditionally treated within Virgata or Quadrifaria, although their phylogenetic placement needs to be reevaluated. Within most of the clades, diploid and polyploid species seemingly derive from a common ancestor denoting an autopolyploid origin. Alloploidy is also possible although reticulate evolution needs to be explored. The wide distribution of the I genome suggests that this is a plesiomorphic state in Paspalum.
40211868|Menispermaceae, a dioecious, largely pantropical family of vines and lianas, consists of approximately 70 genera. In this paper, we present phylogenies (derived using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference) based on chloroplast atpB and rbcL sequence data for 42 Menispermaceae genera (60 species) and 15 outgroup genera representing all families in the Ranunculales. Results of this work confirm that a clade consisting of Berberidaceae and Ranunculaceae is sister to the Menispermaceae and that Menispermaceae is highly supported as monophyletic. Within Menispermaceae, Menispermum and Sinomenium, two genera with distributions in the Northern Hemisphere, are weakly to moderately supported as sister to all remaining Menispermaceae. Many of the tribes as described by previous workers are not monophyletic. To expand both the data and sampling, we combined our atpB and rbcL data with previously published ndhF data for two additional analyses: 1) for matching species and 2) for all genera available, including those with either atpB/rbcL or ndhF missing (22% missing data). All trees produced from our three analyses were highly congruent, especially where branch support was high. Four major clades were recovered from all analyses and are informally named. Superimposing our geographical distributions on our atpB/rbcL phylogeny indicates that many well supported clades have distributions on multiple continents, probably due to both vicariance and dispersal. Several previous hypotheses regarding trends in character evolution are tested; our phylogenies suggest that the following are all derived character states within the family: arborescent habit; acrodromous, peltate, compound, or lobed leaves; absence of condyle and endosperm; smooth endosperm; fused stamens; and tricolpate pollen.
40211869|The Amaranthaceae-Chenopodiaceae alliance has been the focus of several phylogenetic studies, but major questions concerning the internal relationships of Amaranthaceae still remain unanswered. This study aims to test the monophyly of the subfamily Gomphrenoideae and to examine the generic relationships within this group. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of trnL-F and rpl16 show that the subfamily Gomphrenoideae is monophyletic. The clade of Gomphrenoideae represents a large and diverse radiation of the Amaranthaceae in the New World. Unilocular anthers are a morphological synapomorphy for Gomphrenoideae that was derived from bilocular anthers. Three major clades are resolved: the Gomphrenoids, the Alternantheroids, and the Iresinoids, which are largely supported by pollen morphology. The Iresinoid clade is sister to Alternantheroids plus Gomphrenoids, rendering metareticulate pollen as the synapomorphy for the latter two clades. Tribes and subtribes delimited by androecium and inflorescence characters are poly- or paraphyletic. Several genera are monophyletic including the large genus Alternanthera, whereas Gomphrena is polyphyletic. Irenella and Woehleria are resolved within Iresine whereas Blutaparon and Lithophila fall within the polyphyletic Gomphrena. The trnL-F and rpl16 sequence data are the most variable chloroplast regions examined to date for the family and are highly effective in resolving relationships in Amaranthaceae.
40211870|A comprehensive taxonomic revision of the genus Pachycereus (Cactaceae, Cactoideae, Pachycereeae) is presented. Pachycereus is characterized by one synapomorphic character, the presence of a narrow interareolar groove, and by the combination of flowering region differentiated with flexible spines, flower with a narrow region between the pericarpel and the receptacular tube and the occurrence of trichomes and short spines in the pericarpel. Five species are recognized in the present treatment. One species (P. pecten-aboriginum) is widely distributed from Chihuahua in northern Mexico to Chiapas, three species (P. grandis, P. pringlei, and P. weberi) are restricted to defined floristic provinces, and one species (P. tepamo) is endemic to Depresion del Balsas. A key and descriptions of the species, based on herbarium specimens, field observations and intensive field collection are presented. The taxonomic history, synonymies, distribution, uses, and representative specimens are included. Three new combinations, Pterocereus gaumeri subsp. foetidus, Lemaireocereus lepidanthus, and Lophocereus marginatus, are proposed.
40211871|Twelve Caribbean species of Vachellia (formerly Acacia subgenus Acacia) are formally monographed with taxonomic, habitat, geographic distribution descriptions, and lists of representative specimens examined. The species treated here are all part of the informal Vachellia acuifera group, which is characterized by generally enlarged stipular spines borne in clusters on the stems, 1-3 pairs of pinnae per leaf, and 20-50 stamens. Ordination analyses of vegetative characters show that these species form discrete groups in two-and three-dimensional plots. Vachellia baessleria Clarke, Seigler, & Ebinger, endemic to Guantanamo and Las Tunas, Cuba, is newly described. Vachellia acuifera is wide ranging, occurring from the Bahamas to Cuba. The other species are highly restricted in their distribution and ecological setting. Four of the species are only known from Hispaniola (V.barahonensis, V.caurina, V. cucuyo, and V. oviedoensis) and six only from Cuba (V. baessleria, V. belairioides, V. bucheri, V. daemon, V. roigii, and V. zapatensis). Another species, V. anagadensis, is only found on the island of Anegada in the British Virgin Islands.
40211872|The order Fabales, including Leguminosae, Polygalaceae, Quillajaceae and Surianaceae, represents a novel hypothesis emerging from angiosperm molecular phylogenies. Despite good support for the order, molecular studies to date have suggested contradictory, poorly supported interfamilial relationships. Our reappraisal of relationships within Fabales addresses past taxon sampling deficiencies, and employs parsimony and Bayesian approaches using sequences from the plastid regions rbcL (166 spp.) and matK (78 spp.). Five alternative hypotheses for interfamilial relationships within Fabales were recovered. The Shimodaira-Hasegawa test found the likelihood of a resolved topology significantly higher than the one calculated for a polytomy, but did not favour any of the alternative hypotheses of relationship within Fabales. In the light of the morphological evidence available and the comparative behavior of rbcL and matK, the topology recovering Polygalaceae as sister to the rest of the order Fabales with Leguminosae more closely related to Quillajaceae + Surianaceae, is considered the most likely hypothesis of interfamilial relationships of the order. Dating of selected crown clades in the Fabales phylogeny using penalized likelihood suggests rapid radiation of the Leguminosae, Polygalaceae, and (Quillajaceae + Surianaceae) crown clades.
40211873|Generic level relationships in phaseoloid legumes have received much attention using chloroplast DNA markers. However, despite this attention not all relationships are yet well-resolved. This study includes trnL-F sequences from across a wide sample of phaseoloid legumes as well as seven additional chloroplast DNA loci (rbcL, atpB, trnK/matK, rpl2, clpP, rpsl6, and ycf4) analyzed separately and in combination. Together, these data provide support for many relationships generally consistent with, but only weakly supported, in earlier studies. Some major discordant phylogenetic results were found in our separate analyses; for example, ycf4 sequences group Glycine and Teramnus with strong support; however, the combined analysis of the remaining seven loci found incongruent groupings (Glycine and Psoraleeae genera; Teramnus and Amphicarpaea) also with strong support. Network analysis of ycf4 revealed that the conflicting signal (relative to the other seven loci) came from first and second codon positions. These positions also showed significant rate acceleration, together indicating that selection driving convergent molecular evolution is the likely cause of the signal in ycf4, rather than shared history. The major clades within the phaseoloid legumes supported by our analysis are discussed.
40211874|The greater Caribbean region has played an important role in the early diversification of Croton L. (Euphorbiaceae s.s.). Jamaica is also important to Croton taxonomy because several of the earliest described species were based on material from the island. The Jamaican species of Croton are found in five distinct clades indicating that there were at least five separate over-water dispersal events of the genus to the island. Croton jamaicensis (section Eluteria Griseb.), a new species endemic to limestone hills along the southern coast of Jamaica, is described and illustrated. The species is phylogenetically most closely related to C. laurinus Sw. and C. grisebachianus Mull. Arg., both also endemic to Jamaica. Several lectotypifications and novel synonymies are required to clarify the taxonomy of the species of Croton that have been described from Jamaica, some of which are widespread in the region. /// La regin del Caribe ha jugado un papel importante en la diversificatin inicial de Croton L. (Euphorbiaceae s.s.). Jamaica tambien es importante para la taxonomia de Croton dado que varias de las primeras especies descritas fueron basadas en material de la isla. Las especies Jamaicanas de Croton se encuentran en cinco clados distintos indicando que hubieron por lo menos cinco eventos de dispersin sobre agua del gnero a la isla. Croton jamaicensis (seccin Eluteria Griseb.), una nueva especie endmica a colinas de caliza de la costa sur de Jamaica, es descrita e ilustrada. La especie es filogenticamente mas cercanamente relacionada a G laurinus Sw. y C. grisebachianus Mll. Arg., ambas tambin endmicas a Jamaica. Varias lectotipificaciones y nuevas sinonimias son requeridas para clarificar la taxonomia de las especies de Croton que se han descrito de Jamaica, algunas de las cuales estn ampliamente distribuidas en la regin.
40211875|A phylogenetic analysis was conducted on the tribe Spiraeanthemeae (Cunoniaceae) to clarify relationships of Acsmithia and Spiraeanthemum. Three molecular markers, one plastid region (trnL intron and trnL-trnF intergenic spacer) and two nuclear single copy genes (ncpGS and PHYC), were sequenced for this purpose. The independent analysis of the three markers and a combined analysis all showed that Acsmithia is paraphyletic since Spiraeanthemum is nested within it. A morphological survey of all species in the tribe confirmed the existence of two groups within Acsmithia. One comprises the species from Australia, New Guinea, and A. densiflora from New Caledonia and is characterised by multiple ovules per carpel. The other group contains all the remaining New Caledonian species plus A. vitiensis from Fiji and is characterized by a single ovule per carpel. The study shows that characters previously used to distinguish Acsmithia and Spiraenthemum, phyllotaxy and sexual system, are homoplasious as in several other groups of Cunoniaceae. A broad circumscription of the genus Spiraeanthemum is adopted here that includes the species formerly placed in Acsmithia. Two new combinations are proposed: Spiraeanthemum collinum and Spiraeanthemum meridionale. Spiraeanthemum austrocaledonicum is considered a synonym of Spiraeanthemum densiflorum.
40211876|The genus Polemonium is composed of animal-pollinated herbs found largely in North America. Wide phenotypic variation suggests rapid evolution of floral and vegetative morphology. However, phylogenetic relationships within Polemonium have received little attention. We present a phylogeny of Polemonium based on 1676 Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphisms (AFLPs). We obtained similar topologies through minimum evolution analysis using Nei-Li genetic distances and parsimony analysis. Our analyses supported the monophyly of most species, and indicated that the single annual species, P. micranthum, is sister to all perennial species. Relationships were well resolved among species separated by genetic distances < 0.16. Three well-supported clades each included taxa from one of three species complexes: the P. caeruleum complex, the P. pulcherrimum complex, or the P. viscosum complex. Relationships within clades were generally consistent with earlier systematic work. Exceptions were the inclusion of eastern North American P. reptans within the P. caeruleum clade, inclusion of P. boreale within the P. pulcherrimum clade, and a close relationship between tetraploid P. californicum and diploid P. pulcherrimum subsp. delicatum. Our results indicate that floral traits are quite divergent among close relatives within the genus, and provide a phylogenetic framework for research on adaptation and speciation in Polemonium.
40211877|Aphylogenetic study and taxonomic revision of the four currently accepted species of Bartonia (Gentianaceae, subtribe Swertiinae) were conducted in order to test species boundaries and interspecific relationships. Species boundaries were examined based on measurements of key quantitative and qualitative morphological characters as given in the original descriptions. Phylogenetic analyses were performed using molecular data from the nuclear internal transcribed spacer region and chloroplast DNA (trnL intron through the trnL-F spacer), separately and combined using parsimony and Bayesian methodologies, incorporating outgroups from subtribes Swertiinae and Gentianinae. The morphological study revealed that characters of one species, B. texana, represent a subset of the morphological variation found within B. paniculata, but that B. paniculata, B. verna, and B. virginica could all be separated from one another. The molecular phylogenetic analyses all found B. texana to nest in a clade with the two recognized subspecies of B. paniculata (subsp. paniculata and subsp. iodandra), making the latter paraphyletic. Bartonia texana is here reduced to subspecific rank, as Bartonia paniculata subsp. texana. Also, the phylogenetic analyses showed strong support for a sister group relationship between B. verna and B. virginica, as opposed to between B. paniculata and B. virginica as has been previously suggested.
40211878|The genus Leucas R. Br. includes 100 recognized species ranging in distribution from Africa through the Indian subcontinent to Queensland, Australia. Morphological cladistic studies have suggested that several other genera of Lamioideae - Acrotome, Isoleucas, Leonotis, and Otostegia (pro parte) - may be closely related to Leucas, or even nested within it. Here we use phylogenetic analysis of three plastid DNA loci, the trnL-F region, trnS-G spacer, and the rps 16 intron and reach similar conclusions. Many of the morphological features used to maintain Leucas since 1810 are shared ancestral (symplesiomorphic) characters. The other genera (or subgeneric group in the case of Otostegia) are therefore defined by apomorphic states. This is particularly apparent in the case of Leonotis, with its highly specialized bird-pollinated flowers, derived within a paraphyletic and insect-pollinated Leucas. Some geographically isolated groups are monophyletic, including all Asian species of Leucas, a Socotran clade, and a large African lineage.
40211879|Recent molecular systematic research has indicated the need for a revised circumscription of generic boundaries in subtribe Castillejinae (tribe Pedicularideae, Orobanchaceae). Based on a well-resolved and well-supported phylogenetic hypothesis, we present a formal reclassification of the major lineages comprising the Castillejinae. Prior to this treatment, subtribe Castillejinae included Castilleja (ca. 190 spp.), Cordylanthus (18 spp.), Orthocarpus (9 spp.), Triphysaria (5 spp.), and the monotypic genera Clevelandia and Ophiocephalus. In the presented here, Orthocarpus and Triphysaria retain their current circumscriptions, Castilleja is expanded to include Clevelandia Ophiocephalus, and Cordylanthus is split into three genera; a key to the genera as they are recognized here is provided. Two new combinations, Castilleja beldingii and Castilleja ophiocephala, are proposed within the expanded Castilleja. The concept of Cordylanthus is restricted to the 13 species formerly recognized as subg. Cordylanthus, while subg. Dicranostegia and subg. Hemistegia are elevated to genus level (Dicranostegia and Chloropyron, respectively). We resurrect the generic name Chloropyron for the halophytes previously recognized as subg. Hemistegia. Five new combinations are proposed for Chloropyron (Chloropyron maritimum subsp. canescens, Chloropyron maritimum subsp. palustre, Chloropyron molle subsp. hispidum, Chloropyron palmatum, and Chloropyron tecopense). In addition to the formal classification, we provide phylogenetic clade definitions for Castillejinae, each of the genera, and two additional clades that are not assigned formal ranks. Morphological characteristics used to recognize traditional groups are evaluated, and synapomorphies are discussed. Finally, the current infrageneric classifications for Castilleja and Cordylanthus are evaluated in light of the recent molecular phylogenetic analyses.
40211880|Nierembergia (Solanaceae) contains 21 species found primarily in South America, with one species occurring disjunctly in Mexico. Among other features, a pollination system not found elsewhere in the Solanaceae typifies this genus. In most species, nectaries are absent, but oil-producing elaiophores are present on the corolla limb and these attract oil-collecting bees. Molecular phylogenetic hypotheses based on nuclear ITS and chloroplast rpl16 intron data support the monophyly of Nierembergia, which is sister to a clade composed of Bouchetia plus Hunzikeria. The data reconstruct two clades within the genus: one composed primarily of herbaceous species with broad stigmas and the second containing woody species with crescent-shaped stigmas. Morphological homoplasy is frequent among the species of the herbaceous clade, while the woody clade is morphologically cohesive. Chromosome counts are confirmed and karyotype features are given for 13 Nierembergia species (including six varieties) and for Bouchetia anomala, Leptoglossis linifolia, and Petunia axillaris. The two clades are also supported by features: one has asymmetrical karyotypes, small chromosomes, and two chromosome pairs with nucleolar organizing regions (NOR) and the other has symmetrical karyotypes, large chromosomes, and only one NOR.
40211881|Solanum section Petota is taxonomically difficult, partly because of interspecific hybridization at both the diploid and polyploid levels. There is much disagreement regarding species boundaries and affiliation of species to series. Elucidating the phylogenetic relationships within the polyploids is crucial for an effective taxonomic treatment of the section and for the utilization of wild potato germplasm in breeding programs. We here infer relationships among the potato diploids and polyploids using nitrate reductase (NIA) sequence data in comparison to prior plastid phylogenies and: 1) examine genome types within section Petota, 2) show species in the polyploid series Conicibaccata, Longipedicellata, and in the Iopetalum group to be derived from allopolyploidization, 3) support an earlier hypothesis by confirming S. verrucosum as the maternal genome donor for the polyploid species S. demissum as well as species in the Iopetalum Group, 4) demonstrate that S. verrucosum is the closest relative to the maternal genome donor for species in ser. Longipedicellata, 5) support the close relationship between S. acaule and diploid species from series Megistacroloba and Tuberosa, and 6) show the North and Central American B genome species to be well distinguished from the A genome species of South America.
40211882|A comprehensive taxonomic revision of the genus Notobubon (Apiaceae) is presented. Twelve woody evergreen species are recognised, all (with the exception of N. laevigatum) endemic to the Cape Floristic Region of South Africa. The taxonomy of these prominent, though poorly collected, species has until now been problematic. They are distinguished from one another by their habit (size and branching pattern), the overall shape, size, and colour of the ultimate leaflet segments, the inflorescence structure (peduncle length, number, and length of rays in the primary umbel), the fruit morphology (fruit size, presence or absence of wings), and the fruit anatomy (symmetry of the mericarps, presence or absence of additional rib vittae, size of commissural vittae). Species relationships are assessed in the form of a cladistic analysis of 26 morphological characters, resulting in a well-resolved phylogenetic hypothesis. A comprehensive key to the species, their correct nomenclature, and typification, together with descriptions and known geographical distribution for all the species are presented and illustrated.
40211888|A moss from the puna of Urmiri, Department of La Paz in Bolivia, is described and illustrated as the new species Syntrichia boliviana. This species is characterized by its keeled and lanceolate leaves with bistratose to tristratose laminae, plane or weakly recurved bordered margins, acute apex, dorsal surface costal cells in the upper third like those of the lamina, and costa ending a few cells below the apex, sporophytes with a short seta, and a peristome membrane hardly projecting above the urn. Detailed light and scanning electron microscope photographs of the main characters are presented. The principal characters that separate this from similar species are briefly discussed. Syntrichia napoana, previously only known from Ecuador, is reported from Bolivia. A key to the species of Syntrichia in Bolivia is provided.
40211889|A comprehensive taxonomic revision of the genus Dasymaschalon (Annonaceae) in Thailand is presented. Twelve species are recognized, including five that are newly described and one new nomenclatural combination, viz. D. acuminatum sp. nov., D. angustifolium sp. nov., D. dasymaschalum, D. echinatum sp. nov., D. filipes, D. glaucum, D. grandiflorum sp. nov., D. lomentaceum, D. macrocalyx, D. obtusipetalum sp. nov., D. sootepense, and D. wallichii comb. nov. Previous taxonomic confusion regarding the relationship between Dasymaschalon and Desmos is discussed. The most significant diagnostic difference between the two genera is the number and arrangement of petals: Dasymaschalon species have only three petals (homologous with the outer whorl of other Annonaceae) that are apically connivent to form an enclosed pollination chamber, whereas Desmos species have two whorls of three petals which are basally constricted and apically free.
40211890|The coastal lowland rain forests of eastern Africa are well known for their high levels of plant endemism. A new genus of Annonaceae, Mwasumbia, is described from Tanzania, underscoring this high biodiversity and represented by a single species, Mwasumbia alba. The new genus presents several morphological characters suggesting a close relationship to two other African genera, Greenwayodendron and Polyceratocarpus. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian molecular phylogenetic analyses based on two plastid markers, rbcL and the trnLtrnF region, strongly support the close relationship of these three genera to one another as well as to two other African genera, Annickia and Piptostigma. Together these five genera form a moderately supported clade within the so-called short-branch clade of Annonaceae. A detailed morphological and palynological comparison between Mwasumbia and the four other genera shows that this new genus exhibits a combination of features unique within this group: intermediate tertiary leaf venation, exclusively bisexual flowers, slightly imbricate sepals, valvate petals, outer and inner petals equal in length, numerous stamens, four carpels, few and uniseriate ovules, few and sessile monocarps, and verrucate sulculate pollen grains. Phylogenetic analyses also suggest the genus Piptostigma, as currently circumscribed, to be paraphyletic. An IUCN conservation status of VU D2 is proposed, reflecting the narrow distribution of the single species.
40211891|Phylogenetic relationships among the 16 series within Iris section Limniris were reconstructed based on chloroplast sequence data using maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference methods. Section Limniris is polyphyletic as currently delineated because series Spuriae, Foetdissimae, Syriacae, Longipetalae, Vernae, Unguiculares, and some elements of Tenuifoliae are placed outside of the core group of Limniris species. The most inclusive monophyletic clade of Limniris species includes the series Californicae, Sibiricae, Laevigatae, Tripetalae, Prismaticae, Ensatae, Ruthenicae, Hexagonae, and Chinenses, and I. songarica. Within the core Limniris clade series Sibiricae, Tripetalae, and Chinenses are whereas Laevigatae is paraphyletic. With one exception, species within the core Limniris group are distributed in either Asia or North America, with a few Asian species extending into Europe and for the most widespread species, Iris pseudacorus (series Laevigatae), into northern Africa with naturalized populations in North America. The one exception is I. setosa with a native range that includes both eastern Asia and North America.
40211892|A synopsis of Chamaeangis (Orchidaceae) with a taxonomic key to the genus is provided. Twelve taxa are recognized. Detailed examination of the specimens revealed two novelties: Chamaeangis spiralis from Nigeria and Cameroon, and Chamaeangis lecomtei var. tenuicalcar, a new variety from Ivory Coast, Ghana, and Gabon. Chamaeangis pauciflora is shown to be synonymous with Chamaeangis letouzeyi, which is here redescribed in detail. Chamaeangis thomensis is neotypified, and Chamaeangis lecomtei var. lecomtei is lectotypified. Chamaeangis gracilis is treated as an excluded species. Several new country records of Chamaeangis are provided.
40211893|According to previous molecular study, the Carex tenera group sensu lato consists of C. tenera s. 1. and C. normalis in one clade and C. festucacea, C. oronensis, and C. tincta in a sister clade. We found that Carex tincta, clarified by thorough review of herbarium materials, has a much narrower geographic range than previously thought, centering on Maine (U. S. A.), adjacent states, and adjacent portions of Canada with rare scattered occurrences to western Lake Superior. Carex tenera has traditionally been thought to consist of two varieties: the transcontinental variety tenera and the upper Midwest (U. S. A.) variety echinodes. In light of ecological and chromosomal differences, AFLP genetic distances, and morphological analysis the latter should be recognized as a distinct species, Carex echinodes comb, et stat. nov. Carex echinodes and narrowleaved forms of C. normalis can be challenging to differentiate morphologically, but widest leaf width, inflorescence internode length, peduncle diameter, and growth habit separate the two taxa. New chromosome numbers are reported, with those of C. tenera (n = 24 + 2III, 26, 27, 28) having a lower range than either those of C. echinodes (n = 37, 38, 39) or C. normalis (n = 34, 35, 36).
40211894|A phylogenetic analysis was performed on 67 species of Digitaria belonging to four subgenera and 26 of the 32 sections recognized in Henrard's monograph. The analysis was based on 113 discrete and six continuous morphological characters. In the resulting topologies the genus Digitaria was monophyletic. In spite of the low support for most groupings, several clades were recovered. The subdivision of Digitaria in the four subgenera proposed by Henrard was not supported since the large subgenus Digitaria appears as a paraphyletic assemblage within which the other three subgenera are nested. Nevertheless, the monophyly of some of Henrard's sections was supported. This is the first approach to the phylogeny of Digitaria. /// Se llev a cabo un anlisis cladstico. Se incluyeron 67 especies de Digitaria pertenecientes a los 4 subgneros y a 26 de las 32 secciones reconocidas en la monografa de Henrard. El anlisis fue basado en 113 caracteres morfolgicos discretos y 6 continuos En las topologas resultantes el gnero Digitaria result monofiltico. A pesar del bajo soporte de la mayora de los grupos, fueron recuperados varios clados. Los resultados no fueron consistentes con la subdivision de Digitaria en 4 subgneros propuesta por Henrard, ya que el extenso subgnero Digitaria aparece como un agregado parafiltico dentro del cual se hallan anidados los otros tres subgneros. Sin embargo, la monofilia de algunas secciones fue confirmada. El presente estudio constituye el primer anlisis filogentico de Digitaria.
40211895|Physeterostemon thomasii is described from the southern Bahian Atlantic forest of Brazil. It differs from the other two species of the genus by the paleaceous trichomes on young stems and petioles, and by the strongly bullate/foveolate leaves. A phylogenetic analysis with all three species, based on rbcL and ndhF DNA sequence data, showed that Physeterostemon forms a monophyletic group, sister to Eriocnema fulva, and this clade is placed in a polytomy at the base of the tribe Miconieae sensu stricto. However, there is no resolution within Physeterostemon, thus the phylogenetic relationships of the three species cannot be established.
40211896|Kanakomyrtus (Myrtaceae) is a newly described genus endemic to New Caledonia. Kanakomyrtus myrtopsidoides, the generic type, is transferred from Eugenia. Five new species are described: K. mcphersonii, K. revoluta, K. dawsoniana, K. prominens, and K. longipeti olata. The genus occurs in forests at elevations between 500-1,600 m on the relatively mesic windward side of the Grande Terre. It is distinct from other baccate genera of Myrtaceae by a combination of linear stylar lobes, densely glandular stamens and stigmas, and a short but densely hoary indumentum that is brownish when dry. The thinly membranous partitions that partially extend between the seeds of some species suggest a close relationship to Archirhodomyrtus and some species traditionally placed in Rhodomyrtus and Octamyrtus. Four of the six species have unisexual flowers, but much additional field work is needed to assess the reproductive biology of the genus. Following IUCN guidelines, four species are proposed as either Endangered or Critically Endangered, whereas the remaining species are considered Vulnerable and of Low Concern. Species descriptions, illustrations, distribution maps, and keys to species of the genus and related taxa of baccate Myrtaceae from New Caledonia are included.
40211897|A taxonomic revision and biogeographic study of the genus Centrolobium (Leguminosae - Papilionoideae) is presented. Centrolobium includes important timber trees distributed disjunctly in seasonally dry tropical forests and rain forests in Central and South America, from Panama to south-eastern Brazil. It is characterized by large samaroid pods with a spiny seed case and an abundance of orange peltate glands covering the leaves and inflorescences. Taxonomic distinctions between some species of Centrolobium have been a source of confusion. Here, seven species are recognized: C. robustum, C. microchaete, C. tomentosum, C. ochroxylum, C. sclerophyllum, C. paraense, and C. yavizanum. Previously recognized varieties of C. paraense, C. paraense var. paraense and C. paraense var. orinocense, are not maintained. Phylogenetic analysis of DNA sequence data from the internal transcribed spacer region of nuclear ribosomal DNA and the plastid matK gene and trnL-trnF intron and spacer support the monophyly of the genus. Different molecular dating methods indicate that the Centrolobium crown group and lineages found to the west and east of the Andes diverged before the Pleistocene. Divergences between species occurring east of the Andes, particularly in Bolivia and south-eastern Brazil are more recent, but nevertheless unlikely to be explained by Pleistocene climatic changes.
40211898|The phylogenetic relationships of Croton section Cyclostigma sensu Webster were examined using nuclear ribosomal ITS and plastid spacer trnL-F sequences from 48 of the 63 species in the group, including members of the four recognized subsections and representing the group's full morphological and geographic range. The two gene phylogenies concurred that section Cyclostigma sensu Webster is polyphyletic, with its members appearing in nine different clades throughout Croton. The clade that retains the taxonomic type of the section and about half of the species sampled is redefined here as a reduced, monophyletic section Cyclostigma, and the remaining species are placed in other sections or informal clades. The ITS and chloroplast phylogenies are discordant regarding the position of the redefined section Cyclostigma suggesting that reticulate evolution might have played a role in the evolutionary history of this group. These results highlight that the tree habit has evolved on multiple occasions in Croton, and that there are other morphological characters that can effectively distinguish different tree lineages in the genus.
40211899|Recent phylogenetic analysis of the Old World species of Passiflora has indicated that two monotypic genera in the Passifloraceae, Hollrungia and Tetrapathea, are strongly supported as belonging to the genus Passiflora. Additionally, a new species from Australia was found to belong to the same clade as Hollrungia and Tetrapathea. Consequently, a taxonomic revision is presented here of Passiflora subgenus Tetrapathea including these three taxa. Tetrapathea tetrandra, the type of Passiflora subgenus Tetrapathea and historically recognized as both T. tetrandra and P. tetrandra, is formally accepted here as P. tetrandra. The single species of Hollrungia, H. aurantioides, is transferred to Passiflora subgenus Tetrapathea as P. aurantioides. The new and so far unnamed species in Passiflora subgenus Tetrapathea from Australia is also described as P. kuranda sp. nov.
40211900|The genus Linum consists of over 180 species, the most famous being L. usitatissimum, the source of linen and linseed oil. The eight genera of Linaceae subf. Linoideae, of which Linum is the largest, exhibit a complex biogeographic distribution, inhabiting all continents except Antarctica. Numerous species in Linoideae are heterostylous, but the ancestral breeding system of the group has not been determined. We present phylogenetic analyses of 44 species representing all eight genera of subf. Linoideae and 37 species of Linum, with data from the chloroplast (ndhF, trnL-F, trnK 3' intron) and the nuclear ITS, with Hugonia (Linaceae subf. Hugonioideae) as outgroup. Sequences of rbcL from 48 species of Linaceae, including five species from Hugonioideae and seven species from other families of Malpighiales, were analyzed independently. Our results suggest that Linaceae and subf. Linoideae are monophyletic, but Linum is not. Anisadenia, Reinwardtia, and Tirpitzia are found to be the basal members of Linoideae. The rest of the subfamily forms two major lineages: a blue-flowered clade (Linum sections Linum and Dasylinum) and a yellow-flowered clade (Linum sects. Linopsis, Syllinum, and Cathartolinum, and the genera Cliococca, Hesperolinon, Radiola, and Sclerolinon). Diversification of Linoideae may have begun 46-51 mya, probably in Southeast Asia. Linum appears to have arisen in Eurasia, from which it spread to Africa, North America, South America, and Australasia. Our analyses indicate that neither heterostyly nor homostyly can yet be confirmed as the ancestral state in Linoideae or Linaceae, but provide strong evidence that breeding system is evolutionarily labile in this group.
40211901|Disterigma s.1. comprises 37 species of small shrubs found in Central and South America, mostly in cloud forests and pramos. The notion that the morphological circumscription of Disterigma s.1. is too wide and that it may not be a monophyletic group was supported by recent molecular evidence extracted from only a few species of Disterigma. This study addresses the monophyly and position of Disterigma s.1. within the complex blueberry tribe Vaccinieae through an intensive taxon sampling. Seventy-nine species are sampled, including 84% of the species of Disterigma s.1. and 13 genera of neotropical Vaccinieae. The parsimony analysis of nrlTS and ndhF data reveal that Disterigma s.1. is polyphyletic with three independent origins within Vaccinieae. The majority of the species form a well supported monophyletic group, Disterigma s.s., which is located within a large Andean clade; all Disterigma s.s. species share the presence of a differentiated pair of apical bracteoles. Segregated from Disterigma s.s., but also Andean in origin, is the novel Central Andes Segregated Disterigma clade, where D. bracteatum, D. pentandrum, D. rimbachii, and D. ulei are found. Also resolved outside of Disterigma s.s. is D. trimerum, a taxon of Mesoamerican origin.
40211902|The gentians (Gentianaceae, Asteridae) form a morphologically and ecologically diverse group of plants with interesting phytochemical and medicinal properties. The family contains six tribes, but phylogenetic relationships among the three more derived tribes (Gentianeae, Helieae, and Potalieae) are considered ambiguous. In an attempt to resolve alignment ambiguity and provide better scientific support for relationships, the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) of the nuclear ribosomal DNA was aligned for several gentian sequences with reference to the ITS secondary structure proposed for Anvillea radiata (Asteraceae) using Dynalign. We present here the first secondary structure of ITS for Gentianaceae, which may guide alignment of ITS data in other asterids taxa. The study included 42 species, with representatives from tribes Chironieae, Gentianeae, Helieae, and Potalieae, and with the majority of species from Potalieae. Phylogenetic analyses based on secondary structure alignment using parsimony and Bayesian methods provided additional support for Gentianeae plus Helieae as the sister group to Potalieae. Prepusa (Helieae) showed ambivalent associations. Within tribe Potalieae, the subtribes Potaliinae and Lisianthiinae were supported as monophyletic. Bisgoeppertia (Chironieae) was placed unambiguously inside Lisianthius (Potalieae-Lisianthiinae) in all analyses. Neurotheca (Potalieae-Faroinae) was positioned as sister to Lisianthiinae, making subtribe Faroinae paraphyletic.
40211903|A new species of Matelea s.1. (Apocynaceae: Asclepiadoideae, Asclepiadeae, Gonolobinae) is described from coastal Colombia: Matelea dugandii. The species belongs to the Ibatia species complex in Matelea s.1., but exhibits distinct differences in floral characters from previously known taxa, particularly in the terminal style-head appendage. An updated key to members of the complex in northern South America and the West Indies is provided, including M. cumanensis, M. fontana, M. maritima, M. pacifica, and M. rubra.
40211904|Panax sokpayensis, a new species from Sikkim Himalaya, India is described. The species was found growing in the submontane zone of West Sikkim in the habitats located between 1,700 m and 2,300 m altitudes. The localities, where the species grows, are forested habitats dominated by a Quercus-Acer vegetation in association with Viburnum erubescens, Daphne cannabina, Urtica parviflora, Gerardiana heterophylla, and several species of ferns. Morphological characters of this species are compared with other known species of Panax in Himalaya. The new species is distinct from its allies in having a robust habit, a large horizontal creeping rhizome with a single small globose tuber, oblanceolate to narrowly elliptic leaflets, long leafy bracts, and small black and red fruits. Panax sokpayensis is separated from the P. pseudoginseng and other species complexes in the genus. The difference between P. sokpayensis and its related Himalayan taxa are discussed. We also show that P. pseudoginseng was wrongly reported from the Indian Himalaya.
40540469|Although the Lembophyllaceae has undergone considerable revision during the last century, the generic and familial level relationships of this pleurocarpous moss family are still poorly understood. To address this problem, a generic revision of the Lembophyllaceae based on molecular data was undertaken. We analyzed two plastid markers, the trnL-trnF and the psbT-psbH region in combination with the ITS2 of nuclear ribosomal DNA. The molecular data reveal that the current circumscription of the family is too narrow and that several genera previously placed in the Lembophyllaceae should be reincluded. The family includes: Bestia, Camptochaete, Dolichomitra, Dolichomitriopsis, Fallaciella, Fifea, Isothecium, Lembophyllum, Looseria stat. nov., Pilotrichella, Rigodium, Tripterocladium, and Weymouthia. Looseria contains a single species: Looseria orbiculata comb. nov. Acrocladium is excluded and provisionally accommodated in the Lepyrodontaceae. Generic limits supported by the molecular data support a return to the early twentieth century family concept of Brotherus. The analyses indicate that the segregate genus Orthostichella is distinct from its parent genus Pilotrichella, probably at the family level. Whereas Pilotrichella is resolved within the Lembophyllaceae, Orthostichella clusters with Porotrichum and Porothamnium forming a clade (OPP-clade) sister to the remaining Neckeraceae and Lembophyllaceae. Hence, the Neckeraceae is paraphyletic. Recognition of the OPP-clade as a new family is desirable but awaits the results of detailed ongoing morphological studies.
40540470|Using a morphological dataset of 136 vegetative and reproductive characters, we infer the tracheophyte phylogeny with an emphasis on early divergences of ferns (monilophytes). The dataset comprises morphological, anatomical, biochemical, and some DNA structural characters for a taxon sample of 35 species, including representatives of all major lineages of vascular plants, especially ferns. Phylogenetic relationships among vascular plants are reconstructed using maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference. Both approaches yield similar relationships and provide evidence for three major lineages of extant vascular plants: lycophytes, ferns, and seed plants. Lycophytes are sister to the euphyllophyte clade, which comprises the fern and seed plant lineages. The fern lineage consists of five clades: horsetails, whisk ferns, ophioglossoids, marattioids, and leptosporangiate ferns. This lineage is supported by characters of the spore wall and has a parsimony bootstrap value of 76%, although the Bayesian posterior probability is only 0.53. Each of the five fern clades is well supported, but the relationships among them lack statistical support. Our independent phylogenetic analyses of morphological evidence recover the same deep phylogenetic relationships among tracheophytes as found in previous studies utilizing DNA sequence data, but differ in some ways within seed plants and within ferns. We discuss the extensive independent evolution of the five extant fern clades and the evidence for the placement of whisk ferns and horsetails in our morphological analyses.
40540471|Cyathea atrocastanea, a new species of tree fern is described, illustrated, and compared with similar species. This new species should be classified as vulnerable (VU) according to the IUCN criteria. This species is distinct by its atrocastaneous and scurfy petiole, and rachis, and by the broad ovate and yellowish, nonbullate scales on the costulae and midveins. A key to the exindusiate species from southeastern Brazil with nondenticulate petiole scales is also presented.
40540472|Pinus subsection Ponderosae includes approximately 17 tree species distributed from western Canada to Nicaragua. We inferred phylogenetic relationships of multiple accessions for all widely recognized species from 3.7 kb of cpDNA sequence (matK, trnD-trnY-trnE spacer, chlN-ycf1 spacer, and ycf1). The sister relationship between subsections Ponderosae and Australes was corroborated with high branch support, and several clades, most with lower branch support, were identified within subsection Ponderosae. Pinus jeffreyi was sister to P. coulteri, P. sabiniana, and P. torreyana. Californian accessions of P. ponderosa and P. washoensis occurred in a clade separate from P. arizonica and P. scopulorum from the southwestern United States. Western Mexican species P. cooperi and P. durangensis had cpDNA sequences identical to one or more accessions of P. arizonica and P. scopulorum, and together these taxa were closely related to clades of P. engelmannii-P. devoniana (Mexico) and P. douglasiana-P. yecorensis-P. maximinoi (western Mexico to Guatemala). A well supported clade of taxa from Mexico and Central America included P. pseudostrobus, P. montezumae, P. hartwegii, P. maximinoi (one of three accessions), P. nubicola, and P. donnell-smithii. Chloroplast DNA sequences were nonmonophyletic for most species, although the degree of support varied.
40540473|Piper picobonitonse (clade Schilleria), a new endemic species of Piperaceae from Cordillera Nombre de Dios, Honduras, is described and illustrated. Distinguishing characteristics of this species include distichous leaves; lamina lanceolate or narrowly elliptic, slightly falcate, the apex extremely narrow and long-acuminate, base acute to obtuse and equilateral, drying thin-chartaceous; spikes erect, green, free of leaf-base; and triangular floral bracts, W-shaped on upper margin, glabrous. A discussion and an identification key to morphologically related species in Honduras are included. /// Piper picobonitonse (clade Schilleria), es descrita e ilustrada como una nueva especie endmica de las Piperceas de la Cordillera Nombre de Dios, Honduras. Caractersticas distintivas de esta especie incluyen hojas dsticas; lmina lanceolada o elptica angosta, levemente falcada, el pice extremadamente agudo y largo-acuminado, la base aguda a obtusa e inequiltera, delgado-cartcea al secarse; las espiguillas erectas, verdes, libres de la base de la hoja; brcteas florales triangulares, en forma de W en parte superior de la margen, glabras. Se incluye una discusin y una clave de identificacin para las especies morfolgicamente relacionadas en Honduras.
40540474|Corallorhiza striata is a wide-ranging, morphologically variable, mycoheterotrophic species complex distributed across North America. Objectives of this study were to assess relationships and test validity of previously delimited varieties of C. striata, including the recently described C. bentleyi. Two plastid DNA regions were sequenced for individuals from several populations across North America, identifying four major clades. The large-flowered C. striata var. striata (northern U.S.A., southern Canada) was sister to the smaller-flowered var. vreelandii (southwestern U. S. A., Mexico), and these were sister to a Californian clade with relatively intermediate-sized flowers. C. striata var. involuta (Mexico) and the endangered C. bentleyi (eastern U.S.A.) shared a close relationship, sister to the remaining C. striata. Principal Components Analysis and Nonparametric Multivariate Analysis of Variance on nine quantitative morphological characters, using plastid DNA clades as independent variables, demonstrated strong correlations between molecular and morphological groupings. Morphological analyses supported differentiation of both C. striata var. involuta and C. bentleyi relative to all other accessions of C. striata, suggesting their recognition as separate species; these findings will have future implications for conservation. The biogeographic scenario was more complex than previously thought, with members of two major plastid DNA lineages (C. bentleyi/var. involuta and the remaining C. striata) existing in Mexico and U.S.A./Canada. These findings contribute to a burgeoning body of data on poorly studied North American plant distributions extending into southern Mexico.
40540475|A new species of Rhipsalis (Cactaceae) from Rio de Janeiro State, in southwestern Brazil, is described and illustrated. The new Rhipsalis aurea is circumscribed in the subgenus Erythrorhipsalis and is morphologically most similar to R. pulchra Loefgr., but is distinct by the smaller, suberect habit, smaller secondary stem segments of determinate growth, golden yellow flowers, depressed-globose fruit, and epidermis and pollen grain features. Following the IUCN criteria this new species is vulnerable due to its restricted area of occurrence and reduction of the quality of habitat observed in the present and projected for the future. A taxonomic key to the subgenus Erythrorhipsalis is included.
40540476|Taxonomic treatments recognize three varieties of Cercis canadensis: with variety canadensis, widespread throughout the eastern United States, and varieties texensis and mexicana, found east and west of the Pecos River in Texas, respectively. The distribution of Cercis continues southward into northeastern Mexico, but complex variation in leaf shape has confounded straightforward application of varietal names to the Mexican plants. To clarify the taxonomy of Cercis in Mexico, we conducted a morphometric analysis with 281 herbarium specimens, including a representative set of samples from Texas. Correlation and principal component analysis of 12 characters recovered two groups that correspond to the presence versus absence of branchlet pubescence. These groups are geographically distinct at the northern and southern extremes of the focus area but exhibit a large central region of overlap. No other discontinuities in character states were discovered to corroborate this division. Leaf shape varies continuously from ovate-acuminate at the northern and southern extremes to subreniform in the central region, suggesting clinal adaptation to the mesic versus xeric environments in which the plants occur. Based on our data, we apply the varietal epithets mexicana and, provisionally, texensis to Mexican C. canadensis with pubescent and glabrous branchlets, respectively, the latter based on geographic proximity to plants in Texas in the absence of definitive evidence on the phenotypic distinction between varieties canadensis and texensis.
40540477|Several hundred angiosperm genera range from Africa to Asia and Australia, among them Bridelia (Phyllanthaceae), with ca. 40 species, including commercially important timber trees. We here use nuclear and chloroplast DNA sequences from herbarium material, plus new collections from China, to test the monophyly of Bridelia and to infer the geologic times when it acquired its disjunct range. For the Southeast Asian mainland, within-species sampling, including material collected close to the type localities, allowed testing current species concepts. Based on a sample of 114 chloroplast matK sequences of Phyllanthaceae, Bridelia is monophyletic and sister to an Asian clade which requires resurrecting an older generic name to make the African Cleistanthus monophyletic. Within Bridelia, gene trees from the combined data (3,177 aligned nucleotides from 25 species of Bridelia plus outgroups) agree with most morphological species boundaries. Exceptions are that B. tomentosa must include B. harmandii and B. curtisii to become monophyletic and that B. fordii is distinct from B. retusa. The topology, together with relaxed clock divergence times, implies that Bridelia dispersed from tropical Asia to Africa once or twice between 10 and 1.85 million years ago (Ma). Australia was reached, probably from New Guinea, at least twice, both times ca. 2 Ma. Together with earlier studies, there are now at least eight cases of Neogene long distance dispersal between Africa and Asia (followed by speciation), with no directional bias apparent so far.
40540478|The mulberry family Moraceae comprises 37 genera and approximately 1,100 species distributed throughout tropical and temperate regions worldwide. Moraceae exhibit a complex array of inflorescence architectures, breeding systems, and pollination syndromes, which forms the basis of traditional taxonomic classification. However, morphologically based classification conflicts with evolutionary relationships proposed by molecular phylogenetics. In this study we assembled a morphological character matrix for analysis separately and in combination with existing molecular data. We evaluated 81 vegetative, reproductive, and wood anatomical characters for 94 species representing nearly all Moraceae genera. Using parsimony and Bayesian methods, these characters were evaluated with respect to ndhF chloroplast and 26S nuclear DNA sequences. Topological comparisons tested whether opposing classification schemes are more or less supported by the data. Results did not support any classification of Moraceae based on morphology. We present a revised tribal classification and describe a new tribe, Maclureae, revise the membership of tribe Castilleae and describe two subtribes, Castillineae and Antiaropsineae, and reinstate the genera Malaisia (including Malaisia scandens) and Sloetia (including Sloetia elongata). Lastly we discuss the evolution of inflorescence architecture in relation to other floral features.
40540479|Vieris is an eastern Asian (EA)-eastern North American (NA) disjunct genus with P. cubensis in the West Indies (WI). In this study, we inferred interspecific relationships using nucleotide sequences of the internal and external transcribed spacer regions of nuclear ribosomal DNA and chioroplast genome (matK, trnL-F, and psbA-trnH). Vieris nana was sister to the rest of Vieris, i.e. Vieris subg. Vieris. The species of subg. Vieris diverged consecutively in the order of Vieris cubensis, V swinhoei, V. floribunda, V. philly reif olia, and P. formosa plus P. japonica. Neither section Vhillyreoides nor section Vieris was monophyletic, and P. phillyreifolia of NA was more closely related to two of the E A species (P. formosa and P. japonica) than to the other NA species (P. floribunda). Morphological characters, such as inflorescence position, testa cell shape, and placenta attachment, used to define the sections were homoplasious. Dispersal and vicariance analyses suggested that ancestral populations of Vieris were widespread in the composite area of EA, NA, and WI, and two dispersal events may have occurred from the New World to the Old World. Vieris cubensis may have originated as the result of a dispersal event from the composite area of NA and EA during the early diversification of Vieris in the late Eocene.
40540480|Alectra (Orobanchaceae) consists of primarily hemiparasitic herbaceous species distributed mainly in sub-Saharan Africa, with two species native to tropical America, and two widespread species extending out of Africa into India and China. Despite containing an economically important noxious agricultural weed, Alectra has never been the subject of a phylogenetic analysis. The monophyly of Alectra was assessed using DNA sequences from the nuclear (internal transcribed spacer) and chloroplast (rpl16, trnT-L) genomes, including 11 of 12 species. One of two holoparasitic species, Alectra alba, was placed outside of Alectra, supported as sister to a lineage containing the Asian holoparasitic genera Aeginetia + Christisonia. Two highly supported lineages of Melasma were revealed: one containing the two included African species, and the other comprising the tropical American Melasma rhinanthoides and the single accession of the tropical American Escobedia. The placement of the Madagascan endemic Alectra fruticosa was shown to be unresolved in relationship to the remaining Alectra species and the two lineages containing Melasma. The monophyly of the remaining species of Alectra was highly supported.
40540481|Multiple DNA sequences from plastid (trnL-F region and rbcL) as well as nuclear (ITS and 26S rDNA) genomes were used to infer the phylogeny of the Cuscuta californica complex. This group is currently circumscribed to include nine species distributed mostly in western North America. Four well-supported lineages have been revealed within this complex. The first lineage includes the controversial C. californica s. 1., an assemblage of taxa characterized by their lack of infrastaminal scales; the second lineage consists of a single species, C. subinclusa, with short fimbriate scales. The third lineage groups C. howelliana, C. salina, and G suksdorfii, with scales that exhibit a reduction trend, while the forth includes C. decipiens and a new species from New Mexico and trans-Pecos Texas, C. draconella, both with well-developed infrastaminal scales. Stereo, compound, and scanning electron microscopy were used to investigate the new species and compare it with C. decipiens, its closest relative, as well as to update the taxonomic treatment of C. californica s. 1. Cuscuta decipiens, in its original delimitation, is polyphyletic and was thus recircumscribed. In contrast to previous taxonomic treatments of C. californica s. 1., phylogenetic relationships in conjunction with morphological data support the delimitation of three species: C. brachycalyx, C. californica, and C. occidentalis.
40540482|Generic circumscriptions and phylogenetic relationships of the Cape genera Capnophyllum, Oasispermum, and Sonderina are explored through parsimony and Bayesian inference analyses of nrDNA ITS and cpDNA rps16 intron sequences, morphology, and combined molecular and morphological data. The relationship of these genera with the North African genera Krubera and Stoibrax is also assessed. Analyses of both molecular data sets place Capnophyllum, Oasispermum, Sonderina, and the only southern African species of Stoibrax (S. capense) within the newly recognized Lefebvrea clade of tribe Tordylieae. Capnophyllum is strongly supported as monophyletic and is distantly related to Krubera. The monotypic genus Oasispermum and Stoibrax capense are embedded within a paraphyletic Sonderina. This complex is distantly related to the North African species of Stoibrax in tribe Apieae, in which the type species, Stoibrax dichotomum, occurs. Consequently, Oasispermum is expanded to include both Sonderina and Stoibrax capense. New combinations are formalized for Oasispermum capense, D. hispidum, D. humile, and D. tenue. An undescribed species from the Tanqua Karoo in South Africa is also closely related to Capnophyllum and the Dasispermum-Sonderina complex. The genus Scaraboides is described herein to accommodate the new species, S. manningii. This monotypic genus shares the dorsally compressed fruit and involute marginal wings with Capnophyllum, but is easily distinguished by its erect branching habit, green leaves, scabrous umbels, and fruit with indistinct median and lateral ribs, additional solitary vittae in each marginal wing, and parallel, closely spaced commissural vittae. Despite the marked fruit similarities with Capnophyllum, analyses of DNA sequence data place Scaraboides closer to the Dasispermum-Sonderina complex, with which it shares the erect habit, green (nonglaucous) leaves, and scabrous umbels.
40540483|The Balkan Peninsula is one of the few biodiversity hotspots in Europe, characterized by numerous endemic taxa. Due to their often-restricted distribution and the scarcity of modern phylogenetic and phylogeographic studies from this region, the phylogenetic position and taxonomy of these species are often poorly understood. One example is Asyneuma comosiforme, a stenoendemic species known only from the Shija Gorge in northeastern Albania. Since its description in 1921, the position of this poorly known species within Asyneuma has been questioned. Here, we use nuclear ITS and plastid trnL-trnF DNA sequence data to address the question of the phylogenetic position of this enigmatic species. The inferred phylogenies clearly support A. comosiforme as sister to the main clade of isophyllous Campanula species, which is supported by morphological and ecological similarities. Thus, a new nomenclatural combination, Campanula comosiformis, is proposed. Given the restricted distribution, this species should be considered at least vulnerable, but the small population size might warrant its classification as endangered.
40540484|Anew species, Edraianthus pulevicii (Campanulaceae), endemic to the Durmitor mountain range (SE Dinaric Alps, Montenegro, Balkan Peninsula) is described and illustrated. Additionally, specific rank is proposed for E. serpyllifolius f. pilosulus from the Komovi Mts. (NW Prokletije mountain range, Montenegro, Balkan Peninsula), E. pilosulus. Both are morphologically similar to E. serpyllifolius s.s., all having spathulate leaves. Edraianthus pulevicii differs from E. serpyllifolius s.s. in having distinctly crenate as well as much longer and broader basal and cauline leaves with indumentum on the upper side, hairs on the leaf margin and leaf surface oriented towards the leaf base, broader and longer bracts, and revolute calyx lobes reflexed at the apex. Edraianthus pilosulus is morphologically similar to both E. serpyllifolius and E. pulevicii but differs from the former in having more or less dense hairs on the upper side of the leaves, and from the latter in having considerably smaller basal and cauline leaves with no or sparse crenation, hairs on the leaf margin and the leaf surface oriented towards the point, and narrower bracts. A new systematic treatment is supported by chloroplast DNA sequence data and AFLP fingerprinting data. A distribution map and a key to Edraianthus taxa with spathulate leaves are provided and the name Edraianthus sutjeskae is validated.
40540493|Species proposed on the basis of one or few individuals present a difficulty that transcends all modes of inference and all systematic data sources, including morphological and molecular data. This is particularly true for the liverwort family Lejeuneaceae, as these plants are inherently variable, differences between groups are frequently quantitative, and few specimens or limited material preclude destructive investigations, including molecular approaches. Here we use an extreme case of a single specimen to demonstrate how an integrated approach to character assessment and transparent decision processes can be used to provide sufficient evidence to support the hypothesis of species differences. To make progress on the single-specimen problem, an assessment of homology is essential to discriminate intra from interspecific variation in characters. Furthermore, an assessment of homology can substantiate differences between species of leafy liverworts in situations where the weight of character differences alone cannot because it is grounded in a phylogenetic framework. When homologous character systems and character states are equated with difference, the absence (or at least delayed development) of a stipe in Nephelolejeunea carcharias provides sufficient evidence for us to reject the hypothesis that this species is the same as N. talinayi because of what we know about the expression of perianth stipes in related species. As an inferential tool, homology exhibits considerable utility to liverwort taxonomists because it furnishes us with reasonable grounds on which to test hypotheses of relationship even in extremely observation-limited situations such as the one treated here.
40540494|The occurrence and diversity of Potamogeton hybrids was investigated in eastern North America, the region of the highest diversity of Potamogeton species in the world. For various reasons, however, the existence of hybrids in this area has been largely overlooked. ITS direct sequencing and RFLPs revealed four previously unknown hybrids, which are described as Potamogetn aetnulans (P. bicupulatus  P. epihydrus), P. mirabilis (P. gramineus  P. oakesianus), P. versicolor (P. epihydrus  P. perfoliatus), and P. absconditus (P. perfoliatus  P. richardsonii). These are the first confirmed hybrids involving P. bicupulatus, P. epihydrus, P. oakesianus, and P. richardsonii. Another hybrid, P.  nitens (P. gramineus  P. perfoliatus), is for the first time confirmed for North America with molecular markers. The hybrids' maternal parents were revealed by cpDNA sequencing. Phenotypically, two of the hybrids more closely resemble other taxa than their parents. Hybrid diversity and recognition in North America and in Europe are compared. Morphological versus molecular identification of hybrids, occurrence of hybrids in the absence of their parents, parental species relationships, long-term persistence of hybrid clones, vegetative dispersal, frequency of hybridization events, and hybrid distribution patterns are discussed.
40540495|Potamogeton is a taxonomically problematic genus of aquatic monocotyledons, which has received limited phylogenetic study using molecular data. The group is known for extensive vegetative plasticity, confusing patterns of morphological variation and propensity for hybridization. Potamogetn gemmiparus and P. vaseyi are of conservation concern in North America where both are listed as imperiled. These vegetatively similar species are particularly difficult to distinguish in the absence of floating leaves. We studied both species and putatively related taxa in subsection Pusilli (e.g. P. clystocarpus, P. foliosus, and P. pusillus) to elucidate relationships and to develop an identification method using molecular markers. Phylogenetic analyses of nrlTS and trnK 5' intron sequence data clearly endorse the recognition of P. gemmiparus and P. vaseyi as distinct species but call into question the subspecific circumscription of P. pusillus currently followed in North America. Our data resolved P. pusillus in a clade with P. foliosus, separated substantially from P. berchtoldii (= P. pusillus subsp. tenuissimus), thus supporting the recognition of P. berchtoldii as a distinct species. Using molecular cloning techniques, we documented three clear examples of interspecific hybridization (P. foliosus  P. pusillus, P. berchtoldii  P. vaseyi, and P. gemmiparus  P. vaseyi). Simple DNA polymorphisms also indicated several P. berchtoldii  P. gemmiparus hybrids. The narrowly distributed P. gemmiparus and P. clystocarpus are similar morphologically and genetically to the wide-ranging P. berchtoldii, with which they both hybridize. We recommend either the recognition of P. gemmiparus and P. clystocarpus as distinct species, or more suitably as subspecies of P. berchtoldii, for which two new combinations are provided: P. berchtoldii subsp. gemmiparus and P. berchtoldii subsp. clystocarpus.
40540496|Comparative morphological studies of specimens included in Dioscorea gillettii from Kenya and Ethiopia show differentiation between a northern group of populations in Sidamo and Bale Provinces in Ethiopia and near Moyale in northern Kenya and a southern group found in Kitui and Meru Districts of Kenya. Thus the southern element is described as a new species. The two species also differ in their pollen morphology. An illustration, distribution map, and a conservation status assessment are provided for D. kituiensis, and its mode of speciation is discussed.
40540497|The genus Quesnelia presently includes 18 species, which occur mainly near the east coast of Brazil from the states of Rio de Janeiro to Bahia. The genus has been divided into two subgenera, Quesnelia and Billbergiopsis. However, its generic and subgeneric delimitation is artificial: in several classifications proposed in the family, different investigators have questioned the naturalness of the group, noting its affinity with species oiAechmea and Billbergia. With the objective of assessing the monophyly of the genus, and evaluating the subgeneric delimitation and the relationship of its species to other genera, a phylogenetic analysis was carried out based on parsimony. The analysis included 33 taxa, with 92 morphological characters. The genera Quesnelia and Aechmea emerged as polyphyletic, and Billbergia as monophyletic. In regard to the subgeneric classification, Quesnelia subgenus Quesnelia emerged as monophyletic, and Quesnelia subgenus Billbergiopsis as polyphyletic. The majority of the species of Quesnelia subgenus Billbergiopsis emerged as the sister group to Billbergia. Even when anatomical and palynological characters were included, the consistency index of the tree obtained was low, indicating high levels of homoplasy. In addition, the majority of clades did not have good statistical support. Therefore, taxonomic changes are not proposed because these would be premature.
40540498|A phylogenetic analysis of five coding and noncoding chloroplast loci, totaling 6.6 kb of aligned nucleotide and indel characters, suggests that the large neotropical bamboo genus Chusquea is embedded within the much smaller Andean genus Neurolepis. Monophyly of each taxon was anticipated due to the unique occurrence of dimorphic multiple buds in Chusquea and the lack of aerial branching in Neurolepis. We tested whether the unexpected placement of Chusquea might be the result of a biased analysis. Both Neurolepis and the outgroup taxa have long branches that could influence rooting and inferred ingroup relationships. A number of methods were employed to test for long-branch attraction and sampling effects in our topology. Alternative hypothesis testing using a conservative form of the Shimodaira-Hasegawa test indicated that paraphyly of Neurolepis is a significantly better explanation of the data than monophyly, even when models of character evolution are changed. Given the robustness of the topology, high support measures for clades on the tree, and the results of the Shimodaira-Hasegawa tests, we conclude that chloroplast genomes indicate probable paraphyly of Neurolepis with respect to Chusquea. The species of Neurolepis are therefore transferred to Chusquea, resulting in the following new combinations and names: Chusquea acuminatissima, C. angusta, asymmetrica, cylindrica, diversiglumis, elata, fimbriligulata, laegaardii, magnifolia, mollis, nobilis, petiolata, rgida, silverstonei, spectabilis, steyermarkii, stuebelii, tovari and villosa. The names Neurolepis elata, N. stuebelii, N. weberhaueri, Planotia ingens, and P. tessellata are lectotypified.
40540499|The present contribution continues a critical revision of Panicum, particularly with the delimitation of "incertae sedis" taxa. A phylogenetic analysis of Paniceae based on cpDNA sequence data (ndhF) was performed with special emphasis on section Stolonifera of Panicum. Fourteen sequences of species of sect. Stolonifera and Echinolaena were added to a panicoid grass matrix previously published giving a total of 140 sequences. As a result, Ocellochloa is here described as a new genus including 12 new combinations: O. andreana, O. biglandu laris, O. brachystachya, O. chapadensis, O. craterifera, O. irregularis, O. latissima, O. piauiensis, O. pulchella, O. rudis, O. soderstromii, and O. stolonifera. The position of Panicum venezuelae, previously placed in section Stolonifera with the above mentioned species, clearly indicates that this species is not closely related to the Ocellochloa clade. This conclusion is supported by several morphological characters, such as the presence of axillary inflorescences, cleistogamous spikelets, and glands of the lower lemma depressed, not crateriform. Ocellochloa differs from Panicum s. s. by the unilateral spikelet disposition, the smooth surface of the upper anthecium, and a C 3 photosynthetic pathway. This new genus is described and compared with other allied genera of the Paniceae.
40540500|We examined populations of perennial, shrubby buckwheats in the Eriogonum corymbosum complex and related Eriogonum species in the subgenus Eucycla, to assess genetic affiliations of the recently named E. corymbosum var. nilesii. The known populations of this variety are all located in Clark County, Nevada, U. S. A. We compared AFLP profiles and chloroplast DNA sequences of plants sampled from populations of E. corymbosum var. nilesii with those of plants representing other E. corymbosum varieties and related Eriogonum species from Colorado, Utah, northern Arizona, and northern New Mexico. We found evidence of genetic cohesion among the Clark County populations as well as their genetic divergence from populations of other E. corymbosum varieties and species. The genetic component uncovered in this study supports the morphological findings upon which the nomenclatural change was based, attesting to the taxonomic distinctness of this biological entity.
40540501|We describe and illustrate the new species Fevillea anomalosperma from the semideciduous forests of northwestern Bolivia. Analysis of chloroplast DNA sequences representing most genera of Cucurbitaceae, including Fevillea with four of its seven species, supports placing the new species in Fevillea despite its small (10-11.5  7.5-10 mm, 2-3 mm thick), flattened, and highly sculptured seeds, which are unusual in the genus. The molecular phylogeny also revealed that the recent sinking of the monotypic genus Anisosperma into Fevillea is not justified. /// Se ilustra y describe Fevillea anomalsperma, una nueva especie de los boques semi-deciduos del noroeste de Bolivia. Aunque las hojas y las flores son tpicas de Fevillea, las semillas pequeas (10-11.5  7.5-10 mm, 2-3 mm de grueso), aplanadas y muy esculpidas de esta nueva especie no lo son. La posicin de esta nueva especie dentro de Fevillea ha sido apoyado por anlisis filogenticos de secuencias de ADN del cloroplasto, en los cuales se ha incluido representantes de la mayora de los gneros de Cucurbitaceae, junto con quatro especies de Fevillea. Filogenia molecular demuestra que la inclusin del gnero monotpico Anisosperma en Fevillea no es justificada.
40540502|We describe a new species, Lotus lourdes-santiagoi (Leguminosae) of the L. angustissimus complex endemic to Andalusia (southwestern Spain). The most important diagnostic character of the new species is the presence of indumentum on the adaxial face of the standard. A table presents the distinguishing characteristics of the new species, comparing it with L. castellanus Boiss. & Reut. and L. palustris Willd., the two other species in the group having keeled beaks curved inwards at the tip.
40540503|A monograph of Castelnavia is presented. Phylogenetic analyses of morphological characters reveal eight nonhomoplasious synapomorphies supporting the monophyly of the genus: 1) absence of roots, a 2) unilocular mature, 3) anisolobous ovary that is 4) surrounded by stem tissue during and after anthesis, 5) horizontal at anthesis, with an 6) asymmetrically inflated pedicel apex and 7) longitudinal axis at 45-90  angle relative to pedicel axis, and 8) one deciduous capsule valve. Five species and two forms are recognized: Castelnavia fluitans, C. monandra, multipartita forma multipartita, forma pendulosa Philbrick & P. Bove), noveloi, and C. princeps. Four species accepted by earlier authors are placed in synonymy. The morphology and ecology of the genus is discussed, and species descriptions, illustrations, a distribution map, lists of specimens examined, and a key to species are presented. Castelnavia occurs primarily in Brazil with one species in Bolivia. The greatest species diversity is in the Brazilian states of Mato Grosso, Para, and Tocantins.
40540504|Two new species of Loeselia (Polemoniaceae) from central Mexico are described and illustrated. Both are known only from small areas in the Balsas Depression of the state of Michoacn. Loeselia tancitaroensis occurs in pine-oak forest on the foothills of Cerro Tanctaro. It is similar to the Oaxacan endemic L. ruprestis, from which it differs in possessing linear to linear-lanceolate inflorescence bracts, entire to rarely one-toothed floral bracts and sepals, shorter sepals and ovaries, and carpels with two ovules. Loeselia spectabilis is restricted to tropical deciduous forest in the Infiernillo region. It is distinguished from the closely related L. grandiflora by possessing petiolate leaves, shorter sepals, glandular-ciliate corolla margins, and carpels with a single ovule.
40540505|Phylogenetic relationships between and within Phacelia sections Whitlavia and Gymnobythus are inferred based on nuclear ribosomal DNA [5.8S, and flanking internal transcribed spacers (ITS) 1 and 2] and chloroplast DNA (rpl16 intron) sequences. These two sections share morphological characters and have been thought to be closely related. The purpose of this study is to test whether each of the two sections is monophyletic as well as whether they form sister clades. Our results indicate that section Gymnobythus is monophyletic, and members of section Whitlavia form two clades that correspond to subsections previously suggested by Gillett. In the ITS dataset, the two Whitlavia groups are not sister clades, but there is little support for their placement. The rpl16 and rpl16 + ITS combined datasets provide resolution and strong support for monophyly of both sections. Both datasets indicate hybridization or a recent divergence between Phacelia parryi and Phacelia minor, as well as a close alliance between Phacelia longipes and Phacelia campanularia.
40540506|Understanding species limits in recent radiations is often difficult because sufficient time may not have elapsed since speciation to allow for the accumulation of unique species-specific traits. However, because population genetic markers evolve rapidly, patterns of genetic structure based on these markers can often discern genetically isolated population groups, even when other markers, such as DNA sequences, can not. In this study, we analyzed patterns of genetic structure based on microsatellites in Conradina and identified a group of plants in Dunns Creek State Park (Putnam County, Florida) that are genetically divergent from all other described Conradina species. We then carried out a morphological study that revealed several unique characters in these populations, most notably thin-walled unicellular hairs, epidermis features, and larger calyces. Because these populations are genetically and morphologically diagnosable from all other Conradina species, we thus consider them to be specifically distinct, and name this taxon Conradina cygniflora. Conradina cygniflora is endemic to Dunns Creek State Park in south-central Putnam County, Florida, where it occupies nine tightly-clustered sites that probably form around two to four self-sustaining populations. Due to its extremely limited geographic distribution and few individuals, we recommend that Conradina cygniflora be listed as federally endangered.
40540507|Mentheae is an economically important tribe in Lamiaceae with many ornamentals and culinary herbs. Although its monophyly is well supported by molecular data, the subtribal delimitation and the intergeneric relationships are still poorly understood. The nutlet morphology (SEM) of the tribe and the presence/absence of myxocarpy is documented here for 57 out of 65 genera in order to assess the systematic value of nutlet characters and to evaluate the existing molecular phylogenies for this group. Significant variation was found in nutlet shape, morphology of the abscission scar, distribution of trichomes, and surface sculpture. Five different surface types were recognized in Mentheae based on differences in cell outline, anticlinal walls, cell boundary relief, and curvature of the outer periclinal wall. Representative nutlet features proved to be phylogenetically informative in Mentheae mainly at the generic level. Cladistic analyses were performed based on 15 morphological nutlet characters and/or available molecular data (nuclear ribosomal ITS and chloroplast trnL-trnF spacer sequences). The resulting topologies indicate that the addition of nutlet characters to the DNA-data matrix improved the overall resolution and also increased bootstrap support values in comparison with exclusively molecular phylogenetic analyses. The evolution of major nutlet characters within the tribe Mentheae is discussed.
40540508|Verbenaceae tribe Verbeneae includes three major genera, Verbena, Glandularia, and Junellia, which form a recently diversified group. Junellia is a South American genus, whereas Verbena and Glandularia are distributed in temperate regions of both South and North America. Seven noncoding chloroplast regions were sequenced including intergenic spacers and/or introns in trnD-trnT, trnS-trnG, trnS-trnfM, trnT-trnL, trnG, trnL, and trnL-trnF; the nuclear ITS and ETS regions were also sequenced. Together with previous studies, these results suggest that Junellia, as traditionally conceived, is a paraphyletic group of two separate clades. Junellia should be restricted to the clade containing the type, J. micrantha, which also includes Glandularia subgenus Paraglandularia and the genus Urbania. Consequently Urbania and Glandularia subgenus Paraglandularia are reduced to synonymy under Junellia, and eight new combinations in Junellia are proposed: Junellia ballsii, J. crithmifolia, J. fasciculata, J. hookeriana, J. lucanensis, J. occulta, J. pappigera and J. origenes. The remaining Junellia species form a monophyletic group here designated as the new genus Mulguraea, with 13 new combinations: Mulguraea arequipense, M. asparagoides, M. aspera var. aspera, M. aspera var. longidentata, M. cedroides, M. cinerascens, M. echegarayi, M. hystrix, M. ligustrina var. ligustrina, M. ligustrna var. lorentzii, M. scoparla, M. tetragonocalyx and M. tridens. Verbena and Glandularia s. s. are both monophyletic based on ETS/ITS data, but neither is monophyletic based on cpDNA data. Relationships within each genus are still not wholly resolved, nevertheless there is evidence that South and North American Verbena might both be monophyletic. Verbena and Glandularia are sister groups, and together they are sister to the reconstituted Junellia. Mulguraea is sister to the group comprising all the three genera, Verbena, Glandularia, and Junellia.
40540509|The salt marsh dodders, Cuscuta salina, have been historically delimited as a morphologically variable assemblage of inbreeding forms that parasitize hosts growing in alkaline or saline habitats from western North America. This morphological diversity has been traditionally classified into three varieties: salina, major, and papillata. A morphometric analysis of floral characters and a molecular study using both plastid and nuclear DNA sequences strongly support the segregation of a new species, Cuscuta pacifica Costea and M. A. R. Wright, from C. salina. The new species corresponds to a lineage that includes varieties major and papillata, whereas C. salina is limited essentially to its type variety. Cuscuta pacifica and C. salina are sister species that have only a small area of parapatry in lower California, where they are ecologically and reproductively separated. Cuscuta salina occurs mostly in inland vernal pools and salt flats of Arizona, California, Nevada, Utah, Baja California, and Sonora, and grows primarily on Frankenia and Suaeda. Cuscuta pacifica can be found in salt marshes from the southcentral Pacific coast of California north into British Columbia, parasitic especially on Salicornia and Jaumea carnosa. Cuscuta salina var. papillata (Yunck.) Costea and M. A. R. Wright, parasitic on hosts that grow in coastal interdunes, falls within the range of variation of C. pacifica, where it is transferred.
40540510|The identification of plastid DNA markers that provide sufficient phylogenetic resolution at the species and population levels is an important challenge for plant systematics. This is mainly due to the relatively slow rate of evolution of the plastid genome. In this study, we examine the utility of several plastid DNA regions for phylogenetic inference at low taxonomic levels in tribe Lycieae (Solanaceae). The regions employed here previously provided considerable numbers of potentially informative characters in investigations of sequence variation across the plastid genome, and one region (trnH-psbA) has been advocated for use in DNA barcoding. We sequenced nine noncoding plastid DNA regions (-8,400 bp) for a diverse sample of Lycium species and Phrodus microphyllus (tribe Lycieae), as well as the outgroup Nolana, and included published sequences from the distant outgroup Atropa. The nine regions varied with regard to their phylogenetic utility, as measured by the numbers of variable and parsimony informative characters and informative insertions/deletions. We advocate a combination of three regions, including $trnD^{GUC} - trnT^{GGU} $ , $rpl132 - trnT^{UAG} $ and ndhF-rpl32, for phylogenetic studies at the infrageneric or tribal level in Solanaceae. Collectively, these three plastid DNA regions had > 100 variable characters across 24 taxa, with 72 parsimony informative characters, and 10 phylogenetically informative indels. Future studies should explore these three noncoding markers for low level phylogenetic questions in other taxonomic groups.
40540511|The phylogenetic relationships of six out of seven genera from the informal Hinterhubera group (Hinterhuberinae) and nine other subtribes in tribe Astereae primarily with Southern Hemisphere distributions were studied using internal and external transcribed spacer region nuclear DNA (ITS and ETS) sequence data. Bayesian and parsimony analyses were conducted on both datasets, independently and combined. Topologies resulting from the ITS and combined data sets were highly congruent, while the ETS based phylogenies were poorly resolved, probably because the characters are fewer and less informative. The monophyly of the Hinterhubera group was not confirmed, nor were the monophyly of the subtribes Podocominae, Lagenophorinae, Grangeinae, and Asterinae as delimited by Nesom and Robinson. Instead, our results suggest a closer relationship among the taxa from similar geographic areas. Within the Hinterhubera group, the monophyly of the genera has been confirmed. Westoniella was sister to Laennecia (Podocominae), while Hinterhubera was sister to Laestadia and Blakiella. The radiate Diplostephium and Guynesomia were disparately placed in the southern hemisphere clade and not related to the other radiate genera of Hinterhuberinae. Present analyses suggest that dioecy in Aztecaster and Baccharidinae evolved independently as hypothesized by Nesom. Archibaccharis (Baccharidinae) was sister to Plagiocheilus (Grangeinae). The analyses of ITS and ETS data, and Bayesian analysis of the combined dataset, resolved Baccharidinae as non monophyletic. Constraint analyses forcing a monophyletic Baccharidinae, with Plagiocheilus sister to Archibaccharis, did not reject monophyly of the subtribe.
40540512|Specimens of Villarsia cambodiana (Menyanthaceae), the only tropical Villarsia species, were collected from Vietnam, where the species had not been recorded. Molecular data were used to evaluate the phylogenetic position of V. cambodiana relative to 31 other Menyanthaceae taxa representing 11 species of Nymphoides and every species of Liparophyllum, Menyanthes, Nephrophyllidium, Ornduffia, and Villarsia. Phylogenetic analysis of nuclear (ITS) and chloroplast (matK/trnK, rbcL) DNA data strongly supported the resolution of V. cambodiana within Nymphoides, sister to N. aurantiaca. After plotting morphological data onto the molecular phylogenetic tree, we observed that leaf and inflorescence characters associated with an erect habit, which superficially would assign V. cambodiana to Villarsia, have arisen or been lost independently in several other Menyanthaceae species representing three genera. Moreover, several characteristics of this taxon, particularly seed morphology and an inflorescence with paired pedicels, are more consistent with those of Nymphoides than of Villarsia. We thus transfer V. cambodiana to Nymphoides under the new combination Nymphoides cambodiana.
40540520|Nucleotide sequence variation in the ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 region of nuclear ribosomal DNA and in the trnL-trnF region of cpDNA from 28 specimens of Jubula (Jubulaceae), and two outgroup species, was analyzed using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood. The molecular topologies supported five to six allopatric taxa in Jubula. Relationships of most of these taxa remain unresolved due to lack of support of many deeper nodes. A principal component analysis indicated a broad overlap of morphological characters of these taxa. Based on the morphological similarities of the Jubula taxa and the observed low sequence variation, a subspecies concept is supported. This comprises the taxa J. hutchinsiae subsp. bogotensis, subsp. hutchinsiae, subsp. japonica, subsp. javanica, and subsp. pennsylvanica. With the exception of J. hutchinsiae subsp. javanica, all taxa are monophyletic. Multiple accessions of the temperate taxa J. hutchinsiae subsp. hutchinsiae and J. hutchinsiae subsp. pennsylvanica exhibit a lower sequence variation than the tropical taxa J. hutchinsiae subsp. bogotensis and J. hutchinsiae subsp. javanica.
40540521|A new fern species, Polystichum speluncicola (sect. Haplopolystichum, Dryopteridaceae), is described from a karst cave in southern Guizhou, China. The new species has deltoid-ovate pinnae and subulate microscales with dilated bases on the abaxial lamina surface (broad-type microscales), characters unknown for any other members of sect. Haplopolystichum s. s. It also has oblanceolate laminae and its pinnae are close-set, subcoriaceous, adaxially lustrous, deltoid-ovate, repand, their acroscopic bases round, and basiscopic bases cuneate, often forming 20-60-degree angle with the rachis; the basal pinnae are shorter and strongly reflexed. Palynologically, P. speluncicola has cristate sculpturing with numerous spinules on its perispore. A preliminary phylogenetic analysis based on DNA sequences from the trnL-F intergenic spacer showed that P. speluncicola, together with P. subacutidens, "P. yuanum," and species of Cyrtomium subser. Balansana, formed an unresolved polytomy. Polystichum speluncicola can easily be distinguished morphologically from these species by broad-type microscales, deltoid-ovate pinnae, and fewer pairs of pinnae per lamina. Our phylogenetic analysis resolved Cyrtogonellum as paraphyletic in relation to Polystichum sect. Haplopolystichum s. 1.
40540522|Several cytotypes (polyploids and aneuploids) have been reported in Lepisorus thunbergianus. The relationships between these cytotypes within the species remain poorly understood. We studied populations in an area where various cytotypes of L. thunbergianus as well as two diploid species, L. angustus and L. onoei, candidate parental species that may be involved in allopolyploid origins of L. thunbergianus polyploids, occur. We determined the ploidy levels of sampled materials by direct chromosome counting and flow cytometry. We elucidated the origins of L. thunbergianus polyploids by analyzing allozyme polymorphisms, and in addition, we examined the occurrence of segmental allopolyploidy by comparing allelic variation between polyploids and their parental diploids. Six cytotypes, i. e. one diploid (2n = 50), two triploid (2n = 75 and 76) and three tetraploid (2n = 100,101, and 102) cytotypes, were observed in L. thunbergianus, and the two diploid species, L. angustus (2n = 52) and L. onoei (2n = 50) were confirmed to include a single cytotype each. Allozyme analyses indicated that the tetraploid (2n = 100) and hypertetraploid (2n = 102) of L. thunbergianus originated by allopolyploidy between diploid L. thunbergianus (2n = 50) and diploid L. angustus (2n = 52), since the polyploids shared alleles with these two diploids that were unique to each diploid. The allozyme patterns excluded the possibility that L. thunbergianus polyploids originated from L. onoei. The unbalanced heterozygosity and homozygosity found in the tetraploid and the hypertetraploid of L. thunbergianus indicated their segmental allopolyploidy.
40540523|Three new species of Pseuduvaria (Annonaceae) from Peninsular Thailand and Peninsular Malaysia are described and named as P. fragrans, P. gardneri, and P. glossopetala. A recent molecular phylogenetic study, based on 51 species (including P. fragrans), elucidated the evolutionary relationships within the genus. The present study includes P. gardneri and P. glossopetala in the phylogenetic analyses using maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference methods, based on five chloroplast regions (psbA-trnH spacer, trnL-F, matK, rbcL, and atpB-rbcL spacer). The new nomenclatural combination Pseuduvaria phuyensis is also validated in accordance with the phylogenetic analyses which show that Craibella phuyensis and Pseuduvaria form a well-supported monophyletic clade. The new species and new nomenclature combination bring the total number of species in Pseuduvaria to 56. The taxonomic status of the enigmatic monotypic genus Oreomitra from New Guinea is furthermore evaluated, and the name shown to be synonymous with Pseuduvaria.
40540524|A systematic revision of the Epipetrum group of Dioscorea (Dioscoreaceae), which traditionally included three taxa endemic to Chile, is presented. We evaluated the taxonomic value of macro-and micromorphological traits to delimit generic boundaries with respect to other yams and to identify and separate its taxa. The comprehensive survey included 10 qualitative and 43 quantitative traits related to all plant organs and new microanatomical features of leaf, fruits, seeds, and pollen. Discriminant analyses were conducted with three accumulative morphological data sets to test seven taxonomic hypotheses of differentiation among taxa. Our results indicate that these taxa are characterized by the combination of prominent pistillodes in male flowers and a base chromosome number oix-7, which separate it from all other Dioscoreaceae, plus different sets of morpho-anatomical traits that differentiate it from other putatively closely related yams with unwinged seeds in Dioscorea (the Borderea group, the Nanarepenta group, the Tamus group, etc.). Dioscorea biloba is the most distinctive species. Our analyses revealed significant morphological differences between northern and southern populations of this species resulting in the recognition of two subspecies, the northern D. biloba subsp. biloba, and the new southern D. biloba subsp. coauimbana. Dioscorea humilis and D. polyanthes are morphologically similar and only differ in qualitative leaf traits. This minor variation is better treated by reducing D. polyanthes to subspecific rank in D. humilis, and the combination D. humilis subsp. polyanthes is made herein.
40540525|Phylogenetic analyses were conducted on six plastid markers and ITS from 43 accessions representing all eight currently recognized Hexalectris species with the goals of testing species circumscriptions and determining interspecific relationships. The monophyly of H. warnockii, H. grandiflora, H. brevicaulis, and H. nitida, plus the H. spicata species complex, are strongly supported. The remaining species are not monophyletic, prompting the recircumscription of H. spicata s. 1. as H. spicata s. s. and H. arizonica, H. revoluta s. 1. as H. revoluta s. s. and H. coletnanii, and H. fallax as a synonym of H. parviflora. Four major morphologically distinct lineages exist within the genus: H. warnockii, H. grandiflora, H. brevicaulis, and the H. spicata species complex. Within the latter, only H.. spicata s. s. and H. nitida are strongly supported as sister species among all trees. The positions of H. revoluta s. s. and H. parviflora remain unresolved due to incongruence in the plastid trees when psbA is included or excluded, while the positions of H. colemanii and H. arizonica are unclear due to incongruence between plastid and ITS topologies. The latter incongruence suggests that either or both species are of hybrid origin or that the ITS topology has been influenced by incomplete lineage sorting.
40540526|Camassia is a genus of six bulb-forming species endemic to North America that have figured prominently in the culture and sustenance of native peoples. In western North America they form a conspicuous element of wet meadows and forest openings. Species and, especially, subspecies delimitations have been problematic. Further, several hypothesized phylogenetic and biogeographic scenarios for the origin and diversification of the genus remain untested. We estimated the phylogeny of Camassia using two noncoding plastid DNA regions: rpll6 intron and trnD-trnY-trnE-trnT spacers, with the goals of evaluating 1) the delimitation of species and 2) Gould's hypotheses for the origin of species and infraspecific taxa. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses provided concordant estimates of the phylogeny consistent with the monophyly of eastern American C. scilloides and western American C. howellii and C. leichtlinii. Two western American species were found to be paraphyletic C. cusickii weakly so, but C. quamash was strongly supported as paraphyletic to C. cusickii, C. scilloides and C. angusta. Our results are largely consistent with Gould's views that the genus originated in southwestern Oregon and diversified through eastern migration, and that C. scilloides and C. cusickii are derived from within C. quamash. Despite evidence that Camassia species hybridize, by sampling sympatric populations we detected only a single case of introgression of plastid haplotypes. This study provides the first molecular phylogenetic and phylogeographic context for evaluating evolutionary process and trait variation in this iconic genus of western North America.
40540527|Tillandsia subgenus Tillandsia as defined by Gardner includes 269 species in five groups. Within Group I, species in the Tillandsia bulbosa complex share a remarkable synapomorphy: a pseudobulb. We sampled the 13 species of pseudobulbous Tillandsia (including T. intermedia) in addition to 18 species from the five groups of subgenus Tillandsia and four species as outgroups to perform phylogenetic analyses of sequences from two nuclear ribosomal DNA markers (ITS 2 + 5.8S and ETS). Three combined parsimony analyses explored the effects of indels treated as missing data, fifth character states, and with the simple indel coding method. Results show that all 13 species of pseudobulbous Tillandsia are placed within a group that also includes five non-pseudobulbous species. The pseudobulb habit is optimized as a synapomorphy for this group although with three reversals. Our analyses also show that sequence variation at ITS 2 + 5.8S and ETS provided resolution and indels are an important source of phylogenetic information. All previously used chloroplast markers have been shown to be almost invariant even among distantly related species in Tillandsia. Therefore, both nuclear markers assayed here are promising sources of sequence variation for reconstruction of phylogenetic relationships among species of Tillandsia and other Bromeliaceae.
40540528|A new species of Tarigidia from Puerto Rico is described and illustrated. Additional micromorphological characters of the inflorescence and spikelets are included. This species constitutes the first report of the genus Tarigidia in the New World. Tarigidia axelrodii grows together with Anthephora hermaphrodita and Digitaria bicornis, showing intermediate characters. This species gives additional evidence to support Loxton's hypothesis that Tarigidia is derived from hybridization between Anthephora and Digitaria and also supports the phylogenetic hypothesis showing close relationships between Anthephora and Digitaria. /// Se describe e ilustra una nueva especie de Tarigidia en Puerto Rico. Se incluyen caracteres adicionales de la inflorescencia y espiguillas. Esta especie constituye el primer registro del gnero Tarigidia en Amrica. Tarigidia axelrodii crece junto a Anthephora hermaphrodita y Digitaria bicornis, mostrando caracteres intermedios. Esta especie provee evidencia adicional apoyando la hiptesis de Loxton sobre el origen hbrido de Tarigidia a partir de Anthephora y Digitaria y, al mismo tiempo, sustenta la hiptesis filogentica donde se sugieren estrechas relaciones entre Anthephora y Digitaria.
40540529|The temperate bamboos are a morphologically diverse grass lineage with a complex and problematic taxonomy. We present the first robust multilocus chloroplast phylogeny of the temperate bamboos, assess relationships among key genera with an emphasis on Arundinaria and its allies, and highlight the potential role of hybridization and reticulate evolution in this group. Utilizing a total of twelve plastid DNA regions (1 gene, 10 intergenic spacers, and 1 intron), the temperate clade was resolved to include six major lineages: Bergbamboes, the African alpine bamboos, Chimonocalamus, the Shibataea clade, the Phyllostachys clade, and the Arundinaria clade. Internal resolution varied among these six, in part reflecting sampling density and in part due to apparent evolutionary rate heterogeneity. The recovered phylogeny is largely incongruent with morphological classifications, rendering subtribes and many genera paraphyletit or polyphyletic. Some associations are consistent with existing hypotheses of intergeneric hybridization, while others may indicate convergent evolution, lineage sorting, or previously unsuspected cases of hybridization. Several robust lineages were identified within the Arundinaria clade, including the Medake subclade (Pleioblastus s. s. and allies), Sasa s. s., and the Sinicae subclade (comprising a subset of Chinese taxa currently classified in Acidosasa, Indosasa, Pleioblastus sect. Amari, and Pseudosasa subg. Sinicae). Our analyses also recovered a monophyletic Arundinaria s. s. in North America, and revealed substantial divergence between A. gigantea and A. tecta.
40540530|The angiosperm genus Myriophyllum (Haloragaceae) is among the most species-rich genera of aquatic core-eudicots. Myriophyllum has a cosmopolitan distribution with its center of diversity in Australia (> 37 endemics). The widespread invasive species of the genus (M. aquaticum, M. heterophyllum, and M. spicatum) have drawn attention from international natural resource managers. Myriophyllum species are notoriously difficult to identify using vegetative morphology alone, which commonly is all that is available for these highly clonal plants. The relationships among taxa have been difficult to determine with suspected parallelisms in sex expression, sepal and petal loss, and reduced stamen number. A molecular phylogenetic approach was taken to examine relationships among taxa and to employ molecular markers for the reliable identification of Myriophyllum species. This study included  80% of the known Myriophyllum species. Both nrDNA ITS and cpDNA matK and trnK data were used to examine phylogenetic relationships among species. The nrDNA ITS data proved highly variable and could differentiate between all but one species pair examined. These analyses also uncovered multiple cryptic species among Australian complexes. Phylogenetic results support major realignments in the subgeneric classification including a recombination for the rare monotypic genus Meziella, which was nested within Myriophyllum. Here we present the new combinations and taxa Myriophyllum subgenus Meziella, sections Pectinatum and Pelonastes, subsections Isophylleae and Nudiflorum with the new combination Myriophyllum trifidum to accommodate the former monospecific genus Meziella.
40540531|The Medicago sativa species complex includes tetraploid cultivated alfalfa and several other diploid and tetraploid taxa that are recognized either as subspecies of M. sativa or as separate species. The two principal diploid taxa are "caerulea," with purple flowers and coiled pods, and "falcata" with yellow flowers and falcate pods. To understand the evolutionary relationships among taxa in the complex, sequence variation in two noncoding regions of cpDNA (rpl20-rpsl2 and trnS-trnG spacers) and three regions of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA: nad4 intron, nadl intron, and rpS14-cob spacer) were surveyed from 48 (37 for mtDNA) individuals representing these and other diploid taxa in the complex. These sequences afforded independent perspectives on the evolutionary history of the group, because mtDNA is maternally inherited in Medicago whereas cpDNA is biparentally inherited with strong paternal bias. Twenty and 21 haplotypes were identified for cpDNA and mtDNA, respectively. Haplotype networks were constructed and tests of differentiation were conducted. Results from cpDNA sequences supported the recognition of "caerulea" and "falcata" as differentiated taxa, despite the presence of some shared haplotypes, in agreement with morphological characters. In contrast, no significant evidence of mtDNA haplotype differentiation was observed. Incongruence between cpDNA and mtDNA is more likely explained by introgression of the mitochondrial genome than by incomplete lineage sorting of mtDNA haplotypes, given the expected smaller effective population size for uniparentally inherited mtDNA than for biparentally inherited cpDNA. Moreover, the two taxa are readily crossable, making natural hybridization possible. The long-time disagreement on whether to recognize "falcata" as a separate species or a subspecies of M. sativa s. 1. is due to the common problem of unequal rates of differentiation for different characters during speciation.
40540532|A taxonomic key, synonymy, and a molecular phylogeny of the nine species and three varieties of Croton section Heptallon (Euphorbiaceae) are presented. Section Angelandra is synonymized with section Heptallon, and the species from outside of North America that had been placed into these two sections are shown to belong in other clades within the genus. As circumscribed here, section Heptallon is a well-supported clade of annual herbs and subshrubs that ranges from central Mexico to the eastern United States. A new combination, Croton heptalon, is made. Lectotypes are designated for C. corymbulosus, C. elliottii, C. ellipticus, C. engelmannii var. albinoides, C. eutrigynus, C. heptalon, C. leucophyllus var. trisepalis, and Heptallon graveolens. /// Una clave taxonmica, sinonimia, y una filogenia molecular son presentados para las nueve especies y tres variedades de Croton seccin Heptallon (Euphorbiaceae). Seccin Angelandra se sinonimiza con seccin Heptallon, y se demuestra que las especies de fuera de Norte Amrica que haban sido incluidas en estas dos secciones pertenecen a otros ciados dentro del gnero. Como est circunscrita aqu, seccin Heptallon es un ciado con buen apoyo de hierbas anuales y subarbustos que se distribuye desde el centro de Mxico hasta el oriente de los Estados Unidos. Se hace una nueva combinacin, Croton heptalon. Se designan lectotipos para C. corymbulosus, C. elliottii, C. ellipticus, C. engelmannii var. albinoides, C. eutrigynus, C. heptalon, C. leucophyllus var. trisepalis, y Heptallon graveolens.
40540533|A new species of sect. Diffusa, Geranium pseudodiffusum (Geraniaceae) found in Ecuador and Peru is described. The new species is morphologically most similar to G. diffusum. Leaves of G. diffusum are  densely covered by small and appressed hairs on both surfaces, while in G. pseudodiffusum hairs are restricted to margin and nerves of the abaxial side and more rarely on nerves of the adaxial side. Additionally, G. pseudodiffusum has glandular hairs on the stems, pedicels, sepals, petioles, and sometimes on the leaf lamina, while in G. diffusum only eglandular hairs are present. A morphological comparison to related species, and a new key for the whole section is provided. In addition, a detailed description, distribution map, habitat and line drawing are provided for this new species.
40540534|A recent worldwide phylogeny of Sapindaceae inferred from nuclear and plastid DNA regions segregated the Malagasy Haplocoelum perrieri Capuron from the African Haplocoelum foliosum (Hiern) Bullock. Additional phylogenetic analyses conducted here (including material of Haplocoelum inopleum Radlk., the generic type) supported the result from the previous analysis and showed that maintaining a broad circumscription of Haplocoelum to include the Malagasy species would render the genus polyphyletic. To maintain monophyly, it is necessary to exclude H. perrieri, which we transfer to a new, monotypic genus, described here as Gereaua. This taxon is easily distinguished from the species retained in Haplocoelum by the following morphological characters: (1) sexually dimorphic inflorescences in racemules (vs. monomorphic inflorescences in fascicule of cymes); (2) 2-locular ovary (vs. 3-locular ovary); (3) rudimentary pistillode in staminate flowers (vs. no pistillode in staminate flowers); (4) corolla with 4 or 5 petals (vs. apetalous); (5) pubescent fruit (vs. glabrous fruit). Relationships between the new genus and its most closely related genera, included in the Macphersonia group, are discussed in light of molecular, morphological and biogeographic evidence. A preliminary threat assessment of Gereaua perrieri using the IUCN Red List criteria indicates a status of Least Concern.
40540535|The genus Ipomopsis (Polemoniaceae) encompasses about 29 species and 24 subspecies generally divided into three sections: sect. Ipomopsis, sect. Microgilia, and sect. Phloganthea. We employed maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference of DNA sequences from the nuclear ribosomal ITS region (ITS1,5.8S ribosomal subunit, ITS2) and the chloroplast trnL-F region (trnL intron + trnL-trnF intergenic spacer) to estimate phylogenetic relationships within this genus and its placement among other genera of Polemoniaceae. The chloroplast and combined sequences provide support for the monophyly of Ipomopsis, but only if four species previously included in the genus are removed: Ipomopsis havardii, I. sonorae, Microgilia minutiflora (= I. minutiflora), and Loeseliastrum depressum (= 7. depressa). Of the three sections, two are conditionally supported as being monophyletic. Section Microgilia (with 11 species and 11 infra-specific taxa) is supported as monophyletic if I. polycladon, I. sonorae, I. depressa, and I. minutiflora (the type of the section) are removed. This clade is treated here as section Elaphocera. Section Ipomopsis is inferred to be monophyletic with the inclusion of several members of sect. Phloganthea (I. multiflora, I. pinnata, and I polyantha). There is no support for monophyly or paraphyly of sect. Phloganthea. The Giliopsis group (I. effusa, I. guttata, and I. tenuifolia) is supported as monophyletic by both data sets, and the cpDNA sequences place it as sister to the remainder of Ipomopsis. This clade is treated as a new section, Giliopsis. Nuclear data place Giliopsis in a clade with Ipomopsis havardii, I. sonorae, Microgilia minutiflora, Loeseliastrum depressum, Eriastrum spp., Lunghista, and Dayia grantii. Using the Eocene fossil Gilisenium hueberii to calibrate the most recent common ancestor of tribe Gilieae, we estimate that Ipomopsis has its origin 28.2  0.40-39.0  1.14 MYA (trnL-F and ITS, respectively). Using this same relaxed clock, the node (or coalescent event) that defines the I. aggregata complex is dated at 16.2  0.38 and 27.1  0.83 MYA (trnL-F and ITS, respectively). The deep divergence of the I. aggregata complex suggests that reticulation, rather than lineage sorting, is the source of conflict among phylogenetic markers used to infer the placement of L macrosiphon.
40540536|Leucotho s. 1. has been split into as many as three genera in current taxonomic work involving morphological data. In this paper, phylogenetic relationships within Leucotho s. 1. were examined using DNA sequence data from matK, ndhF, nrlTS, and morphological characters. The total combined data indicate that Leucotho s. 1. species are distributed between two clades. Leucotho racemosa and L. recurva are strongly supported as being sister taxa and are in turn sister to Chamaedaphne calyculata. These two Leucotho species are deciduous and they exhibit "L. racemosa"-type autumn inflorescences (as does Chamaedaphne). The other six Leucotho s. 1. species (L. axillaris, L. davisiae, L. fontanesi ana, L. grayana, L. griffithiana, and L. keiskei) form a strongly supported clade. Leucotho gray ana, a morphologically distinctive taxon, is sister to the other five species in this latter clade. Based on these data, it is proposed that Leucotho s. 1. should be divided into three genera: Eubotryoides (E . grayana), Eubotrys (E .racemosa and E. recurva), and Leucotho s. s. (L. axillaris, L. davisiae, L. fontanesiana, L. griffithiana, and L. keiskei).
40540537|Phylogenetic analyses of Isodon and related genera using the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer (nrlTS), cpDNA regions (trnL-trnF region and rpsl6 intron), and morphological data are presented. The results clarify the relationships among Isodon and its putative related genera and the question of the monophyly of Isodon and its relationship with Siphocranion. Siphocranion is a monophyletic genus and the sister clade to the remaining species; the new subtribe Siphocranioninae of tribe Ocimeae is described to accommodate it. Isodon, as currently circumscribed, is only monophyletic if SL  panthus oreophilus is included in it. Isodon forms a distinct subtribe Isodoninae within tribe Ocimeae and three strongly supported subclades are identified within the genus. In addition, a close relationship between Hanceola and Hyptis is indicated in the combined nrlTS + cpDNA data set with Bayesian inference and this is also supported in morphological analyses, but more studies are needed to confirm this relationship. It is evident that subtribe Hanceolinae is polyphyletic as currently defined, so subtribe Hanceolinae is restricted to accommodate Hanceola alone. The relationships between Isodon and other genera within tribe Ocimeae are still unresolved: the newly erected subtribe Isodoninae is a monophyletic group representing a distinct lineage in subtribe Ociminae. The relationships among the species of the largest subclade C of Isodon are still poorly known. Additional studies of this group with additional data and more intensive taxon sampling might help to resolve these issues.
40802437|Polyploidy presents a challenge to those wishing to delimit the species within a group and reconstruct the phylogenetic relationships among these taxa. A clear understanding of the tree-like relationships among the diploid species can provide a framework upon which to reconstruct the reticulate events that gave rise to the polyploid lineages. In this study we apply this "diploids-first" strategy to the fern genus Astrolepis (Pteridaceae). Diploids are identified using the number of spores per sporangium and spore size. Analyses of plastid and low-copy nuclear sequence data provide well-supported estimates of phylogenetic relationships, including strong evidence for two morphologically distinctive diploid lineages not recognized in recent treatments. One of these corresponds to the type of Notholaena deltoidea, a species that has not been recognized in any modern treatment of Astrolepis. This species is resurrected here as the new combination Astrolepis deltoidea. The second novel lineage is that of a diploid initially hypothesized to exist by molecular and morphological characteristics of several established Astrolepis allopolyploids. This previously missing diploid species is described here as Astrolepis obscura.
40802438|The nomenclature related to Tectaria subpedata (Harr.) Ching (Tectariaceae) is clarified. The misidentification of T. subpedata is documented by a comprehensive study of herbarium specimens, wild and cultivated plants, spore morphology, gametophyte development, and chromosome count. The type of T. subpedata is confirmed to be a young frond of T. polymorpha (Wall, ex Hook.) Copel. A synonym of T. subpedata, namely Nephrodium morsei Baker, represents a separate species and is here recognized as Tectaria tnorsei (Baker) P. J. Edwards ex S. Y. Dong. Based on the sporophyte morphology, gametophyte development and distribution, the affinity and position of T. morsei is briefly discussed.
40802439|Typhonium was recognized as a monophyletic genus in the tribe Areae of the subfamily Aroideae (Araceae) until a recent molecular phylogenetic study indicated that the genus was paraphyletic respective to other Areae genera. However, that phylogenetic study did not discuss the details of infrageneric relationships due to the limited numbers of Typhonium samples. To elucidate the phylogenetic relationships in Typhonium sensu lato, we conducted phylogenetic analyses based on the combined DNA sequences of six chloroplast regions (3' trnL-trnF, rpl20-5' rpsl2, psbB-psbH, trnG intron, rpoC2-rps2, and trnK 3' intron) from 18 representative Typhonium species and additional samples from related genera. The resultant tree strongly suggests that Typhonium is not a monophyletic group and that it comprises at least two separate lineages, with other Areae genera nested within, and that Typhonium sensu lato may be subdivided into several monophyletic groups. These groups are distinguishable based on the stem-type of shoot organization as well as other morphological characters, which mostly correspond to traditionally recognized taxa. Based on molecular phylogeny and morphology, we proposed a revision of the Areae, wherein Typhonium sensu lato is divided into four genera: Typhonium sensu stricto, Sauromatum, and three new genera, Diversiarutn, Hirsutiarum, and Pedatyphonium, which are described here which results in the following combinations: Diversiarutn diversifolium, Diversiarum alpinutn, Pedatyphonium horsfieldii, Pedatyphonium larsenii, Pedatyphonium kunmingense, Pedatyphonium calcicolum, Pedatyphonium omeiense, Hirsutiarum hirsutum, Hirsutiarum brevipilosum, and Sauromatum giganteum.
40802440|During a recent survey of Atlantic central African orchids, we collected four orchid specimens in Rio Muni (Equatorial Guinea) that share the general morphology of Angraecum gabonense, the most frequent member of Angraecum section Pectinaria in Central Africa, but differ in leaf shape and flower size. Further inspection of specimens deposited at the Wageningen herbarium and cultivated in their greenhouse led to the discovery of additional specimens from the Monts Doudou area in Gabon. Comparison with other Angraecum specimens indicate that these collections represent a new species, which we describe here as Angraecum atlanticum, the fifth species of Angraecum section Pectinaria recorded in central Africa. The new species is restricted to submontane forests covering the mountain chain situated along the coasts of Gabon and Equatorial Guinea. The distinguishing features of the species include its leaves, which are more widely spaced than A. gabonese, and are 2.2 mm wide; its petals and sepals, which are slightly longer than the lip; its spur, which is somewhat inflated in the middle; and its larger ovary. Information on the ecology, phenology and distribution of Angraecum atlanticum is presented, along with a preliminary conservation assessment using the IUCN Red List Categories and Criteria.
40802441|Eleocharis (Cyperaceae) is a morphologically and physiologically diverse lineage of 250 + species with a cosmopolitan distribution.We here explore phylogenetic relationships in this lineage using maximum parsimony and Bayesian inference analyses of nrDNA ITS and cpDNA trnC-yc/6 and ycf6-psbM sequence data with the goals of comparing our phylogenetic hypotheses to previous classifications, morphological variation, and photosynthetic pathway variation. Our results suggest that in Eleocharis C photosynthesis has been derived at least three times, with several cases of possible reversion to C-like or intermediate pathways and several additional origins of C-C intermediate photosynthetic pathways, as inferred by carbon isotope ratio measurements. Many classification units currently recognized in Eleocharis are not monophyletic, however, E. subgenus Limnochloa and E. subgenus Scirpidium are monophyletic. Other classification units largely corresponding to clades include E. subgenus Zinserlingia, E. subseries Chaetariae, and E. series Maculosae. Problems with species circumscription and morphological variation in several groups are discussed in light of the phylogeny, particularly in the context of species membership of seven focal clades found in the analyses.
40802442|Ormosia limae (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Sophoreae s. 1., Genistoid clade) is described and illustrated as a new species of Ormosia sect. Unicolores. It resembles the Amazonian species O. holerythra, but is morphologically and geographically distinct. The relationship of O. limae along with O. holerythra clearly lies with species of Ormosia sect. Unicolores because of the shared distinctive four to nine pairs of arcuate secondary leaflet veins, fruits that are dehiscent and glabrous at maturity, and seeds that are uniformly red in color and with a small, ca. three mm long, elliptic hilum. An identification key to sect. Unicolores is provided in order to enumerate all of the constituent species and to suggest relationships among them. Ormosia limae is known only from few collections in the Atlantic forest of southern Bahia, Brazil. Ormosia limae (Leguminosae, Papilionoideae, Sophoreae s. 1., ciado Genistide)  descrita e ilustrada como urna nova especie da seo Unicolores. Eia se assemelha  espcie amaznica O. holerythra, mas  morfologicamente diferente e possui distribuio geogrfica distinta. Ormosia limae e O. holerythra compartilham com a maioria das espcies da seo Unicolores os fololos com quatro a nove pares de nervuras secundarias fortemente arqueadas, frutos deiscentes e glabros na maturidade e sementes uniformemente vermelhas e com hilo elptico de at trs mm compr. Urna chave de identificaao para a seo Unicolores  apresentada com o intuito de enumerar todas as especies conhecidas atualmente para a seo e sugerir relacionamento entre as mesmas. Ormosia limae  conhecida apenas por poucas coletas em urna mesma regio de Mata Atlntica ao sul da Bahia, Brasil.
40802443|Four new species of Mimosa are described and illustrated: M. kalunga, M. pseudosetosa, M. viperina, and M. diminuta (all from section Habbasia, series Pachycarpae). All of them are apparently narrowly restricted endemics from the Chapada dos Veadeiros in Gois, central Brazil. In addition, more complete data and an illustration are presented for M. pycnocoma Benth., previously incompletely known only from the type collection. The new species described here, as well as the new data on M. pycnocoma, provide interim increments to our knowledge of a group of around 55 Mimosa species, combining Barneby's (1991) series Setosae and Pachycarpae, that remains poorly and incompletely understood.
40802444|A new combination, Coursetia greenmanii (Leguminosae, Papilinioideae, tribe Robinieae), is proposed because analysis of nucleotide sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region resolves a clade that is phenotypically distinct and ecologically and geographically centered in lowland seasonally dry tropical vegetation of the Yucatan Peninsula region. The well supported monophyly of the ribosomal sequences sampled from Coursetia greenmanii suggests that this species has had a long history independent of its close relatives. Coalescence of intraspecific samples of ribosomal sequences from this geographically confined species is strongly suggestive of an evolutionary persistent small effective population size. This is the general case for species of Coursetia and related genera of the tribe Robinieae. Coalescence of nuclear ribosomal sequences sampled from geographically restricted species in this group further suggests that evolutionary persistence could be the result of high levels of dispersal limitation in seasonally dry Neotropical vegetation that is rich in cacti and other succulent species. This is the ecological setting to which Robinieae shows phylogenetic niche conservatism.
40802445|Daniellia (Leguminosae: Caesalpinioideae) is a genus of ten species of medium to large trees from tropical and subtropical Africa.In contrast to earlier accounts, D. mortehanii is treated here as a synonym of D. pynaertii, and D. oblonga, which previously has been treated by some authors as a synonym of D. thurifera, is accepted. In addition, we describe as new Daniellia glandulosa. Quantitative characters such as receptacle length, petiole width, sepal length, and largest leaflet length have been used to aid species differentiation following the results of recent morphometric studies that revealed their taxonomic utility. Micromorphological features such as pollen surface and leaf glands were studied in all species, many for the first time, and the number, position, and shape of the glands present in the leaves are shown to be taxonomically useful in distinguishing species. A dichotomous key and a table of key characters is provided, as well as detailed descriptions and distribution maps for each species. All species are illustrated, D. oblonga and D. glandulosa for the first time. Three lectotypes and a neotype are designated.
40802446|A taxonomic revision of the recently described genus Wiborgiella is presented. Nine species are recognized within the genus, two of which are newly described, W. dahlgrenii and W. vlokii. The genus is endemic to the Cape region of South Africa and most species are highly localized and rare. Wiborgiella species can be distinguished from other genera in the tribe Crotalarieae by a combination of brown young branches (early formation of bark in the stems of the perennial species), laminar trifoliolate leaves, glabrous petals, a 4 + 6 anther arrangement, and oblong, wingless, inflated fruit. Anatomical studies revealed that all species of the genus have dorsiventral leaves (mesophyll differentiated into palisade parenchyma adaxially and spongy parenchyma abaxially) with mucilage cells in the epidermis which distinguishes Wiborgiella from other closely related genera, such as Calobpta which has isobilateral leaves without mucilage cells. The fruits of Wiborgiella species are all thin-walled, have highly sclerified mesocarps and mucilage cells are present in some species. These fruit character states are also present in other genera of the Crotalarieae. The taxonomic treatment of the genus includes a key to the species, descriptions, illustrations, nomenclature, typification, and geographical distribution of each species.
40802447|Psiguria is a genus of lianas found throughout the Neotropics from sea level to m, in dry or wet forests, in both light gaps and shade. Psiguria and its sister genera, Gurania and Helmontia, are unique among Cucurbitaceae having brightly colored flowers and butterfly and hummingbird pollinators. Historically, taxonomic revisions have described as many as 29 species, but this number has been inflated by misleading characteristics such as variable leaf and flower morphology. A thorough morphological investigation of 758 herbarium specimens and individuals from both greenhouse and natural settings, combined with a recent molecular phylogeny, supports the delineation of six species. In this revision, a review of over 35 yr of publications addressing ecological and natural history studies focusing on Psiguria is presented.A description and a distribution map of each species is provided along with two taxonomic keys: one that utilizes male flowers, and another that incorporates leaf characteristics and geographic distribution but uniquely identifies species according to DNA barcodes. With a list of characters that distinguish all pairs of geographically overlapping species, botanists and ecologists finally have the tools to confidently identify species of Psiguria.
40802448|The phylogeny of Celastraceae subfamily Salacioideae (ca. 255 species in the Old and New World tropics) and tribe Lophopetaleae (ca. 29 species in southern Asia and the Austral-Pacific) was inferred using morphological characters together with plastid (matK, trnL-F) and nuclear (ITS and 26S rDNA) genes. Brassiantha, a monotypic genus endemic to New Guinea, is inferred to be more closely related to the clade of Dicarpellum (New Caledonia) and Hypsophila (Queensland, Australia) than it is to Hippocrateoideae or Salacioideae. This unambiguously supported resolution indicates that a nectary disk positioned outside the stamens has been convergently derived in these two lineages. The clade of Kokoona and Lophopetalum is resolved as more closely related to Brexia and Elaeodendron than it is to Hippocrateoideae or Salacioideae.Sarawakodendron, a monotypic genus endemic to Borneo, is resolved as sister to Salacioideae. Salacioideae are inferred to have an Old World origin that was followed by a single successful radiation within Central and South America. We infer that capsular fruits are primitive within the clade of Hippocrateoideae + Sarawakodendron + Salacioideae, with berries a synapomorphy for Salacioideae. Based on the resolution of Sarawakodendron as sister to Salacioideae, we hypothesize that the filaments of Sarawakodendron arils are homologous to the spiral filaments in the mucilagenous pulp of Salacioideae.
40802449|The genus Calycolpus (Myrtaceae), a mainly northern South American group of 15 species, is revised based on a study of over 600 plant collections, many duplicated in more than one herbarium. The relationships of Calycolpus to other genera are discussed and a key distinguishing it from its relatives is provided. All species are described, mapped, and illustrated with line drawings and/or photographs.The relationships among the species are discussed and a key distinguishing them is provided. Lectotypes are chosen for Myrtus goetheana DC, Calycolpus chnoiophyllus Riley, Calycolpus cordatus L. Riley, Calycolpus kegelianus O. Berg, Calycolpus schomburgkianus var. speciosus O. Berg, Eugenia excisa Urb., Eugenia nipensis Urb., Psidiopsis moritziana O. Berg, and Psidium reversum Urb. Neotypes are chosen for Calycolpus kegelianus var. gracilis O. Berg, Calycolpus warszewiczianus O. Berg, and Myrtus revoluta Schauer. Five of these species, one third of the total, were described by the author since 1989.
40802450|Sarcocornia comprises ca. 20-24 perennial, halophytic herb and shrub species. The genus is distinct from other genera in the Salicornioideae in having flowers that are more or less equal in size, arranged in a row, and with seeds that have a membranous hairy testa and lack perisperm. Sarcocornia is distributed worldwide, mainly in regions characterized by warm-temperate and, to a lesser extent, subtropical climates. The representatives of this genus are found in habitats such as estuarine salt marshes, tidal mud flats, coastal cliffs, inland salt pans, and salt-laden alluvia of intermittent semi-desert and desert streams. Some South African taxa also occur in inland (semi-desert) quartz patches while some South American species occur on saline soils of dry, continental high plateaus in the Andes. The genus reaches its highest species diversity in the Greater Cape Floristic Region of South Africa, where twelve species and one subspecies are known. This revision of southern African (South Africa, Namibia, and Mozambique) Sarcocornia comprises an identification key, the descriptions of the genus, species, and subspecies. One new combination, S. dunensis, is proposed. The former varieties recognized within S. natalensis are here treated as subspecies, S. natalensis subsp. natalensis and subsp. affinis. Morphological characters of high taxonomic value in the genus are habit (growth-form), segment morphology, and testa micromorphology. Our revision also features information on the distribution and ecology of the studied taxa.
40802451|Boraginaceae tribe Trigonotideae comprises a heterogenous assemblage of taxa, many of which have been shown to belong to widely divergent lineages in Boraginaceae in the recent past, with some taxa now assigned to three of the four currently recognized tribes of the Boraginaceae s. s., namely the Cynoglosseae, Echiochileae, and Lithospermeae. The systematics of Moritzia and Thaumatocaryon, the only endemic South American genera of Boraginaceae, have been controversially discussed in the past, and their most recent placement was in Trigonotideae. The present study investigates the phylogenetic relationships of "Trigonotideae" based on micromorphology and molecular data (ITS including 5.8S rRNA, and the trnL-trnF spacer). Molecular data show that "Trigonotideae" are polyphyletic, and none of its members is at all closely related to Trigonotis itself. Moritzia and Thaumatocaryon are closely allied to each other and are the sister group of the Old World Boragineae. Flowers, pollen, and fruit morphology strongly support this systematic placement. Extant (native) Boragineae are absent from North America and had not previously been reported from South America, whereas members of the Cynoglosseae, Echiochileae, and Lithospermeae have been reported from both continents. Moritzia and Thaumatocaryon are thus the only native representatives of Boragineae in the Americas and represent an unexpected western Eurasian/South American disjunction. However, several (widespread and abundant) fossil taxa from the Cenozoic of North America (especially species of iProlithospermum) can be confidently placed into Boragineae. Extant Moritzia/Thaumatocaryon likely go back to a lineage which reached North America from Europe and then migrated into South America, with subsequent extinction in North America.
40802452|The identity of Witheringia sellowiana, a narrow endemic species from So Paulo (Brazil), is reconsidered. After analysis of the protologue and the morphological characters of the type material and recent flowering collections, a new combination is proposed (Aureliana sellowiana (Sendtn.) Barboza & Stehmann). A lectotype and epitype are designated here. A detailed description and illustration, an analysis of the karyotype of A. sellowiana, and a discussion of its closest relatives are provided. A key to differentiate the species of Aureliana is also given.
40802453|Previous attempts to resolve relationships among the primary lineages of Campanulidae (e.g. Apiales, Asterales, Dipsacales) have mostly been unconvincing, and the placement of a number of smaller groups (e.g. Bruniaceae, Columelliaceae, Escalloniaceae) remains uncertain. Here we build on a recent analysis of an incomplete data set that was assembled from the literature for a set of 50 campanulid taxa. To this data set we first added newly generated DNA sequence data for the same set of genes and taxa. Second, we sequenced three additional cpDNA coding regions (ca. 8,000 bp) for the same set of 50 campanulid taxa. Finally, we assembled the most comprehensive sample of campanulid diversity to date, including ca. 17,000 bp of cpDNA for 122 campanulid taxa and five outgroups. Simply filling in missing data in the 50-taxon data set (rendering it 94% complete) resulted in a topology that was similar to earlier studies, but with little additional resolution or confidence. In contrast, the addition of the ca. 8,000 bp of sequence data provided resolution and support for a number of relationships. With the addition of many more campanulid taxa we recovered a well-resolved phylogeny for Campanulidae where, with the exception of the placement of Escalloniaceae, support was high for all major clades. In addition, we were able to confidently place a number of enigmatic taxa, some whose relationships were previously unresolved and some never before included. In light of these results, we briefly expand the discussion of floral symmetry and provide a phylogenetic classification of Campanulidae with phylogenetic definitions for all well-supported major clades.
40802454|Although recent molecular phylogenetic studies of Dipsacales support a Caprifolieae clade containing Leycesteria, Triosteum, Symphoricarpos, and Lonicera, relationships among these taxa remain uncertain. Likewise, phylogenetic studies sampling more than just a handful of the species of Symphoricarpos has not been pursued. Here I present evidence based on both chloroplast and nuclear DNA to help resolve the phylogenetic relationships of both the Caprifolieae, as well as Symphoricarpos. For nuclear markers, I sequenced the ITS region in addition to the geranylgeranyl reductase (Chip) gene, which appears to be present in only a single copy in Caprifolieae. Although Chip does not provide a great deal of resolution by itself, it does provide additional phylogenetically informative characters. From these data, there appears to be strong congruence between both the genomes with respect to the relationships within Symphoricarpos, however, statistical support for any given hypothesis is weak. These additional data do not further support or clarify our understanding about the relationships among members of the Caprifolieae, showing conflicting results between the chloroplast and nuclear genomes.
40802540|"Guerramontesia microdonta" (Pottiaceae, Bryophyta) is a new genus and species from Argentina and Bolivia. It is distinct from other genera of the Pottiaceae by a combination of characters: absence of central strand in the stem, Ungulate unbordered leaves with yellow KOH colour reaction, costa at midleaf with one band of dorsal stereids, (1) 2-3 guide cell layers, absence of hydroids, and sporophyte with peristome of 16 variously cleft, occasionally perforate, coarsely papillose, short and straight teeth. The species is described, illustrated and mapped. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses of cpDNA sequences (trnL-trnF and trnG regions) were undertaken. The resultant trees suggest that the new genus could be one of the earlier diverging lineages within the Pottioideae and Barbuloideae subfamilies of Pottiaceae.
40802541|In this treatment we revise the circumaustral fern species of "Megalastrum" found primarily between 33-45 latitude South. These species are found in the Valdivian temperate rain forests of Chile and Argentina, the Juan Fernndez Islands in the South Pacific, the Tristan da Cunha archipelago in the southern Atlantic, and le Amsterdam and le Saint-Paul in the southern Indian Ocean. "Megalastrum" is absent from Australia and New Zealand. Seven species are treated in total. Two species and two varieties of "Megalastrum" have generally been recognized in Chile and the Juan Fernndez Islands. In this treatment, we recognize four species for the region, one of which is elevated to the species rank (M. glabrius stat. nov.), and one which is new (M. masafuerae sp. nov.). Within the Tristan da Cunha archipelago, two species occur: M. aquilinum comb, nov., and another here described as new, M. peregrinunt sp. nov. le Amsterdam and le Saint-Paul harbor one species that is described here as new: M. taafense sp. nov. For each species we provide a key, descriptions, complete synonymy, discussions, specimens examined, and illustrations.
40802542|"Galeandra" is a neotropical genus with its center of diversity in the Amazon region. It comprises approximately 18 species of epiphytic and terrestrial herbs that are easily recognizable by their funnel-shaped labellum. We examined the phylogenetic relationships among species of "Galeandra" inferred from nucleotide sequences from three plastid (psbA-trnH, rpoB-trnC, and trnS-trnG) and two nuclear (ITS and ETS) DNA regions. The five data matrices were analyzed individually and in combined analyses using parsimony and maximum likelihood. We found that the epiphytic species "G. devoniana" is sister to the remainder of the genus, and that the other species form two groups, one consisting of epiphytic species and the other composed of terrestrial species. Adaptation to the terrestrial environment from a probable epiphytic ancestor was of great importance in the evolution of "Galeandra". The relationships found in this study do not support previous infrageneric classifications.
40802543|Three morphologically and ecologically closely related new "Pitcairnia" species (Bromeliaceae: Pitcairnioideae), "P. barbatostigma" Lerne & A. P. Fontana, "P. glauca" Lerne & A. P. Fontana, and "P. diversifolia" Lerne & A. P. Fontana, from the inselbergs of Espirito Santo State, southeastern Brazil, are described and illustrated. These taxa form a putative natural complex of species, together with their close relative, P. azouryi Martinelli & Forzza, based on propagation by means of slender rhizomes; leaves forming a conspicuous bulbous-like base; basal leaf blades deciduous along a straight, strongly spirally enrolled transverse line; simple racemose inflorescence of varying shades of green and different concentrations of purple-wine irregular spots, and white lanate except for the petals; comparatively long flowers with nocturnal anthesis; naked petals, forming a tubular, zygomorphic corolla; and by the sulcate and oblate, large-sized, reticulate, more or less heterobrochate pollen grains.
40802544|In this paper we describe a new genus of Bromeliaceae, Lapanthus, restricted to the southern portion of the Espinhao Range, Minas Grais State, in southeastern Brazil. Two new combinations to accommodate species previously described in the genera Orthophytum and Cryptanthus and one new synonym are proposed. Lapanthus has morphological affinities with both Cryptanthus and Orthophytum, but nevertheless differs by the combination of margins of the petals ciliate, presence of lanceolate petal appendages and free stamens, and also by molecular data. Cryptanthus and Orthophytum have petals entire along the margins, and the filaments of the most internal whorl are adnate to the petals. Lapanthus stands out by having a pair of lanceolate petal appendages, which are almost completely adnate to the petals. In Orthophytum, however, appendages are cupuliform or sacciform and they are totally absent in the genus Cryptanthus. Lapanthus and Orthophytum present meiotic and mitotic chromosome numbers equal to n= 25 and 2n= 50, 100 and 150 respectively, while Cryptanthus presents meiotic and mitotic chromosome numbers n= 17 and 2n= 3A, 36, 54 respectively, and this difference is considered to be an autapomorphic feature of Cryptanthus. Descriptions of the genus and species, identification keys, illustrations, photographs of living specimens, and taxonomic comments are provided.
40802545|Five new species of Eleocharis are described based on specimens from South America: Eleocharis angustispicula, E. densicaespitosa, E. hatschbachii, E. ramboana and E. urceolatotdes. Diagnostic characters, description, detailed illustration and taxonomic comments are provided. In addition, we propose the lectotypification of Eleocharis glauco-virens and a new synonym to E. loefgreniana. All those species belong to Eleocharis ser. Tenuissimae, which has a pantropical distribution with some species reaching temperate areas. A preliminary key to separate the species of the series that occur in Brazil is also presented. Cinco nuevas especies de Eleocharis son descritas sobre la base de especmenes procedentes de Amrica del Sur: Eleocharis angustispicula, E. densicaespitosa, E. hatschbachii, E. ramboana y E. urceolatotdes. Caracteres diagnsticos, descripciones, ilustraciones detalladas y comentarios taxonmicos son incluidos. Adems, se propone la lectotipificacin de Eleocharis glauco-virens y un nuevo sinnimo para E. loefgreniana. Todas estas especies pertenecen a Eleocharis ser. Tenuissimae que tiene una distribucin pantropical con algunas especies alcanzando zonas templadas. Se presenta una clave preliminar para identificacin de las especies de la serie que ocurren en Brasil.
40802546|Analyses of genome scale data sets are beginning to clarify the phylogenetic relationships of species with complex evolutionary histories. Broad sampling across many genes allows for both large concatenated data sets to improve genome-scale phylogenetic resolution and also for independent analysis of gene trees and detection of phylogenetic incongruence. Recent sequencing projects in Oryza sativa and its wild relatives have positioned rice as a model system for such "phylogenomic" studies. We describe the assembly of a phylogenomic data set from 800,000 bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) end sequences, producing an alignment of 2.4 million nucleotides for 10 diploid species of Oryza. A supermatrix approach confirms the broad outline of previous phylogenetic studies, although the nonphylogenetic signal and high levels of missing data must be handled carefully. Phylogenetic analysis of 12 chromosomes and nearly 2,000 genes finds strikingly high levels of incongruence across different genomic scales, a result that is likely to apply to other low-level phylogenies in plants. We conclude that there is great potential for phylogenetic inference using data from next-generation sequencing protocols but that attention to methodological issues arising inevitably in these data sets is critical.
40802547|The legume subfamily Caesalpinioideae is a paraphyletic grade, within which are nested the monophyletic subfamilies Mimosoideae and Papilionoideae. Although higher level relationships within Caesalpinioideae are now better understood, few studies have examined generic and species level relationships. A morphological and molecular phylogenetic analysis of selected members of the Brownea clade (Detarieae: Caesalpinioideae) is presented here, focusing on relationships within and among the genera Elizabetha, Heterostemon, Paloveopsis, and Paloue. Morphological characters (125) and DNA sequence data from the plastid trnL intron and nuclear ITS were used to reconstruct phlogenetic relationships. These results indicate that (1) Heterostemon is monophyletic; (2) the majority of Elizabetha species form a poorly supported, monophyletic group sister to Paloue; and (3) Paloveopsis is nested within Paloue. Intergeneric hybridization between species of Paloue and Elizabetha has been identified and traditional generic, species, and intraspecies boundaries are assessed and reevaluated using the results of the combined phylogenetic analysis.
40802548|The biogeographical history of several important vegetables is still unclear. In the gourd family, Cucurbitaceae, this applies to melon and cucumber, but also to many species of more regional importance. Cucumeropsis mannii is cultivated in West Tropical Africa for its nutritious seeds. Family-wide phylogenetic analyses suggested that it is closest to Posadaea sphaerocarpa from Central and South America, the seeds of which are also eaten and the fruit of which is made into bowls. To reconstruct these species' historical biogeography, we sequenced six plastid markers and the nuclear ribosomal ITS region for several accessions of both species, plus all relevant outgroups. Morphological traits were studied in 102 herbarium specimens representing both species. A 5,155 nucleotide-long matrix of chloroplast and nuclear DNA contained a single informative mutation in a poly-C region of nuclear ITS among six accessions that covered the species' native ranges. Next-closest species differed in all plastid markers and by  34 mutations in ITS1 and ITS2. Study of the morphology revealed a possible small difference in fruit shape (cylindrical-ovate versus spherical), presumably resulting from human selection on the African populations. The closest outgroups Melancium and Melothria are endemic to the neotropics, and maximum likelihood area reconstruction indicates that Cucumeropsis mannii also originated there. The near-absence of genetic and morphological differentiation implies that gene flow between Cucumeropsis manni and Posadaea sphaerocarpa stopped relatively recently, and taxonomically they should (or could) be treated as one species. Transport of seeds during the transatlantic slave trade is a possible scenario, although we cannot reject natural dispersal.
40802549|Flueggea (including Richeriella) is revised for the Flora Malesiana area. Three species are recognized. Two of them are generally small trees and they are allopatric, F. gracilis (ex-Richeriella) being present in West Malesia and F. flexuosa in East Malesia and the west Pacific. The two subspecies of the generally shrub-like F. virosa are also allopatric, with subsp. virosa having a palaeotropical distribution ending just west of New Guinea, and subsp. melanthesoides being present in New Guinea and Australia.
40802550|In an effort to further resolve relationships within the genus Limnanthes and the family Limnanthaceae a phylogenetic study was conducted using one nuclear (nrlTS) and two chloroplast (trnL intron and trnS-trnG intergenic spacer) genes. In addition to surveying all currently accepted taxa within Limnanthaceae, an anomalous population of 4-petalous plants from Half Moon Bay, San Mateo County, California, was also included. Further, a series of crossing experiments were performed between Half Moon Bay plants and two closely related species (Limnanthes bakeri and L. macounii). The results of this study confirm the monophyly of two sections within Limnanthes and also suggest that Limnanthaceae may contain as few as four species of Limnanthes and the monotypic genus Floerkea proserpinacoides. Additionally, the molecular phylogenetic results and crossing experiments do not support taxonomic recognition of the Half Moon Bay population, rather it is part of a highly polymorphic Limnanthes douglasii sensu lato.
40802551|The relationships and taxonomy of the genus Thysanocarpus (Brassicaceae) are reassessed based on molecular phylogenetic analyses of nuclear ribosomal (ITS) and chloroplast (trnL-F) sequences and a critical re-examination of morphology and nomenclatural types. Based on these results, Thysanocarpus is well-supported as a member of tribe Thelypodieae, but no illuminating phylogenetic structure is found within the tribe. The independent origin of similar fruit morphology in Thysanocarpus and Athysanus is confirmed. Within Thysanocarpus, seven species are recognized: T. conchuliferus, T. curvipes, T. desertorum, T. erectus, T. laciniatus, T. radians, and T. rigidus comb. nov. Thysanocarpus laciniatus is found to have originated through hybridization. However, T. desertorum and T. rigidus, which have previously been included within T. laciniatus (as T. laciniatus var. hitchcockii and T. laciniatus var. rigidus, respectively), do not share that species' hybrid origin and are distinct both phylogenetically and morphologically. Within T. curvipes, five subspecies are recognized: T. curvipes subsp. amplectens comb, nov, T. curvipes subsp. curvipes, T. curvipes subsp. elegans comb, nov., T. curvipes subsp. longistylus comb, nov., and T. curvipes subsp. eradiatus comb. nov. Thysanocarpus curvipes subsp. elegans and T. curvipes subsp. longistylus form clades in ITS and/or trnL-F cladograms as well as showing morphological distinction. The remaining three subspecies are recognized based on a combination of morphology and geography.
40802552|Phylogenetic divergence time estimates inferred from trees optimized using maximum likelihood apply branch lengths. These branch lengths are influenced by the substitution model applied in the analysis, which can, in turn, affect divergence time estimates. To examine the effects of substitution models on divergence time estimates, we applied an empirical data set for Cornales that had 16 calibration point constraints in maximum likelihood analyses using 19 different substitution models to obtain topologies with branch lengths. Penalized likelihood was then used to obtain divergence time estimates for corresponding nodes of these topologies. Discrepancy in divergence time estimates among corresponding nodes of trees constructed with different models was small in most cases (falling within 95% confidence intervals based on the most supported model); however, we recovered instances of nodes differing by as much as 23.7% from times on corresponding nodes of the phylogeny reconstructed from our best-fit substitution model. We estimated that, on average for all nodes within a tree, divergence times differ 1.0-3.6% among the trees based on different models; however, the range of variation differs greatly among trees based on different substitution models. Discrepancy in divergence time estimates was associated with long branches, although using models similar to the best-fit model reduced this. Branches of a length within one standard deviation of mean branch lengths were an unexpected source of discrepancy regardless of the substitution model applied, although the cause of this discrepancy was unclear. We found no differences in disparity among nodes that were reconstructed in deep-, mid, or shallow-level regions of the topologies. Simulations demonstrated that use of underparameterized models affected age estimates more than use of overparameterized models. Increasing the number of calibration points can limit but not completely remove discrepancies introduced by underparameterized models.
40802553|Several representatives of Hydrangeaceae tribe Hydrangeeae are popular in the horticultural trade for their inflorescences with attractive marginal flowers, resulting in many hybrids and cultivars. However, despite previous morphological and molecular studies, the phylogenetic relationships between the nine currently recognized genera in this clade are still largely unclear, and the widely used infrageneric classification of the genus Hydrangea by McClintock (which was mainly based on the study of herbarium specimens) requires critical rvaluation. We present a partially well resolved and well supported phylogeny of the tribe Hydrangeeae based on maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses of multiple coding and noncoding chloroplast regions (rps16-trnK spacer, trnK intron, trnK exon, matK gene and trnK-psbA spacer). All genera, sections and subsections were included making it a representative sampling for the tribe Hydrangeeae. Hydrangea is paraphyletic with respect to the eight other genera of Hydrangeeae, requiring a classification update. The subsections Heteromallae and Petalanthe of section Hydrangea are monophyletic, the subsections Americanae, Asperae and Macrophyllae are paraphyletic. Of the two subsections of section Cornidia, one, Polysegia, is monophyletic whereas the other, Monosegia, is paraphyletic. The necessary nomenclatural changes based on these results might have a certain effect in the trade but also might encourage breeders to produce "intergeneric" hybrids between traditionally recognized genera in Hydrangeeae.
40802554|Mentzelia section Trachyphytum (Loasaceae) has 25-30 species found primarily in the western United States. Species delimitation and reconstruction of evolutionary relationships within Trachyphytum have been difficult due to restricted and continuous morphological variation. We employed phylogeny reconstructions based on morphology and DNA sequences from the plastid trnH-psbA, trnS-trnG, trnS-trnfM, ndhF-rpl32, and rpl32-trnL regions and the low-copy nuclear gene idh to investigate evolutionary relationships and patterns of hybridization and homoplasy among diploid species in Trachyphytum. Reconstructions indicated surprisingly high levels of genetic introgression among closely and distantly related diploids. Additionally, reconstructions based on molecular data showed that some morphological characters traditionally used to delineate groups exhibit homoplasy. However, both molecular-and morphologically-based reconstructions supported two major clades in section Trachyphytum. In agreement with prior hypotheses, the larger clade contains the taxa, M. congesta, M. desertorum, M. eremophila, M. nitens, M. pectinata, and M. thompsonii, whereas the sister clade composed of M. affinis, M. dispersa, and M. micrantha has not been previously suggested. Further, this study strengthens assertions that selected characters shared between the two annual sections, Trachyphytum and Bicuspidaria, are homoplasies.
40802555|The unified species concept and a criterion of limited homogenizing gene flow as evidenced by genetic and morphological markers were applied to species delimitation within Navarretia sinistra. Concordant patterns of variation diagnose two morphologically cryptic species. As a consequence, the basionym Gilia linearifolia is here lectotypified and re-established for this long neglected epithet. Navarretia linearifolia shows strong differentiation from N. sinistra in allozyme data and DNA sequences from chloroplast regions, nrDNA, and introns of the low copy nuclear genes idhA, idhB, and g3pdh. In macroscopic features, N. linearifolia differs from N. sinistra primarily in tendencies, rather than absolute differences. Two finer-scale features are diagnostic: pollen sexine sculpturing and mature seed color. The combination Navarretia linearifolia subsp. pinnatisecta is made for the large flowered populations of this species geographically restricted to the NW region of the California floristic province. The smaller flowered N. linearifolia subsp. linearifolia extends from California to Washington, with a more westwardly distribution compared to N. sinistra, which ranges east into Idaho, Utah, and Colorado.
40802556|Ruellia section Chiropterophila as here recognized contains 11 species endemic to areas in and around the transnational Volcanic Belt of Mxico: the Sierra Madre del Sur, the Balsas Depression, and the Altiplano. Most of these species are rare, and nearly half are known only from one or two collections. Of the remaining six, two are restricted to single states. One species described as new to science, Ruellia laslobasensis, is distinguished from a close relative by its smaller corollas, calyces, and fruits. Ruellia chilpancingana is placed into synonymy with JR. sororia. Ruellia section Urceolata is synonymized with sect. Chiropterophila. Two species previously treated in sect. Chiropterophila, Ruellia petiolaris (as R. palmen) and R. carmenaemiliae, are excluded from the section. Phylogenetic analyses using three chloroplast markers (trnG-trnR, trnG-trnS, psbA-trnH) and one nuclear marker (ITS + 5.8S) were conducted to test the monophyly of sect. Chiropterophila and to reconstruct relationships among species. Sequences were successfully generated for all species in sect. Chiropterophila; some are known only from old herbarium material. One of these, collected in 1894, is among the oldest known plant herbarium specimens to be successfully sequenced. Analyses reveal that section Chiropterophila is monophyletic but not well supported; an alternative hypothesis of nonmonophyly of the section could not be rejected. Species descriptions, botanical illustrations, and a dichotomous key to distinguish the 11 taxa in Ruellia sect. Chiropterophila are provided.
40802557|A new neotropical genus, Shuaria, with a single species, S. ecuadorica, is described from the Cordillera del Cndor and Amazonian regions of southeastern Ecuador and is placed in the family Gesneriaceae, tribe Beslerieae. The placement of Shuaria in the tribe Beslerieae is strongly supported by molecular sequence data generated from analyses of nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer region (ITS), and the chloroplast DNA trnL intron, trnL-trnF intergenic spacer region. Sequence data were generated for 33 species representing most of the generic diversity from the tribes Beslerieae and Napeantheae. Shuaria is characterized by the following unique combination of relatively uncommon characters in the Gesneriaceae: arborescent habit; opposite leaf arrangement sometimes interrupted by alternate leaves; lepidote trichomes on vegetative and floral structures; small white flowers with a dorsal gibbosity at the base of the corolla tube; and a bivalved septicidally dehiscent capsule. The suite of uncommon characters initially made Shuaria difficult to place in the Gesneriaceae and within a known tribe. Shuaria is restricted to the Ecuadorian provinces of Pastaza, Morona-Santiago, and Zamora-Chinchipe in lowland Amazonian tropical wet forest and in lower montane cloud forest on the western slopes of the Cordillera del Cndor. A key and a table are presented for differentiating Shuaria from other related genera. Se describe Shuaria, un nuevo gnero neotropical de la Cordillera del Cndor y la regin amaznica del suroriente del Ecuador, con una sola especie, S. ecuadorica, y se le incluye en la tribu Beslerieae de la famlia Gesneriaceae. La ubicacin de Shuaria en la tribu Beslerieae se basa en las secuencias de ADN generadas por los anlisis de la regin ITS del ADN ribosomal nuclear, y de la regin intergnica trnL intron, trnL-trnF del ADN del cloroplasto. Se secuenciaron 33 especies, representando la mayor parte de de la diversidad genrica de las tribus Besleriaceae y Napeantheae. Shuaria se caracteriza por la siguiente combinacin nica de caracteres que no son comunes en la familia Gesneriaceae: el hbito arborescente; hojas opuestas algunas veces intercaladas con hojas alternas; tricomas lepidotos en las estructuras vegetativas y florales; pequeas flores blancas con una gibosidad dorsal en la base del tubo de la corola; y una cpsula septicida bivalvada. Este conjunto de caracteres inusuales inicialmente hizo difcil colocar Shuaria en Gesneriaceae y en sus tribus conocidas. Shuaria se restringe a las provincias ecuatorianas de Pastaza, Morona-Santiago, y Zamora-Chinchipe en el bosque hmedo tropical de las tierras bajas amaznicas, y en bosque nublado montano bajo en las vertientes occidentales de la Cordillera del Cndor. Se presenta una clave y una tabla para distinguir entre Shuaria y otros gneros estrechamente vinculados.
40802558|Fruit anatomical characters studied herein confirm the inclusion of Delarbrea and Myodocarpus in Apiales, but as a distinct group, corroborating previous studies (based on molecular data) in the recognition of Myodocarpaceae as a new family. The fruits of these genera share some features with those of Apiaceae (especially subfamilies Mackinlayoideae and Azorelloideae) and Araliaceae, including branching and anastomosing vascular bundles and secretory canals, woody endocarps, the presence of single ventral bundles or carpophores, and dispersed crystals. However, the presence of median wings in Myodocarpus and secretory vesicles in the mesocarps (adjacent to the woody endocarp) in both genera are unknown in any other genus of the order. Fruit characters are also useful in distinguishing Delarbrea, which produces drupes with a single ventral vascular bundle and sclereids in the mesocarp, from Myodocarpus, which has schizocarps with a single carpophore and lacks sclereids. Delarbrea balansae, once treated as the sole member of Pseudosciadium, shares all the distinctive fruit features with the other species of Delarbrea, further supporting its transfer there.
40985546|A revision of the moss genus Erythrophyllopsis (Pottiaceae) recognized two species: E. andina and E. zanderi sp. nov. Barbula fuscula, Erythrophyllopsis boliviana, Glyphomitrium ferrugineum, Tortula semivaginata, and Trichostomum juniperinum are synonymized with E. andina. Erythrophyllopsis zanderi includes Zander's (1993) concept of Erythrophyllastrum andinum. Lectotypes for Barbulafuscula, Erythrophyllopsis boliviana, Trichostomum juniperinum, and Tortula semivaginata are here proposed. A new key, detailed descriptions, illustrations, and a distribution map are provided. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses of cpDNA sequences (trnL-trnF and trnG regions) suggest that Erythrophyllopsis is nested within Bryoerythrophyllum. A denser sampling and the use of other phylogenetic markers are required to better understand the generic and suprageneric relationships of Erythrophyllopsis.
40985547|A new fern species, Pteris xiaoyingae (sect. Pteris, Pteridaceae), is described from a karst cave in southern Guizhou, China. The new species is a small-sized limestone rock-dwelling plant. It has trifoliate leaves with two lateral pinnae each mostly divided at the base into two almost free basiscopic lobes. Morphologically it is similar to P. gallinopes and P. deltodon that also occur on shady limestone walls often inside or near karst caves. Pteris xiaoyingae differs from P. gallinopes in its middle pinna being ovate-lanceolate with blunt apex and lateral pinnae and their lobes oblong-obovate with round or obtuse apex. Pteris xiaoyingae also has wider pinnae (more than 7 mm) than P. gallinopes (2-4 mm). Pteris xiaoyingae is distinguishable from P. deltodon by being smaller in stature (only 4-7 cm high in P. xiaoyingae vs. 10-40 cm high in P. deltodon) and by having lamina more or less pedate in outline (for the majority of leaves with lobed lateral pinnae) and pinnae and lobes with round or blunt apices (vs. with short or long acuminate apices in P. deltodon). Palynologically, P. xiaoyingae has conic-delta te spores with verrucate sculpture while both P. gallinopes and P. deltodon have deltate spores with vermiculate-rugulate sculpture. Morphological distinctiveness of this new fern and its relationships with allied species are discussed and a key to these and other morphologically similar species is given.
40985548|Recent phylogenetic analyses of grammitid fems (Polypodiaceae) have demonstrated that some genera recognized within this clade are not monophyletic. We focus on resolving the circumscriptions of some large Neotropical genera by focusing on a clade, identified in previous analyses, that includes the monophyletic genus Melpomene, plus portions of two polyphyletic genera, Lellingeria and Terpsichore. Phylogenetic analyses using chloroplast markers atpB, rbcL, and trnL-F, along with 109 morphological characters, resolve this ingroup as monophyletic and sister to a clade that includes Ceradenia, Enterosora, and Zygophlebia. We use morphological characters included in the analysis to circumscribe clades. Melpomene is clearly monophyletic, but forms a polytomy with Lellingeria s. 1. in a strict consensus of MP trees. Ingroup species of Terpsichore form three well supported monophyletic groups that together are paraphyletic with respect to Melpomene plus Lellingeria. Two clades corresponding to species groups of Terpsichore will be recognized as new genera.
40985549|Terpsichore, a Neotropical genus of about 70 species, was shown in previous molecular phylogenetic studies to be polyphyletic. The present study assesses this conclusion using morphology and also examines the phylogenetic relationships of five informal species groups originally described within Terpsichore. A morphological matrix was constructed for 109 qualitative characters and 129 terminals. Maximum parsimony was used to analyze the complete data set and three different partitions of that data set which excluded characters of either leaf shape or indumentum position or both. Terpsichore is polyphyletic in all analyses, and the characters originally used to define the genus are either plesiomorphic or homoplastic. Whereas the analysis of the complete matrix recovered a clade similar to the original circumscription, analyses of the partitioned data sets yielded results similar to those of molecular phylogenetic studies. In all analyses, two of the five infrageneric groups of Terpsichore are resolved as monophyletic, whereas the others are either paraphyletic or polyphyletic. In all analyses, species from the Terpsichore taxifolia Group are recovered as diphyletic, a result corresponding to that found in the previous molecular phylogenetic studies. By scoring morphological characters for this study, it was found that two vascular bundles are present in many grammitid petioles and are not unique to Luisma, mesophyll composed of long-armed stellate parenchyma evolves at least three times and is not unique to Enterosora, and perforated dictyosteles are common in grammitids and not restricted to Zygophlebia.
40985550|A review of Ephedra species of the Western Himalayan region led to the recognition of two new species, Ephedra kardangensis Sharma & Uniyal sp. nov. and E. khurikensis Sharma & Uniyal sp. nov. The most distinctive characters observed are shape and size of male strobilus, number of bracts, length of synangiophore with synangia, shape and size of female strobilus, number of bracts, size and color of seeds, and several features of the micropyle for morphological and statistical analysis (Parametric MANOVA and Principal Components Analysis). These species are most similar to E. intermedia.
40985551|Pollination by water (hydrophily) is a highly specialized mechanism that occurs rarely among aquatic angiosperme, which mainly retain the reproductive systems reminiscent of their terrestrial ancestors. Hydrophily is abiotic and typically associated with unisexual flowers, factors that predictably would promote xenogamy and outcrossing. Yet, there have been few reports of hybridization involving waterpollinated plants (hydrophiles), with no firm evidence of natural interspecific hybridization. The genus Najas comprises about 40 species of submersed aquatic plants, all characterized by subsurface hydrophily. Hybridization in this genus has been suspected, but verified previously only among infraspecific taxa. In this study we document the first instance of interspecific hybridization in Najas using genetic evidence from three populations that were identifiable as N. guadalupensis but yielded polymorphic DNA sequence profiles. To facilitate our analysis we first conducted a phylogenetic survey of New World Najas taxa using nuclear and chloroplast markers. Alleles cloned from a biparentally-inherited locus (ITS) in these aberrant populations associated with two distinct but phylogenetically sister species (N. guadalupensis subsp. olivacea and N. flexilis) thus confirming their hybrid origin. In all cases the chloroplast markers associated with N. guadalupensis subsp. olivacea, implicating it as the maternal parent. The hybrid Najas plants occur at the edge of the sympatric range of the parental species. They possess no readily distinctive morphological features and require genetic analysis for confident detection. One population grows aggressively, raising concerns that at least some hybrid Najas plants represent a potential conservation threat. The possible hybrid ancestry of the endemic N. guadalupensis subsp. muenscheri also was assessed, but could not be confirmed or refuted by the data evaluated.
40985552|Hechtia chichinautzensis and H. colossa, morphologically related to H. podantha and to H. tehuacana, respectively, are described and illustrated. Hechtia chichinautzensis is endemic to the Mexican state of Morelos and is distinguished from H. podantha by its flexuous and lepidote rachis, ovate-triangular primary bracts, sparsely lepidote pedicels, and brownish to blackish anthers; anatomically its leaves are characterized by their square adaxial epidermal cells with undulate walls, one or two layers of adaxial hypodermic cells, discontinuous chlorenchyma, oblong palisade cells, and the presence of raphides. Hechtia colossa, from the states of Oaxaca and Puebla, differs from H. tehuacana by its larger habit, the lepidote peduncle and primary bracts, the length of the inflorescense branches and the larger foliar sheaths, blades, and floral bracts; anatomically its leaves are characterized by their irregular adaxial epidermal cells and by the number of vascular bundles. Sedescriben e ilustran Hechtia chichinautzensis y H. colossa, morfolgicamente relacionadas con H. podantha y con H. tehuacana, respectivamente. Hechtia chichinautzensis es endmica del estado de Morelos y se distingue de H. podantha por presentar el raquis flexuoso y lepidoto, las brcteas primarias ovado-triangulares, los pedicelos esparcidamente lepidotos y las anteras pardas a negras; anatmicamente sus hojas se caracterizan por presentar clulas epidrmicas adaxiales cuadradas con paredes onduladas, por la presencia de una o dos capas de clulas hipodrmicas adaxiales, por el clornquima discontinuo, por las clulas del clornquima en empalizada oblongas y por la presencia de rafidios. Hechtia colossa, de los estados de Oaxaca y Puebla, se distingue de H. tehuacana por sus plantas de gran talla, con el pednculo y las brcteas primarias lepidotas, las ramas de la inflorescencia mucho ms largas y las vainas y lminas foliares y las brcteas florales ms grandes; anatmicamente sus hojas se caracterizan por la forma irregular de las clulas epidrmicas adaxiales y por el nmero de haces vasculares.
40985553|Classification within Eragrostis, a large genus of ca. 400 species in Poaceae subfamily Chloridoideae, has long been problematic. While spikelet disarticulation characters have been the most common basis of infrageneric classifications, they have not been demonstrated to describe monophyletic groups. An alternative classification system linked to leaf blade anatomy characters is explored using phylogenies based on DNA sequence data from three loci (nuclear GBSSI, plastid rps16, and the plastid trnL-F region) in this study. Eragrostis possesses a great deal of variation in leaf blade anatomy, ranging from NAD-ME-like in structure (subgenus Eragrostis) to PCK-like (subgenus Caesiae), with some intermediates between these extremes. This study reveals that a great deal of variation exists in those species traditionally classified as "intermediate" in leaf blade anatomy. It also indicates that the PCK-like species form a monophyletic group in phylogenetic analyses based on plastid data, GBSSI sequences, and simultaneous analysis of all loci. NAD-ME-like and intermediate species do not form monophyletic groups, but phylogenies based on plastid sequences indicate some evolutionary conservation of the various types of intermediate anatomy. This study also evaluates the leaf anatomy type in allopolyploids. A high proportion of these allopolyploids have intermediate leaf anatomy, potentially reflecting their derivation from progenitors with distinct anatomical types.
40985554|Moraceae is a large (~1,050 species) primarily tropical family with several economically and ecologically important species. While its monophyly has been well supported in recent studies, relationships within the family at the tribal level and below remain unresolved. Delimitation of the tribe Artocarpeae has been particularly difficult. Classifications based on morphology differ from those based on phylogenetic studies, and all treatments include highly heterogeneous assemblages of genera that seem to represent a cross section of the family. We evaluated chloroplast and nuclear DNA sequence data for 60 Moraceae taxa representing all genera that have been included in past treatments of Artocarpeae and also included species from several other Moraceae tribes and closely related families as outgroups. The data were analyzed using maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood methods and indicate that none of the past treatments of Artocarpeae represent a monophyletic lineage. We present the most complete phylogenetic hypothesis for Artocarpeae and the genus Artocarpus to date. Inflorescence evolution and pollination are briefly discussed and the phylogenetic reconstructions are used to inform a revised treatment of Artocarpeae and the Artocarpus subgenera. The following new combinations are proposed: the genus Prainea is reduced to Artocarpus subgenus Prainea, and the series Cauliflori is raised to Artocarpus subgenus Cauliflori.
40985555|With nearly 2,000 species, all restricted to the Neotropics, Miconieae represent the largest radiation within Melastomataceae. Generic limits and relationships within the tribe have long been contested. Our molecular phylogenetic analyses of the tribe, based on sequences of nrITS and ndhF, resulted in consistent support for a clade comprising Bellucia, Loreya, Henriettea, and Henriettella, which is neither nested within nor sister to the Miconieae. Furthermore, and based upon a series of presumably synapomorphic anatomical and morphological characters, e.g. megastyloid crystals, absence of both medullary and cortical vascular bundles, plinerved leaves, axillary or cauliflorous inflorescences, we consider three additional genera, Kirkbridea, Llewelynia, and Myriaspora, to belong to this clade, a newly recognized tribe, Henrietteeae. These seven genera had formerly been assigned to the Miconieae based on their having exappendiculate anthers (except Kirkbridea) and berry fruits. Henriettella and Llewelynia are relegated to synonymy under Henriettea (25 new combinations are made under that genus: Henriettea boliviensis, H. bracteosa, H. caudata, H. duckeana, H. fissanthera, H. glabra, H. cogniauxiana, H. goudotiana, H. heteroneura, H. hondurensis, H. ininiensis, H. lawrancei, H. lundellii, H. maguirei, H. manarae, H. odorata, H. ovata, H. prancei, H. ritnosa, H. steyermarkii, H. tachirensis, H. tobagensis, H. tovarensis, H. trachyphylla, H. williamsii), and Loreya and Myriaspora are synonymized under Bellucia (with nine new combinations under that genus: Bellucia egensis, B. gracilis, B. klugii, B. nigricans, B. ovata, B. riparia, B. strigosa, B. subandina, B. wurdackiana). A description of Henrietteeae along with a key to and brief descriptions of its constituent genera are provided, in addition to necessary new combinations.
40985556|Section Macrantha is a monophyletic group with 18-22 species, all of which are distributed in Asia except for Acer pensylvanicum in eastern North America. Nuclear sequences from nrDNAITS, LEAFY, and GBSSI (two putative copies), along with morphological characters, recognize two clades (series Crataegifolia and Micrantha). However, chloroplast phylogenies based on ndhF, trnL-F, and psbA-trnH are significantly incongruent with the nuclear trees, showing two major clades with species from the Asian continent excluding the northeast (AS - N) in one clade and those from Asian Pacific Islands plus northeast Asia in the other (API + N). Ancient hybridization and chloroplast capture may have occurred in the two series in both geographic areas. The two series diverged at 46.3 mya, which is before the formation of the Japanese Sea in the early Miocene (32-18 mya). The Japanese Sea may be the barrier for the seed exchange between the two geographic areas, and was responsible for the formation of the disjunct distribution of section Macrantha between the AS - N and API + N areas, and between eastern Asia and North America.
40985557|Photosynthetic pathway innovations have had a large impact on patterns of diversification of angiosperm lineages and the biogeographic distribution of ecological assemblages. C photosynthesis has been one of the most studied processes in plants with respect to function, structure, occurrence, and response to climatic conditions. One of the most promising areas of research of C photosynthesis is in the Cleomaceae. Here we explore the phylogenetic origins of the C pathway in the Cleomaceae using maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference analyses of nrDNA ITS sequences. As has been found previously, commonly recognized genera including Buhsia, Cleomella, Dactylaena, Gynandropsis, Isomeris, Oxystylis, Podandrogyne, Polanisia, and Wizlizenia are derived from within a paraphyletic Cleome. The phylogenetic results presented here indicate that there are likely at least five separate origins of carbon concentrating mechanisms in the Cleomeceae, including at least three separate origins of C species. Analyses of historical biogeography suggest Cleomaceae originated in central Asia.
40985558|The Hawaiian Islands are home to a quarter of the named diversity of sandalwoods in the genus Santalum. There has been considerable confusion on how to best interpret the variation patterns of the red-flowered Hawaiian sandalwoods, S. freycinetianum and S. haleakalae, and particularly of the endangered S. freycinetianum var. lanaiense in an appropriate taxonomy. In this study, nrDNA (ITS, ETS) and cpDNA (3' trnK intron) sequence, microsatellite, and morphological data are integrated to appropriately revise the taxonomy of this group by better understanding the genetic and morphological diversity within and between populations. Results reveal that populations of S. freycinetianum from O'ahu are genetically distinct from populations on Moloka'i, Lana'i, and Maui. Santalum freycinatianum is now considered only to occur on O'ahu. The East Maui endemic S. haleakalae intergrades morphologically and is not genetically distinct from populations of S. freycinetianum var. lanaiense based on the sequence and microsatellite data gathered thus far. We combine them here into a single species, S. haleakalae, with two varieties (var. haleakalae and var. lanaiense, comb nov.). Lastly, examination of populations of S. freycinetianum var. pyrularium suggest it is best treated at specific rank as S. pyrularium. Some populations that are sympatric with S. pyrularium and S. ellipticum in the coastal cliffs and valleys of northern Kaua'i, are morphologically similar to S. pyrularium but are more closely related to the white-flowered S. ellipticum clade according to both nrDNA and cpDNA data. However, at least three synapomorphic sites in the nrDNA data indicate that its origin may have been the result of an ancient hybridization event with the red-flowered clade. The morphological characteristics of this inferred ancient hybrid lineage appear to correspond with the species S. involutum described by H. St. John.
40985559|A phylogenetic investigation of American members of the tribe Atripliceae (Chenopodiaceae) was conducted to examine evolutionary patterns and ecophysiological change in the North American lineages. Molecular phylogenetic analyses including representatives of all American genera of Atripliceae and data from 18S-26S nuclear ribosomal (ITS, ETS) and cpDNA (3'trnK intron) sequences suggest that neither Atriplex, as traditionally recognized, nor the North American members of Atriplex constitute a monophyletic group. Congruence between well-supported nuclear and cpDNA clades and results of expanded leaf anatomical and isotopic analyses indicate that American taxa belong to two distantly related lineages with different photosynthetic pathways; only one shift from C to C photosynthesis is required to explain photosynthetic pathway evolution in sampled lineages of Atripliceae. Conservatism in photosynthetic pathway evolution in the tribe is exemplified by the endemic, C North American Atriplex taxa, which are nested among other genera (e.g. Grayia, Holmbergia, and Zuckia) within a robust C clade. One North American C genus, Suckleya, often included within Atripliceae, should be excluded from the tribe. A previous hypothesis of variation in photosynthetic pathway within Atriplex phyllostegia sensu Hall and Clements is rejected. A revised taxonomy employing only monophyletic groups reflects this new understanding of relationships within the tribe. Extriplex includes E. californica (comb. nov.) and E. joaquinana (comb. nov.) and has not been recognized as a natural group by previous authors. Stutzia is proposed to replace the name Endolepis Torr. (1860), a later homonym of Endolepis Schleid. (1846), and includes S. covillei (comb. nov.) and S. dioica (comb. nov). Grayia (G. plummeri, comb. nov., and G. arizonica, comb. nov.) is expanded to include Zuckia. Recognition of Proatriplex as distinct from Atriplex is supported. Holmbergia is retained in Atripliceae. The improved phylogenetic understanding of Atripliceae should allow for more meaningful comparative studies of physiological and other functional adaptations of Atriplex, especially in North America.
40985560|A cladistic analysis including for the first time all taxa of Anulocaulis, five species and four varieties, is presented. Sixteen potentially related taxa classified within Boerhavia, Commicarpus, Cyphomeris, Nyctaginia, and Okenia were used as outgroup to test the monophyly and phylogenetic position of Anulocaulis; Mirabilis glabrifolia was used to root the tree. Forty-one characters were included in the matrix, which was analyzed using the parsimony criterion. Our results are in partial agreement with previous studies using molecular data. Here, the monophyly of Anulocaulis is corroborated, but the sister group remains ambiguous depending on whether the multistate characters are treated as additive or nonadditive. In the first case, Anulocaulis is sister to Nyctaginia-Okenia, while in the second it is sister to Boerhavia anisophylla. The morphological characters which have been used in the traditional taxonomy and classification of the genus are analyzed and discussed under a phylogenetic context. Species recognition, infraspecific taxa and infrageneric classification for Anulocaulis are discussed. A taxonomic synopsis for this xerophytic genus including keys and descriptions based on our cladistic results is presented.
40985561|A phylogeny of Cantua was estimated using parsimony analyses of DNA sequences from the nuclear ribosomal ITS region and the cpDNA spacers trnT-trnL, trnL-trnF, and partial ndhF coding region. One of the two species formerly included in Huthia was included in these analyses; the other is known only from the type. Data from the phylogenetic analyses strongly supported the paraphyly of Cantua to this taxon, Cantua volcanica (= Huthia coerulea). This result supports the earlier inclusion of the two species formerly placed in Huthia within Cantua. Cantua volcanica was most closely related to C. quercifolia and these two species together were the sister group to the rest of Cantua. The remaining taxa, C. flexuosa, C. cuzcoensis, C. bicolor, C. candelilla, C. buxifolia, and C. pyrifolia were well supported as a monophyletic group. For most species, multiple individuals were sampled. In each case, except for the individuals of C. buxifolia, the multiple individuals formed a clade. Precise relationships between C. buxifolia and other species remain unresolved. Cantua mediamnis (= Huthia longiflora) and C. dendritica were not included in the phylogenetic analyses, however based on morphological characters the former is clearly allied with C. volcanica and the latter with C. flexuosa.
40985562|The Leptostemonum clade of Solanum contains approximately 350-450 species, including the cultivated eggplant, S. melongena. This clade is characterized by the presence of prickles and apically attenuate anthers. Solanum section Androceras, the focus of this study, is a group of ca. 12 species belonging to the Leptostemonum clade. This section is unusual in the genus because of its mostly north temperate distribution and distinctive zygomorphic, heterantherous, and enantiostylous flowers. We infer phylogenetic relationships among 43 Solanum taxa, including 11 species and all varieties of sect. Androceras, using DNA sequence data from two nuclear regions (ITS and the granule-bound starch synthase gene [GBSSI or waxy]) and the chloroplast region trnT-F. The combined phylogenetic tree supports sect. Androceras as a monophyletic group sister to Solanum sect. Crinitum. Only one of the three series proposed by previous taxonomists, ser. Pacificum, is supported as monophyletic. Solanum tenuipes from the northern Chihuahua Desert is sister to the remaining species in sect. Androceras. Species-level relationships were also examined and it was found that two species, S. heterodoxum and S. citrullifolium, are not monophyletic. The ancestral flower color in sect. Androceras appears to be violet, with white and yellow flowers restricted to more derived clades. Characters formerly used to diagnose ser. Androceras, such as exclusively branched hairs and lack of complex foliar flavonoids, appear to have evolved more than once in the section.
40985563|Herbarium specimens are an underutilized information resource on historic vegetation patterns. We record habitat loss and present evidence that visits to specimen collecting localities can document environmental change. The taxonomic study of Solanum in Africa continues to be plagued by confusion and ignorance. Despite the almost universal occurrence of Solanum in the flora of Kenya, there continues to be a significant gap in floristic knowledge of this important genus. As a result of studies of herbarium collections and visits to collection localities across Kenya, we have identified three new species and compiled a list of native species of spiny Solanum. We describe Solanum polhillii from the Acacia-Commiphora savanna, Solanum phoxocarpum from the Kenyan highlands, and Solanum malindiense from the coastal vegetation.
40985564|Ptilostemon is a fine example of the representatives of the eastern groups of the Cardueae that have diversified in the western Mediterranean. Relationships to Cynara, which exhibits a similar distribution, and Lamyropsis, which is morphologically closer according to previous studies, are investigated using Bayesian analysis of DNA sequences of the plastid intergenic spacer ycf3-trnS and two nuclear regions, the ETS and ITS spacers. The sectional classification and biogeography of Ptilostemon are also revised in the light of the molecular phylogeny. Our results suggest that Cynara is the most plausible sister genus to Ptilostemon. Some paralogous copies of the ETS region found among species of the three genera by cloning are interpreted as incomplete lineage sorting of ancestral polymorphisms. The current sectional classification of Ptilostemon shows excessive fragmentation, which does not agree with our phylogeny, and therefore a more synthetic classification is proposed. The present distribution of Ptilostemon indicates that there were two colonization events in the western Mediterranean region, paralleling a similar pattern of successive waves already suggested for Cynara.
23028945|The moss genus Taxithelium is reclassified into two subgenera: Taxithelium and Vernieri. The subgenus Vernieri can be distinghished from subgenus Taxithelium by the lanceolate leaves and filamentous pseudoparaphyllia in the former and ovate leaves plus foliose pseudoparaphyllia in the latter. The subgenus Vernieri is revised here and comprises eleven species; one from Africa, two from the Americas, and the remaining from Southeast Asia and Oceania. Keys, illustrations, and descriptions are provided.
23028946|The distribution of Sphagnum cuspidatum has been subject to controversy. Although historically reported from all continents except Antarctica recent authors consider S. cuspidatum to be endemic to Europe and eastern North America. Microsatellites from Australian plants morphologically identified as S. cuspidatum were compared to microsatellites of plants morphologically identified as S. cuspidatum collected from other regions. The species was found to occur in Australia as well as on every continent except Antarctica. The sample most closely related to the Australian plants was collected in the Philippines, and samples from Australia, the Philippines, Colombia, and Equatorial Guinea formed a subclade within S. cuspidatum. Microsatellites further show that S. cuspidatum is one of the parental species of the double allopolyploid S. falcatulum, a Holantarctic species which is reported from Tasmania, New Zealand, and Chile.
23028947|The genus Hexalobus consists of five species characterized by six basally fused petal lobes that are transversally folded in bud, which is unique within Annonaceae. The genus is widespread across tropical Africa occurring in rain forest, savanna, and woodland. The species H. callicarpus, occurring in Madagascar, is excluded from Hexalobus, so the genus is now restricted to continental Africa. The present revision provides a synthesis of previously published information and discussions on morphology, taxonomy, phylogeny, and palynology. Conservation status assessments are provided for each species, as well as a diagnostic key and detailed species descriptions. Furthermore, four species are illustrated and all species are mapped.
23028948|A new genus and species of mycotrophic orchid (Orchidaceae), Kalimantanorchis nagamasui Tsukaya, M. Nakajima et H. Okada, from Betung Kerihun National Park, West Kalimantan, Borneo, Indonesia, is described and illustrated. Kalimantanorchis resembles the genus Tropidia Lindl. in flower and stem morphology, namely, mycotrophic habit, branching stem, nonresupinate flowers with a saccate cymbiform lip bearing two longitudinal ridges along the margins, broadly triangular rostellum, acute, triangular anther cap, and winged or three-lobed column. It differs, however, in having a tuberous root system, pure ivory-white flower coloration and four pollinia. BLAST analyses based on DNA sequences of the chloroplast matK pseudogene and ITS of the nuclear ribosomal DNA also suggest that the closest genus is Tropidia Lindl., but the similarity is low and a molecular phylogenetic analysis did not support it to be a member of Tropidia, confirming the idea that this is an undescribed genus.
23028949|Two new species of Paniceae are here described, one belonging to Dichanthelium (Dichanthelium barbadense) and the other to Panicum sect. Laxa (Panicum harleyi). Both taxa grow in open areas of Central Brazil are described, illustrated, and compared with putative related species.
23028950|The Peruvian Poissonia eriantha is segregated from peripatric Poissonia orbicularis and reinstated as the third unifoliolate species of Poissonia and the second from the Apurimac River basin in Peru. Poissonia eriantha is distinguished phenotypically and by DNA sequences from the ITS and cpDNA trnDT region and morphology. This overlooked species is known from the type specimen and a recent collection from north of the Apurimac River in westcentral Cuzco where seasonally dry tropical forest vegetation predominates that is rich in succulent taxa (e.g. Cactaceae). Poissonia orbicularis is known from downstream along the Apurimac River and is disjunct further north along the Mantaro River, all within the same kind of seasonally dry vegetation. This seemingly small geographic distinction belies large genetic and phenotypic differences, a finding that may be most common to species groups confined to seasonally dry Neotropical forest vegetation. The case of Poissonia eriantha exemplifies the potentially high degree of niche conservatism and dispersal limitation that seasonally dry succulent-rich woodlands can impose on its constituent lineages.
23028951|Three woody species of Coursetia from eastern Brazil are here classified into the Rostrata clade, Coursetia caatingicola, C. rostrata, and C. vicioides. All come from the Southern Sertaneja Depression of the caatinga, and the first of these is herein described. The antiquity of this geographically confined clade is suggested by its phylogenetic isolation within Coursetia and minimum age estimates of about 9 Ma for each of the species stem clades and about 17 Ma for the Rostrata stem. These age estimates were biased young and are associated with ITS rates of substitution of about 23  10 substitutions per site per year, an expected rate for woody plant lineages. Multiple DNA sequence accessions coalesce with respect to nuclear ribosomal 5.8S and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences for Coursetia caatingicola and C. rostrata, and with respect to chloroplast trnD-T sequences for Coursetia caatingicola. Coalescence of conspecific nuclear DNA sequence samples combined with relatively old minimum age estimates are suggestive of the evolutionary stability of local patches of seasonally dry tropical vegetation that are rich in succulent taxa. This phylogenetic signature is more likely to be found in lineages harbored by this than other types of Neotropical vegetation.
23028952|The Ficus petiolaris complex, comprised of F. brandegei, F. jaliscana F. petiolaris and F. palmeri, is a group of Mexican endemic fig species where disagreement on their recognition still exists. Sixteen populations belonging to these taxa were analyzed to resolve their taxonomic status. Data on morphological and micromorphological characters were gathered. Multivariate and univariate statistical analyses as well as diagnostic character analyses were carried out with populations as units of analysis. In addition, correlation tests and regression analyses were performed with continuous morphological characters, geographic location, and the amount of precipitation to detect any clinal variation. Results indicate that continuous quantitative characters traditionally utilized to differentiate taxa in the Ficus petiolaris complex exhibit clinal variation. Petiole length, leaf width, and fig area decrease with latitude and longitude. There is a positive relationship between petiole length and leaf width with latitude and precipitation. Statistical analyses did not identify diagnostic characters for the previously recognized species. Characters such as branch pubescence, color of leaf veins, and pubescence and spots over figs utilized for differentiating taxa were found to vary within and among populations. Therefore, Ficus petiolaris, the first name described in this complex, is recognized as the only species that should be recognized, with a wide distribution from Sonora to Oaxaca and in Baja California.
23028953|Croton section Pedicellati is described, with a disjunct distribution in Mexico and South America. It is recovered sister to Croton section Lamprocroton in Bayesian, Maximum Likelihood, and Maximum Parsimony analyses of nuclear ITS and chloroplast trnL-F DNA sequence data. Two new subsections, Croton subsection Lamprocroton and Croton subsection Argentini, are recognized within Croton section Lamprocroton. These well-supported sister clades include species with bifid and multifid styles, respectively. Croton breedlovei, a new lepidote species of section Pedicellati, endemic to Chiapas, Mexico, is described. Croton breedlovei is morphologically and phylogenetically closer to other lepidote species from Brazil than it is to the stellate C. tenuilobus, also from Mexico. This suggests two separate dispersal events from South America for the two Mexican species in the section. The replacement names C. longicolumellus and C. tenuicaulis are made for the later homonyms C. microcarpus and C. microstachys. Lectotypes are designated for C. andinus, C. angustifrons, C. burchellii, C. catinganus, C. cerino-dentatus, C. cerino-dentatus var. martii, C. cerino-dentatus var. warmingii, C. cuyabensis, C. eriocladoides, C. linearifolius, C. microcarpus, C. microstachys, and C. saxosus. Se describe a Croton seccin Pedicellati, que tiene una distribucin disjunta entre Mxico y Suramrica. En los anlisis Bayesianos, de Mxima Verisimilitud, y de Mxima Parsimonia de secuencias de ADN de ITS del ncleo y de trnL-F del cloroplasto se recupera hermana a Croton seccin Lamprocroton. Dos nuevas subsecciones, Croton subseccin Lamprocroton y Croton subseccin Argentini, son reconocidos dentro de Croton seccin Lamprocroton. Estos clados hermanos con buen soporte incluyen especies con estilos bfidos y multfidos respectivamente. Se describe a Croton breedlovei, una nueva especie con indumento lepidoto en la seccin Pedicellati, endmica de Chiapas, Mxico. Croton breedlovei es mas cercana morfolgicamente y filogenticamente a otras especies lepidotas de Brasil que a C. tenuilobus, la cual tiene el indumento estrellado, y tambin es endmica de Mxico. Esto sugiere dos eventos distintos de dispersin desde Suramrica para las especies mexicanas de la seccin. Se crean los nombres C. longicolumellus y C. tenuicaulis para remplazar a los homnimos C. microcarpus y C. microstachys. Se designan lectotipos para C. andinus, C. angustifrons, C. burchellii, C. catinganus, C. cerino-dentatus, C. cerino-dentatus var. martii, C. cerino-dentatus var. warmingii, C. cuyabensis, C. eriocladoides, C. linearifolius, C. microcarpus, C. microstachys, y C. saxosus.
23028954|Phyllanthus comprises approximately 1,270 species, making it one of the world's largest plant genera. Molecular data so far are of limited value for understanding Phyllanthus because of the sheer size of the genus. They can, however, help sort-out cryptic species and provide information on the origin of suspected introduced species. One of the seemingly most widespread species is P. reticulatus, which has been recorded from Asia, Australia, Africa, and Jamaica. The name is based on a mixed collection from tropical Asia now in the Lamarck herbarium, and we lectotypify it here. We use nuclear ITS sequences to test the broad treatment of P. reticulatus in recent floras, identify records of "P. reticulatus" from Africa, and investigate the origin of P. reticulatus on Jamaica. A maximum likelihood tree for accessions of P. reticulatus from throughout its supposed range (plus relevant outgroups) shows that the Jamaican plants represent the Asian species, that the African plants called P. reticulatus belong to a separate clade for which P. polyspermus is the oldest available name, and that the sensu lato treatment of P. reticulatus in recent floras is unjustified. Treating the Asian entities P. reticulatus and P. microcarpus as separate species appears justified, and identical ITS sequences in Asian and Jamaican P. reticulatus indicate a recent introduction. The first "island botanists," J. Macfadyen and N. Wilson, introduced many plants from India in the 1800s, and theirs are the oldest Jamaican collections of P. reticulatus. Since the species was introduced to Jamaica without its obligate Epicephala moth pollinators, it does not set fruit, persisting instead by vegetative growth.
23028955|New World Podostemaceae (riverweeds) comprise approximately 135 species in 21 genera, most of which are of tropical distribution, shed pollen in monads, and belong to subfamily Podostemoideae. We undertook a phylogenetic study of Neotropical Podostemoideae using molecular (ITS, rbcL, trnL) and morphological data, to assess the monophyly of genera and their interrelationships. Extensive taxon sampling (38 taxa in 15 genera) revealed that the large genera Apinagia and Marathrum are not monophyletic as currently circumscribed, although several species of the former comprised a clade that could be delimited morphologically by the shared character of upright stems (i.e. anchored to the substrate only basally). Marathrum species were split geographically, with Central and South American taxa resolving in different clades. Oserya also comprised two geographically disparate clades, with the type species belonging to the South American clade. To establish the monophyly of Oserya, we erected a new genus Noveloa to accommodate the Central American species N. coulteriana and N. longifolia. The Central American Marathrum clade included the monotypic Vanroyenella, which we transferred to that genus as Marathrum plumosum. The genera Castelnavia and Rhyncholacis were monophyletic in our analyses; C. multipartita f. pendulosa was elevated to species rank as Castelnavia pendulosa. The monotypic Lonchostephus resolved within Mourera, with which it shares a number of morphological features that are found also in Tulasneantha (also monotypic), but which otherwise are unique in Podostemaceae. We recommend that Lonchostephus and Tulasneantha be merged with Mourera and provide the new combination Mourera monadelpha for the latter. Finally, an unexpected clade of morphologically diverse genera, including members of Apinagia, Jenmaniella, Lophogyne, Marathrum, and Monostylis, resolved with strong support but uncertain morphological integrity, as sister to all ingroup taxa except Mourera. However, nomenclatural changes in this group have not been made, pending additional taxon sampling and procurement of further molecular and morphological evidence. As Podostemaceae (flor-da-cachoeira) do Novo Mundo compreendem cerca de 135 espcies em 21 gneros, a maioria de distribuio tropical, com plen em mnades, pertencentes  subfamlia Podostemoideae. Realizamos o estudo filogentico de Podostemaceae Neotropicais utilizando dados moleculares (ITS, rbcL, trnL) e morfolgicos, a fim de avaliar o monofiletismo dos gneros e suas relaes filogenticas. Uma extensa amostragem de txons (38 txons de 15 gneros) revelou que os amplos gneros Apinagia e Marathrum, no so monofilticos com a atual circunscrio, embora diversas espcies do primeiro, formem um clado que pode ser delimitado morfologicamente por compartilhar o carter presena de caule ereto (i.e. ancorado ao substrato apenas na base). Espcies de Marathrum foram separadas geograficamente, com os txons da Amrica Central e do Sul agrupadas em clados diferentes. Oserya tambm compreende dois clados distintos geograficamente, com a espcie tipo pertencente ao clado da Amrica do Sul. Com o intuito de estabelecer o monofiletismo em Oserya, ns elegemos um novo gnero (Noveloa) para acomodar as espcies da Amrica Central (N. coulteriana e N. longifolia). O clado Marathrum da Amrica Central, incluiu o gnero monotpico Vanroyenella, que ns transferimos para aquele gnero como Marathrum plumosum. Os gneros Castelnavia e Rhyncholacis so monofilticos em nossa anlise; C. multipartita f. pendulosa foi elevada  posio de espcie como Castelnavia pendulosa. O gnero monotpico Lonchostephus foi includo em Mourera, com o qual compartilha diversos caracteres morfolgicos tambm encontrados em Tulasneantha (tambm monotpico), que, no entanto, so nicos em Podostemaceae. Recomendamos que Lonchostephus e Tulasneantha sejam unidos com Mourera e propomos a nova combinao: Mourera monadelpha para esta ltima. Finalmente, um clado inesperado de gneros morfologicamente distintos, incluindo membros de Apinagia, Jenmaniella, Lophogyne, Marathrum e Monostylis, uniram-se com forte suporte, mas de integridade morfolgica incerta, como grupo irmo de todo o grupo interno, exceto Mourera. Entretanto, mudanas nomenclaturais neste grupo no foram realizadas, dependendo de uma amostragem de txons adicionais e maiores evidncias moleculares e morfolgicas.
23028956|Graffenrieda glandulosa can be distinguished from other species in the genus by the 3-nerved leaves with barbate nerve bases on the abaxial surface, the calyptrate calyx, and the short connective appendages covered with glandular trichomes. This new species has been collected only in the western tip of the state of Acre, Brazil, near the border with Peru. Graffenrieda glandulosa distingue-se das demais espcies do gnero pelas folhas 3-nervadas e com as bases das nervuras barbadas na face abaxial, pelo clice caliptrado e pelos apndices do conectivo muito curtos e cobertos por tricomas glandulares. Esta nova espcie foi coletada apenas no extreme oeste do estado do Acre, prximo  fronteira com o Peru.
23028957|A taxonomic revision of Carapa (Meliaceae) in Ecuador is provided with the recognition of four species, C. megistocarpa which has cauliflorous inflorescences, C. nicaraguensis previously described and currently placed as synonym of C. guianensis and two new species (C. alticola and C. longipetala). The new species are close to C. guianensis based on their 4-merous flowers borne at the end of the branches. However, C. alticola differs from C. guianensis in having larger leaflets with prominent secondary veins, seeds with rounded edges and short poorly ramified inflorescences, while C. longipetala can be distinguised from C. guianensis in having distinctly pedicellate flowers and 6-ovulate ovary loculi. The new species are described, illustrated, and a key to the four species recognized in Ecuador is provided.
23028958|Tropical plants show a diversity of growth forms, yet few phylogenies are available to examine the transitions between trees, shrubs, and lianas. Here, we reconstruct relationships among 37 species of Ayenia, Byttneria, and Rayleya with cpDNA sequences, and use the resulting phylogeny to test hypotheses on the evolution of climbing plants and to examine biogeography of these plants. Results show that Rayleya is sister to a combined clade of Ayenia and Byttneria; Byttneria is paraphyletic with Ayenia nested within it. The common ancestor of the combined Ayenia/Byttneria/Rayleya clade is reconstructed as a neotropical tree or shrub. Within the Ayenia/Byttneria clade, there is a single transition to unarmed lianas, with subsequent radiations into the Asian and African tropics. A second independent transition from trees or shrubs to spiny, semi-scandent shrubs occurred in the neotropics. We found no evidence of transitions from lianas to any other growth form; however, we recovered a reversal from semi-scandent shrubs to fully upright plants. Within the neotropics, there are two independent radiations into seasonal, open habitats. Additional sampling of African species of Byttneria may yield more complicated scenarios in both biogeography and the evolution of growth forms.
23028959|Macroditassa mantiqueirae, a new species of Apocynaceae-Asclepiadoideae from Minas Gerais, Brazil, is presented. It is morphologically related to M. lagoensis and M. marianae because of the presence of cucullate corona lobes. Macroditassa mantiqueirae can be distinguished from M. lagoensis and M. marianae by the presence of papillose corolla lobes, inner corona lobes cucullate, and by the inflexed apex of the outer lobes.
23028960|Alectra sessiliflora (Orobanchaceae) is the most widespread species within the genus, occurring throughout sub-Saharan Africa, and into India, China and the Philippines. Three varieties are currently recognized (A. sessiliflora var. monticola, A. sessiliflora var. senegalensis, and A. sessiliflora var. sessiliflora) and are distinguished by geographic range, calyx pubescence and stamen filament pubescence. Due to the overlapping nature of the characters used to distinguish among these varieties, accurate assignment of a specimen to a single variety is nearly impossible. We undertook a phenetic study of morphological characters to assess the validity of these varieties. Principal coordinate analysis and the unweighted pair-group method using arithmetic averages were used to explore whether specimens would cluster into the currently recognized varieties. Our analyses revealed no clustering based exclusively on geographic distribution. A small cluster of seven specimens was seen in the principal coordinate analysis using Gower's coefficient of similarity as input values, but this cluster was not diagnosable by unique characters. Based on these results we recommend that Alectra sessiliflora be recognized without infraspecific taxa. Finally, additional names are included as synonyms under Alectra sessiliflora based on extensive study of field-collected and herbarium specimens.
23028961|DNA sequences from the nuclear gene waxy were used to assess phylogenetic relationships within Jaltomata, a group of approximately 60 species from Central and South America. Phylogenetic analyses identify two primary groups: a morphologically diverse group from western South America, characterized by orange fruits, and a primarily Mesoamerican clade with black/purple fruit and little morphological diversity. We also identify an early-diverging lineage of Jaltomata species with red fruits, which is sister to the rest of the genus. Ancestral character state reconstruction supports a view of the common ancestor of the genus originating in South America and having rotate corollas similar to many species of Solanum. In addition, we infer independent colonizations of lomas habitats by Jaltomata species and show a correlation between red nectar production and campanulate floral form in multiple lineages, suggesting a common evolutionary syndrome related to pollination.
23028962|Solanum series Conicibaccata is the second largest series in section Petota, containing 40 species widely distributed from southern Mexico to central Bolivia. It contains diploids (2n = 2x = 24), tetraploids (2n = 4x = 48) and hexaploids (2n = 6x = 72), and the limited number of species examined have been shown to be allopolyploids. Previous morphological and molecular studies using plastid DNA failed to discriminate clear species boundaries. Conserved orthologous nuclear DNA sequences (COSII) were used to compare the relationships among 72 accessions from 22 species from series Conicibaccata and 42 additional accessions from related series. The results supported previous studies showing the diploid members of series Conicibaccata to be related to other South American "clade 4" species, and showed all of the polyploids to be allopolyploids among members of clade 4 and other South American species of "clade 3" (series Piurana and related species). Low bootstrap support values and morphological similarity suggest recent origins and the need for a reduction in number of recognized species in series Conicibaccata.
23028963|Morphological variation within and between taxa of the Santolina rosmarinifolia L. aggregate were studied. This work demonstrates that polyploidy and hybridization may be effective evolutionary mechanisms of speciation, promoting the persistence and survival of new species, and ultimately increasing the diversity of plant species. The patterns of morphological variation of the S. rosmarinifolia aggregate indicate a recent diversification process for these taxa; as a consequence they are poorly differentiated. The intriguing taxonomic complexity of the taxa of the S. rosmarinifolia aggregate can probably be explained to a large degree by recurrent hybridization and subsequent interbreeding of the resulting genotypes, and by the absence of karyotypic divergence and of spatial isolation (except for S. impressa) between diploid taxa. Quantitative and qualitative data support two evolutionary lines that are not yet strongly differentiated in this aggregate. On one hand are the diploid and tetraploid cytotypes of S. pectinata and S. ageratifolia, and on the other the remaining taxa. Two new subspecies, S. rosmarinifolia subsp. castellana and S. pectinata subsp. montiberica, are described from the Iberian Peninsula.
23028964|The tribe Platycarpheae has three species; they are found from South Africa, to Namibia and Botswana. The three species have traditionally been placed in a single genus but were recently divided into two (Platycarpha and Platycarphella). All have 'secondary heads' formed by tightly clustered heads on the crown of the rhizome. The three species are easily separated from one another based on characters such as leaf type, head size, style and corolla length, and pollen type. Morphological and molecular data support Platycarpheae as a monophyletic group within the subfamily Cichorioideae but no firm sister-group relationship has been determined. The three species form a monophyletic group on a long branch: Platycarphella carlinoides and Platycarphella parvifolia share more characters and are sister-taxa; Platycarpha glomerata has the largest number of unique features and is the sister taxon to the other two species. The distributions and flowering times of the three species are different. Platycarphella carlinoides is the most widespread of the species and grows in northwestern South Africa, the central highlands of Namibia, and southwestern Botswana; its peak flowering time is March-July. Platycarphella parvifolia is found in north central to northeast South Africa and flowers mostly in August to October, and Platycarpha glomerata is from inland eastern South Africa and usually flowers from November to early February. The biogeographic pattern is consistent with one of a widespread ancestral species that became fragmented by the rise of the Great Escarpment and climate change.
23028965|Solidago houghtonii Torrey & A. Gray ex Gray is a federally threatened polyploid plant species likely of hybrid origin. Several hypothesized combinations of parental species have been suggested but none have been phylogenetically tested. Additionally, it is unclear whether the species is of single or polytopic origin. To study the evolutionary history of S. houghtonii we sequenced four noncoding cpDNA loci (accD-psal, psbA-trnH, trnL-trnF, rps16-trnQ), and the ITS and 3'ETS regions for four accessions of S. houghtonii, which span its geographic range, and 25 other species of Solidago including all sympatric species. Polymorphisms within the direct nrDNA sequences of all S. houghtonii accessions indicated the presence of multiple homoeologue types. These were separated by molecular cloning of the 3055 bp 3'ETSITS region, allowing us to positively link the ETS and ITS homoeologue types. Phylogenetic analyses of the nuclear and chloroplast datasets revealed incongruent topologies. Analysis of cloned nrDNA sequence data indicated that S. riddellii, S. ptarmicoides, and S. ohioensis have contributed to the nuclear genome of S. houghtonii. Analysis of cpDNA sequence data revealed the presence of multiple insertions/deletions that are shared by all accessions. The unique pattern of cpDNA indels was also recovered in S. gigantea. Phylogenetic analysis of the cpDNA sequence data and coded indels indicate S. gigantea is the maternal genome donor. However, we did not recover a S. gigantea nrDNA sequence type. Taken together, these data reveal both a single origin and a complex pattern of reticulation that is consistent not only with the hypothesized allohexaploid nature of this species, but also with chloroplast capture of cpDNA from an unexpected source through introgression.
23028966|A new species of the Brazilian endemic genus Acritopappus from the Serra do Cabral, in Minas Gerais state, is described. The new species, Acritopappus pereirae, is similar to A. confertus, the most widely distributed species in the genus, but differs in that the latter has conduplicate, chartaceous, glabrous to glabrescent, viscid leaves with entire margins, and an aristate pappus. The new species is illustrated, the affinities between the morphologically related species and A. pereirae are discussed and a key to the species from Minas Gerais is provided.
23028967|Recent molecular investigations place Heptacodium as sister to the Lonicera clade, whereas morphology suggests a close relationship with the Linnaea clade s. 1. (former tribe Linnaeeae). Zabelia has always been assumed to be closely related or even congeneric with Abelia. This study presents molecular and morphological data in an attempt to further clarify the systematic positions of Heptacodium and Zabelia as they are key genera to help us understand evolution in Dipsacales. Our molecular analyses strongly support a sister relationship between Heptacodium and the Lonicera clade. Zabelia, however, seems to be closer related to the Morina clade than to any other member of the Linnaea clade s. 1. None of our phylogenetic analyses suggest a close relationship between Abelia and Zabelia. Morphologically, Zabelia's relationship with the Morina clade is only supported by the shared presence of psilate pollen grains with an endocingulum. Fruit and seed morphology strongly indicate a close relationship between Abelia, Heptacodium, and Zabelia. Even though wood anatomy of Zabelia is unique in several aspects, it does not aid in unraveling the systematic position of the genus. In the case of Heptacodium, hybridization is a plausible scenario that could explain the uncertain systematic position of the genus. A better understanding of the intergeneric relationships of the Lonicera and Linnaea s. l. clades is essential to solve this matter.
23029002|We describe a new species, Hydnora visseri (Hydnoraceae), a holoparasitic perennial species from the Karas Region of Namibia and the Northern Cape Province of South Africa. The new species is a distinct segregate of Hydnora africana and is restricted to transitional and winter rainfall areas of southern Namibia and northwestern South Africa. Hydnora visseri only occurs with H. africana in sympatry in a narrow geographical band where their respective host species occur together. Distinctly longer tepal lobes and the largest flower metrics in the section Euhydnora distinguish H. visseri from H. africana and Hydnora longicollis. At one known site where H. africana and H. visseri occur in sympatry, differences in flowering phenology and host preference appear to reinforce species boundaries.
23029003|Galeoglossum cactorum, a new species of Orchidaceae from the Mixteca Alta region in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico, is described and illustrated. The new species is florally similar to G. thysanochilum but differs from it in the linear-oblanceolate leaves subtended by imbricating, dark brown cataphylls, presence of a papillose thickening near the base of the labellum, proportionately shorter, obtrapezoid column with lateral laminar wings and complete fusion of the filament, and prominent apicule of the rostellum remnant. A cladistic parsimony analysis of DNA sequences of nuclear ITS region and plastid matK-trnK region showed that the three currently recognized species of Galeoglossum form a monophyletic group, which is sister to Prescottia. Galeoglossum cactorum is known from a single locality in an unusual habitat for orchids, i.e. a xerophilous scrub dominated by columnar cacti of the genus Neobuxbaumia, whereas both G. thysanochilum and G. tubulosum dwell in oak- and pine-oak forest.
23029004|The Commelinaceae are a pantropical family of monocotyledonous herbs. Previous phylogenies in Commelinaceae have emphasized sampling among genera. We extended this previous work by sampling multiple species within some of the largest genera of Commelinaceae (especially Commelina and Tradescantia, and also including Callisia, Cyanotis, Gibasis, and Murdannia), and by sequencing noncoding regions both of the nuclear ribosomal DNA region, 5S NTS, and the chloroplast region, trnL-trnF. We generated a phylogenetic hypothesis for 68 Commelinaceae that partially tests previous morphological, taxonomic classifications. We found little evidence for conflict between nuclear and chloroplast regions for Tradescantia, Murdannia, and Callisia, and some evidence for conflict between the two regions for Commelina, though conflicting regions of the phylogeny were only weakly supported by bootstrap analyses. We found subtribe Tradescantieae to be paraphyletic, consistent with an rbcL study, though with a different topology than that produced by rbcL. In addition, subtribe Commelineae was monophyletic with strong support. We found Callisia to be polyphyletic, consistent with some previous molecular phylogenetic studies, and we found Tradescantia, Gibasis, Cyanotis, Commelina, and Murdannia, to be monophyletic. The molecular phylogenies presented here generally supported previous taxonomic classifications.
23029005|The Marantaceae (530 spp.) are one of the most species rich families within the order Zingiberales which incites the search for evolutionary factors favoring speciation. A positive influence on their divergence is ascribed to their unique explosive pollination mechanism which has been proposed to be a key innovation. To test this hypothesis phylogenies of the two major African clades (Sarcophrynium and the Marantochloa clade) were established based on data from nuclear (ITS, 5S) and chloroplast (trnL/trnL-F) DNA for an almost complete taxon sample. The phylogeny was used to parsimoniously reconstruct morphological and ecological traits and geographic distribution patterns. The resulting molecular relationships of the genera are congruent with the existing family phylogeny. As in previous studies the species Ataenidia conferta is nested within Marantochloa so that a new circumscription of Marantochloa is proposed leading to the new name Marantochloa conferta. Hybridization events, adaptation to different pollinators, and Pleistocene climatic fluctuations are hypothesized evolutionary factors fostering speciation in the African clades. The explosive pollination mechanism might have played an important role in optimizing the mating system but did certainly not force speciation directly through mechanisms of reproductive isolation.
23029006|The Vriesea corcovadensis (section Vriesea) group consists of 11 species occurring exclusively in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. This group is defined by the presence of polystichous and distichous flowers, utriculiform rosettes, presence of stolons, and linear-triangular leaf blades with a maximum width of 1.5 cm. We present a taxonomic revision based on observation of herbarium material and living specimens. We provide the geographical distribution, etymology, phenology, and morphological illustrations of the species, in addition to new and detailed taxonomic descriptions and a key for their identification. We describe V. microrachis and V. rubens and a neotype for V. rectifolia is designated. The circumscription of V. triangularis remains doubtful until additional material is available for study.
23029007|Atractantha shepherdiana, a new species of woody bamboo from Brazil, is here described and illustrated, and an identification key based on vegetative characters for all the species of the genus is provided. In its vegetative state, the new species resembles Atractantha amazonica by having culms with a small central lumen. The new species differs from A. amazonica mainly because of the occurrence of tomentose-velvety ochre trichomes on the upper and lower portions of young internodes, pseudopetiolate blades of the culm leaves that are initially erect and later reflexed, and by the girdle with hirtellous-hispid dark-brown trichomes. Atractantha shepherdiana, uma espcie nova de bambu lignificado do Brasil  descrita e ilustrada, e uma chave para as espcies do gnero baseada exclusivamente nos caracteres vegetativos  apresentada. Em estdio vegetativo, a nova espcie aproxima-se de A. amazonica por apresentar colmos com um lmen central estreito. Distingue-se, principalmente, por apresentar entrens jovens do colmo com tricomas ocre, aveludado-tomentosos, lmina da folha do colmo pseudopeciolada, inicialmente ereta e posteriormente reflexa, e cinto ("girdle") com tricomas hirtelo-hspidos, castanho-escuros.
23029008|Previous molecular and morphological phylogenetic analyses, character-based analysis and ecological niche modeling identified seven monophyletic groups formed by populations of Otatea, a Neotropical woody bamboo genus belonging to subtribe Guaduinae. Thus the genus comprises at present seven species, four of them new to science. These four new Mesoamerican species are here described and illustrated: Otatea carrilloi from Chiapas, O. ximenae from Oaxaca, O. reynosoana from the Pacific slopes of Guerrero, Jalisco and Nayarit and O. transvolcanica from the Transmexican Volcanic Belt. A comprehensive taxonomic revision of the genus Otatea is presented based on collections for this project and on herbarium specimens.
23029009|We describe in detail the foliar architecture of extant Nelumbo and propose a new genus, Exnelumbites Estrada-Ruiz, Upchurch, Wolfe & Cevallos-Ferriz, for recently discovered leaf macrofossils from the Upper Cretaceous (Campanian-Maastrichtian) Olmos Formation of Coahuila, Mexico and Jose Creek Member of the McRae Formation of south-central New Mexico, U. S. A. The fossils described here consist of centrally peltate leaves with 1213 actinodromous primary veins that terminate in broad glandular teeth of the chloranthoid type. No secondary veins are present on the midvein, and tertiary veins are organized in an alternate percurrent to reticulate pattern. Areolation is of variable shape with four to six sides. The fossil leaves are placed within Nelumbonaceae on the basis of their orbicular shape and centrally peltate organization, the presence of a funnel-form lamina, and especially the absence of secondary venation along the midvein, but are interpreted to be more primitive than extant Nelumbo in having no central disk, a smaller number of primary veins, less highly organized tertiary venation, and predominantly non-hexagonal areolation. The presence of chloranthoid teeth in the fossils is consistent with suggestions that the chloranthoid tooth type is basal to both Proteales and eudicots as a whole. The newly described leaves add to a growing diversity of plant macrofossils from the Cretaceous that are more closely related to Nelumbo than any other extant genus, but are more primitive in their vegetative and reproductive morphology.
23029010|The genus Lespedeza (Fabaceae) contains about 41 species distributed disjunctly in East Asia and North America. The pollen morphology of 46 samples representing 39 species of Lespedeza and three species of the two most closely related genera from China, Japan, and America was examined with both a light microscope and a scanning electron microscope. Pollen morphology in Lespedeza is diverse in germination organs and exine sculptures. The germination organs in Lespedeza can be divided into three types based mainly on the size of the colpi and the morphology of ora. Most species in subgen. Lespedeza have either type II or III germination organs and species in subgen. Macrolespedeza have only type I or II germination organs. The pollen morphology in Lespedeza is stable at the infraspecific level. The pollen data support the division of Lespedeza into two subgenera. In detail, the polar axes in subgen. Macrolespedeza (18.9423.07 m long) and are normally shorter than those in subgen. Lespedeza (25.0432.11 m long). The pollen morphology provided insights into the systematics of some taxonomically difficult species complexes such as the L. caraganae, L. juncea, and L. inschanica complex and the L. pubescens, L. viatorum, and L. wilfordii complex and the species pairs L. floribunda and L. mucronata and L. angustifolia and L. leptostachya. A key to the species of Lespedeza is given based on pollen morphology.
23029011|The perennial lupines of western North America, previously suggested to be monophyletic, comprise an apparently rapid and recent species radiation concentrated in the California Floristic Province. The Lupinus albifrons species complex consists of a number of closely related yet morphologically variable taxa within the larger group of perennial lupines. We used sequence data from two rapidly evolving noncoding chloroplast regions to analyze relationships in the perennial lupines, with special emphasis on the Lupinus albifrons species complex. Sampling from throughout the ranges of species thought to be closely related to Lupinus albifrons, we found that this group is characterized by high genetic diversity not only between species, but also within species and even within populations. The results of this study call into question the monophyly of the western North American perennials. Only two taxa clearly emerge as deserving recognition at the species or subspecies level based on the molecular data: Lupinus paynei from Simi Valley, California, and Lupinus excubitus from eastern California and the San Gabriel Mountains. Although some taxonomic conclusions can be extrapolated from this study, overall, these results warn against undersampling in phylogenetic studies of recently evolved groups.
23029012|Taxonomic studies in the genus Lessertia have revealed that L. rigida represents a mixed species concept comprising two distinctly different elements. The specific epithet is linked to a largely overlooked type specimen collected by Carl Thunberg in the Cape of South Africa during the latter part of the eighteenth century, which represents one element of the mixed species concept. Due to nomenclatural priority and correct application of the name, the description of a new species is necessary to accommodate the second element included in the mixed species concept. This paper aims to clarify the identity of L. rigida and to describe the new species L. meyeri.
23029013|Molecular phylogenetic analyses based on numerous plant accessions have shown that Cucumis comprises 25 species in Asia, the Malesian region, and Australia, rather than just two as traditionally thought. Among the 25 species several are new, and here we describe four from tropical Australia. The new species C. costatus, C. queenslandicus, C. umbellatus, and C. variabilis are illustrated, their distributions are mapped based on 750 collections per species, and information is provided on habitats and conservation status. We also validate C. althaeoides comb. nov. and C. argenteus comb. nov., update the description of C. picrocarpus, and provide a key to the 11 native and naturalized species of Cucumis occurring in Australia and eastern Malesia. The Australasian species diversity of Cucumis, a genus that until recently was held to be essentially African, is of interest also because Australia harbours the sister species to the commercially important melon, C. melo.
23029014|The monophyly of the genus Rhodomyrtus (Myrtaceae) was tested using data from morphology and the nuclear ribosomal ITS regions (ITS-1, ITS-2) and 5.8S gene. Representative species from baccate genera hypothesized to be closely related to Rhodomyrtus were included, such as Archirhodomyrtus, Octamyrtus, Kanakomyrtus, and some genera believed to be more distantly related, including Rhodamnia, Decaspermum, Pilidiostigma, and Myrtastrum. Up to four capsular-fruited outgroup species were used to root the trees (Heteropyxis natalensis, Carpolepis tardiflora, Lophostemon confertus, and Metrosideros rotundifolia). Morphological data using neighbor joining scattered species of Rhodomyrtus across several branches but generally recovered genera other than Rhodomyrtus. Using parsimony, the morphological data analysis also rejected the monophyly of Rhodomyrtus and resulted in consensus trees with relatively low resolution and bootstrap support. Based on traditionally recognized generic boundaries, results from DNA sequence data (parsimony, Bayesian analysis) rejected the hypothesized monophyly of Rhodomyrtus and typically dispersed species of Rhodomyrtus irregularly into two relatively large branches designated as Clades A and B. Species other than Rhodomyrtus contained in either Clade A or B from the molecular results were some, but not all, members of Archirhodomyrtus, Octamyrtus, and Kanakomyrtus. Partition tests indicated that phylogenies based on morphological characters differed significantly from those based on molecular data so a combined analysis was not conducted. DNA sequence variation ranged from no variation among sequences within a species up to 61 base pair differences plus four 1 or 2 bp gaps between Rhodomyrtus misimana and R. montana. Although results from morphological and molecular analyses reject the hypothesis that Rhodomyrtus is monophyletic, additional data are needed before Rhodomyrtus can be split confidently into demonstrably monophyletic genera.
23029015|As presently circumscribed, Plagianthus includes two morphologically distinct species that are endemic to New Zealand. Plagianthus divaricatus, a divaricate shrub, is a dominant species in coastal saline shrub communities, whereas P. regius is a tree of lowland and montane forests. Results from independent analyses of ITS and 5 trnK/matK sequences are congruent, and when combined provide a robust framework to study character evolution. Our findings suggest the ancestor of Plagianthus originated in Australia where the sister genera Asterotrichion and Gynatrix are presently distributed. The stem age of Plagianthus was estimated at 7.3 (4.014.0) million years ago (Ma) and the crown radiation at 3.9 (1.98.2) Ma. Most of the characters optimized onto the molecular phylogeny were shared with source lineages from Australia and shown to be plesiomorphic. Only the divaricate branching pattern characteristic of Plagianthus divaricatus was acquired after the lineage became established in New Zealand and shown to be apomorphic. The initial Plagianthus founders were shrubs or small trees with deciduous leaves and small inconspicuous dioecious flowers. Juvenile vegetative morphology and sexual maturation are decoupled in Plagianthus; heteroblastic vegetative development is well documented in Plagianthus and close relatives.
23029016|Pavonia secreta (Malvaceae) is a new species from Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. This new species belongs to subgenus Pavonia and is related to P. xanthogloea. Pavonia secreta can be distinguished by the absence of a tuft of long and simple trichomes at the apex of the petiole and on the abaxial side of the leaf, and by paler foliage; it presents dark pink flowers, with larger petals and stem tube; has larger mericarps, which are tuberculate-rugose with 23 tubercules on each side. Pavonia secreta is an endemic species restricted to Pedra do Segredo, Morro do Leo and a neighbouring hill, localities that belong to Caapava do Sul municipality, in southern Brazil. We present a morphological description, illustrations, and ecological data, as well as a key including a morphologically similar species.
23029017|Langsdorffia heterotepala (Balanophoraceae) is described and illustrated. It is the second Neotropical species recognized within the genus. The species can be distinguished by the following primary features: a concave male inflorescence, ovate-elliptic dorsal tepal and oblong lateral tepals in male flowers, Y-shaped connective, and style length < 0.4 mm. Thus far, the new species is known only from the cloud forests of the Itatiaia National Park in southeastern Brazil, a region well known for its high species richness and endemism. A key to the four known species of Langsdorffia is provided.
23029018|The genus Impatiens (Balsaminaceae) is one of the most difficult genera for making effective herbarium specimens because of its tender and complicated flowers. The preparation of flowers is always one of the most important steps in the collections of Impatiens. The present paper demonstrates a method to prepare flowering specimens of Impatiens in the field. Examples include three new species collected from the Sino-Vietnamese border, viz. Impatiens aconitoides, I. purpureifolia, and I. rugata. The related species I. laojunshanensis, I. apalophylla, and I. clavigera are also sampled using the same preparation method. As to the three new species, their pollen grains and seeds were observed by scanning electron microscopy. Impatiens aconitoides has 4-colpate pollen grains and ovoid seeds with protrusive-type of seed coat, whereas I. purpureifolia and I. rugata have 3-colpate grains and ellipsoidal seeds with reticulate-typed seed coat. Such an integrated approach to include detailed floral characters as well as pollen and seed characters is proposed when new taxa of Impatiens are described.
23029019|Recent fieldwork in Gabon yielded material of a previously unknown Impatiens species that resembles Impatiens kamerunensis and I. oumina. Molecular analyses based on ImpDEF1, ImpDEF2 and ITS in combination with a thorough comparative morphological study confirmed the status of the newly collected material. It is phylogenetically positioned within the West-African Impatiens clade. Impatiens nzabiana can be distinguished from I. kamerunensis in having a narrowly lanceolate leaf shape, a 77.5 mm long appendage on the lower lateral petal and the presence of 38 mm long fimbriae at the leaf base. Molecular data strongly support a sister group relationship with I. oumina, whereas both I. nzabiana and I. oumina are sister to I. kamerunensis. Impatiens oumina is similar to I. nzabiana by the presence of long fimbriae near the base of the leaf and simple or sparsely branched stems, but can be easily distinguished from the new species by the narrowly ovate leaf shape, the smaller size of both the plants and the flowers, the subumbellate racemes, the pinkish-white corollas and the white spur sepals. By calculating age estimates and investigating the biogeography of I. nzabiana and its closest relatives, we have been able to hypothesize the evolutionary history of the new species.
23029020|Historically, three varieties or subspecies were recognized within Eriastrum eremicum; these were distinguished by characters such as the number of leaf lobes, the length of the corolla, and the corolla symmetry. This study used traditional multivariate analysis along with spatial and geostatistical analyses of morphometric data to scan for geographic trends in these morphological characters. In addition to the typical form of E. eremicum in the Mojave Desert of California, both multivariate and spatial statistics revealed a distinct group of populations in southwest Utah, and another group in southern Arizona. These results suggest that there are some geographic clusters of similar plant morphology within this species, and that three subspecies should be recognized. Plants from southwest Utah are here placed in Eriastrum eremicum subsp. zionis comb. nov., and plants from Arizona are recognized as Eriastrum eremicum subsp. yageri (M. E. Jones) H. L. Mason.
23029021|A new species, Utricularia densiflora, from the Brazilian savanna (Cerrado) is described and illustrated. This species was found growing at the Chapada dos Veadeiros National Park, and is distinguished from the other species in the genus by the presence of several rudimentary (or dormant) floral buds, sessile glands in the peduncle, and highly congested inflorescence. Utricularia densiflora is here considered a member of section Oligocista and is morphologically similar to U. erectiflora and U. meyeri. A key of the Utricularia species inhabiting the Chapada dos Veadeiros National Park is provided. Uma nova espcie, Utricularia densiflora, do Cerrado brasileiro  descrita e ilustrada. Essa espcie foi encontrada no Parque Nacional da Chapada dos Veadeiros. Distingue-se das demais espcies do gnero pela presena de muitos botes florais rudimentares (ou dormentes), glndulas ssseis no pednculo e inflorescncia altamente congesta. Utricularia densiflora  aqui considerada membro da seo Oligocista e morfologicamente semelhante  U. erectiflora e U. meyeri.  disponibilizada uma chave de identificao das espcies ocorrentes no Parque Nacional da Chapada dos Veadeiros.
23029022|Tragopogon dubius is one of the most widespread species of Tragopogon, extending across much of Eurasia. Traditionally, T. dubius has been considered a morphologically homogeneous species that includes all Tragopogon collections with yellow flowers and swollen peduncles under capitula. Here we describe a new species of Tragopogon from the Iberian Peninsula, T. lainzii, which has heretofore been included in T. dubius. To this end, we performed comparative morphological, cytogenetic, and molecular analyses on many populations of both species. Our results show that T. dubius is not a homogeneous species and that different lineages exist across its broad geographic distribution. Moreover, we show that hybridization has occurred in the wild between sympatric populations of T. dubius, T. lainzii, and T. porrifolius.
23029023|Polymnia johnbeckii, a new, narrowly endemic species, is distinct in its combination of highly dissected leaves, hirsute herbage, and relatively large, showy heads. It is known from two populations in Marion County, Tennessee, and should be considered a rare species at both the state and federal level. A chromosome count indicates that P. johnbeckii is diploid. Although standard cladogenesis is the null hypothesis for the origin of this diploid species, evidence supporting an alternative scenario of homoploid hybrid speciation is discussed.
23029024|Kuramosciadium corydalifolium, a new genus and species of Umbelliferae (Apiaceae) from the Kurama Ridge (Western Tian Shan Mountains) in Uzbekistan is described and illustrated. The new taxon is not closely related to any other genus in the flora of Middle Asia or adjacent countries. The analyses of fruit morphology and anatomy and nrDNA ITS sequence data reveal a distant affinity to Ligusticum s. 1. and Cnidium s. 1. and their allies in the traditional family classifications. In particular, Kuramosciadium is most similar to Sphaenolobium, Paulita, and Seselopsis. The new genus differs from its morphologically closest relative, Sphaenolobium, in its monocarpic life-form, unbranched rootstock, bipinnate leaves with almost sessile segments, brownish (not light yellow) petals, distinctly unequal umbel rays, narrow mericarp commissure, and winged dorsal ribs of mericarps. Kuramosciadium corydalifolium appears to be a rare, narrowly endemic, and its natural populations need protection.
23029025|A high degree of morphological variability exists within Lomatium (biscuitroots, Apiaceae). This variability has led to conflicting opinions regarding relationships of white-flowered Lomatium specimens from southern Idaho and Oregon allied to L. nevadense and L. foeniculaceum. An initial morphological study, using morphometric analysis and phenetic classification techniques, suggested that these anomalous specimens, generally referred to as L. ravenii, were more closely related to L. foeniculaceum than to L. nevadense. Phylogenetic analyses using the rps16 intron, ITS, and rp132-trnL UAG placed five populations of the anomalous individuals within a clade including L. ravenii and the three varieties of L. foeniculaceum from our region. However, two populations collected from Succor Creek in southeastern Oregon clustered independently of L. ravenii, suggesting a new cryptic species. Subsequent morphological analyses revealed differences in morphology between L. ravenii and the Succor Creek populations. We propose a new Succor Creek endemic species, L. bentonitum.
23029026|A taxonomic revision of the Annesorhiza triternata group is presented. The group is composed of seven species all endemic to the Cape Floristic Region of South Africa. Two of the species had previously been assigned to the genus Peucedanum, as P. filicaule and P. triternatum, based on the marginally winged and dorsally ribbed homomericarpic fruits. They are here transferred to the genus Annesorhiza based on the periodically replaced fleshy roots, hysteranthous leaves, and fruits that have an oblong, more or less isodiametric body, a narrow commissure, and druse crystals scattered throughout the mesocarp. In addition, five new species clearly allied to A. filicaulis and A. triternata are described herein, viz. A. bracteosa, A. elsiae, A. laticostata, A. radiata, and A. refracta. The group is distinguished from other species in the genus by less sturdy synflorescences, ternate leaves with linear ultimate leaflets (except A. refracta), distinctly branched resin ducts in the petals (except A. filicaulis, A. laticostata and A. radiata), and mericarps with marginal wings and dorsal ribs (except A. elsiae). A comprehensive key to the seven species is provided together with an updated taxonomy with detailed morphological descriptions, a lectotypification, diagnostic illustrations, and maps of known geographical distributions.
23028973|Twelve taxa of the genus Chara (Characeae, Chlorophyta) are decribed and illustrated based on specimens from southern Brazil. The taxonomic survey in the states of Paran, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul recorded seven, one, and nine species for each state, respectively. Chara guairensis was the most common species in the area, followed by C. rusbyana. The species Chara guairensis, C. martiana, C. rusbyana, Chara hydropitys, C. braunii and its varieties were recorded for the first time in Rio Grande do Sul, and the following six for Paran: C. angolensis, C. diaphana, C. guairensis, C. kenoyeri, C. martiana, and C. zeylanica.
23028974|To better understand biogeographic patterns in the Southern Hemisphere, infraspecific molecular patterns were compared in two species of the moss genus Calyptrochaeta with contrasting distributions. One, C. apiculata, has a disjunct distribution encompassing South America and Australasia, and the other, C. asplenioides, occurs from South Africa northward to Rwanda and eastward into the Indian Ocean Islands. Nucleotide sequence data from two plastid loci (trnL-F and trnG) and nuclear ribosomal DNA (ITS12) were gathered from 62 samples representing the genera Calyptrochaeta and Daltonia (the latter as an outgroup), and subjected to phylogenetic analyses using maximum likelihood and Bayesian inference. The phylogenetic analyses revealed strong, geographically correlated structure within C. asplenioides in which populations from southern Africa are sister to those from eastern Africa, Madagascar, and the other Indian Ocean islands. Continental plants are further differentiated from island plants to the east. Divergence times suggest that C. asplenioides diversified in a time frame that does not support vicariance associated with continental drift, but rather dispersal, to explain the disjunct distribution of this species. Sequences of C. apiculata disjunct between Chile and Australia are nearly identical, which strongly suggests recent and/or ongoing gene flow. Our dating suggests that the South American-Australian disjunction of C. apiculata is also not old enough to reflect vicariance associated with continental drift. Thus, in both cases, recent long distance dispersal best explains their distributions in the Southern Hemisphere.
23028975|Convergent evolution driven by adaptation to arid habitats has made it difficult to identify monophyletic taxa in the cheilanthoid ferns. Dependence on distinctive, but potentially homoplastic characters, to define major clades has resulted in a taxonomic conundrum: all of the largest cheilanthoid genera have been shown to be polyphyletic. Here we reconstruct the first comprehensive phylogeny of the strictly New World cheilanthoid genus Argyrochosma. We use our reconstruction to examine the evolution of farina (powdery leaf deposits), which has played a prominent role in the circumscription of cheilanthoid genera. Our data indicate that Argyrochosma comprises two major monophyletic groups: one exclusively non-farinose and the other primarily farinose. Within the latter group, there has been at least one evolutionary reversal (loss) of farina and the development of major chemical variants that characterize specific clades. Our phylogenetic hypothesis, in combination with spore data and chromosome counts, also provides a critical context for addressing the prevalence of polyploidy and apomixis within the genus. Evidence from these datasets provides testable hypotheses regarding reticulate evolution and suggests the presence of several previously undetected taxa of Argyrochosma.
23028976|Adiantopsis radiata has long been regarded as the only species with palmately compound laminae in the fern genus Adiantopsis (Pteridaceae). Here, three new species, A. dactylifera, A. timida, and A. crinoidea, with palmate laminar architecture are described. Additionally, a new combination is formalized for A. trifurcata, a typically ternate species originally assigned to Cheilanthes and frequently misidentified in herbarium collections as A. monticola, which is a pinnately compound species endemic to the states of Gois and Tocantins, Brazil. Adiantopsis ternata is affirmed as a distinct and valid species that should not be placed in synonymy with A. radiata. These six palmately compound species differ from each other in the form of their pseudoindusia, the position of attachment of the pinnules to the costae, the form of the adaxial carinae, the shape of the pinnae apices, as well as spore size and ornamentation. All six Adiantopsis species with palmately compound laminae are illustrated, and a distribution map and key are provided.
23028977|The complexity of ovulate cones and their preservation as fossils makes them promising material for reconstructing the evolutionary history of gymnosperms, but phylogenetic analyses of cone morphological characters of Pinaceae have been inconclusive. We describe the ovulate cone anatomy of Pinus nelsonii, a rare and phylogenetically isolated pinyon pine endemic to Mexico, and add the species together with Pinus ponderosa and the fossil Pinus belgica to a recoded and expanded ovulate cone morphology matrix for fossil and extant Pinaceae. The cone anatomy of Pinus nelsonii conforms to previous generic concepts of Pinus. Despite its phylogenetically isolated position among the soft pines (Pinus subgenus Strobus) and thus potential for displaying plesiomorphic features, the cone of Pinus nelsonii is unlike the oldest Pinus fossil cones in possessing enlarged, functionally wingless seeds partially embedded in scale tissue, and in lacking sclerenchyma in the cortex of the axis, in the bract, and in the scale. Cladistic analysis of cone morphology characters recovers several Pityostrobus species in a clade with Pinus. Although the inferred relationships among living species do not coincide in several respects to molecular studies, adding taxa and further exploration of characters promise to clarify relationships.
23028978|Schisandra macrocarpa, a new species of subgenus Sphaerostema found in Yunnan Province, China is described. A morphological comparision to related species, and a key for the subgenus is provided. In addition, a detailed description, distribution map, habitat, and line drawing including morphological details of leaf epidermis are provided for this new species.
23028979|A new species of Caryota, endemic to north and central Sulawesi, is described and illustrated. A key is provided to distinguish Caryota angustifolia from the other five species of Caryota occurring to the east of Wallace's line.
23028980|Two new species, Eriocaulon cylindratum and Eriocaulon araguaiense, from the Tocantins-Araguaia River basin in the Brazilian Cerrado, are described and illustrated. The species are similar, but they differ mainly in both the shape of the capitula and the floral bracts. Eriocaulon araguaiense has hemispheric heads, and obovate, concave floral bracts. Eriocaulon cylindratum is characterized by ovoid or cylindrical heads, and obtrullate, carinate floral bracts. A key to all known Eriocaulon species from Tocantins-Araguaia river basin is presented.
23028981|Five new species of Paepalanthus section Diphyomene are described and illustrated: P. brevis, P. flexuosus, P. longiciliatus, P. macer, and P. stellatus. Paepalanthus brevis, similar to P. decussus, is easily distinguished by its short reproductive axis, and pilose and mucronate leaves. Paepalanthus flexuosus, morphologically related to P. urbanianus, possesses a distinctive short and tortuous reproductive axis. Paepalanthus longiciliatus, morphologically similar to P. weddellianus, possesses long trichomes on the margins of the reproductive axis bracts, considered a diagnostic feature. Paepalanthus macer shares similarities with P. amoenus, differing by its sulfurous capitula and adpressed reproductive axis bracts. Paepalanthus stellatus also has affinity with P. decussus, but possesses unique, membranaceous, reproductive-axis bracts and a punctual inner-capitulum arrangement of pistillate flowers. Four of the described species are narrowly distributed in the state of Gois, whereas P. brevis is endemic to Distrito Federal. All are considered critically endangered. Detailed comparisons of these species are presented in tables. Comments on phenology, distribution, habitat and etymology, along with an identification key, are provided.
23028982|Two new species from western Mexico, Urochloa olivacea and U. pauciflora (Paniceae; Panicoideae; Poaceae) are described and illustrated here. An updated checklist and a key for the 21 species of Urochloa occurring in Mexico are presented. Se describen e illustran dos species nuevas, Urochloa olivacea y U. pauciflora del oeste de Mxico. Se presenta una lista actualizada del gnero y una clave para las 21 especies presentes en Mxico.
23028983|A revision of the generic and infrageneric taxonomy of Podalyria (Fabaceae, Podalyrieae) is presented. The genus comprises 17 species, of which 16 are endemic to the Cape Floristic Region of South Africa and one extends eastwards to southern KwaZulu-Natal. Morphological, cytological and chemical characters are briefly discussed. A cladistic analysis of 19 morphological characters and one chemical character resulted in a partially resolved topology with two main clades. These two groups are described as sections, namely Villosae and Podalyria. Two new species are described: P. leipoldtii and P. variabilis, and one new combination P. rotundifolia is made. Historically, the application of names in Podalyria has been variable and unreliable, so that considerable effort was required to unravel the intricate nomenclature, synonymy, and typification of the species. This revision (the first since 1862) also includes full descriptions, diagnostic characters, photographs, illustrations, and distribution maps. The red data list status of five of the threatened species is given.
23028984|Most perennial species of Erodium have medium to high pollen/ovule (P/O) ratios and are dichogamous mixed-mating species endemic to the mountain ranges of the Mediterranean. In contrast, the annual species of this genus, which are often adapted to disturbed sites, are adichogamous selfers with low P/O ratios and wide distributions. According to the present reconstruction of the evolution of Erodium, recurrent perennial to annual shifts occurred from a time earlier than the establishment of the Mediterranean climate during the Pleistocene. The diversification of the terminal clades containing annuals and perennials is dated to 6.42 Mya, between the onset of the Messinian (Miocene) and the end of the Pliocene. By adapting to several types of breeding systems (mixed-mating and selfing), many species of Erodium were able to meet the challenges of climatic deterioration and the changes in pollinators that took place at the end of the Tertiary. High selfing and an annual lifespan seem to have evolved multiple times together, but reversions may also have occurred. Within-plant variation of herkogamy and dichogamy may represent adaptations to variation in the pollinator community during dry or cold periods.
23028985|Four species of Eugenia are newly proposed for Madagascar. Eugenia ardyceae and Eugenia louisae occur in the southeast region near Tolagnaro; Eugenia nosibensis is restricted to Nosy Be off of the northern coast; and E. lacerosepala occurs in the northeast. Eugeina ardyceae and E. nosibensis each are known from several gatherings, E. louisae is known from two collections, and E. lacerosepala is known only from the type collection. Eugenia nosibensis is relatively common in the Lokobe Rserve Intgrale, and its fruits are eaten by black lemurs (Eulemur macaco). The recommended conservation status for the species based on the IUCN criteria is Endangered for Eugenia lacerosepala and E. louisae, and Vulnerable for E. ardyceae and E. nosibensis. The importance of noting and reporting the local relative abundance of species when they are collected is discussed, particularly in remote, biodiversity-rich areas that are rarely visited. Such information helps later workers formulate conservation recommendations and aids in the prioritizing of later field trips that target rare taxa for further study.
23028986|Molecular and morphological data have shown that Bombacoideae and Malvoideae together form a well-supported Malvatheca clade. Phylogenetic relationships in Bombacoideae have been studied, but some genera in Bombax s. l. have not been adequately sampled for sufficiently variable molecular markers. The relationships of Eriotheca, for example, have yet to be resolved. Here, nuclear (ITS) and chloroplast (trnL-F and matK) sequence data from 50 exemplars of Bombacoideae and seven additional taxa from other genera of Malvatheca were used to test monophyly of Eriotheca and its relationships with related genera of Bombax s. l. Parsimony and Bayesian analyses of individual and combined sequence data suggest that Eriotheca is not monophyletic as currently circumscribed but forms a paraphyletic grade containing Pachira s. l. The newly discovered Eriotheca + Pachira clade has a probable synapomorphy of striate seeds. In addition, two other moderately supported clades emerged within the core Bombacoideae: Pseudobombax + Ceiba s. l. and Bombax + Spirotheca + Pachira quinata. These three clades, and the African Rhodognaphalon together constitute the major clade of core Bombacoideae, whereas Adansonia appears to be more closely related to Catostemma, Scleronema, and Cavanillesia. The phylogenetic results imply three independent migrations from the New to Old World and homoplasy in staminal morphology.
23028987|Recent phylogenetic work has increased our knowledge of the relationships within Polygonaceae. However, few studies have explored the generic relationships within Eriogonoideae. Two understudied genera are Triplaris and Ruprechtia (tribe Triplarideae), a group of approximately 55 Neotropical species of trees, shrubs, and lianas. The generic classification of Triplaris and Ruprechtia has been unstable mostly due to different taxonomic interpretations and the difficulty of characterizing each genus morphologically. Although some studies have proposed diagnostic morphological characters for each, most have exceptions. In this study, we explored the phylogenetic relationships of 32 species of Triplaris and Ruprechtia using four chloroplast (matK, ndhF, rps16-trnK, ndhC-trnV), and two nuclear regions (ITS, second intron of Leafy). Results confirm the monophyly of Triplaris, but Ruprechtia is polyphyletic. To maintain monophyletic genera, two new names are proposed: Magoniella and Salta. The two new genera are formally described and morphological synapomorphies are proposed for the four genera of Triplaridae. Three species are transferred to these new genera, Salta triflora, Magoniella laurifolia, and M. obidensis.
23028988|Taxonomic problems in Mentzelia section Bartonia (Loasaceae) are addressed using phylogeny reconstructions based on nuclear ribosomal DNA sequences from the ITS and ETS regions. Our results indicate sect. Bartonia is monophyletic and consists of two wellsupported, species-rich clades. One of these two deepest clades consists of the Great Plains M. decapetala and a group of species centered in the North American intermountain region that have been described as subshrubby; whereas, the second deepest clade is more widespread and includes taxa from the Chihuahuan and Sonoran deserts as well as the Great Plains, Rocky Mountains, and intermountain region. Hypothesis tests applying the Shimodaira-Hasegawa (SH) test and Bayes factors (BF) rejected unequivocally the monophyly of (1) the 'subshrubby' group, suggesting multiple origins of the 'subshrubby' form; (2) M. multicaulis s. 1., which consists of disparate clades we propose as separate species; and (3) M. multiflora s. 1., which was recovered as highly polyphyletic. Hypothesis tests were equivocal, however, in regard to the monophyly of (1) M. marginata, M. paradoxensis, and M. cronquistii; (2) M. oreophila s. 1.; and (3) M. pumila s. 1. We suggest following narrow taxonomic approaches to the circumscriptions of M. multicaulis, M. multiflora, and M. pumila and advocate further studies of M. oreophila and the complex including of M. marginata, M. paradoxensis, and M. cronquistii. Our results provide the most comprehensive phylogenetic hypothesis of sect. Bartonia to date, however, more variable markers will be needed to resolve a well supported phylogeny.
23028989|A new species, Impatiens shimianensis (Balsaminaceae), is described and illustrated. Impatiens shimianensis is morphologically most similar to I. delavayi in having ovate or ovate-orbicular leaves, crenate leaf margins, and bilobed spurs. The two species differ in that I. shimianensis has an orbicular upper petal of lateral united petals and shortly clawed lateral united petals while I. delavayi has a subtetragonous upper petal of lateral united petals and conspicuously clawed lateral united petals. The upper portion of the lower sepal of I. shimianensis is yellow and the lower portion of the lower sepal has brown stripes, whereas the whole lower sepal of I. delavayi is dark purple or pink. In addition, the petals of I. shimianensis are yellow or whitish yellow, whereas those of I. delavayi are dirty yellow or pink. Phylogenetic analyses based on DNA sequences from the nuclear internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and the chloroplast atpB-rbcL intergenic spacer showed that I. shimianensis fell within a well-supported clade composed of I. barbata, I. corchorifolia, I. delavayi, and I. poculifer. In addition to these species, a few other morphologically similar species that were not sampled for the molecular phylogenetic component of this study were compared with the species newly discovered. Impatiens shimianensis can easily be distinguished morphologically from all these species by its yellowish white flowers, dark red spur tip, and purple abaxial leaf surface.
23028990|The last treatment of Gonolobinae (Apocynaceae, Asclepiadoideae) in the West Indies is over a hundred years old and a number of new species have been described since. Although Fischeria and Gonolobus s. s. were revised recently, a complementary, comprehensive, recent regional treatment of Matelea s. 1. is lacking. Considering the rarity of taxa of Matelea s. 1. in the West Indies, thirty-three of thirty-six taxa are endemic to a single island each, and that nearly half of the known species have been described since Schlechter's treatment of 1899, the objective of the present study is to provide a synopsis of the genus in the area to facilitate field recognition and future collections. The treatment is based on critical study of ca. 250 specimens of the fifty-some known species in Caribbean Gonolobinae, fieldwork in the region, and molecular analyses. In addition to a comprehensive key and descriptions, illustrations of the complex gynostegial coronas are provided here for the first time for numerous taxa. A new combination is made in Matelea for Gonolobus haitiensis: Matelea haitiensis.
23028991|Phinaea, in the currently accepted circumscription, is a genus in the flowering plant family Gesneriaceae with three widely disjunct species. These species are known from small populations in Mexico, northern South America, and the West Indies (Cuba and Haiti), respectively. Phinaea pulchella is one of the few members of the tribe Gloxinieae that occurs naturally in the West Indies and it is the only member of the tribe endemic to that region. It was rediscovered in Cuba in 2008, more than fifty years after it was last documented. Results from molecular data generated from the nrDNA ITS and cpDNA trnL-F regions strongly support that P. pulchella does not group with other Phinaea species and instead shares a recent common ancestor with Diastema vexans in a clade that is sister to Pearcea and Kohleria. The phylogenetic placement of P. pulchella suggests that radial floral symmetry and buzz-pollination is autapmorphic in this taxon. Our results strongly support convergence of radial symmetry and associated characters with buzz-pollination in the following taxa in the tribe Gloxinieae: Niphaea, Phinaea s. s., Phinaea pulchella, and Amalophyllon. New generic circumscriptions based on the results presented here are not suggested until more complete taxon sampling includes additional species currently recognized in Amalophyllon.
23028992|Two new species of Capsicum from the Caatinga Biome (Brazil) are described and illustrated. The two species are endemic to the north-eastern states of Brazil (C. caatingae: Bahia, Pernambuco, and north of Minas Gerais; C. longidentatum: center of Bahia and Pernambuco) and are morphologically similar to another caatinga species, C. parvifolium. Lectotypification and a complete description for C. parvifolium, which has been confused in the literature and herbaria, are also provided. The karyotype for the three species (2n = 2x = 24) is analyzed and discussed, and a key to differentiate the endemic Capsicum species from Brazil is included.
23028993|A new species of Chevreulia (Asteraceae: Gnaphalieae) from southern Brazil is described in this work. Chevreulia revoluta A. A. Schneid. & R. Trevis. is characterized by leaves larger than seven mm long, opposite, divergent, linear, with upper surface glabrous and rostrate cypselae. A description is provided as well as a detailed illustration and taxonomic comments. In addition an analytical key to distinguish the species of the genus is included. Una nueva especie de Chevreulia (Asteraceae: Gnaphalieae) del sur de Brasil se describe en este trabajo. Chevreulia revoluta A. A. Schneid. & R. Trevis. se caracteriza por presentar hojas opuestas, divergentes, lineares, ms de siete mm de largo, con la superficie adaxial glabra y cipselas rostradas. En este trabajo se incluye la descripcin, una ilustracin detallada y comentarios taxonmicos. Adems, se presenta una clave para identificar las especies del gnero.
23028994|Allocephalus gamolepis is newly described here for the tribe Vernonieae (Compositae). The new genus, placed in subtribe Dypterocypselinae, is clearly distinct from other genera of subtribe by its capitula in axillary glomerules or spikelets, involucres with fused phyllaries and a biseriate pappus with an outer series of short setae and an inner series of longer flattened bristles. A key for the genera of Dypterocypselineae is provided.
23028995|The genus Lilaeopsis (Apiaceae subfamily Apioideae) comprises 15 species and exhibits both American amphitropic and amphiantarctic patterns of disjunction. The group is difficult taxonomically because of its simplified habit, phenotypic plasticity of vegetative characters, and extensive variation in fruit characters. Sequence data from the nrDNA ITS and cpDNA rps16 intron and rps16-trnK intergenic spacer regions were obtained for 60 accessions, representing 13 species of Lilaeopsis and five closely related outgroup genera from the North American Endemics clade of tribe Oenantheae. These molecular data were subjected to maximum parsimony, Bayesian inference, and dispersal-vicariance analyses in an effort to reconstruct evolutionary relationships and infer biogeographic scenarios. The results suggest that: (1) L. macloviana, L. masonii, and L. occidentalis, distributed in western South America and western North America, collectively represent a single, polymorphic species of amphitropic distribution; (2) The Australasian species L. brisbanica, L. novae-zelandiae, L. polyantha, and L. ruthiana comprise a well-supported clade. However, L. novae-zelandiae is not monophyletic, but may be rendered so by the inclusion of all Australasian taxa into one polymorphic species; (3) L. mauritiana from Mauritius is closely related to L. brasiliensis from South America and may even be subsumed under the latter pending further investigation; and (4) Lilaeopsis probably originated in South America following a dispersal of its ancestor from North America. A minimum of seven dispersal events is necessary to explain its present-day distribution, including one dispersal from South America to Australia or New Zealand, two dispersals between Australia and New Zealand, and three dispersals from South America to North America.
23028996|The pantropical genus Schefflera is represented by ca. 300 species in the American tropics, but due to limited sampling of the Neotropical species in previous phylogenetic studies of the genus, the monophyly of this group has remained tentative. To test this, an existing family-wide dataset of ITS and trnLtrnF sequences was expanded, and relationships were explored further by assembling new ITS and ETS datasets using a representative sampling from most of the morphological and geographical diversity of the group. These results were also used to test an informal, morphology-based classification of Neotropical Schefflera. Results of the phylogenetic analyses confirm the monophyly of Neotropical Schefflera, and its placement in the Asian Palmate clade of Araliaceae. Four clades were consistently recovered from all analyses, informally called the Calyptrate, Tremula, Jahnii, and Eastern South American clades, each of which corresponds closely to the previously recognized morphological groupings. The Eastern South American clade includes species from the Crepinella and Didymopanax groups, forming two geographically centered subclades (the Guayana Shield and Brazilian subclades, respectively). The composition of the Calyptrate clade overlaps considerably with the Neotropical elements of the Sciodaphyllum group, excluding S. tremula. That species, an Hispaniolan endemic, was instead sister to a Puerto Rican species from the Crepinella group (S. gleasonii), providing a third example of geographic structuring among Neotropical Schefflera species.
41416898|Changes to the International Code of Botanical Nomenclature are decided on every six years at Nomenclature Sections associated with International Botanical Congresses (IBC). The XVIII IBC was held in Melbourne, Australia; the Nomenclature Section met on 1822 July 2011 and its decisions were accepted by the Congress at its plenary session on 30 July. Several important changes were made to the Code as a result of this meeting that will affect publication of new names. Two of these changes will come into effect on 1 January 2012, some months before the Melbourne Code is published. Electronic material published online in Portable Document Format (PDF) with an International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) or an International Standard Book Number (ISBN) will constitute effective publication, and the requirement for a Latin description or diagnosis for names of new taxa will be changed to a requirement for a description or diagnosis in either Latin or English. In addition, effective from 1 January 2013, new names of organisms treated as fungi must, in order to be validly published, include in the protologue (everything associated with a name at its valid publication) the citation of an identifier issued by a recognized repository (such as MycoBank). Draft text of the new articles dealing with electronic publication is provided and best practice is outlined. To encourage dissemi nation of the changes made to the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants, this article will be published in Brittonia, Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society, BMC Evolutionary Biology, Cladistics, Mycotaxon, MycoKeys, New Phytologist, North American Fungi, Novon, Opuscula Philolichenum, PhytoKeys, Phytoneuron, Phytotaxa, Plant Diversity and Resources, Systematic Botany, and Taxon.
41416899|Taxithelium, a moss genus traditionally associated with Sematophyllaceae and characterized by the presence of multiple papillae over the cell lumina, is revised with a worldwide perspective. Taxithelium subgenus Taxithelium comprises eight species. Endemic species include one each from Brazil, Africa, and South America, four from southeast Asia, and one species that occurs in both Africa and South America. Typifications, keys, descriptions, and illustrations are provided.
41416900|Osmunda subgenus Osmunda is variable across its worldwide range. In addition to the three species assigned to the subgenus, there is an enigmatic group of plants in Laos and Myanmar. To reveal the taxonomic and evolutionary status of these plants, we performed taxonomic, cytological, and flow-cytometric analyses, and molecular phylogenetic analyses for 32 samples of subgenus Osmunda for three nuclear DNA markers and the chloroplast rbcL gene. Results show that the enigmatic plants are a tetraploid (n = 44, 2n = 88) of hybrid origin from Osmunda regalis and O. japonica, which is described as Osmunda hybrida sp. nov. This is the first record of a naturally occurring polyploid species in the most primitive leptosporangiate family Osmundaceae, previously thought to be diploid throughout. Molecular data suggest that Indian O. regalis is a putative maternal ancestor and O. japonica is a paternal ancestor. Osmunda hybrida shares the fully dimorphic or partially dimorphic leaves with its parental species. Osmunda hybrida presumably originated by interspecific hybridization and polyploidization when the parental species overlapped or less likely via long-distance gametophyte interaction following spore dispersal.
41416901|The clover fern Marsilea azorica was described in 1983 from the isolated Azores archipelago in the northern Atlantic, where it is restricted to a single roadside pond. Thought to be an extremely local endemic, it was subsequently listed as a conservation priority species for the Azores, Macaronesia, and Europe, included as 'critically endangered' on the IUCN red list, and as 'strictly protected' species by the Bern convention and the European Union's habitats directive. However, we present morphological and molecular data (rbcL gene, rps4 gene, rps4-trnS spacer and trnL-trnF spacer sequences), which demonstrate that M. azorica is conspecific with M. hirsuta, a species native to Australia, but widely cultivated and locally invasive in the southern U. S. A. Based on our DNA data, we conclude that these plants are most likely a recent introduction to the Azores from Florida. We recommend removal of Azorean Marsilea from conservation priority lists. While there is no evidence that the small existing population threatens native species, further spread in the Azores should be prevented.
41416902|A new fern species, Polystichum fengshanense, is described and illustrated from nine karst caves in northern Guangxi, China. It is a member of Polystichum sect. Haplopolystichum (Dryopteridaceae). A phylogenetic analysis based on chloroplast trnL-F sequences suggests that the new species is most closely related to P. cavernicola, P. minutissimum, and P. speluncicola, species described from karst caves in adjacent southern Guizhou. Morphologically, P. fengshanense can be easily distinguished from these three species by having narrow-type microscales on the abaxial laminar surface, sessile pinnae, and sori closer to the midrib. Palynologically, P. fengshanense has granulate perispore sculpturing, whereas P. cavernicola has verrucate perispore sculpturing and P. speluncicola has cristate perispore sculpturing with numerous spinules. Polystichum fengshanense is considered to be critically endangered (CR) based on IUCN red list criteria because of its restricted distribution.
41416903|Pleopeltis polypodioides is a widespread Neotropical epiphytic fern consisting of six varieties and one subspecies. Objectives of this study were to assess placement of Polypodium polypodioides within the genus Pleopeltis, the monophyly of PI. polypodioides, and the relationships and geographic patterns among its infraspecific taxa. Two plastid DNA regions (trnL UAA -trnF GAA and psbA-trnH GUG ) were sequenced for individuals across Pl. polypodioides geographic range. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and network analysis of cpDNA sequences were performed revealing evidence for seven haplotype lineages. The seven lineages, based on sister relationships, can be reduced to four clades within the Pleopeltis polypodioides complex, each of which have distinctive geographic ranges. Clade 1 (Pl. p. vars. burchellii and polypodioides) was found primarily in South America and the Caribbean basin. Clade 2 (Pl. p. subsp. ecklonii) is restricted to southern Africa. Clade 3 (Pl. p. vars. knoblochianum and acicularis) was found only in the north and western regions of Mexico. Clade 4 (Pl. p. vars. acicularis and michauxiana) extends from northeastern and southern Mexico into the U. S. A. and the northern Bahaman Archipelago. Analyses of the data did not fully support the monophyly of Pl. polypodioides; however the majority of the recovered clades correspond to currently defined taxa. Our analyses is of special interest in that it takes a population level approach to a molecular phylogenetic study and provides clarity to a taxonomic group that has proved difficult to elucidate. The results have added to a growing body of evidence that suggests Pl. polypodioides may consist of more than one species.
41416904|Scanning electron microscopy has allowed the characterization of cell pattern and ornamentation of the bulb coat, leaf, and seed coat, thereby improving and providing consistency to the taxonomy of Allium. However, the pollination biology and taxonomic understanding of Allium is far from complete, in part because floral structures have been investigated in detail for only a few species. Accordingly, this study provides a description and micro- and macromophological comparative analysis of floral characteristics (including the adjacent bulbils of A. geyeri var. tenerum) of four New World Allium species (A. cernuum, A. geyeri var. tenerum, A. stellatum, and A. textile). Observations of fresh material demonstrated that A. geyeri var. tenerum is distinguished from the closely related A. textile by a larger perianth with elliptical tepals (as opposed to ovate to oblong), filaments slightly shorter than tepals (as opposed to 2/3 as long as tepals), and globose young inflorescences (as opposed to ellipsoid). Ridged cuticles from a variety of floral parts have often been reported in Allium as the main type of epidermal cell covering; results from this study indicate that shape and distribution of cuticles are of systematic significance in conjunction with location of the septal nectary opening, development of ovarian processes, and shape of anther apexes. The presence of ovarian processes is considered a recently derived character; we hypothesize that these structures function as non-secretory visual attractants to pollinators, and in concert with broader inner filaments and clearly concave inner tepals may also represent a special adaptation to facilitate retention of abundant nectar secreted in nodding flowers of A. cernuum and in widely spreading flowers of A. stellatum.
41416905|A recent phylogenetic study based on molecular data indicates that Licuala (Arecaceae: Palmae) is not monophyletic. A highly supported group of species is resolved separately from Licuala and the rest of the Livistoninae, and is closely related to Johannesteijsmannia, requiring that the segregate group be placed in a new genus. In this study, a phylogeny based on seven gene regions resolves highly supported generic relationships of the Livistoninae. A survey of Licala specimens from several herbaria indicates that, based on morphology, eight species should be recognized within this genus. A complete description of the new genus, Lanonia, is given. A review of morphology distinguishes synapomorphies in leaf morphology and dioecy of Lanonia species. All eight species are described with complete synonymy, their distributions are mapped, and lists of specimens examined are given. One species occurs in Hainan, one in Java, and six are endemic or nearly endemic to Vietnam. The following new combinations are made: L. acaulis, L. calciphila, L. centralis, L. dasyantha, L. gracilis, L. hainanensis, L. hexasepala, and L. magalonii.
41416906|A new species of Merostachys from the Bolivian Yungas, Merostachys yungasensis, is described and illustrated. Merostachys yungasensis is compared to other taxa distributed in Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay, and Peru, in a table based on morphological characters. Additional micromorphological characters of foliage leaf blade and cauline epidermis are included. In Argentina two species are confirmed: M. claussenii and M. multiramea; the latter species constitutes a new report for this country and is excluded from Paraguay. The specific epithet of M. claussenii is emended, and a lectotype is here designated. Two new synonyms are recognized for M. claussenii and its presence is confirmed from Paraguay after an analysis of previous reports based on misidentifications. The taxa are illustrated. A key for the identification of the species, based on vegetative and reproductive characters, is also provided. Se describe e ilustra Merostachys yungasensis, una nueva especie propia de los Yungas de Bolivia. Merostachys yungasensis se compara con otros taxones, distribuidos en Argentina, Bolivia, Paraguay, y Per, en una tabla basada en caracteres morfolgicos. Se incluyen estudios micromorfolgicos de la epidermis caulinar y foliar. En la Argentina se reconocen dos especies: M. claussenii y M. multiramea; sta ltima constituye una nueva cita para el pas y se excluye de Paraguay. El epteto especfico de M. claussenii ha sido enmendado y se designa aqu el lectotipo. Dos nuevos sinnimos son reconocidos para M. claussenii y se confirma su presencia en Paraguay luego del anlisis de registros previos basados en identificaciones errneas. Los taxones se ilustran. Se provee una clave, basada en caracteres vegetativos y reproductivos, para la identificacin de las especies.
41416907|Clematis, a largely temperate genus of vines and lianas, consists of approximately 300 species. Based on a sampling of about 75 species, sequences of the nrlTS, the plastid atpB-rbcL spacer, psbA-trnH-trnQ spacer, and rpoB-trnC spacer regions were analyzed using parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian inference methods. Analyses of the combined data set by the three methods yielded similar topologies. Previously recognized genera including Archiclematis and Naravelia are nested within Clematis, supporting the merging of these genera within Clematis. Ten major clades with various levels of support were detected in the combined analyses. Our results in general do not support previous infrageneric classifications based on morphological characters and suggest significant convergence in floral and vegetative characters in Clematis. Several clades were resolved as regional geographic groups. Bayesian dating suggests a relatively ancient origin of the genus in the Oligocene, yet a relatively recent species radiation of the crown Clematis in the Miocene. Geologic and climatic changes in the late Tertiary to Quaternary are perhaps important for the speciation of Clematis, especially in eastern Asia. Long-distance dispersal of the fruits by wind, water, and/or animals and strong environmental adaptability, are proposed as the main mechanisms for the current cosmopolitan distribution and high species diversity of Clematis.
41416908|Maytenus s. 1. (including Gymnosporia) is a morphologically diverse genus of about 300 species that is widely distributed in the tropics and subtropics of both the Old and New Worlds. Its delimitation has been extensively debated and despite the segregation of Gymnosporia, Maytenus s. s. remains a heterogeneous, polyphyletic group. To delimit natural segregate genera we increased taxon sampling and generated sequences from two nuclear gene regions (ITS and 26S rDNA) and two plastid loci (matK and trnLF) to analyze together with morphological characters. Both Moya and Tricerma were found to be nested within the New World Maytenus and are recognized as synonyms of Maytenus s. s.. In contrast, the three New World species of Gymnosporia are recognized as a new genus that is closely related to Gyminda. Haydenia is erected for these three species: H. gentryi, H. haberiana, and H. urbaniana. One or more previously proposed or novel genera are required to accommodate the systematically difficult African Maytenus. Putterlickia, and most likely Gloveria, are nested within Gymnosporia and should be synonymized with that genus. New binomials are required for four Chinese and one Rapan species of Gymnosporia that have been previously treated only as Maytenus: Gymnosporia austroyunnanensis, G. confertiflora, G. dongfangensis, G. guangxiensis, and G. pertinax. Austral-Pacific Maytenus are transferred to Denhamia, requiring eight new binomials: Denhamia bilocularis, D. cunninghamii, D. cupularis, D. disperma, D. fasciculiflora, O. ferdinandii, D. fournieri, and D. silvestris. Existing intrageneric classifications of Gymnosporia and Maytenus s. s. were not supported in their entirety. Gymnosporia is inferred to have had an African origin followed by dispersals to Madagascar, southeast Asia and the Austral-Pacific.
41416909|Phyllanthus kidna, the only tree species of Phyllanthus from Cameroon, is described and analysed. Its combination of bilocular berries and two connate stamens indicate no clear affiliation with any known species or infrageneric group within Phyllanthus. Molecular phylogenetic analyses place it as sister to the Indian and East African species Phyllanthus pinnatus and it is also closely related to the New World species of P. acidus and P. chacoensis. Only five individuals are currently known and the species is assessed as critically endangered. The proposed Mefou National Park near Yaounde could save this species from extinction.
41416910|Protium section Papilloprotium and Protium alvarezianum are described and a key to the four species of the section provided. The section is distinguished principally by its papillate abaxial leaflet surface, and the petals saccate at base and villous adaxially The rather widespread edaphic generalist P. ferrugineum shares a common ancestor with two small clades, one containing two white-sand specialists (P. reticulatum and P. alvarezianum) that appear to have diverged from a common ancestor allopatrically via fragmentation of white-sand habitats, and the other exhibiting degrees of edaphic specialization among variants of P. subserratum. This scenario highlights the role of edaphic heterogeneity as a driver in the diversification of the Amazon flora.
41416911|Cardiospermum bahianum, a new species from Bahia, Brazil, is described, illustrated, and compared to its putative closest relatives C. anomalum and C. cuchujaquense. The new species is endemic to the caatinga vegetation. In addition, micromorphological characters of leaf epidermis, seed coat, and pollen grains are described. A somatic chromosome number of 2n = 36 is reported. Detailed light and scanning electron microscope photographs of the main characters are presented. The new species belongs to Cardiospermum section Carphospermum. It is distinguished from the similar C. anomalum by its conspicuous lenticels, seeds nearly spherical, and it differs in chromosome number. Additionally, new synonymies for C. anomalum are established. A key to the species of Cardiospermum in Brazil is provided.
41416912|Descurainia is a genus in the Brassicaceae distributed throughout portions of the temperate Old and New World. The genus is most diverse in western North America and western South America, with a smaller center of distribution in the Canary Islands and three additional Old World species. Descurainia is well known for its taxonomic complexity, especially within New World species, on account of its numerous intergrading forms coupled with circumscriptions dependent upon inconsistent and overlapping characters. A molecular-based analysis of Descurainia was conducted using DNA sequences from nuclear ribosomal ITS and non-coding cpDNA regions. Descurainia and related genera form the monophyletic tribe Descurainieae, which is divided into two lineages: 1) Hornungia and Tropidocarpum and 2) Descurainia (including Hugueninia), Ianhedgea, and Robeschia. The genus is strongly-supported as monophyletic, and appears to be of Old World origin with recent diversification within the Canary Islands and the New World. Within the New World, three major well-supported lineages can be identified, with South American taxa distributed into four clades that correlate well with fruit dehiscence and orientation. A phylogeny recovered from combined ITS and cpDNA data is not well-resolved with respect to relationships between some major New World lineages, but suggests that multiple independent dispersals of Descurainia have taken place between North and South America. Substantial incongruence between ITS and cpDNA phylogenies, as well as the presence of mixed ITS sequences, point to a complex evolutionary history involving extensive gene flow and hybridization for North American Descurainia.
41416913|Many collectors avoid collecting cacti (Cactaceae) and other succulent plants because they are unsure of how to preserve cacti as herbarium specimens. However, preserved specimens of cacti are valuable and crucial for research and conservation. This paper addresses techniques for collection and processing of cacti to make herbarium specimens, with particular reference to the use of ethanol to aid drying.
41416914|Previous phylogenetic studies based on DNA sequence data from the genic regions ndhF, matK, atpBrbcL (cpDNA) and ITS 2 (nrDNA) strongly support the monophyly of the wintergreen group (Ericaceae: Gaultherieae: Diplycosia, Gaultheria, Tepuia) and have assessed the relationships of its major clades. Other studies that include additional genic regions have been limited to two clades corresponding to various sections or series within Gaultheria. Here we expand both the number of species (from 42 to 104) and genic regions (chloroplast matK, ndhF, rpl16, trnLtrnF, trnStrnG, and the complete ITS region) to further assess phylogenetic relationships in the wintergreen group. With the additional data we detected several areas of incongruence between the trees from the nuclear and combined chloroplast analyses, including a topologically deep conflict involving G. procumbens. Such incongruence likely originated from reticulation events, long considered to have influenced the evolution of various lineages in Gaultheria. We also detected a duplication, possibly nuclear-encoded, of the matK region in one of the Australian/New Zealand lineages. A combined six-gene analysis, in which taxa involved in the conflicting topologies were excluded, yielded higher support values for several early-diverging clades. The monophyly of both Diplycosia and Tepuia is corroborated, as is the successive nesting of Tepuia, G. section Hispidulae (both placements of which have newfound strong support), G. ser. Gymnobotrys, and Diplycosia. Whereas several sections or series with more than one species in the most recent classification of Gaultheria are supported as circumscribed (i.e. G. section Amblyandra and series Hispidulae, Myrtilloideae, and Trichophyllae), others comprise species from two to several different clades.
41416915|This paper provides descriptions and illustrations of two new species of Pouteria from the Atlantic forest of Bahia, Brazil (P. atlantica and P. trifida). In addition, distribution maps and a table with main characters to distinguish the new species from related taxa are also included. Pouteria atlantica is characterized by large trichomes that cover the corolla lobes, anther's outer surface, and form tufts on the apex of anthers. Pouteria trifida is distinguished by its long petioles and trifid staminodes. Due to intense deforestation in the Atlantic forest, preliminary IUCN red list assessments are provided. Pouteria atlantica is proposed in the IUCN status critically endangered (CR), while the data for P. trifida are still insufficient.
41416916|Milkweeds (Asclepias s. 1., Apocynaceae) are characteristic perennial herbs of grasslands in North America and Africa that have long served as models for studying the evolutionary ecology of plant reproduction and plant defense. Generic circumscription of Asclepias has been long debated with recent workers favoring delimitation on geographic grounds; Asclepias s. s. is limited to the Americas and only segregate genera are recognized for African species. A widely used system introduced by Woodson classifies North American Asclepias into nine subgenera, with the largest subgenus, Asclepias, further divided into eight series. We investigated the phylogeny of Asclepias using three noncoding loci from the plastid genome: rpl16 intron, trnC GCA rpoB spacer, and the adjacent trnS GCU trnG UUC spacer and trnG UUC intron. Parsimony, likelihood, and Bayesian analyses were conducted to evaluate hypotheses of continental and taxonomic monophyly. Hypothesis tests were conducted under the parsimony and likelihood criteria. We found moderate support for the monophyly of American Asclepias s. s. and for all but one representative of African Asclepias s. 1. Within the Amerian clade, South American species are strongly supported as monophyletic and derived from North American ancestors. Only one of Woodson's 17 infrageneric taxa was found to be monophyletic. Monophyly of more than one half of the remaining 16 taxa could be statistically rejected using a conservative  level. Our results are consistent with taxonomic restriction of Asclepias to American species and single colonization events from Africa to North America and North America to South America. They also point to a need for major restructuring of infrageneric classification and future revsionary work.
41416917|A new species of the Afro-Malagasy genus Phyllopentas Krehed & B. Bremer, Phyllopentas flava Razafim., T. Andriam. et Krehed, is described and illustrated. This plant is restricted to the Itremo region in southeastern Madagascar and is distinct morphologically from the other species of the genus by its pubescent, narrowly ovate to narrowly elliptic leaves, grey-whitish and thickly hairy midribs and secondary veins on the lower surfaces of leaves, and functionally dioecious and heterodistylous flowers. Summaries of distribution, phenology, habitat, and ecology are given and a conservation assessment is also provided.
41416918|A new Hedythyrsus species from Katanga (D. R. Congo), Hedythyrsus katangensis, is described and illustrated based on classic herbarium taxonomy. The generic placement of the new species was determined by comparing it to African genera of the Hedyotis-Oldenlandia complex of the Spermacoceae s. 1. that share the terminal position of the inflorescences and the capsular fruits opening by four valves, i.e. Agathisanthemum, Dibrachionostylus, Hedythyrsus, Mitrasacmopsis, and Pseudonesohedyotis. The new species differs from the known Hedythyrsus species in being geoxylic herbs instead of shrubs, and in having bifid, not multifid, stipules. Within Hedythyrsus katangensis two varieties are recognized. Variety ternifolius is distinguished from the type variety by the position of the leaves (often ternate in var. ternifolius, always opposite in var. katangensis) and the pubescence of stems, ovary, and calyx (scabrous to shortly hairy in var. ternifolius, glabrous in var. katangensis). Following the IUCN red list criteria the species can be classified as near threatened.
41416919|Lepechinia (Lamiaceae subf. Nepetoideae) is a New World genus composed of about 42 species distributed primarily from Northern California to Central Argentina. Previous morphological and molecular studies on Lepechinia have raised questions on the monophyly of the genus and its placement within the tribe Mentheae. In this paper the phylogenetic placement and monophyly of Lepechinia is examined within the context of the tribe Mentheae using cpDNA (ycf1 and trnL-F) and nrDNA (ITS and ETS) markers. Melissa is shown to be sister to Lepechinia in both cpDNA and nrDNA analyses, and the monotypic genera Chaunostoma and Neoeplingia are found to be embedded within Lepechinia. The subtribe Menthinae is shown to be paraphyletic, with several genera needing to be reassigned. In particular, Neoeplingia should be included within the subtribe Salviinae. The genera Heterolamium and Melissa, both previously unplaced with regard to subtribe, are now clearly assigned to the subtribes Nepetinae and Salviinae, respectively. The cpDNA marker ycf1 has great phylogenetic utility, and is shown to be 50% more informative than trnL-F for the taxa used in this study.
41416920|Clerodendrum in Borneo is revised and a key to the 23 taxa recognized is presented. Confusion surrounding application of certain names and species circumscriptions is dispelled. Two new combinations, Clerodendrum japonicum var. bethuneanum and Clerodendrum pubiflorum, are made. Clerodendrum sayapense is a new species from Sabah.
41416921|Solanum morelliforme is an epiphytic wild potato (Solanum section Petota) species widely distributed throughout central Mexico to Honduras. A strikingly disjunct (approximately 4,000 km) population was recently discovered in Bolivia, representing the first record of this species in South America, and the first species in the section growing in both North and Central America and in South America. Our maximum entropy analysis of 19 climatic variables matches the occurrence of the South American locality with great precision. It demonstrates the strong predictive quality of this procedure and suggests similar localities where this species may be found, especially along the eastern slopes of the Andes in the Yungas region of southern Peru and Bolivia. In addition, the presence of S. morelliforme in South America adds to emerging data from yet other sources to question long-held hypotheses of the origin of section Petota in North and Central America.
41416922|Solanum section Herpystichum includes 10 species of ground-trailing and climbing vines that root adventitiously at the nodes. Molecular data support section Herpystichum as a member of the Potato clade of Solanum. All of the species inhabit primary and secondary rainforests and occur from southern Mexico to northern Peru. The group is defined by its vining, node-rooting habit, and by its fruit structure; several species have strongly flattened fruits that are unique in Solanum. Most species of sect. Herpystichum have narrow distributions, and four species are endemic to Ecuador and one is endemic to Colombia. Moreover, they tend to be rare in the habitats where they occur and, as a result, are poorly collected and poorly known. Also, because of their restricted distributions, small numbers of populations, and habitat destruction, seven of the 10 species are considered rare and threatened. Descriptions, distribution maps, a phylogeny, photos or illustrations, and a key to the species are presented.
41416923|Analysis of ITS sequence data showed unexpected complexity for Eupatorium album and E. petaloideum, a closely related species pair from eastern North America that has been considered to form a single species. The two species consistently differed in ITS sequence by seven to eight bp as well as a one bp indel, and detailed analysis revealed little intraspecific variation. The ITS sequences of other samples that had similar but slightly differing morphology and were pollen sterile gave several patterns involving bp or indel polymorphisms that indicated that they were of hybrid derivation. Based on differences in leaf and phyllary shape and glandular trichome distribution it was possible to delimit the individual hybrid combinations from one another and from their progenitor species. Material previously called E. album from the western part of its range is of hybrid origin from E. album and E. lancifolium, and is described here as Eupatorium sullivaniae. Material from the northeastern part of the range previously called E. album var. subvenosum is a hybrid derivative of E. petaloideum and E. hyssopifolium, elevated here to Eupatorium subvenosum. Samples having the general morphology previously associated with E. album var. vaseyi included hybrid derivatives of the combinations E. petaloideum /E. sessilifolium, here reinstated as E. vaseyi, and E. petaloideum/E. sessilifolium/E. perfoliatum, here reinstated as E. fernaldii. Other samples gave ITS sequence data consistent with a derivation from E. album/E. hyssopifolium. The species of hybrid derivation have geographic ranges that extend beyond those of the inferred progenitors, in the case of E. subvenosum involving a disjunction of several hundred kilometers, suggesting that there have been considerable differences in species ranges over time.
41416924|The cosmopolitan genus Nymphoides contains approximately 50 species that vary considerably in growth habit, inflorescence architecture, and in vegetative, floral, and seed morphology. We undertook a phylogenetic study of 31 Nymphoides species, including all species native to Australia, to evaluate interspecific relationships and to infer the evolution of heterostyly and inflorescence architecture. Phylogenetic analysis of morphological data resolved several clades of species, but with poor branch support. Molecular data from nuclear (ITS) and plastid (matK/trnK) DNA sequences were significantly incongruent regarding the phylogenetic placement of many clades and species Two major clades were resolved consistently: a clade sister to N. mininta and the clade comprising these two lineages. Incongruent phylogenetic placements of several Nymphoides species were attributed to putative ancestral hybridization that produced conflicting phylogenetic signals between the maternally inherited cpDNA and the biparentally inherited nuclear DNA (subsequently homogenized to a single allelic variant by concerted evolution). Ancestral character state reconstruction indicated that the first Nymphoides species were heterostylous, followed by four independent transitions to homostyly and up to four subsequent reversions back to heterostyly. The evolutionary history of dioecy and gynodioecy could not be ascertained with confidence, owing to incomplete taxon sampling, poor resolution of crown clades, and incongruence between nuclear and plastid sequence data. Ancestral state reconstruction also indicated that the expanded inflorescence morphology found in several Australian and tropical Asian Nymphoides species represents the ancestral condition for the genus, from which a condensed morphology (found in most other Nymphoides species worldwide) evolved independently at least twice.
41416925|Ivy (Hedera spp., Araliaceae) is a polyploid complex of woody vines. Native to Eurasia and northern Africa, ivy is cultivated worldwide and has become an aggressive invader of North American forests. Despite its ecological impacts and economic significance to the horticultural industry, the taxonomy of Hedera is controversial and historical relationships are poorly defined. Here we characterize the phylogeny of Hedera based on the low-copy nuclear locus Granule-bound starch synthase I (GBSSI) and twelve non-coding cpDNA regions. Maximum parsimony and Bayesian analyses of both data sets identified Hedera as monophyletic. For GBSSI, we isolated eighteen haplotypes that were widely shared across species. There was no evidence of fixed heterozygosity or haplotype additivity in polyploids, suggesting possible autopolyploid origins. For cpDNA, we isolated sixteen haplotypes that were highly structured by geography. Haplotype diversity and phylogenetic structure were greatest in northern Africa and southern Europe. Thus, while most members of the Araliaceae reside in tropical and subtropical Asia, the early diversification of Hedera probably occurred in the Mediterranean Basin. Geographically-structured clades included diploid and polyploid species, suggesting that genome duplication has occurred repeatedly in the genus. Closely-related ivies often differed in leaf size and trichome morphology, indicating evolutionary lability of traits traditionally used for classification. Nonetheless, we recovered similar or identical DNA sequences within morphologically-defined species. Notable exceptions included southern populations of H. helix (H. helix subsp. caucasigena and H. helix subsp. rhizomatiferd) that had cpDNA haplotypes distinct from those of central and northern Europe (H. helix subsp. helix).
