42905831|The discovery in a swamp at Opito, Coromandel Peninsula, of a rare tuere type of Maori war canoe prow, its removal from New Zealand, sale in Europe to an unknown purchaser, and an unsuccessful enquiry by Interpol, are recorded. The prow is described and compared to others similar in museums in London, Berlin, Florence and Philadelphia and those recorded by Cook and D'Urville. This reveals the wide variation in construction of this type of prow and its late 18th century geographic range from Northland to Hauraki, the Bay of Plenty and the East Coast, with later extensions into Rotorua and the Waikato.
42905832|Auckland Museum was established and opened to the public in 1852, through the work of John Alexander Smith, a merchant. Contemporary newspapers provide information about Smith. The early museum records and letters describe the first building, and the development (and decline) of the collections, which were largely geological, ethnographic and biological. The museum was later moved to other buildings, and this first collection was incorporated into what is now the Auckland Museum Te Papa Whakahiku. Besides Smith, those associated with the museum in its first fifteen years included Elwin and Emma Dickson, George Eliott Eliott, Sir George Grey, Charles Heaphy, Frederick Wollaston Hutton, Ferdinand Hochstetter, Andrew Sinclair, E. Watkins, Frederick Whitaker, John Williamson, and Lt Col R.H. Wynyard. Emma Dickson was probably New Zealand's first woman museum curator.
42905833|A new species of gastropod mollusc, Haliotis (Marinauris) matihetihensis y is described from the early Miocene Otaua Group, at Matihetihe, West Hokianga, Northland. It is the first New Zealand haliotid to be assigned to the subgenus Marinauris. It is the fifth fossil haliotid described from New Zealand, four of which are of Otaian age. The new species has affinities with African and Australian haliotids, suggesting palaeodistribution via the circumpolar Antarctic Current.
42905834|Holocene fossil bones of seals found in sand-dunes at three beaches in the North Cape area, were nearly all identified as New Zealand sea lions Phocarctos hookeri. They included remains of 12 small pups, several of them concentrated in confined areas, indicating that sea lions once bred at Tom Bowling Bay and Waikuku Beach. This is the first evidence of sea lions breeding in the North Island. It is assumed that the North Cape breeding sites were eliminated by the impact of Maori settlement in the area, most probably by hunting. Adult fossil sea lion bones are also reported from Te Werahi Beach (Cape Reinga) and from Ocean Beach, Bream Head.
42905837|British Army and colonial fortifications of theTaranaki Wars in the years 1865-69 are described. During this period European success in the struggle was ensured by the settlement of European farmers on confiscated land, to deny Maori the resources to continue the fight, and at the same time secure the settlers' major objective which was land. Twenty-three forts include earthwork redoubts, and timber stockades and blockhouses. In each case the reason for establishment of the post is outlined, along with a brief history of the military occupation. The form is described from historical evidence and surviving archaeological remains. This is followed by a summary of the form and purpose of European fieldworks in north Taranaki throughout the campaigns of 1860 to 1869.
42905838|Land vertebrates, especially birds, have been an important part of the Auckland Museum collection since the museum's foundation in 1852. Auckland Museum grew rapidly in the last quarter of the 19th Century, at a time when natural history and ethnology museums were flourishing throughout the Western world. This period of growth was expertly guided by T.F. Cheeseman, a botanist, who ran Auckland Museum for nearly 50 years from 1874. The collection of land vertebrates was enhanced by major exchanges of specimens that Cheeseman negotiated with foreign museums, and dealers like H.A. Ward, during the period 1875-1905. The museum's first attempt to show land vertebrates in the context of their habitats were small displays of tuataras and keas in 1886. "Habitat groups" were a constant feature of Auckland Museums natural history displays from 1912. The bird gallery in the 1929 building, continuously improved, served for 40 years. Its replacement in the 1960 extension, containing some large and superb dioramas, remained open for 24 years. This article traces the development of land vertebrates exhibits and reference collections at Auckland Museum to 1996. Staff who had charge of the collections (besides Cheeseman) included L.T. Griffin, G.E. Archey, R.A. Falla and E.G. Turbott. Taxidermists who prepared specimens for the collection included I. St John, A. Reischek, C.F. Adams, L.T. Griffin, C.W. Dover and P.J. O'Brien. Particular attention is given to some of the larger display items, to the oldest specimens in the collection and to the sources of major acquisitions of specimens.
42905839|Changes in a benthic community off Cheltenham Beach were monitored following the rapid die-off of a dense, subtidal (5 m depth) bed of the introduced Asian date mussels (Musculista senhousia). Die-off was followed by a 6-9 month flush of bivalves and polychaetes, which thrived on the nutrient-rich muddy substrate that had built up around the mussels. These high abundances of opportunistic suspension-and deposit-feeders were replaced by a short flush of the predatory and scavenging mud crab (Macrophthalmus hirtipes). Benthos diversity and density progressively declined over a 2-3 year period as the muddy substrate disappeared and the pre-existing sand beneath was exhumed. The muddy substrate of the mussel bed supported a fauna substantially different and richer than that in the background sandy substrate (twice the diversity, five times the density, abundant worms). Three and a half years of monitoring an initially dense bed of native horse mussels (Atrina zelandica) at 14 m depth in Rangitoto Channel indicated rapid growth during their first 3-4 years (35 mm/month length increase). This was followed by the virtually complete loss of the bed over a 2-3 year period (from a density of 200-300/m to 1-35/m), possibly a result of storm scour, shell damage and subsequent predation, or carrying capacity being exceeded as individuals grew. Two and a half years of monitoring recently re-established intertidal seagrass circles (Zostera novozelandica) at Cox's Creek showed mean monthly radial growth rates of 150 mm/month with no significant seasonal variation. If this is the start of the return of flourishing seagrass beds to the Waitemata Harbour shores (lost through a fungal outbreak 50-60 years ago), then it will take several more decades to develop extensive beds. Monthly monitoring of populations of the introduced small semelid bivalve Theora lubrica in a low tidal muddy habitat in Hobson Bay revealed considerable variation in density (30-850/m). During 24 months of monitoring, six cohorts were identified based on the seasonal change in the size composition. These showed slower growth rates and longer-lived populations in cooler months (0.5 mm/month, 6-8 months longevity) than in the summer (2-3 mm/month, 2-3 months longevity). Significant die-offs occurred in spring in both years, but the very low densities of summer 1997-98 were not matched in the summer of 1998-99 when the highest densities were recorded. Cores showed that the majority of Theora lubrica live 10-30 mm below the surface of the substrate. Studies of size distribution of populations at different tidal heights provided no evidence of any migration up or down the shore as they mature. Controlled feeding trials showed that the mud crab Macrophthalmus hirtipes is a major predator of Theora lubrica, with one crab capable of consuming up to seven of these small bivalves/day. Monitoring revealed an apparent correlation between high crab numbers and low Theora densities and suggested that crab predation could control Theora density.
42905840|The Bay of Islands on the east coast of Northland, has the most diverse molluscan fauna of any area of similar size in New Zealand. We record 551 mollusc species (389 gastropods, 139 bivalves, 20 chitons, 2 scaphopods and 1 shelled cephalopod) from intertidal to 60 m depths, estuarine to exposed oceanic, rocky shores to muddy seafloor. The high diversity is a result of the wide range of habitats present and the area's location within the warm waters of the Aupourian Province (east coast of the northern North Island). Indeed 192 Bay of Islands species appear to be largely restricted in New Zealand to this province. At least three subtropical gastropods (Terebra circumcincta, Phenacovolva wakayamaensis. Natica lemniscata) have arrived naturally, established small populations, and then after several years apparently died out in the Bay of Islands. Four bivalves (Crassostrea gigas, Limaria orientalis, Musculista senhousia, Theora lubrica) and one gastropod (Microtralia occidentalis) are believed to be exotic species introduced by shipping. The depth ranges of live molluscan specimens and their dead shells, together with those of other hard-shelled invertebrates, have been compiled from 330 dredge samples from throughout the Bay, supplemented by numerous intertidal and snorkel surveys around shallow rocky areas.
42905841|Six new fossil bivalve species are described from the Early Miocene of Auckland and Northland. All specimens were collected within the Waitakere, Waitemata, and Parengarenga Groups of the Akarana Supergroup. Two bathyal species, Bentharca waitakarensis n. sp. and Euciroa (Euciroa) maoriana n. sp., are from the Manukau Subgroup, Nihotupu Formation, Parekura and Maori Bay Members respectively. Four inner-middle-shelf species, Paphies otaiana n. sp., Chama (Chama) hunua n. sp., and Austrovenus northhndica n. sp. are from the Kawau Subgroup, Tipakuri Sandstone Member, and Donax (Paradonax) parengarengaensis n. sp. was collected from Paratoetoe Formation, Te Pokere Mudstone Member. The genera Bentharca and Donax are new additions to the New Zealand fossil molluscan fauna. Paphies otaiana appears to be a phylogenetic precursor to Paphies porrecta, P. donacina and P. subtriangulata. Austrovenus northlandica, and Chama (Chama) hunua are the first species of these genera to be described from the Miocene of New Zealand.
42905844|This study surveys the published literature on Ulawa bonito canoes to provide a context for the description of a shell-inlaid bonito canoe from Ulawa purchased by Auckland Museum in 1897. The symbolism of the canoe's shell inlay is explained on the basis of a contemporary letter written by Rev. Walter Ivens of the Melanesian Mission, leading to an understanding of the place of bonito fishing in Ulawan culture. Built by the people of Madoa village under the direction of Rev. Clement Marau, the canoe was sold to raise money for a corrugated iron roof on the Madoa Church then under construction. Contemporary accounts of the building of the Madoa Church provide an insight into the role of the Melanesian Mission in the conversion of Ulawa to Christianity and the commodification of Ulawan material culture. These records demonstrate the development of tourist art, especially model canoes and inlaid bowls, on Ulawa in the later decades of the nineteenth century. Questions of authenticity are discussed with regard to the role of the Melanesian Mission and its staff in the production of this bonito canoe and Ulawan tourist art.
42905845|Four hundred and fifty-two species of marine fauna are recorded from Parengarenga, New Zealand's northernmost harbour. This tally comprises 266 molluscs (13 chitons, 179 gastropods, 73 bivalves, 2 cephalopods), 86 crustaceans (including 33 crabs and shrimps, 22 amphipods, 16 isopods, 7 barnacles), 50 polychaete worms, 32 fish, 8 echinoderms and 10 species from other groups. The fauna in Parengarenga's subtidal channels exhibits a zonation corresponding to decreasing salinity and wave exposure from the harbour mouth to the headwaters. The slightly deeper lower harbour channels have a benthic faunal association characterised by four common bivalves (Tawera spissa, Felaniella zelandica, Myadora striata, Gari stangeri), hermit crabs, the whelk Cominella quoyana, polychaete Owenia fusiformis, and amphipod Proharpinia. The subtidal upper harbour faunal association is characterised by three common bivalves (Nucula hartvigiana, Austrovenus stutchburyi, Paphies australis), whelks Cominella adspersa and C. glandiformis, pillbox crab Halicarcinus varius, cumacean Cyclaspis thomsoni, and a wide diversity of amphipods and polychaetes. The intertidal flats are dominated by Zostera seagrass meadows with smaller areas of bare quartz sand near the harbour entrance. Around the upper reaches of the harbour there is extensive mangrove forest between mid and high tide levels, with salt marsh and minor salt meadow mostly above mean high tide. Extensive areas of intertidal Zostera-covered quartz sand flats bathed in clear, warm water and periodically influenced by eddies from the East Auckland Current provide an unusual habitat for New Zealand. It is home to low numbers of subtropical gastropods, seldom seen intertidally or on sand elsewhere in the country (e.g. Charonia lampas, Cymatium exaratum, Cymatium parthenopeum, Sassia parkinsonia, Ranella australasia, Cabestana spengleri, Conus lischkeanus, Polinices simiae, Natica migratoria, Bullina lineata and Hydatina physis). Many brightly coloured nudibranchs live at and below low tide at Paua, Te Hapua and Ngatehe Point.
42905846|A new family, two new genera and two new species of articulate crinoids are described from the late Oligocene Torehina Formation at Waitete Bay, Coromandel Peninsula, North Island, New Zealand. The two species of New Zealand Cenozoic tropiometrids lived with stalked crinoids in a shallow, innershelf marine environment no deeper than 30 m. This runs counter to suggestions from the Northern Hemisphere that stalked crinoids moved offshore to deeper water in the Triassic. Both extinct species belong to an extant superfamily today found in warm waters of the Pacific Ocean. The Waitete Bay taxa are so far the only recorded evidence of fossil comatulid communities in New Zealand.
42905847|A new asteroid, Cottreauaster opuatiaensis (Goniasteridae), is described from a partial specimen preserved in a middle to outer-shelf deposit of the Wilson Sandstone (Late Temaikan Stage; Bajocian), Ponganui, Port Waikato, New Zealand. It is a diminutive sea star, with the genus previously known only from the Northern Hemisphere. The record greatly extends the known distribution of the genus, indicating a Tethyan link in the Middle Jurassic, when New Zealand's palaeogeographic location was in high latitudes off the eastern coast of Gondwana. It is the second asteroid to be described from Port Waikato, and from the Jurassic of New Zealand.
42905848|The Auckland Museum occupied its first purpose-built premises, in Princes Street from 1876 to 1929, on what is now the site of the Hyatt Regency Auckland hotel. Present understanding of this, the institution's fourth home, is restricted to annual reports of the Auckland Institute and Museum, and a modest archive of photographs, publications and other documents. Under curator Thomas Cheeseman this was a remarkably active museum, the original building receiving three major extensions in 30 years before outgrowing its site. These physical developments are detailed in the following reconstruction, showing significant changes to the Museum's collections and public galleries.
42905849|A large, undocumented fossil egg in the Auckland Museum collection was associated with sediment that was probably from the eastern South Island, New Zealand. It is presumed to be a moa's egg (Dinornithiformes), one of only 19 intact enough for measurement of length and width. With external dimensions of approximately 208  134 mm the egg would have belonged to one of the medium- to large-sized species of moas. It is a thick-shelled egg (shell at least 1.5 mm thick) with slit-like pores on the outer surface. The conservation treatment involved removing most of the compacted sediment from inside the egg to reduce the risk of damage from excessive weight, and to expose embedded eggshell fragments.
42905850|Four new species in the genus Phenacohelix Suter, 1892 are described from New Zealand: P. aurea from Auckland north, P. brooki from a limited area in the north-east of the North Island, P. hakarimata from the middle of the North Island, and P. mahlfeldae from Otago, Southland and Stewart Island. Thalassohelix ziczag (Gould, 1846), from the northern half of the North Island, is transferred to the genus Phenacohelix. P. ponsonbyi (Suter, 1892) is redescribed, and details of anatomy are supplied for P. giveni (Cumber, 1961), P. lucetta (Hutton, 1884), P. perplexa (Murdoch, 1897), P. tholoides (Suter, 1907) and the type species P. pilula (Reeve, 1852).
42905856|Subgenera of Haliotis to which the Recent species are assigned are used in this review of the New Zealand fossil fauna. H. matihetihensis and H. australis are assigned to Padollus, and H. virgnea and H. flemingi to Paua. A new species, Haliotis (Marinauris) hokiangaensis n. sp., is described from the early Miocene Otaua Group, Matihetihe, west Hokianga, Northland. Ten New Zealand fossil Haliotis species are allocated to six subgenera with few apparent lineages. Six New Zealand fossil haliotids are older than those presently known as fossils from Australia. The apparent incidence of New Zealand Cenozoic haliotids possessing shell characteristics of later Australian and South African taxa may be a result of convergent evolution in a local environment, but more likely a radiation eastwards from New Zealand in the late Oligocene onwards, when the circum-Antarctic Current began to flow. DNA inference in Recent New Zealand Haliotis suggests the possibility that in the late Palaeogene-early Neogene, New Zealand haliotids were a result of local radiation from either ancestral Tethyan or Panthalassian Ocean progenitors.
42905857|Four fragmentary fossil remains of bats (two teeth, a worn humerus and a fragment of radius) are reported from sand-dune sites near Te Werahi Beach, Northland, and are of Late Holocene age. They are the first bat fossils reported north of Waitomo (central North Island), and are identified as belonging to Mystacina tuberculata, M. robusta and Chalinolobus tuberculatus. Thus all three species were once sympatric in the Far North as at various other places throughout New Zealand.
42905858|A left humerus from dunes at Te Werahi Beach, Cape Maria Van Diemen, Northland, and several bones from Lake Poukawa, Hawke's Bay, are identified as belonging to the extinct New Zealand pink-eared duck Malacorhynchus scarletti, previously known in the North Island only from the Hastings area. An additional Malacorhynchus bone is reported from Marfells Beach. The species is also confirmed as a former inhabitant of the Chatham Islands. The minimum number of individuals in the fossil record now stands at 19, from seven Holocene fossil sites.
42905861|Archaeological excavations at Queens Redoubt, Pokeno, in 1992 provide new information on the defences, internal arrangement and material culture of the fortification. The history of Queens Redoubt is outlined, together with the historic landscape context of contemporary Maori and European sites. As British Army headquarters for the invasion of the Waikato, which led to the Waikato War of 1863-64, Queens Redoubt was one of the most important fortifications of the New Zealand Wars. The Waikato War was the most significant campaign of the 19th century armed struggle between Maori and Europeans, in terms of the scale of fighting and the outcome for later New Zealand history.
42905862|Auckland War Memorial Museum houses moa bones collected from swamp sites at Clevedon, South Auckland, in 1912, and at Kia Ora, North Otago, in 1930. Background to the discovery and excavation of these sites, gleaned from archival documents, is given, with an inventory of Auckland Museums current holdings of specimens from these sites. The Clevedon collection comprises 280 bones belonging to at least 19 individual moas (16 Anomalopteryx didiformis, two Pachyornis mappini and one Dinornis struthoides) typical of a North Island wet forest site. The Kia Ora collection comprises 332 bones belonging to at least 51 individuals (17 Emeus crassus, 12 Euryaptryx geranoides, five D. struthoides, three P. elephantopus, one D. giganteus and 13 unidentified individuals). Documents have also established that the moa egg described by Gill & Cooper (2001) was found at Cromwell, Otago, before 1912.
42905863|The distinctiveness of the brown kiwi population at Okarito, West Coast, South Island, has been documented by morphological, parasitological, field, and genetic data in this and other studies. We formally describe and name this taxon as Apteryx rowi. This action aims to forestall use and repetition of recently-published nomina nuda, and also provides a valid scientific name for a critically endangered population.
42905866|A new species of stemmed crinoid, Saracrinus motuketekete ensis, is described from the Early Miocene Waitemata Group, Motuketekete Island, Hauraki Gulf, Auckland. It is the first fossil record of Saracrinus, and the first crinoid to be described from Waitemata Group sediments. The new species has morphologic similarities with Recent Saracrinus spp. living in New Zealand and Indo-Pacific waters, suggesting it may be ancestral to these.
42905867|In the early 1880s, H. A. Ward, an American dealer in natural history specimens, helped Auckland Museum to recruit a taxidermistCF. Adamswho was trained at Ward's own establishment in Rochester, New York State. Adams worked at Auckland Museum in 1885 and 1886, where his skill in mounting birds for the displays in the museum's Princes Street building was much praised. He created the museum's first natural history dioramastwo small exhibits depicting tuataras and keasthat were pioneering developments at the time. Adams left Auckland early in 1887, visiting the main New Zealand cities and commenting briefly (in a letter to T. F. Cheeseman) on the bird displays in their museums. He then travelled via eastern Australia to British North Borneo (now Sabah, Malaysia), where he collected mammal skins. He returned to the U.S. in 1888, and while at Champaign, Illinois, mounted Bornean mammals for shipment to Auckland Museum, and also provided some U.S. herpetological specimens.
42905868|Five carved panels belonging to Te Potaka pataka which formerly stood at Maraenui are examined. Previously their function was unclear but it is now proposed that they are porch heke, and as such greatly assist in the understanding of how pataka were constructed.
42905869|Two generally unknown Maori casualty lists from the Battle of Gate Pa (Pukehinahina), Tauranga, 29 April 1864, are reproduced. These give the names of most Maori killed in the engagement, and are presented here together with other published information on Maori casualties. Information from the sources is compared to derive a list of 19 Maori dead who were laid out at the pa the morning after the battle, and later buried nearby. The names of other dead and wounded men are given where available. Further development of a Maori casualty list for Gate Pa is likely to depend on manuscript material and oral history.
42905870|This listing assembles references to all the named individual Maori woodcarvers of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries whose works can still be identified, whether in standing meeting houses, museum collections, or by photographs and other artworks. The life dates, floruit dates, tribal relationships of each carver, and a listing of their works are given where known. Comprehensive bibliographical references to their works are cited. It is recognised that such a listing can never be complete but the intention is to provide the beginning of a resource for students and those with a detailed interest in the history of Maori art.
42905874|Two hundred and eighty-two species of marine animals and plants are listed from the intertidal and sublittoral fringe of the sheltered harbours of Auckland and Campbell Islands, with nearly 50% (134 species) common to both island groups. Of the total taxa 75% also occur around mainland New Zealand, with 20% of the biota endemic to New Zealand's subantarctic islands. The Auckland Islands group has the greater biodiversity (247 species), probably because it is slightly warmer, is closer to mainland New Zealand for dispersal, has been more intensively studied, and is larger with a greater diversity of intertidal habitats than Campbell Island (171 species). Intertidal zonation on the sheltered boulder beaches that line the harbour shores of both island groups differs significantly from that on mainland New Zealand. Missing are the barnacle zones, the under-boulder grapsid and anomuran crabs, the periwinkles, green-lipped mussels, rock oysters, catseyes, snakeskin chitons, Neptune's necklace, seaweed genera Carpophyllum and Ecklonia, and many other usually common species. Instead, the small 1 m subantarctic tidal range is divided into three zones: 1. a rather bare high tidal zone dominated by the red seaweeds Hildenbrandia lecannellieri and Porphyra "columbina" group, and green Cladophora subsimplex; 2. a mid-tidal patchwork of the brown seaweeds Scytothamnus fascicularis and Adenocystis utricalaris, green Ulva, with the leathery slug Onchidella campbelli and the limpets Notoacmea pileopsis sturnus and large Cellana strigilis strigilis grazing algae on the surface of the cobbles; 3. a distinctive low tidal zone of the brown seaweed Xiphophora gladiata interspersed with clumps of the blue mussel Mytilus galloprovincialis. The under-boulder fauna in the low tidal zone is dominated by the large pillbox crab Halicarcinus phnatus, small green-grey starfish Anasterias laevigata, small white to rust orange chiton Ischnochiton circumvallatus and carnivorous snail Buccinulum pertinax pertinax. The sublittoral fringe (down to 1 m depth at low tide), between the low tide Xiphophora and giant offshore kelp Macrocystis pyrifera, supports a wider diversity of red, green and brown seaweeds. Sheltering beneath the shallow sub tidal boulders are common strawberry holothurians Squamocnus brevidentis, herbivorous snails Margarella antipoda antipoda and Micrelenchus capilhceus, small southern paua Haliotis virgnea huttoni, and anemones Parantheopsis cruentata. Numerous, large, thick-shelled bivalves, Ruditapes largillierti, live in the shallow subtidal sand just beyond the seaward extent of the boulders.
42905875|A new genus and species of cyrtocrinid is described from the Red Bluff Tuff, Kekerione Group, Waikaripi, Waitangi, Chatham Island, New Zealand. It is the second fossil cyrtocrinid to be described from New Zealand and is a Palaeocene holdover taxon of the Mesozoic family Sclerocrinidae, considerably extending the temporal-spatial range of that family. The new genus and species is compared with similar international fossil and Recent cyrtocrinid taxa. During the Late Mesozoic/Early Cenozoic, cyrtocrinids living in the epi-continental seas of Europe may have migrated east or west via the Tethys or Panamanian gateway, surviving only at the extremities of migration or in deep-sea refugia. It is notable that the Chatham Island cyrtocrinid lived, uncharacteristically, on a soft bottom at mid-shelf (c.200 m) depths in the palaeo-Pacific Ocean offshore from prehistoric Chatham Island in the Palaeocene at a time when few records of the suborder exist.
42905876|In addition to the well known wakahuia and papahou forms of Maori treasure boxes, a previously unrecognised third form, known as a powaka whakairo, is documented. A corpus of 23 powaka whakairo is assembled, with the earliest records dating from the 1830s. Five different varieties of powaka whakairo are defined and their tribal and regional carving styles discussed. This corpus is considered to be the work of about eight different individual carvers working in the nineteenth century, with two as yet unnamed carvers responsible for several examples. Various transformations of treasure box forms are identified and related to changing cultural circumstances.
42905877|Two bird bones are recorded from the Pliocene Whenuataru Tuff, Flower Pot Bay, Pitt Island, Chatham Islands group. The bones are identified as a partial left ulna of a large pigeon similar to Hemiphaga, and a partial left femur of a medium-sized indeterminate penguin. The penguin femur was originally about 90-95 mm long. These are the first vertebrates to be recorded from Whenuataru Tuff.
42905878|A Middle Pleistocene fossil bone (Castlediffian -oxygen isotope stage 17, 650,000-700,000 years BP) of the extinct North Island goose Cnemiornis gracilis (Aves: Anatidae) is reported from the Clifton Sand at Clifton, southern Hawkes Bay, North Island, New Zealand. The bone, a left tarsometatarsus, is 116 mm long, which is close to average for the species. It probably constitutes the oldest-known record of the species, and it indicates that the North and South Island geese had already become distinct 700,000 years ago.
42905879|Information on killed and wounded Maori casualties of the First Taranaki War, 1860-61, is brought together from contemporary official reports, newspapers and other published and unpublished sources. Significant casualty lists are available for the major engagements at Waireka (28 March 1860), Puketakauere (27 June 1860), Mahoetahi (6 November 1860) and No 3 Redoubt (23 January 1861). Names are also available from other minor engagements and skirmishes. Contradictory information and incomplete data is discussed. The reluctance of Maori to give casualty information and Pakeha willingness to exaggerate enemy losses both impact on the usefulness of the contemporary record. Casualty figures still play a part in contesting the history of the New Zealand Wars. The names of 99 men who were killed or died of wounds are listed according to tribal group.
42905883|Four hundred and seventy-two species of intertidal and shallow subtidal benthic biota are recorded from around Mahia Peninsula, East Coast, North Island, New Zealand. These comprise 11 chitons, 255 species of gastropod, 99 bivalves, 55 seaweeds, 20 crabs and shrimps, 11 echinoderms, eight barnacles, and various other groups. This list includes an extension of the recorded geographic range of 38 species of gastropod. Seven species of algae are listed at the extremes of their recorded range, four at their northern limit and three species at their southern limit. Mahia Peninsula is a rich enclave of coastal biodiversity because it extends out into the Pacific Ocean where it is less impacted by the muddy, turbid waters that characterise the Poverty Bay and Hawkes Bay coastline on either side. Mahia Peninsula lies near the northern limit of the coastal marine Cookian Province on New Zealand's east coast. While the dominant near-shore current is the north-flowing Wairarapa Current, Manias molluscs provide evidence for the leakage of some elements of the endemic warm-water Aupourian fauna around East Cape, facilitated by the more seaward, south-flowing East Cape Current with periodic eddies possibly carrying larval spawn landwards to settle. Manias molluscs also provide evidence that East Cape is a barrier to northwards dispersal, with little apparent chance for southern mollusc spawn to be carried westwards into the Bay of Plenty in a counter direction to the East Cape Current.
42905884|The Australian endemic sparid Acanthopagrus australis is formally recorded for the first time from New Zealand, based on a large voucher specimen trawled off Northland in 1990 and held in the tank collection of the Auckland Museum. Its method of movement from parent stock across the Tasman Sea is unknown, but was probably not by ocean currents but possibly through translocation of its juvenile stage by ship. Previous records for New Zealand of Sparus australis (Gnther) by Fowler (1933) and Acanthopagrus ?butcheri (Munro) by Paulin et al (1989) are invalid.
42905885|There are 36 moa eggs whole enough, or sufficiently reconstructed, to permit accurate measurement of size (length or width). They are held at eight museums in New Zealand, two in the United Kingdom and one in the United States. Twelve eggs are from the North Island and 24 from the South Island.Eggs have been found at 16 main sites, seven in the North Island and nine in the South Island, the latter nearly all east of the main divide. Most eggs (23 of 36) are from natural sites, all known or assumed to be Late Holocene in age, i.e. not more than about 10,000 years old. There are 13 eggs from archaeological sites, all in the South Island, and all known or assumed to be sites of early human settlement, c. 550-750 years old. In shape, the eggs are about equally split between long oval and elliptical. Only eight eggs are "whole" (at least 90% of the shell present). Thirteen eggs have large areas of intact shell, the remaining 23 being entirely broken into fragments, and either held together naturally by sediment (two eggs) or reconstructed (21 eggs). Moa eggs are 120-240 mm long, by 91-178 mm wide. Only two eggs have reliable identities from unambiguous association with an identified skeleton. For the other eggs, identification to species is mostly speculative and is reviewed here. The largest egg (240  178 mm) has been assigned to Dinornis robustus, the tallest moa, and the three smallest eggs (120 125 mm long) to the smallest moa, Euryapteryx curtus. Remaining eggs are mostly attributed to Eu. gravis, with a smaller group belonging probably to Anomalopteryx didiformis, and a few to other species, including green eggs laid by Megalapteryx didinus.
42905886|A new asteroid of the family Zoroasteridae and genus Zoroaster is described from glauconitic, Ruatangata Sandstone, Te Kuiti Group (Runangan Stage (Priabonian); Late Eocene), at Reserve Point Peninsula, Munroe Bay, Whangarei Harbour, Northland, New Zealand. It is the first stelleroid to be described from the Te Kuiti Group, and only the second Cenozoic seastar to be described from New Zealand. The new species is compared with living Zoroaster and the Antarctic Late Eocene Zoroaster aff. fulgens. Specimens of the new asteroid were found in an inner shelf particulate-substrate setting in association with known shallow-water molluscs, small decapod crustaceans, and colonial corals, suggesting deposition under warm conditions and supporting the suggestion that Zoroaster has changed its preferred ecological niche over time. It is possible but doubtful that Zoroaster evolved in the Weddellian Province. With two Southern Hemisphere Eocene shallow-water occurrences of the genus, relatively close in time and space, it is more likely that the sea-star evolved on Southern Hemisphere continental shelves, possibly only becoming more widely distributed because of climate change, before moving into the present deep-water environment on the advent of the circum-polar Antarctic Current, mid or post-Oligocene. Two named and three undescribed Zoroaster spp. presently live around New Zealand, and with the fossil species living there Late Eocene, it is possible that the genus has occupied an Indo-Tethyan/west-Pacific oceanic realm for a considerable time. Southern Hemisphere Eocene Zoroaster probably evolved from a polar, Late Mesozoic ancestor, living at high latitudes in warm-temperate shallow waters offshore from Gondwanaland. The limited range of Late Eocene facies available in New Zealand includes very few shallow-water assemblages, so that the Reserve Point Peninsula fossil localities are palaeoecologically as well as stratigraphically important.
42905887|A list is given of 296 plant names in the Wayan dialect of the Fijian language. It covers an estimated two-thirds of Waya's indigenous higher-plant flora. Ethnobotanical notes are given. Obsolete names for indigenous species comprise about a fifth of the list; more than half of them have no modern synonym.
42905888|This paper examines the taonga Maori collection of Arthur Hoby, a Wellington dentist. After returning from Britain where he trained Hoby began collecting artefacts. Prior to his death in 1947 the collection was dispersed among family members, with the exception of four items which went to the New Plymouth Museum. Although dispersed, it has been possible to document and recreate the collection and achieve an understanding of the collecting behaviour of its creator.
42905891|The Dryinidae and Embolemidae of New Zealand are revised. A new species, Bocchus thorpei, is described. Anteon caledonianum Olmi, Anteon bribianum Olmi and Dryinus koebelei (Perkins) are recorded from New Zealand for the first time. The host of D. koebelei in New Zealand is unknown but is most likely to be Siphanta acuta (Hemiptera: Flatidae). Changes to the key to the species of Bocchus of the Australian region are proposed. Further cases of gynandromorphism involving Embolemus zealandicus Olmi are reported. A key to New Zealand Dryinidae and Embolemidae is presented.
42905892|This paper provides the first account of the ecological distribution of Ostracoda from a New Zealand harbour. Fifty-eight species are recorded in 23 subtidal (0-30 m) and intertidal sand and mud samples from the Waitemata Harbour, Auckland. Five associations are recognised using cluster analysis on the percentage abundance counts of total valves (live plus dead specimens). The main harbour channel from Hobsonville to Rangitoto, together with some of the subtidal flats in the outer part of the harbour, is dominated by Keijia demissa, with subdominant Munseyella aequa and M. brevis below the harbour bridge (association A) and Callistocythere neoplana and Quadracythere mediaruga above the bridge (association B). Shallow subtidal mud flats in the inner harbour (Herne Bay to Pollen Island) are dominated by Munseyella tumida and Microcytherura ihornibrooki (association C). Intertidal mud flats and mangrove forest at Pollen Island and in the upper harbour have an ostracod fauna strongly dominated by Callistocythere neoplana (association D), in some places with associated Procythereis aff. lyttletonensis and Leptocythere lacustris (association E).
42905893|Between December 1853 and January 1857, a Mr 1. St John on seven occasions sold specimens of birds, fish and "sundry" items to the recently-formed Auckland Museum. He donated an insect (a weta) on one other occasion. Most of the specimens were mounted birds, at least 52 of them, collected and prepared while St John was at Nelson. A mounted silvereye collected there in winter 1856 was from the first major influx of this species to New Zealand (but the specimen is no longer extant). Thirteen St John birds survived at Auckland Museum into the 20th century, and five, possibly six, are recognised in the Museum's collection today. They are among the few surviving objects known to have been at Auckland Museum before its move to the Princes Street building in 1876, and also among the oldest surviving stuffed native birds in any New Zealand museum.
42905894|The indigenous and introduced grasses of Rotuma, Wallis and Futuna, Fiji, Tonga, Samoa, Niue and the Cook Islands are reviewed, principally with respect to their distribution in this region. One hundred and twenty-six species, in 57 genera, are treated. About 45 species (possible aboriginal introductions included) may be of pre-European occurrence here. Leptaspis angustifolia and Isachne vitiensis, both of Fiji, may be the region's only endemic grasses. Taxa of Garnotia in Fiji and the Cook Islands have been regarded as endemic species but may be better thought of as populations within a broadly-conceived G. stricta, widespread between the Philippines and the Society Islands. New records for the region are: Schizachyrium fragile (Tonga), S. pseudoeulalia (Cook Islands), and Sporobolus tenuissimus (Cook Islands). In the second part of this review, the names for grasses in the languages of each of the island-groups of Central Oceania are listed.
42905895|Three new species of comatulid crinoids are described in the genera Stenometra (Thalassometridae), Cypelometra (Conometridae), and Hertha (Antedonidae) from South Canterbury in the Late Oligocene Meyers Pass Limestone Member, Otekaike Limestone Formation (and lateral equivalent), Otiake Group, at Ardlogie Station, Pentland Hills, and at Haugh's Quarry, Hurstlea. Limestones at both localities were deposited at similar times, but exhibit different faunal assemblages. The new species are found at both fossil localities in shallow, inner-to middle-shelf biostrome facies in association with stalked crinoids at, or close to, the Oligocene-Miocene boundary. This is the second record of fossil comatulids from the Cenozoic of New Zealand, and their paleobiogeographic significance is discussed.
42905898|Maori and Pakeha politics and objectives which led to renewed fighting two years after the end of the First Taranaki War are outlined, along with events on the ground south of New Plymouth which culminated at Katikara on 4 June 1863. The Katikara engagement is described. Forces involved are defined as is possible and casualties listed from available information. The relevant archaeological and historical landscape is described. Aspects of the strategic results for both sides are examined. Katikara provides an example for the study of other engagements in the New Zealand Wars where there will also be much still to learn.
42905899|This paper examines the work of Thomas Aubrey Chapp Hall, a late 19th century English immigrant to New Zealand, who was taught to carve by Hori Pukehika, the celebrated Te Ati Haunui-a-Paparangi carver. Hall's 'restoration' work on Maori artefacts for display in the Auckland and Otago museums is of particular note.
42905900|Fourteen of Auckland's young basalt volcanoes consist primarily of maar craters surrounded by tuff rings. Eight of these were breached by rising sea level in the early Holocene and had filled with mud to become intertidal lagoons by the late Holocene. In the last decade the sediment fill of four of these lagoons (Hopua, Onepoto Basin, Orakei Basin, Pukaki Lagoon) has been cored and provides a direct record of their post-eruption history. After eruption each maar crater became a freshwater lake and later developed a small overflow stream. Diatom-rich mud slowly accumulated on their lake floors until -9000-6600 years ago when rising sea level overtopped the sills of their overflow streams and they became silled, subtidal lagoons that rapidly filled with mud introduced in suspension with each high tide. Orakei Basin had already filled with sediment to become a freshwater swamp prior to breaching and drowning by rising sea level -9000-8500 years ago. The fossil record of ostracods, foraminifera, and small molluscs, provides insights into the ecology and subsequent history of these unusual coastal marine environments. Their subtidal faunas had unusually low diversity, strongly dominated by the foraminifera Ammonia spp. and ostracod Callistocythere neophna, accompanied by the foraminifera Haynesina depressula and Elphidium advenum, the microbivalves Arthnttca bifurca and Nucula hartvigiana, and sometimes by the ostracod Whlyctenophora zeahndica. Onepoto Basin supported more diverse foraminiferal and ostracod faunas which suggest that it may have had a deeper, perhaps unsilled entrance that allowed greater exchange of the lagoons deep bottom waters with those in the adjacent harbour. This was a result of an initially lower overflow sill and earlier breaching (-9000 cal. yrs ago) than the others. Large numbers of wellpreserved, juvenile or low-density foraminiferal specimens of outer harbour species are inferred to have been introduced into the lagoons suspended in the incoming tidal waters. These are most common in the two Manukau Harbour maar lagoons where they are largely confined to the subtidal mud. Once intertidal conditions had developed, the introduced microfossils appear to have been washed back out by each retreating tide. The subtidal lagoons rapidly filled with mud to intertidal depths where faunas had even lower diversity and were more strongly dominated (> 75% relative abundance) by Ammonia and Callistocythere, commonly accompanied by the larger bivalve Austrovenus stutchburyi. This faunal association is characteristic of tidal mudflats around the upper reaches of both harbours today. Faunal recognition of the cored depth of the transition from subtidal to low tidal indicates considerable subsequent compaction-driven subsidence of the lagoon floors: Hopua, 5 m; Onepoto Basin, 9 m; Orakei Basin, 8 m; Pukaki Lagoon, llm. Presumably most compaction occurred in the underlying lake floor mud, which indicates that additional subsidence would have accompanied accumulation of the subtidal sediment as well.
42905901|A new family Maorimetridae, two new genera Maorimetra and Zelandimetra, and six new species of comatulid crinoids in the genera Comaster (Comasteridae), Amphorometra (Conometridae), Vicetiametra (Conometridae), Maorimetra (Maorimetridae), ZeUndimetra (Notocrinidae), and Palaeantedon (Antedoninae) are described from the Late Oligocene Meyers Pass Limestone Member, Otekaike Limestone Formation (and lateral equivalent), Otiake Group, at Ardlogie Station, Pentland Hills, and at Haugh's Quarry, Hurstlea, South Canterbury, South Island, New Zealand. The new species lived contemporaneously in shallow, inner-to middle-shelf biostrome facies in association with stalked crinoids at, or close to, the Oligocene-Miocene boundary. This is the third record of fossil comatulids from the Cenozoic of New Zealand and their paleobiogeographic significance is discussed. A morphology key to identifying the nine comatulid species known from both fossil localities is given.
42905902|Keys are presented to the grasses (11 tribes, 56 genera and 134 species) of Rotuma, Wallis and Futuna Islands, Fiji, Tonga, Samoa, Niue, and the Cook Islands. A list of spot-characters, and key to the common coastal grasses, are also given.
42905905|The introduction of two non-indigenous sea squirts to northern New Zealand is reported. The club tunicate, Styela clava, from the Northwest Pacific, was first recognized in Waitemata Harbour in 2005 resulting in a flurry of activity to see if its spread could be stopped. The authors first recorded it from the Auckland region (although incorrectly identified) in August and September 2002 on low tidal rocks in four places around the entrance to the Waitemata Harbour. We conclude that three years before its recognition, it was already well established and breeding, with its planktonic eggs and larvae (< 24 hr life span) dispersing naturally on tidal currents and fouling adults by boat. Since 2002, we have recorded the expansion of the club tunicate's range throughout much of the inner Hauraki Gulf. Others have recorded it from Lyttelton, Marsden Pt and Tutukaka marinas. Cunjevoi, Pyura praeputialis, from Australia is here recorded for the first time from New Zealand, following its discovery in 2007 growing on rocks near Cape Maria van Diemen, northernmost North Island. The size of individuals and its coastal spread of at least 9 km suggest that it too was well-established when first discovered and may have been in New Zealand for 10 years or more. Both species probably crossed the oceans to New Zealand attached as fouling to boats. The club tunicate is likely to become an economically-significant fouling organism for marine aquaculture in New Zealand. Cunjevoi is an aggressive interspecific competitor for space and has the potential to become a major zone-forming element on exposed low-tidal rocky shores throughout New Zealand.
42905906|A diverse fauna of 617 species of marine Mollusca (19 chitons, 440 gastropods, 152 bivalves, 3 scaphopods, 3 shelled cephalopods) is recorded from around Great Barrier Island (0-200 m depth). Five hundred and fifty two of these species come from depths less than 50 m making this the largest molluscan fauna recorded from any New Zealand area of this size and depth range. This reflects the wide diversity of sheltered and exposed, hard and soft substrate, and habitats around Great Barrier, and also its location within the more diverse, warm-water Aupourian Province (36% of the fauna is Aupourian-restricted in its distribution around mainland New Zealand). The presence of numerous subtropical species, either as itinerant visitors or as breeding populations, attests to the influence of warm-water eddies from the East Auckland Current periodically flowing adjacent to, or around, the island. Great Barrier Island has an important place in the history of molluscan taxonomic studies in New Zealand, with 2% (67) of the country's marine mollusc species having been described from specimens taken from its waters. Forty-six of these new species came from one large dredge sample taken in 1904 from 200 m water depth east of the island. At the time it was probably the richest deep-water molluscan fauna that had been obtained from New Zealand waters. The depth ranges of live molluscan specimens and their dead shells, together with those of 35 other hard-shelled organisms (Cirripedia, Bryozoa, Echinoidea, corals, Brachiopoda, Serpulidae and rhodolith algae) have been compiled from 175 dredge samples from around the island, supplemented by numerous intertidal and snorkel surveys around shallow rocky areas.
42905908|James Edge-Partington (18541930) was a member ofthat famous series of English ethnographic collectors active in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. But unique among this group, he travelled and personally collected artefacts in the Pacific. Born into a prominent and wealthy Manchester family, Edge-Partington was independently able to pursue his personal interests of worldwide travel, the establishment of an extensive private collection of Pacific artefacts and books, and serve as a volunteer ethnologist at the British Museum for several years. In this role, he became the British Museum's Pacific expert, documenting their collections, arranging for important Pacific acquisitions and acting as their liaison with museums in the Pacific. He published widely on Pacific topics, commencing with his pioneering Ethnographical Album of artefact collections worldwide and later in various periodicals, especially those of the Royal Anthropological Institute where he was an active committee member. In all of these activities, he enjoyed cordial relationships with prominent museum personnel and anthropologists around the world. In 1924, his artefact collection was purchased for the Auckland Museum and he concentrated on his collection of books about the Pacific. The history of the Edge-Partington artefact collection is an illuminating example of late nineteenth century field collecting in Polynesia, the assembly of an artefact collection in England, and the transport of that collection back into a Pacific context.
42905911|A partial list is given of the plant names of the Kalam people, inhabitants of a lower-to mid-montane region of Madang Province, Papua New Guinea. Approximately 500 names are noted. Cultivar names for food plants, synonyms used only in ritual contexts, and unvouchered names, have mostly been omitted. About 60 of the 500 names are folk-generics that have one or more of their sub taxa named in binomial form. Scientific genera and families thus recognized include Cordyline, Eheocarpus, Freycinetia (but not Pandamis), Homalanthus, Melicope, Piper (shrub spp.), Prunus> Rubus; Cunoniaceae, Lauraceae, Meliaceae, Monimiaceae and Sapindaceae. Herbarium specimens are cited as the basis for this list and for the synonymy between the Kalam and scientific names. Ethnobotanical information and an index (scientific genera to Kalam names) are given.
42905912|Samples of coralline turf and associated sand were taken from high-, mid-and low-tidal pools on relatively sheltered harbour shores on Auckland's east coast (Musick Pt) and west coast (Cornwallis). Complete census counts of the live and dead carapaces and shells of ostracods and micromolluscs in replicate 25 cm 3 samples resulted in the identification of 80 species of ostracod (59-60 from each coast) and 81 species of mollusc (64 from the east, 47 from the west). Forty five ostracod and 49 mollusc species were found living on the coralline turf or in the associated sediment. Correspondence analysis of the data indicates that biogeographical differences between east and west coast faunas are far stronger in the molluscs than the ostracods. Environmental factors related to tidal elevation (zonation) also seem to be major drivers of the differences in composition of the live faunas in both groups, with the low-tidal faunas more distinct than those from mid-and high-tidal pools. All samples show significant differences between live and dead assemblages. The differences are stronger in ostracods than in the larger, densershelled micromolluscs. The differences are mostly attributed to post-mortem wave transport in and alongshore of shells from other, mainly soft sediment habitats. The rapid post-mortem break-up and loss of the thin carapaces of 5 species of common live ostracod also contributes to the differences between live and dead assemblages. Seasonal changes in the composition of the live faunas may also contribute to the live-dead differences but these were not investigated in this study.
42905913|The egg collection of John Chambers McLean (1871-1918), a farmer from Poverty Bay, New Zealand, is held at Auckland Museum, along with a few study-skins, nest-linings and feather samples that McLean also collected. As currently registered, the birds' egg collection comprises 380 clutches, including 251 from New Zealand and 125 foreign (from Britain, continental Europe, Australia and the Phoenix Islands, central Pacific Ocean). They were collected between 1881 and 1918. Much of the egg collection is well documented and as voucher specimens they provide important historical breeding records of birds, especially for the eastern North Island of New Zealand, Rocky and Raine Islands (Queensland), and Howland and Hull Islands (Phoenix group). This short analysis, focussed primarily on the size and scope of the egg collection, is intended to draw attention to the McLean material as a resource for natural history research.
42905915|After the arrival of foreign traders in the western Solomon Islands, traditional Trdacna shell arm rings became used as money. From about 1880 foreign traders introduced sophisticated imitation rings made of ceramics. These achieved acceptability for a few decades including as 'small change' until British and Australian coins came into widespread use about 1920. Few of the ceramic imitations survive.
42905916|This paper presents the findings of a detailed examination of six discs of data images emanating from a CT scan of the mummified remains of Ta-Sedgemet, who lived about 850-575 B.C. She was approximately 32 years of age at the time of her death. She was 156 cm tall, and weighed about 49 kg. Her long bones revealed no evidence of childhood illnesses, and her arteries appeared free of atheromatous tissue. However, she presented a right-side, paratracheal (non-Hodgkin) lymphoma; enflamed mucous membranes in the paranasal sinuses revealed an influenza-type infection; and her dental condition showed evidence of probable suppurative abscesses. Ta-Sedgemet was not a well woman when she died, 2,500 years ago.
42905917|A total of 5694 Pitcairn Island adzes from the Auckland War Memorial Museum was analysed. All were made from high quality fine grained basalt found on the island. Adzes were made from flat thin blanks that were sheared from large angular boulders or outcrops. Due to their ideal shape they generally required little flaking. Two functional types dominated: a thin sectioned wide bladed adze for fine shaving, and a wide range of gouges and chisels. These adzes appear to be designed for intricate joinery. It is suggested from this evidence that, on small islands like Pitcairn, timber was perceived as a finite resource that needed careful management. The most important wooden artefact was probably the canoe. Making these from multiple pieces was an effective way of conserving timber. The Pitcairn wood-working adze kit is tailor-made for this purpose.
42905918|James Richard Adams Wilkes (c. 1876-c. 1940) was born in New Zealand and traveled widely in the North Island as a young man with his camera, being the first to take a bicycle through the Urewera district. After travel through the Pacific, the Far East, Europe and Great Britain in 1902-1904, he worked as a colonial administrator in Nigeria where he photographed local life and collected about 370 artifacts. Moving to Papua New Guinea in 1914 as a colonial officer, he collected at least 200 artifacts and many photographs. In 1928, he presented these to Auckland Museum, which included the surviving 29 photographs, all of Papua New Guinea subjects. In 2003, a fortuitous contact with James's nephew provided detailed biographical information which is presented here with comment on his collections and more detailed information on his Papua New Guinea photographs.
42905919|Examination of a Middle Bronze Age broken blade from Auckland Museum reveals evidence of combat damage. Micro-wear analysis of this object shows it was subjected to a number of weapon-to-weapon impact blows in a manner consistent with experimental studies. Burring resulting from impact is found primarily on one flat side of the blade, suggesting it was wielded in a particular way as to always receive damage on the same face. This evidence shows that such blades were used in combat and not only for ceremonial use.
42905923|A new photographer is introduced for the Waikato campaign via the HMS Curacoa. An album of photographs compiled by Montagu Higginson has brought to light many new images and provided links to other images known from a range of existing albums. Other photographers of the period are drawn together by the images found in these albums and Higginson s previously unknown South Sea Islands album. The evidence shows that trading took place between both photographers and enthusiasts, spreading the photographic record of the Waikato war. Some of this material found its way to England and has now come full circle to return to New Zealand.
42905924|The birds'-egg collection of Major Geoffrey Armstrong Buddie (1887-1951) is held in the land vertebrates section at Auckland Museum. As currently registered, these eggs comprise 461 eggs or clutches, including 392 from the New Zealand region and 67 from Canton Island of the Phoenix group (now Kiribati), central Pacific Ocean. At least three-quarters of the eggs were collected by Buddie himself, but other collectors (particularly Capt. John Bollons, Charles A. Fleming, Edgar F. Stead and Major Robert A. Wilson) account for 16% of the eggs. The eggs were collected between 1890 (by Stead) and the 1940s. Buddie travelled widely around New Zealand, particularly in the northern half of the North Island, and especially to inshore and offshore islands of the New Zealand region. He visited Canton Island for 12 days in 1937 to collect specimens for Auckland Museum while attached to the New Zealand Total Solar Eclipse Expedition. Waders, gulls and terns (Charadriiformes) are the group best represented in the egg collection, followed by tube-nosed seabirds (Procellariiformes), cormorants and allies (Pelecaniformes) and perching birds (Passeriformes). The Buddie egg collection provides important historical breeding records of birds, especially for Canton Island and the northern North Island and subantarctic islands of New Zealand. This analysis of the size and scope of the egg collection, with mention of Buddie s manuscripts and photographs, is intended to draw attention to his material as a resource for natural history research.
42905926|One hundred and twenty-four species of benthic marine ostracods are recorded from the Hauraki Gulf (0-130 m water depth) and 113 of these are illustrated. Sixty-eight have previously been recorded from the modern New Zealand fauna. Added to the New Zealand fauna are three Australian species: Callistocythere dedeckkeri Yassini and Jones, 1995, Cobancythere navicuUris Yassini and Jones, 1995, Neocytherideis annechrkeae Yassini and Jones, 1987; and two fossil New Zealand species: Quadracythere chattonensis Hornibrook, 1952 (Oligocene), and Aysegulina quadrazea (Hornibrook, 1952) (Eocene-Oligocene). Fifty-four taxa are unable to be firmly identified to named species. Cluster and correspondence analysis of quantitative census counts on 82 faunal samples from throughout the Hauraki Gulf enables the recognition of ten associations, with faunal composition progressively changing from the sheltered brackish estuaries at the head of the gulf northwards to the clearer deeper water around the entrance to the gulf. An association strongly dominated by Leptocythere lacustris occurs in the lowest salinity environments in the upper parts of Tamaki Estuary and the Waitemata Harbour; Callistocythere neophna strongly dominates a mid-high tide association in mud, salt marsh or mangroves around the edge of Mahurangi and Waitemata Harbours and Firth of Thames; a Microcytherura hornibrooki - Procythereis lytteltonensis association occurs intertidally to subtidally around the edge of harbours; a Munseyelh tumida - Callistocythere neophna association occurs in mud at low tide to 20 m depth inside sheltered bays on Great Barrier, Waiheke and Ponui Islands, and in Waitemata Harbour and Tamaki Estuary; Munseyella sp. 10 strongly dominates an association widespread in the low tidal-subtidal channels of the Waitemata Harbour and Tamaki Estuary. Corallina turf in intertidal rock pools has its own distinctive association dominated by Xestoleberis olivcea and Sclerochilus sp. a. With increasing depth the middle and outer parts of the Hauraki Gulf are four associations dominated by Paracypris zeaUndica -Callistocythere obtusa -Waiparacythereis joanae (0-14 m), Kotoracythere formosa - Cytherella hemipuncta (12-17m), Munseyella brevis (22-50 m), and Glencoeleberis thomsoni (30-130 m).
42905927|Four hundred and eighty-one species of intertidal and shallow subtidal species are recorded from the Whananaki coast, east Northland. The dominant phylum is the Mollusca (360 species), which here has greater diversity than similar-sized areas on the North Islands west coast (150-238 species) or more sheltered east-coast harbours, such as Waitemata and Parengarenga (186 and 266 species each). Whananaki's molluscan biodiversity is much lower, however, than that from the more extensively studied Bay of Islands and Great Barrier I. (551 and 642 species each). Unusual records include the brachiopod Callona variegata, black sea urchin Centrostephanus rodgersii and micromolluscs Amphithahmus ornatus, Cerithiella stiria, Notoacmea scopulina, Powellisetia unicarinata, Williamia radiata nutata, and Hamacuna gibbosa. Our Whananaki records are southern range extensions for the micromolluscs Cratis delicatula, Nepotilla nitidula, Powellisetia crassilabrum, Cuna manawatawia and Pleuromeris latiuscula latiuscula.
42905928|Three Hemicordulia specimens in the Auckland Museum, collected from the Cook Islands and Fiji, were compared with recently sampled material from Fiji, Tonga and New Caledonia. They were determined to be conspecific with H. hilaris, originally described from New Caledonia and confirmed for other parts of the Pacific  Fiji, Samoa and Tonga. The female of H. hilaris is described here for the first time and morphological features that separate the species from other congeners are discussed.
43264617|Notched stone adzes of New Zealand are so rare only a maximum of eight have been sighted, and one of these possibly sighted in two different contexts bringing that number to seven. This paper identifies the known examples of these adzes, discusses their attributed and known location of origin, and finally considers the notched adzes within the broader Pacific cultural context.
43264618|The Australian species Neurogalesus carinatus Kieffer and N. militis Osborn, Forteath and Holloway are established in the North Island of New Zealand. They may prove to be natural enemies of the introduced pasture pest Inopus rubriceps (Diptera: Stratiomyidae) which is their host in Australia. Illustrations and a table of characters are given to facilitate the identification of the species. Neurogalesus inopodos nomen nudum is confirmed to be N. carinatus and N hackeri Dodd is placed as a junior synonym of N. carinatus Kieffer.
43264619|Specimens of New Zealand Mesozoic (mainly Late Cretaceous) marine reptiles (ichthyosaurs, plesiosaurs and mosasaurs) in the Auckland War Memorial Museum land vertebrates collection are listed and several illustrated. The collection contains fossilsnearly all from the Mangahouanga site, north-west Hawke's Bay, and mostly collected by T.D. Crabtree in the 1970s and 1980sand casts of fossils from that site and others. Casts are listed for their importance as surrogates for the unique originals in identification, research and exhibition; some of the Auckland Museum casts are plastotypes. Among surviving casts that were sent to Auckland Museum in 1871 by James Hector of the Colonial Museum, Wellington, a cast (LH1058) of an elasmosaur vertebra may represent one of several original specimens that are now thought to be missing.
43264620|The land vertebrates department at Auckland Museum holds a collection of 541 Indian amphibians and reptiles accumulated by Y.M.C. McCann (1899-1980) between 1928 and 1947, the year he emigrated from India to New Zealand. A further 159 specimens of McCann's Indian material are held at the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa, Wellington. As currently registered, these collections, of 700 specimens in total, comprise 402 amphibians and 298 reptiles. The collections are strongest in frogs (mainly Rhacophoridae) and lizards (mainly Gekkonidae and Agamidae). Most specimens are from McCann's home state of Maharashtra, but he also collected in six other states. This paper analyses the size and scope of the McCann Indian collections in New Zealand and is intended to help to document the scientific career of a New Zealand biologist and draw attention to his material as a resource for natural history research.
43264621|There are 11 known records of sea-kraits (Laticauda spp.) in New Zealand, reported between 1880 and 2011. A review of these records shows that three species are represented. L. colubrina dominates (six records), and there is a single record of L. saintgironsi. A recent record of L. laticaudata (Devonport, Auckland, 2011) confirms this species on New Zealand's faunal list. All snakes in this study were found in the North Island, and all but one (Castlepoint, 1977) in the warmer northern half. Both adult and immature snakes are represented in the New Zealand sample (295-905 mm total length, n = 9).
43264622|One hundred and sixty one taxa of diatoms were recorded from samples collected near the Miranda Shorebird Centre on 27th February 2013. Six samples came from inland freshwater sites, seven from areas exposed at mid-tide, and another seven from sites only exposed at low tide; all samples were from benthic habitats. We identified 24 taxa that had not previously been recorded in New Zealand. One diatom taxon appears to be a new species allied to Carinasigma rectum [formerly Donkinia recta]. Donkinia and Carinasigma are genera that have not previously been noted in New Zealand. There were more taxa in common with a previous collection from Whangateau Harbour than from elsewhere in the Hauraki Gulf. The taxa from Miranda give a general indication of salinities and habitats available at different tidal levels in the Firth of Thames.
43264623|Seventy-five species of benthic marine ostracods, 120 species of benthic foraminifera and 113 species of marine molluscs (96 gastropods, 21 bivalves) are recorded from 16 dredge stations (0-45 m water depth) in Matai Bay, Northland, New Zealand. The molluscs comprise 86 species of micromolluscs (76 gastropods, 10 bivalves) and 27 juvenile specimens of larger species. Seventeen morphospecies of ostracod appear to be new records from New Zealand but only three have been described and named (all from Australia)  Paradoxostoma brevicaudatum, P. crustaecolum and Cytheropteron dividentum. There are no additional records of foraminifera or molluscs from New Zealand, reflecting the differences in the level of knowledge of the three groups. The faunas of all groups have a number of species restricted to the northeast of New Zealand (Aupourian Province) under the influence of the warm subtropical East Auckland Current -Ostracoda 49%, Foraminifera 10% and Mollusca 47%. Census counts provided relative abundance data for cluster and detrended canonical correspondence (DCCA) analyses. Mapping of cluster analysis associations shows that the geographic distributions of each group within and outside Matai Bay are similar, but not identical. DCCA shows that environmental factors related to water depth are likely the most significant in driving the observed distribution patterns. Some of the distribution patterns reflect individual species specific adaptations to living at different depths and on different substrates (rocks, seaweed, in or on the sediment). In addition, higher energy (waves, bottom currents) in and outside the bay's entrance seems to winnow mud and finer sand (including small foraminiferal tests) leaving behind the larger, more robust shells in coarse sand and pebble gravel. Fine and medium sand has accumulated in the bay's more sheltered shallows together with a wider range of foraminifera of different shell sizes. Thus the foraminifera are more diverse in the sheltered inner bay whereas the ostracods and molluscs are more diverse in the more exposed coarser-grained sediment at greater depths.
