43855998|Proventricular adenocarcinoma was diagnosed in a budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) and a Grey-cheeked Parakeet (Brotogeris pyrrhopterus). A tentative diagnosis of gastric neoplasia was made in the budgerigar based on radiographic studies. The Grey-cheeked Parakeet died before clinical evaluations could be performed; histology was required to distinguish the proventricular lesion from chronic inflammatory process. Proventricular carcinoma should be considered in the differential diagnosis of upper gastrointestinal disease.
43855997|A congenital abnormality, characterized by two fully formed oviducts, is described in a budgerigar. The right oviduct was filled with gelatinous fluid which formed a space-occupying cyst, resulting in egg binding in the left salpinx. Clinical signs and subsequent surgical intervention are discussed.
10.2307/30134407|A paramyxovirus was identified ultrastructurally in the brain of a Moluccan Cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) which had clinical signs of incoordination and proprioceptive deficits progressing rapidly to recumbency accompanied by twitching. Remarkable microscopic changes localized in the rostral cerebrum consisted of large numbers of intracytoplasmic and occasional intranuclear inclusion bodies, neuronal necrosis, syncytial cell formation, and a relative lack of inflammation associated with the infection. Based on the current classification system and knowledge about avian paramyxoviruses, a group 3 paramyxovirus was suspected to be the causative agent of the neurologic signs and microscopic lesions.
10.2307/30134153|Quail bronchitis, a rapidly spreading adenoviral disease, produces respiratory signs and lesions associated with high mortality in young bobwhite quail. The disease is often catastrophic for "backyard" operations. Therapy consists of supportive care, and to date no vaccine is available. Prevention remains the principal means of control.
10.2307/30134405|Radiology is an integral part of the diagnostic work-up of urogenital disease in birds. The radiographic changes must be correlated with pathophysiology to make an intelligent and accurate diagnosis. Radiographic contrast examinations including intravenous excretory urograms and cloacograms are-safe, easy to perform, and useful in defining mass lesions. Alternative imaging modalities such as ultrasound and renal scintigraphy are safe and non-invasive; however, their application and diagnostic significance in avian radiology needs further investigation.
10.2307/30134115|Aquatic birds are a taxonomically diverse group of species that can be exceptionally difficult to maintain in a captive environment. This paper is an introduction to the biology and major problems of these species in the wild. It is also a review of environmental requirements and diets necessary to maintain these birds during periods of captivity.
43855994|Proximal humeral fractures in two owls were repaired surgically using plastic intramedullary pins secured with acrylic bone cement. One owl was capable of limited flight two weeks post-surgery and was ready for release conditioning six weeks later. The second owl responded similarly, but a separate injury hindered its rate of recovery. This procedure merits further study to determine its overall value in avian humeral repair.
10.2307/30134114|Two dry chemistry systems, Kodak Ektachem and Reflotron Boehringer, were tested for clinical use in avian medicine and compared with conventional wet chemistry methods on the Greiner 300 Autoanalyzer. The precision of the machine in producing consistent serial results with the same sample (same day precision) and comparison with the reference method showed good results in both systems. The values found by the dry chemistry system (Kodak Ektachem) on plasma samples drawn from 50 healthy budgerigars were in accordance with the normal ranges in the literature. The primary advantage of the dry chemistry systems is the very small sample size required. Only 200 d whole blood (average PCV: 50%) is needed to perform a profile of 8 parameters with the Kodak Ektachem system within 30 minutes after blood collection.
10.2307/30134162|The results of an AAV Membership Survey (AAV TODAY, Summer, 1987) indicated that 45 % of the respondents owned a computer. This was further verified in a recent informal survey of avian practitioners conducted by the California Avian Laboratory, where 41% of those who responded used a computer in their practice; hardware and software ranged from very basic systems to multi-terminal, dedicated veterinary management systems. Avian pracitioners are discovering many unique applications for computers.
43856000|In the companion animal literature most studies have focused on the use of canine and feline companionate pets. Considered less affectionate and intimate, birds have received little attention in this role. The evidence, however, is in favor of strong human-bird bonds.
43855996|Ducks have normal anatomical variations in the syrinx that may lead uninformed avian practitioners to suspect pathology. This photo essay illustrates the location and structure of the syringeal bulla in two species of ducks.
10.2307/30134406|A case of psittacine beak and feather syndrome (PBFS) is described in a Blue-fronted Amazon (Amazona aestiva). This is the first reported case of PBFS in a New World species and in a member of the genus Amazona.
