43519415|Auf dem Dolomit des Cskpilis-Berges, der den sdlichen Gebirgszug des Bkk-Gebirges bildet, bildete sich eine eigenartige Pflanzengesellechaft mit vielen merkwrdigen Pflanzenarten heraus. Die steile sdliche Seite des Berges ist von Quercus virgiliana bedeckt. In den Felsenrasen des Dolomites sind Sesleria hungarica und Carex humilis herschend. Im Frhjahrsaspekt sind stellenweise die kleinerengraseren Gruppen von Daphne cneorum charakteristisch. Das Gebiet ist ein vorteilhafter Fundort von Cypripedium calceolus, aus dem vir etwa 150-200 Exemplare zhlten. Die beilegende Florenliste und die znologische Aufnahmen zeigen die Zusammensetzung der Assoziation. Deren Grund schlagen wir vor dass man die Assoziation von den bekannten Eichen-Pflanzengesellsohaft ale Sesalerio-Quercetum virgilianae Assoziation unterscheiden soll.
43519465|The Bugac area includes several very different habitat types so that some characteristic fungi of coastal sand dunes, deserts, steppes, alder swamps and planted Robinia and Pinus stands occur together. The extremely arid climate causes other species to be found very rarely. This paper summarizes the mycological observations of the author performed since 1965. The list is probably not exhaustive as records of many additional species may be expected in the near future.
43519452|In recent years several studies have reported on chironomid production. The purpose of my paper is to evaluate the theoretical and practical aspects of the problems associated with the experimental investigations on chironomids, more specifically on Chironomus balatonicus, and to propose some solutions. A definition for biological production was selected from the traditional statements, which served as a basis for my study, then a new approach from cybernetical aspect is suggested. I consider eight tasks which are necessary to understand the importance of a quantitatively dominant species in the life of a water-body; these are the following: 1) Investigation of the complete life cycle under laboratory conditions. 2) Estimation of the production of one generation on the basis of breeding experiments. 3) Determination of the number of generations in a water-body. 4) The possibilities and ways of extrapolation from breeding results. 5) To establish the survival strategy and to estimate the elimination. 6) Estimation of the total production of the species in a water-body. 7) Possibilities for estimating the quantity of consumed nutrients. 8) Quantitative evaluation of the role of chironomids in matter circulation and in the energy budget of a water-body.
43518934|Adjacent patches of different community types interact with each other via the efflux of individuals of component populations, influenced by the size, shape, arrangement and distance of patches. In a spatial micromosaic of two vegetation types, it is reasonable to assume that the intensity of interactions is proportional to the distances between patches (more precisely, to the distribution of distances). In this paper, a special type of distance distribution functions (DDF) is introduced to predict potential interactions between two communities. Each community is characterised by two functions (i. e., comm. A - comm.  and comm.  -> comm. A). The applicability of the new function is presented in the evaluation of a vegetation map.
43519245|Net CO assimilation (A), transpiration (E) and water use efficiency (WUE) were compared in two C grasses and two C dicot herbs of a xeric temperate loess steppe after exposure in open top chambers for 1, 2, 11 and 36 months to present (350 mol mol, LCO) and elevated (700 mol mol, HCO) levels of CO. Acclimation of A to elevated CO varied both between species and over the course of the period of exposure. In the first month of exposure photosynthesis of Festuca rupicola grown at elevated CO concentration showed a significant upward regulation. Salvia nemorosa did not show acclimation of photosynthesis after the first month of exposure. After the 2nd month of exposure, F. rupicola maintained its upward acclimation. S. nemorosa also showed upward acclimation of net photosynthesis both in the initial slope and the plateau of the CO assimilation vs intercellular CO concentration (A/ci) curve. After 11 months of exposure, the grasses displayed a downward acclimation in the decreased initial slope of the A/ci response curve and similar A at high CO concentrations in plants grown at high CO concentartion (HCO plants). Transpiration decreased with an increase of Ci in the grass species, while in the dicot species it was not affected by any change in Ci. Long term exposure to high CO causes a similar acclimation of stomatal regulation and transpiration to that of photosynthesis. Instantaneous WUE significantly increased in all species grown at elevated CO. After 36 months of exposure the monocot species showed a downward acclimation in Rubisco capacity and its A/ci curve did not reach saturation. The dicot species showed upregulation regarding either the Rubisco capacity or Pi/RuBP regeneration capacity. In the short term, monocot species are more responsive than the dicot ones. Further, acclimation of photosynthesis in Pi/RuBP regeneration capacity is an earlier response than that of Rubisco activity/amount. In the long term, HCO treatment caused alleviation of the Pi regeneration limitation at high CO concentrations, while in LCO plants the A/ci curve showed saturation in all of the species. Species responded at different time scales and in different ways to exposure to HCO treatments. The grass species responded earlier and maintained their response characteristics after the first month of exposure, while the dicot species responded later and their response characteristics changed with the advance of exposure to HCO treatment. These differences can partly be attributed to probable sink limitation in the monocot species, which was apparently absent or smaller in the dicots.
43519439|The relationship between climatic ordinations and the geographic position of meteorological stations has been studied via Procrustes analysis in order to measure the effects of some geographic features on climatic variation within phytoclimatic zones of China. The analysis showed that for nearly all phytoclimatic zones there is a high correspondence between the position of the metereological stations in multidimensional climatic space and in the territory. This means that the climatic variation follows a regular pattern in the territories of phytoclimatic zones. However, multiple regression confirmed that Procrustes measures of dissimilarity within each zone are significantly correlated with the standard deviation of altitude and the number of rivers of that zone. This indicates that these two geographic features affect the pattern of climatic variation.
43519246|The extent to which atmospheric CO enrichment may influence alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) water relations under non-limiting conditions of water and nutrient supply is examined. During the 1994 and 1995 growing seasons water relations were studied by monitoring both predawn and midday water potentials, the daily trend of stomatal conductance, and the occurrence of osmotic adjustment. Midday water potential was higher in plants grown under CO enrichment in comparison with plants grown under ambient CO, while stomatal conductance decreased. On the contrary, high CO treatment had no effect on predawn water potential. Furthermore, an osmotic adjustment was evident in well-watered alfalfa plants exposed to high CO although other factors such as plant age and/or period of growing season should be taken into account.
43519243|The implications of current climate-change scenarios for British species and communities are not straightforward: short-term effects may be mediated by longer term source-sink interactions; what species do in isolation may not match what they do under competitive conditions; community-level responses may be mediated by herbivory and soil microbiology; ecosystem-level responses may be overridden by direct or indirect human activity. This article reviews UGPE findings in these areas since 1987. In single-species screening of herbaceous species, strong responses to elevated CO occur mainly in robust, fast-growing perennials, though smaller-scale studies do not necessarily support this trend. In woody species screening, increases under elevated CO are higher in deciduous species than in evergreen ones. Time-course experiments show that species which are non-responsive in the long term can respond in the shorter term, and that external mineral nutrient level is also important. Elevating CO at above-ambient temperatures promotes CO-responsiveness in lower-yielding herbaceous species, except where defoliation is also present when recovery is better in higher-yielding species. In laboratory microcosms on native soil, fast-growing species do not increase in relative abundance under elevated CO because there appears to be mineral nutrient sequestration by the expanded microflora. In Baby-FACE field microcosms, elevated CO has no significant effect on community composition unless accompanied by elevated temperature and/or by added nutrients. Nutrient additions lead to much bigger gains in non-mycorrhizal species than in mycorrhizal ones. Field microcosms with artificial crevices show a differential effect of natural summer drought on contrasted species. CO screening experiments can be paralleled by similar work on sulphur dioxide and on ozone. In both of these gases, plant response is strongly and inversely related to seedling growth rate. This contrasts with the pattern found under elevated CO, which appears to depend upon a combination of plant physiology plus evolutionary history. Responsiveness to CO also helps to identify basic 'functional types' and multivariate methods can show that competitive species depend upon high lateral spread, long life history, high responsiveness to elevated CO, and inbreeding reproduction. Expert-system models can predict outline responses of vegetation to climate and management changes, and cellular automata successfully mimic plant morphology and function in relation to resource acquisition and utilisation within component modules. Plant community responses to elevated CO are now being seen less and less as the products of the responsiveness of the component species measured in isolation and more, for example, as the product of habitat richness, especially in respect of mineral nutrients.
43519488|This paper reviews the literature on the biology of clonal plants with emphasis on the ecological consequences of clonality at the community level. The hierarchical (genet-ramet) organization of clonal plants offers a variety of strategies in life history, resource use and space occupation that are specific to clonality. We present examples for particular clonal traits and their community level effects, as they appear from field studies and theoretical models. These examples suggest that clonality imposes strong constraints on spatial pattern and competitive relations in plant communities. However, clonality can also release constraints of species coexistence related to a trade-off between mobility and local persistence. We argue that a unique feature of clonal species is that they have internal (genet-level) control mechanisms on a spatio-temporal scale that is intermediate between the fine-scale (i.e. individual-to-individual) and the large-scale (i.e. population-to-population) interactions in a community. Therefore, the presence of clonal species in a community widens the scope of potential mechanisms of community organization.
43519137|Major floristic changes induced by some leaf-herbicides in an old perennial grassland community were studied using permanent quadrats from 1979 to 1984. Clustering methods and principal coordinates analysis were applied to characterize vegetation pattern and to reveal trends of temporal variation. The results indicate a tendency of forming a new stable state rather than the recovery of the pre-disturbance state of the community. The multivariate techniques demonstrate that the different coenostates developed after the treatments were more or less sensitive to drought and were much influenced by the amount of herbicide applied. The expression of seasonality is also apparent especially in the ordinations. It must be noted that pure seasonal fluctuations can be detected unambiguously only in the intact community. In some treated plots, seasonal changes are also present but less clear, and in the other cases they cannot be distinguished at all from regeneration and other processes. Principal coordinates analysis reveals underlying trends in vegetation dynamics and facilitates the interpretation of factors primarily responsible for the changes. The first two axes seem to correspond to fluctuations in the control experiment or a secondary successional trend initiated by herbicide treatment, whereas the third axis reflects either seasonality or dry periods in the climate. It is concluded that the joint application of classification and ordination methods is very useful in detecting vegetational changes. The analyses confirm the findings obtained previously by different similarity indices and provide new information as to the "group-structure" of the sampling units and the temporal trajectories throughout the study.
43519098|Numerical classification and ordination methods commonly require the calculation of pairwise similarities between items. Such similarities are calculated from the observed values for various attributes. In most cases these values are assumed to be single codes or numbers. However, if the states of an attribute are ordered, showing a sequential structuring, it may be desirable to adjust for the structure in the measure of similarity. In this paper we discuss both this simple case and some other possible structures for attribute states, and for attributes, and present some methods which offer the user a means of combining the state frequencies with this structure. This leads to the development of more apposite measures of similarity, and the value of such measures is illustrated by an application to vegetation patterns on Masthead Island, Great Barrier Reef.
43519461|A Monte-Carlo simulation model has been developed for the study of the spatio-temporal behavior of n annual plant species. Restricted dispersion of propagules and local competition among seedlings are assumed. The main conclusion obtained by the simulation of two extreme cases regarding propagule dispersion is that space-related events may have a considerable effect on the demography of interacting plant populations.
43518939|The vegetation history of the Anderson pond site is well known from the pioneering work of Hazel R. Delcourt. Yet it is a fact that the site's paleopollen record is far from having been fully explored for information. This is particularly true when one considers the characteristics of the process itself. It is in this area that this paper presents results, revealing prevalently unimodal taxon density graphs, intensely periodic community stability curves, and a surprising lack of evidence of significant compositional "backtracking". The results also reveal compositional transitions under the alternating dominance of determinism and randomness, and further, significant process homogeneity within a relevant geographic domain. The theoretical and practical consequences of the latter become particularly obvious when one considers that once geographic process homogeneity is shown, the relevance of the hypothesis of individualistic vegetation dynamics is relegated to the level of a partial truth to the extent to which process behaviour reflects the random effects. It is peculiar that because random effects dominate the process in the short run, predictions of the immediate future by extrapolation are likely to be erroneous.
43519462|Several records of Impatiens parviflora have been published from Hungary (see Map 2) since its first occurrence in 1891. Recently, presumably as a consequence of indirect human activity, it appeared at the Vadll Rocks, a study area of the MAB project, and became a widespread forest weed with a density of 19030 individuals/m in June. It strives for a total dominance in the understory. Strong intraspecific competition is characteristic of the stands. All stands were found in a N-NE exposition between 30-60 slope angle showing that balanced water supply is an essential environmental condition for this species. The more or less closed herb layer composed of perennial grasses represents another limiting factor, especially if combined with shortage of water. In the study sites, as field observations and results of numerical classification suggest, I. parviflora is mainly found in Querceto petraeae-Carpinetum stands, although it also occurs, in other community types (see Table 1 and Fig. 3). No correlation was observed between the environmental factors (temperature, water supply and soil acidity) and the abundance of I. parviflora. Thus, abundance depends on whether the area was earlier or later colonized by this species.
43519369|Nach der systematisch-geobotaniscfc-kologischen Bearbeitung der pannonisch-karpatischen Orchideen begann die Verfasserin im Jahre 1974 diese Pflanzen auch anatomisch untersuchen. In Ungarn hat man sich mit dieser Frage nicht befasst, weshalb die anatomischen Untersuchungsergebnisse der Taxa der einheimischen Wildorchideen als neu zu betrachten sind. In dieser Arbeit publiziert die Verfasserin die Ergebnisse der blattanatomischen Untersuchungen aue 11 einheimischen Wildorchideen. Die Bltter samtlicher, von uns untersuchter Taxa gehrten zum isolateralen homogenen Typ. Mann kann sie allgemein folgendermassen charakterisieren: Die Zellen der oberen und unteren Epidermis unterscheiden sich in ihren Massen voneinander. Die Zellen der oberen Epidermis sind im allgemeinen grosser, ja sie knnen sogar viel grosser als die der unteren Epidermis sein. Die Zellwand ist im allgemeinen kutikular, ihr Verlauf in der Aufsicht meist gerade, leicht "bogenfrmig, krumm oder wellenfrmig. An der oberen Epidermis kommen bei einigen Arten auch hyaline Haare vor. Zwichen den Epidermiszellen sind meist runde oder ovale Stornata zu finden. Nebenzellen gibt es keine. Es gibt Arten, bei welchen an der oberen Epidermis dee Blattes Stornata von grssere oder mindere Zahl zu finden sind. Bas Mass der Stornata ist, je nach dem, ob sie sich an der oberen oder unteren Epidermis des Blattes befinden, unterschiedlich. Die auf die Flcheneinheit /1 mm/fallende Zahl der Epidermiszellen steht mit den Massen der Zellen, fernem auch mit der Zahl bzw. den Massen der Stornata und damit im Zusammenhang, ob es sich um die obere oder untere Epidermis des Blattes handelt. Die Struktur der Epidermis ist fast fr eine jede Art spezifisch. Die ausfhrliche anatomische Charakterisierung des Blattes bringen wir bei der Errterung der einzelnen Arten.
43519301|The climatically zonal forest communities of the Bkk Mts. exhibit a more or less regular altitudinal zonation. The variegated geomorphology and the resulting microclimatic and hydrographie conditions, as well as the diversity of parental materials are responsible for the complex mosaic and intricate successional relationships of intrazonal communities. This review discusses the physiognomic conditions of some edaphic communities and summarizes their successional relationships. Emphasis is placed on communities extensively studied for malacofauna in other papers in this volume; no attempt is made to give a full overview of all vegetation types of the mountains.
43519142|These notes, inter alia, attempt to make a sharp contrast between the cheaply ultra-reductionist booklet of F. Crick (Of Molecules and Men) and the much deeper, evolutionary analysis of F. Jacob (The Possible and the Actual). Besides Jacob's valuable essays, the best book reviewed here is a Hungarian one (D. Surnyi: "Stories on Horticultural Plants"), very rich in historical and cultural implications.
43519428|Exploratory analysis, confirmatory analysis, and modeling are treated as a three-step model of research, each step using particular statistical and data analysis tools. Sampling requires different techniques in each step, and the problem of optimal plot size becomes evident at least in the second step. P. Juhsz-Nagy's model and the STATTS procedure are described for the analysis of three-way data tables. The ability of the former in detecting optimal plot size of a community is discussed, and the use of STATIS as an exploratory tool for the same purpose is suggested to overcome the problem of large sample size required by Juhsz-Nagy's models.
43519082|The comparison of floristic vegetation types on the basis of multiway contingency tables obtained by considering the properties of the species (structural, morphological, anatomical, chemical, chorological, etc.), is suggested to improve the interpretation of the relationships between the types. The construction of the multiway contingency tables allows us to combine different vegetation spaces which are considered relevant for understanding of vegetation structure and processes. An example of application of an information system integrating the use of a data bank and multivariate methods is given by comparing some types of beech woods of the Apennines. The ordination of the types described by three-way contingency tables obtained by the cross life form-growth form-chorological element, proves to be more predictive with respect to ecological indicator values than the ordinations based on the species, and on the life form-growth form and chorological spectra joined in one table as if they were independent variables (canonical correlation analysis was applied for measuring prediction). The classification and ordination of the types on the basis of some statistics of the contingency tables prove that the predictability between texture andchorology of vegetation may be considered a good descriptor of vegetation. The predictability of texture towards chorology and vice versa is strongest in the types of peculiar environments (e.g., on acid soils, on soils with high drainage).
43519434|The scale of investigation is an essential factor in community analysis. It is common sense that changes of scale by a factor of 10 and more depict often a completely different community structure. Even smaller changes of scale delineate dramatic changes of association for some groups of species but not so for others. Combining the results of pairwise cross-classifications for all species as sampled at various scales shows more or less scale invariant groups. A secondary dry grassland (Festuco-Caricetum humilis Sillinger 1930) has been investigated. A sample in form of a grid of contiguous quadrats has been used. In order to investigate the scale dependencies samples consisting of quadrats of larger window size have been produced by subsequent fusions of the original plots. Analyses of pairwise associations have been carried out with presence/absence data. The resulting graphs (showing the associations at only one level of scale) and multigraphs (combined views of samples at different scales) show changing both positive and negative associations for different plot sizes. The coalition of the winter annuals and moss species -found on shallow soils or on all but bare rocks - is the most scale independent. It can be separated from another group made up by Genista pilosa and Festuca carnuntina, which grow on deeper soils. The dominant matrix species Carex humilis, growing primarily on deeper soils, is only negatively associated with all other species. It forms a group for itself alone, a so-called one-species group.
43519468|The first part of this paper is a general introduction to niche theory based on Hutchinson's concepts. This theory characterizes different populations of a community by means of niche dimensions corresponding to relevant ecological factors. Measures applied to the estimation of niche breadth, e.g., Shannon function, Brillouin formula, Levins index and the Colwell-Futuyma formula, and those estimating niche overlap, e.g., Horn index, MacArthur-Levins formula, Schoener index, Colvell-Futuyma formula are presented and reviewed. Modified forms of niche indices may be used to estimate niche breadth and niche overlap (Hurlbert 1978, Hanski 1978, Abrams 1980). In addition, some problems related to resource partitionong are also discussed. Results of niche studies carried out in Hungary are summarized. The papers by Fekete, Prcsnyi and co-workers analyze niche relations among the dominant and abundant plant species of a dry sandy grassland community (Festucetum vagina tae). The examined niche dimensions were soil moisture content, root depth and the cover of Festuca vaginata. The position of the species in this three dimensional niche space was determined. Furthermore, some new approaches to the problem of ecological specialism and generalism are given. In the field of animal ecology the paper reviews Gall's investigations on Formicoidea populations living in different sandy grasslands. Finally, a framework of niche studies to be carried out in semi-arid sandy grasslands in the Kiskunsg National Park, Hungary, is outlined. The niche dimensions to be analyzed are soil humus content, available soil moisture content, clay mineral content, available nutrient content and some physical properties of the soil. The importance of studies concerned with the direction of displacement in the niche space during succession is emphasized.
43519140|The age-specific population growth models describe the dynamics of the age structure of a population. For the basic properties of the original, discrete time-discrete age model we refer to Leslie (1945, 1948), and to Usher (1972), and Sverezhev and Logofet (1978) for a more recent survey. There also exists a continuous time-discrete age version of the model, see e. g., Poluektov (1974) and Varga (1984), involving ordinary differential equations, and also a continuous time-continuous age variant which, surprisingly, turned out to be relevant in the mathematical realization theory of distributed parameter control systems (see Juhsz-Nagy and Varga 1980, Szigeti and Vera 1986a, b). In this paper, the continuous time-discrete age version is considered. The model is set up in section 1. In sections 2 and 3, an asymptotic age distribution is obtained, based on the spectral properties of the system matrix. Our treatment is somewhat different from that of Poluektov (1974). In section 4, stability criteria are given in terms of the model parameters.
43519517|It is argued that conspecific pairs of subspecies within a genus should have a consistent degree of similarity - at least greater than that between pairs of distinct species in that genus. Numerical methods are used to re-examine the existing classification of the genus Drosera (with over sixty distinct species) in Australia. Though most subspecies pairs show much greater similarity than most species pairs, two subspecies of D. stolonifera deviate widely from the other three. In contrast, several pairs of species within the genus resembled one another as much as conspecific pairs of subspecies.
43519150|This paper discusses the utility of different resemblance indices and clustering methods applied to the same data and the comparison of results thus obtained for detecting vegetation changes induced by leaf herbicides in an old perennial grassland community. Multiple comparison of classifications of different data sets, originated from various treatments is also used to examine the relative impact of treatment, herbicide dose, clustering method and data type upon the classifications. It is demonstrated that the method of multiple comparison and the evaluation of results by reducing the data set successively may be very powerful to reveal and assess the relative importance of different treatments in the changes of vegetation pattern.
43519237|Results from a case study with perennial ryegrass stands grown during 27 months on a soil at two N fertilizer suppplies in ambient or in elevated CO and at outdoor temperature or +3 C, with (or without) a summer water limitation are discussed. Elevated CO effects on the above-ground productivity of the grass sward and on the herbage quality were found to be partly mediated by plant-soil interactions. An increased allocation of growth to the roots was observed under elevated CO and, despite an enhancement of carbon turnover in the soil macro-organic fractions, a supplemental sequestration of carbon occurred below-ground. Nitrogen immobilization in the soil macro-organic matter was enhanced under elevated CO and the net mineralization rate was reduced. These changes in the soil N cycle under elevated CO led to a reduction in the availability of inorganic  to the grass (decline in the N nutrition index) and, therefore, to a decline in the harvest index. In case of a combined increase in CO concentration and in air temperature, the decline in the sward productivity during summer was offset by an increase during early spring and late autumn. A supplemental 3 C in elevated CO mitigated the changes in the soil N cycle, without diminishing the sequestration of below-ground carbon, due apparently to the reduction in the soil water content, which partly counterbalanced the positive effect of an increased air temperature on SOM decomposition.
43519410|Gelegentlich der lichenologischen Untersuchungen in der regionalischen Umgebung verschiedenen Aluminium-httenwerken in Ungarn /Ajka, Vrpalota, Tatabnya/ haben wir es bemerkt, dass der Mass der Geschdigung der unter den selben Bedigungen lebenden epiphyton Laubflechten auffalenden Unterschiede zeigt. Laut mikroskopischen Untersuchungen wurde es klar, dass die maximal geschdigte Flechtenthallen mit Isydiums dick bedeckt sind. Dieser Fakt hat uns gespornt um die Rolle der Isydiums in Fluor-Empfindlichkeit der Flekten eindringlicher zu studieren. Unter den Wirkung der Fluorverunreinigung der erwhnten Htten haben wir keine wesentliche Unterschied gefunden. Nach unserer Feststellungen die Isydiums eine wesentliche Rolle in der Fluor-Gas-Aufnahme haben, wiel die Isydiums gnstige Oberflchen der Flechtenthallen zu binden, und in der Zukunft einzudrngen. Hypogymnia bitteriana und Parmelia aspera von den unterschten Taxonen eine Fhigkeit fr Fluorinduktion gezeigt haben.
43519304|The paper analyzes the snail assemblages of 36 plant community types in the Bkk Mts, Hungary. The abiotic and biotic factors influencing spatial distribution along vegetational succession, and structural changes of assemblages during reforestation are examined. Different anthropogenic effects are detected. Differences between species composition of the various beechwoods of Europe are evaluated based on new and literature data.
43519239|Using open-top chambers, four prominent species of Irish neutral grasslands, Lolium perenne, Cynosurus cristatus, Holcus lanatus and Agrostis capillaris were grown at ambient and elevated (700 mol mol) atmospheric CO. The effects of intra-and interspecific competition on plant responses to CO enrichment was investigated by growing the species in monocultures at two densities and in a four-species mixture. The results indicate that the species differ in their ability to respond to elevated CO. In the monocultures, L perenne, H. lanatus and A. capillaris responded positively to elevated CO, with an increase in harvestable biomass, but C. cristatus did not respond to CO enrichment. The CO stimulation of biomass production for L. perenne, H. lanatus and A. capillaris was accompanied by increased tillering. In addition, reductions in the specific leaf area for L perenne and H. lanatus were observed. The results show that species vary in their response to elevated CO. As a result, species composition in natural plant communities is likely to change at elevated CO.
43519433|Estimates of mean values of forest, grassland or other vegetation resources may be obtained with greater precision than other common sampling techniques by using ranked set sampling (RSS). This works by maintaining the unbiasedness of random sampling while increasing the chances of representing the full range of the underlying population by capitalizing on expert judgment or quantitative information about the population at the sample level. Precision of an RSS estimator will always be greater than or equal to that of a simple random sample estimator and will be greater than an estimator from double sampling for regression in many realistic situations. Methods and case studies are presented here along with theoretical considerations of the various factors affecting relative precision and a discussion of future directions.
43504897|In 1974 and 1975 Lotus corniculatus group growing wild in Hungary and eight c. varieties were studied quantitavely for cyanogenic glucoside. The method, which is very suitable for testing, was taken over from DAWSON /1941/, GRANT and SIDHU /1966/ and JONES /1966/. Different plant organs, parts of leaves, stems and flowers were tested in fresh state furthermore after drying for 48 hours at room temperature as well as after drying for 48 hours at 110 C. The colour reaction based on picrat method was recorded visually after 48 hours incubation. All taxa, which were examined, contained cyanoglucoside in different quantities, and gave positive reaction for HCN. Comparing the three testing materials examined parallely the strongest reaction for HCN was given by the fresh plant-material, less by the air-dried and oven-dried at 110 C in decresing order. Correlation was found between the chromosome number and the HCN content in agreement with GRANT's and SIDHU's results. The diploid species, e.g. L. tenuis, L. borbasii /chromosome number 2n=12/do not give as strong an HCN reaction as the tetraploid L. corniculatus taxa. In the taxa of Lotus corniculatus agg, growing wild the polymorphism of cyanogenesis is very significant. The HOT content in. L. corn. var. dabasensis is considerably low, 1,5 in the fresh plant material, 4,9 in the flower. In the leaves and stems of two varieties of ssp. hirsutus the HCN content varies from 5,0 to 6,7 in the flowers from 5,5 to 7,2 In the cvar. 5,0-5,8 mean value, in the flower 5,5-7, 0 HCN values were measured. We have some observations about the fact, that the HCN data measured in autumn /September/were higher than the values measured during the summer season /July/. In 1975 investigations were extended over the determination of HCN content in the new buds after crop cuttings.
43519256|The grass species of Hungary are classified as C3 or C4 on the basis of taxonomic information. Various indices in the literature describing ecological behavior of species are used to compare these groups. C3 species dominate the grass flora; they are mainly perennials and occupy a great variety of habitats. Only 14.4% of the 174 grass species is of C4 type, which are mostly annuals on disturbed land. The few non-weedy species inhabit saline areas or calcareous grasslands. There is a temporal displacement in the phenology of grasses with different fixation pathways; the C4 species growing in the hot and dry summer period, while the C3 species have the maximal activity earlier, in May and June. The use of Ellenberg's ecological indicator values showed C4 species to occupy habitats with higher temperature than that of the habitat of C3 grasses, but no difference was found in the moisture requirements. The reported higher efficiency of nitrogen use in the C4 pathway has not resulted a preference of C4 grasses for habitats poor in nitrogen.
43519189|This paper summarizes differences between the original IBM-PC and the new Macintosh versions of the SYN-TAX III program package developed for data analysis in community ecology and systematica. Output examples are presented for the interactive graphics routines.
43519418|Verfasser untersuchte aufgrund der im Zemplner Gebirge gemachten 63 znologisehen Aufnahmen das Ploidie-Verhltnis /Diploidie-Polyploidie-Verhltnis/ von in 11 Assoziationen einreihbaren Wald- bzw. Rasentypen, ihre Gestrtheit durch Vergleiche. Es wurden betreffs der Arten der Krautschicht /im Falle der Waldtypen: der Feldschicht/ festgestellt:1/ der diploide bzw. polyploide Prozentsatz; 2/ die Gestaltung der Artenzahl, der Gramineae-Artenzahl, der Artenzahl der Strungzeiger, der Gesamtdeckung der Arten, der Deckung der Gramineae-Arten und der Strungszeigenden Arten /die Deckungen wurden aufgrund der Summierung der A-D-Werte berechnet/. Die Untersuchungsergebnisse knnen im folgenden zusammengefasst werden: 1/ Allgemeine Folgerungen. a/ In Bezug der Ploidie-Struktur knnen die untersuchten Wald- /bzw. Rasen-/ Typen in zwei Gruppen gereiht werden. Die an extremeren /trockeneren, feuchteren, basisreicheren/ Standorten lebenden sind von polyploidem bergewicht. Die an den ausgeglicheneren Standorten lebenden zeigen hingegen das bergewicht der Diploiden. Die in diese zwei Gruppen gereihten Typen unterscheiden sich aufgrund der prozentualen Durch - schnittswerte der in ihnen vorhandenen polyploiden Arten in signifikanter Weise. b/ In der Krautschicht der Wald- /bzw. Rasen-/ Typen von gestrtem /sekundrem/ Charakter ist in jedem Falle ein bergewicht der Polyploiden zu verzeichnen ! Bei 75 % der naturnahen Typen ist in der Krautschicht ein diploides bergewieht./ In der Krautschicht bei den brigen 25 % ist ein polyploides bergewicht, was sich mit dem feuchteren und frischeren Standort erklren lsst. /Die Durchschnittswerte der Polyploidie der Gruppen der natur - nahen und gestrten Wald- /bzw. Rasen-/ Typen unterscheiden sich voneinander in signifikanter Weise. 2/ Zusammenhang zwischen dem gestrten Zustand, der Ploidie-Struktur in der Krautschicht der Waldtypen und ihren Znologischen Merkmalen. a/ Artenzahl. In den untersuchten 18 Waldtypen betrgt die durchschnittliche Artenzahl der Kraut schichten 25. Vergleichen wir die durchschnittliche Artenzahl der ber polyploidem und diploidem bergewicht verfgenden sowie der gestrten und unge - strten Waldtypen, so zeigt sich ein Unterschied zugunsten der von Polyploiden dominierten bzv. gestrten Typen. b/ Gramineae-Artenzahl. Durchschnittlich:5. Die durchschnittliche Gramineae-Artenzahl ist in den von Polyploiden dominierten und in den gestrten Waldtypen etwas hher. c/ Die Zahl der s trungs zeigenden Arten. Durchschnittlich: 9,5. Ihre Zahl ist in den von Polyploiden dominierten bzw. in gestrten Waldtypen hher als der Durchschnitt. d/ Die Gesemtdeckung der Arten der Krautschicht. Durchschnittlich: 36,5. Die Gesemtdeckung der Arten in den von Polyploiden dominierten bzw. in gestrten Waldtypen ist hher als der Durch - schnitt. Die Gesamtdeckung der Arten in den Waldtypen mit polyploidem und diploidem bergewicht unterscheidet sich gleichfalls in signifikanter Weise voneinander. e/ Die Deckung der Gramineae-Arten. Durchschnittlicher Wert: 5,2. Die Gramineae-Deckung der Waldtypen von polyploidem bergewicht ist bedeuntend hher, als die der Diploiden. Die Gramineae-Deckung der gestrten Waldtypen ist gleichfalls grosser, als die der ungestrten. Der Unterschied ist in beiden Fllen signifikant! f/ Die Deckung der Strungezeisenden Arten. Durchschnittlicher Wert: 5,0. Ihre Deckung ist in den von Polyploiden dominierten und in den gestrten Wald typen grsser als der Durchschnitt. Im Falle der gestrten und ungestrten Waldtypen ist der Unterschied signifikant. Zusammenfassend kann festgestellt werden, dass die qualitativ und quantitativ untersuchten Ploidie-Verhltnisse und znc-ogi - sehen Merkmale zum Nachweis der Degradation der Wald-/bzw. Rasen-/Typen geeignet sind. Dies ermglicht die sich in der Gestaltung der Ploidie-Verhltnisse und der znologischen Markmale manifestierende Gesetzmssigkeit, wonach das polyploide bergewicht in der Krautschicht, die grssere Artenzahl und Artendeckung, die grssere Gramineae-Zahl und Deckung, die grssere Zahl und Deckung der strungszeigenden Arten sowie der "sekundre" Charakter parallele, sich gegenseitig voraussetzende Erscheinungen sind.
43519257|Each of the traditional niche overlap statistics requires the estimation of a density function (the so-called resource utilization function) and the result depends heavily on the arbitrary choice of the bin size or bandwidth. I propose an original two-dimensional niche overlap index which does not require the direct estimation of the resource utilization function, hence does not depend on the arbitrary choice of the bin size. The method measures a real two-dimensional overlap, not the overlap of one-dimensional 'shadows' (marginal distributions). The procedure of calculation is illustrated by an elementary example. Using computer simulation, an ecologically relevant situation is studied and the result is compared with the results of traditional methods (Levins, Schoener, Pianka, Petraitis). It is demonstrated that the presented method can overcome the artifacts of the one-dimensional overlap estimations and it is capable of describing correctly the resource utilization structure of species in the niche space. The method is effective when the overlap statistics are calculated from small samples.
43519097|The water status, transpiration, and CO fixation in the leaves of Festuca vaginata and Koeleria glauca were measured together with environmental variables (air temperature, relative air humidity, soil moisture, and illumination).. Regarding transpiration, relative transpiration and CO fixation, the leaves of k1leria glauca were more active than those of Festuca glauca, both in spring and in summer. The transpiration and fixation rates of these species became lower by summer. Relatively low water saturation deficit values were obtained during the whole growing season. Transpiration and CO fixation rates reached their maxima in the morning hours in summer, and about noon in spring. The results suggest that water use regulation is different in the two drought-tolerant species. Koeleria glauca transfers and contains more water in the leaves, and is more sensitive to changes in soil moisture and relative air humidity than Festuca vaginata. The latter species has a strictly regulated, moderate type of water utilization. There is no difference between the species regarding the transpiratory and CO fixation rates, if the results are related to the whole phytomass (above and underground parts). The species have adapted to dry habitats in different ways: the photosynthesis of Festuca vaginata is of the C type, whereas Koeleria glauca has vesiculararbuscular mycorrhizae in its roots.
43519091|A program package, originally developed for mainframe computers, has been adapted for a recent generation of MS-DOS microcomputers. The package offers a solution to many problems which hitherto limited the application of multivariate methods in vegetation studies. The programs in the package can be used instantly even by a beginner and they offer choice of well known multivariate algorithms. The hardware is affordable and even portable. Computer and program may therefore become part of the standard tools in research and teaching.
43519442|Community structure was studied by analysing interspecific relationships of herbaceous species in a sessile oak stand. Groups of species were searched for to be able to characterize previously distinguished vegetation types. The study was carried out using presence/absence data collected from sampling units that represent two different spatial scales (156 m quadrats and 3.14 m circular plots). In search for characteristic species groups, the species were classified using Euclidean distance. The obtained clusters reflect mainly the number of occurrences rather than habitat preferences. Three methods of reducing species number for further analyses, i.e. eliminating the not characteristically behaving species, are discussed. The exclusion of only the rare and the most abundant species was not satisfactory, since there are some relatively rare species with specific and interpretable spatial behaviour. The use of information criterion in this case ranked the species solely according to their relative frequencies. Species were ranked most sensibly by measuring the level of overall non-independence (determined by pairwise chi test of independence). Pairwise interspecific association was studied for the selected species at both spatial scales. The two species groups distinguished using the larger scale data set reflect community-level distribution patterns. The first is characteristic of those parts of the area where herbs indicate the driest and most acidic habitat (e.g. Viscaria vulgaris, Carex digitata, Campanula persicifolia, Hieracium lachenalii, Luzula albida, Trifolium medium, Veronica officinalis). On the other hand the common characteristic of species belonging to the second group is their absence from these parts. The acidophilous species described above showed similar interspecific relationships when the smaller scale data set was analysed. Using these data, a more detailed description of interspecific relationships was given for the species that belonged to the second species group. Most importantly positive links between some Fagetalia species (Dentaria bulbifera, Lathyrus vernus, Asperula odorata) and some disturbance toleran'ng weeds (Geranium robertianum, Chaerophyllum temulum, Galium aparine, Urtica dioica, Campanula rapunculoides) were shown.
43519204|In the present paper the author updates the taxonomic and floristic knowledge of foliicolous lichenized fungi in Argentina, with emphasis on Corrientes province, and adjacent Paraguay and southern Brazil. Fifteen families, 25 genera and 80 species were collected mainly in riparian forests. The following taxa are reported for the first time from Argentina: Actinoplaca strigulacea, Byssoloma absconditum, B. fadenii, B. vanderystii, Calenia monospora, Fellhanera fuscatula, F. semecarpi, Gyalectidium caucasicum, G. denticulatum, Porina atropunctata, P. distans, Striglila orbicularis, and Trichothelium argenteum. Some taxa are briefly discussed and illustrated, with comments on their distribution. The relationships between lichens, algae and bryophytes which inhabit the phyllosphere in NE Argentina are also examined.
43519448|A physical-topological model of the Fibonacci plant symmetries was described and developed from many aspects by the author earlier. The cell-mosaic frame of reference determines the topological characteristics of both the global and the local versions of the model and its hierarchical generalization. The model construction starts with transformations of topological type in order to normalize different Fibonacci plant structures to their cell-mosaic-lattice representatives on a cylinder. Then Fibonacci plant structure representatives are arranged into a sequence according to their band systems determined by the growing pairs of neighbour Fibonacci numbers. Reading the sequence of normalized Fibonacci cell-mosaic structures into a transformational chain starting from the simplest (and most symmetric) 1 + 1 band mosaic to cell-mosaics with higher and higher pairs of Fibonacci numbers we get both a developmental and and evolutionary path for this class of structures and a cellular automaton description of its operation, which also has topological character.
43519227|Some mild or severe defects of individuals may influence the predator-prey coevolution and mate choice. Increasing the (polynomial) entropy of defects can serve as a special hiding mechanism. This is presumably the most effective around the middle of the reproductive life period, when the selection pressure is at its maximum. These assumptions are contrasted with some findings on the entropy maximum of human death causes.
43519348|It has been established that a considerable enhancement of the saturation can be found only above 20C. On rising the temperature, the saturation values are increasing, but not proportionally. At higher temperatures the increase of the saturation values is smaller, but, it is higher in percent of the humidity at lower temperatures. The saturation deficiency is much higher at higher temperatures than that is at lower ones.
43519100|An extensive package of BASIC language personal computer programs for the analysis of population and community data in ecology and other fields is described. The package, which is available for use on the Apple ][ family of personal computers as well as the Apple Macintosh and IBM PC, is useful both as teaching, tool and for the analysis of small to medium sized multivariate data sets. All the programs are interactive and emphasize flexibility and ease of use. The package performs a variety of useful functions, including univariate statistical calculations (mean, variance, entropy functions), computation of probability and inverse probability integrals for common statistical distributions, fitting discrete and continuous distributions, the analysis of variance (complete, randomized, block designs, latin square, factorial, and multivariate ANOVA), regression (simple, multiple, and nonlinear), distance and similarity calculations, character weighting, cluster analysis (single link, sum of squares, centroid), ordination (component analysis, nonmetric multidimensional scaling, correspondence analysis, analysis of concentration), canonical correlation, and nested hierarchical character structure analysis. A set of programs for file creation and manipulation is also included. The programs have been written to supplement the introductory data analysis text by Orlci and Kenkel (1985).
43519375|Wir untersuchten im Zemplner Gebirge die allgemein verbreiteten Felsrasen-und Waldpflanzengesellschaften mit qualitativen und quantitativen znologischen Methoden /SIMON 1971,1972 et ined., SIMON-JURASSA 1970/. Lie erhaltenen Ergebnisse ermglichen eine befriedigende Abgrenzung der einzelnen untersuchten Assoziationen sowie die Feststellung der wichtigsten qualitativen und quantitetiven Faktoren. Unter Beachtung dessen knnen die Pflanzengesellschaften getrennt werden und auf Grund entsprechender Konstitutioneller /floristische Zusammensetzung/sowie physiognomischer /Schichtungsgrad, Qualitt der Schichten, Standort/Merkmale in einen binren /ja-nein/Schlssel gefasst werden. Der Schlssel erleichtert die Erkennung und Trennung dieser natrlichen Einheiten sovie die entsprechende Ableitung biologisch orientierter forstwirtschaftlicher Massnahmen z. B. Anfertigung neuer Betriebsplne und Bestandsbeschreibungen, bei Kartierungen, Erarbeitung von Fflegevarianten usw. Es sei erwhnt, dass sich die gegebenen Charakterisierungen auf das "ideale Durchschnittsbild" der Gesellschaft beziehen. Lie Bewertung der Krautschicht vermittelt bei Kenntnis der Krautartigen Arten, auch wenn die oberen Schichten fehlen, eine ausreichende Information.
43519310|Successional changes of vegetation on an abandoned farm in the 'Nyrsg' region (Eastern Hungary) were studied through permanent plots surveyed three times per year from 1990 to 1992. The correlation of the ecological indicator values of the relevs with climatic records and soil characteristics was investigated. 1990 and 1992 were very dry years while 1991 was a humid one. Nevertheless, the indicator values reflecting the climatic background (T, W) changed only slightly. The same is true for the soil reaction (R) value but soil sampling revealed significant changes in pH conditions. The most definite change was detected in the nitrogen (N) value which was associated with the declining supply of available nitrogen in the soil. Vegetation development can be influenced by a decreasing nutrient level rather than by a sharp short-term climatic variability or changing soil reaction of the study period. Post-disturbance management which caused significant differences in composition and abundance relations of the vegetation had only moderate if any effect on the indicator, values.
43519420|Our experiments on leys treated with liquid manure with addition of and K fertilizer werer conducted at the "Petfi" Cooperative Farm in Dunavarsny by grass compound /e.g. Festuca pratensis, Lolium perenne, Phleum pratense, Poa pratensis/. We made our experiments on sown grass stand with liquid manure of cattle, pig and rabbit, and parallel with this, at some places chemical fertilizers were applied in equal amounts of nutriment and cattle liquid manure of double amount of active agent. In the grass stand its cenological composition and its crude and dry crop were estimated, in addition to the root mass in 0-50 cm soil layer, by accretions. The grass stand sowed in 1975 got strongly weedy, due to the liquid manure and to the natural succesion of grass stands. The sown species were destroyed in 50-80 per cent. The weediness showd the highest value on the liquid manure treated plots. The quantity of grass mass both in the crude and dry materials reached the cropgrade of intensively treated grasses, but its quality decreased year by year in proportion with the weediness. The shape of the root mass examined on 0-50 cm layers of soil showed an arid enviroment with a characteristic seasonal fluctuation of nutritive material and water supply /Table 5.-10./ The weight proportion of the overground and underground phytomass showes - in the all treatment - a vegetatio and habitat with meso-frequency, in opposition the controll grass stand showed a xerofrequency condition. On the bases of our five years experiments with liquid manure were established the following: The method of liquid manure can be useful only at such sown grass stands, wich hawe a great demant for N, or have some so called "aggressive" species for the compensation of the relatyvely quick wediness.
43519524|The Similarity Index, Affinity Index and Deviant Index described previously as probability-based tools for use in numerical taxonomy are extended to cover attributes, such as geographical distribution, which can be described in terms of quantities in spatially defined cells - for instance, the squares of a grid.
43519498|Using detailed data on the distribution of hepatics in the Nzk Jesenk (Niederes Gesenke, Czechoslovakia, area 3624 km, 939 localities, 96 species), we simulated limited floristic studies as subsets drawn from this source set using a computer. We investigated two elements of floristic study design: 1) the extent of the study, and 2) the strategy of locality choice. Different divisions of the area into categories of elevation, watersheds and geomorphological units were used as a basis for a systematic selection of localities. The numbers of species found in simulated floristic studies were compared with those of a random selection of localities of the same size. In a small number of localities (up to 100), the systematic choice of localities did not produce much better results than the random one; a marked improvement could be seen in the case of 180 localities (20% of the total). Strategies based on geomorphology and elevation were much more effective than those based on watersheds because of the greater inner homogeneity of their categories.
43504895|Aquatic Hyphomycetes of foam-samples were monthly observed from a stream-system /Morg-patak/ of Mts. Brzsny /Northern-Hungary/, during 1969-1973. 25 species belonging to 18 genera werw observed. From them 14 species + 1 form are new data to Hungary. The seasonal frequence, occurence and distribition in the stream-system of the observes species in addition to the sporemorphological observations are discussed. It was pointed out by investigations on certain course of the stream-system there are great differences in the frequence of some species. Two course were found in the stream system where in the species communities different species were dominant.
43519086|This paper briefly describes the main methodological principles developed by the authors for a series of studies on convergence between plant communities of distant areas, within the framework of an international co-operative project between the universities of London (Canada) and Trieste (Italy).
43518943|A fractal-based, scale invariant measure of 'community evenness' is proposed. The method begins by computing the Shannon entropy (H) and species richness (0 for each of q relevs. Using a fractal-based power law relationship, community evenness J is then determined from the slope of the H versus Iog N plot. Community evenness is thus a scale-invariant measure of the relationship between species richness and Shannon entropy for a set of relevs. The method is illustrated using data from 16 beech forest community relevs in the Lucretili Mountains of central Italy.
43519285|In communities of sessile clonal organisms, the relation between spatial pattern and spatial competitive processes is easily modelled by cellular automata based models. Such models enable us to examine the effect of small scale processes acting within the community on its large scale pattern and dynamics. Two species systems differing in growth form, age of senescence within a cell and dispersal rate were simulated. The results show that growth form and age of senescence are pivotal for coexistence and pattern, whereas the effect of the value of the dispersal was generally small in the parameter region studied. Under the "frond" growth form, the coexistence of species was dependent on the life span within a cell, whereas the "cushion" growth form enabled the coexistence of the species under all parameter values. This growth form system showed marked oscillations increasing rapidly with increasing senescence limit. The grain of the spatial pattern increased rapidly with the increasing age limit. Small changes in parameter values may cause large shifts in the system behaviour. One type of a spatial process with slightly varying parameters may hence result in very different spatial pattern.
43519496|In the field of specimen retrieval the usefulness of some recent works is evaluated. The fiche method of publishing data about the algological collections in the British Museum (Natural History) is described and its potential usefulness in bryology considered. Some comments are also made on a possible new approach to the production of a type register for bryophytes. While summarizing progress with the preparation of the Conspectus of bryological taxonomic literature it is pointed out that a whole level of literature dealing with local distribution and site records within countries is hardly being touched. Progress with the Bryohistorical Project, established in collaboration with the British Bryological Society (BBS) to assess such literature and bryophyte collections within the British Isles and Ireland, is briefly described.
43519486|Genet and ramet dynamics of Cypripedium calceolus L. (Orchidaceae) were studied in five populations which inhabit different plant communities in Estonia. Clones (genets), identified with the aid of isozyme electrophoresis, were observed within permanent plots for at least ten years. Matrix analysis was used to study genet dynamics, in which the genets were separated into different size classes (according to the number of aerial ramets). Genet dynamics were much more stable than ramet dynamics. The fluctuations in population size were mainly a result of changes in genet sizes. There were differences in the equilibrium structure of the populations, which were related to differences injight conditions. The relationship between vegetative and generative reproduction was analysed quantitatively, showing the dominance of vegetative reproduction.
43519225|Germination tests were carried out on herb layer species to find evidence on the role of allelopathy in affecting vegetation patterns of oakwood clearings. For selecting species pairs three hypotheses were considered: (1) surrounded individual hypothesis, (2) fastidious patches, (3) resistance hypothesis. In experiments based on (1), Achillea distans and Solidago virga-aurea hindered significantly the growth of the roots of Poa nemoralis seedlings, which dominates on clearings. In connection with (2), Silene vulgaris a perennial herb, found to be absent from the patches of Achillea distans and Centaurea stenolepis but growing vigorously outside, was sharply restricted by the water extracts of the patchy species, both in its germination and root growth stage. In case of (3), though some significant effects emerged, the results are not sufficient to prove allelopathic exclusion of Verbascum speciosum by the dominant grasses of the clearings. With respect to the whole vegetation on oakwood clearings the following is concluded: interactions related to surrounded individuals may have a role in maintaining or increasing the diversity, and the fastidious patches have an effect on their own texture and consequently on the structure of the clearings.
43519192|In order to reduce the amount of data collection necessary to use the Juhsz-Nagy model, the STATIS three-way technique is proposed for pilot analyses. The application of STATIS to two spatial processes, yields results approaching very well the synphenetic pattern as obtained by the Juhsz-Nagy model. In particular, optimal size of plots can be identified, corresponding to one extreme of the second interstructure axis. In a similar way, the trajectories of plots along the spatial process, as they are represented on the first two principal components of the compromise result, show maximum distances from the center corresponding to maximum associatum.
43519356|From 1962 we investigated the presence of mushroows at tht Csvharaszt nature conservation area and its surraunding in 4-11 cases year by year. The fruits of mushroom were taken and conted from theree of 100 m large unvaried growing spaces. At the same timae we measured the temperature and also the humiditv of the soil. So we got data characterising, phytocenology and ecology of the area. We have found more than 400 species of mushrooms. One past of the species can be find only on sandy soil. On this area we menaged to reveal several new species or species of mushrooms being first time in our country. Such epecies are: Armillaria rickenii BOHUS, Inocybe aerusinascens BABOS, Inocybe agardhii /LUND/ORTON, Leucpaxillus tricolor /PECK,/KHUN, Pluteus pearaonii ORTON, Rhodocybe fallax /QUEL./SING etc.
43519226|Economics, in its present form, is immanently counter-ecological, since it justifies the self-interest behaviour of economic actors and fully disregards ecological values such as diversity, complexity and stability of ecosysyterns. This short paper tries to trace some historical turning points of both ecology and economics during a long and tedious search of a more consistent unity. An ecologically sound economics is possible if and only if natural ecosystems are considered as functional entities valuable in and for themselves in the process of economizing.
43519147|The effectiveness of elongated and isodiametric sampling units to estimate information statistical functions was examined. Although elongated sampling units caused some distortion related to isodiametric quadrats, the ordering relations of charateristic maximum areas were similarly detected by both methods.
43519362|Jelen cikk egy tervezett cikksorozat els rsze, A cikksorozat a magyarorszgi Orthotrichumok legfontosabb morfolgiai, taxonmiai sajtsgait mutatja be s utal azok fenologiai viszonyaira. Jelen cikkben a szerz rvid kutatstortneti ttekints mellett sszefoglalja a hazai Othotrichumok gyakorisgi viszonyait  Jelen cikk kitr az idztt szerzk ltal kvetett nomenklaturra, az Orthotrichum genusban felmerl hatrozsi problmk kapcsn kifejti a legfontosabb morfolgiai sajtsgokat, klnsen kiemeli a peristomium s a stmk diagnosztikai fontossgt. A szerz vizsglatai alapjn kitr a hazai Orthotrichum fajok fenlogisi viszonyaira.
43519242|Eight British native plant species were grown for 125 to 140 days in a suite of Solardome glasshouses set up to provide a factorial combination of two levels of CO (ambient/ambient + 340 ppm), two levels of temperature (ambient/ambient + 3 C) with two replicates of each CO  temperature combination. Species provided two contrasting examples (a grass and forb) each of a competitor, stress tolerator, a ruderal (associated with highly disturbed environments) and mixed strategist. Treatment effects on plant canopy development were assessed at ca. weekly intervals over a twelve week period and a final destructive growth analysis was performed between 125 and 140 days. Elevated [CO] and/or elevated temperature (T C) had little effect on tiller and leaf number, the most marked effect being an increase in final leaf length during the early stages of growth in Dactylis glomerata and Poa alpina, relative to the ambient [CO]/ambient T C control. Elevated [CO] resulted in a significant (p< 0.05) decrease in leaf duration of Dactylis glomerata and Bellisperennis, but had no effect on the onset of leaf senescence in Poa alpina. The significant (p< 0.05) reduction in leaf duration at elevated T C in Poa alpina most likely reflected its alpine origins. The more rapid rate of leaf extension early in the season (Dactylis glomerata and Poa alpina) and earlier onset of leaf senescence (Dactylis glomerata and Bellisperennis), suggested that elevated [CO] increased the rate of plant canopy development in some species. There was no clear pattern of growth response to elevated [CO] that could be related to functional type, with four of the eight species showing a significantly greater dry matter productivity at elevated than ambient [CO], two of which were slow-growing stress tolerators. A 3 C increase in temperature had little direct effect on final dry matter productivity, but when combined with an increase in [CO], most species showed an enhanced growth response, which was significant in three of the eight species studied.
43519500|All Zygodon taxa known from Europe and Macaronesia have been found in Germany. These taxa were studied in the field and the herbarium. Their taxonomy, ecology and distribution in Germany and Europe are described. An identification key for all taxa is presented.
43519230|The eastern part of the Gerecse Mountains, Hungary, is floristically much less known than the other parts of the country. A small area at Bajna has contributed with 11 new records to the flora of the mountains.
43519446|The origin of the earliest genetic systems in a prebiotic setting is considered. A brief survey of units of evolution and replicators is given, and the novel distinction of limited and unlimited hereditary replicators is introduced. Merits and pitfalls of the RNA world concept are reviewed. The possibility of autonomously evolving molecular ecosystems is raised, which hinges on the realisation of a self-replicating ribozyme. The RNA world must have been preceded by something simpler, perhaps what we call the "prebiotic pizza": evolving autocatalytic networks on mineral surfaces (mainly pyrite). Such cycles are limited hereditary replicators. Occasionally, macromutations and chemical symbioses could have given rise to evolutionary novelties. Population structure (genetic viscosity) of template populations (evolving in a subsequent phase of evolution) was surely important in the selection against selfish replicators. The appearance of protocells was the culmination of prebiotic evolution. Protocells are "symbionts" of three autocatalytic subsystems: a metabolic network, a genetic replicator, and an encapsulating membrane.
43519251|Rising atmospheric CO concentration is a well-established phenomenon with potentially major impacts on terrestrial vegetation. Grasslands are important when considering the effects of elevated CO because they make up a large and economically-significant part of the earth's plant cover, and substantial long-term changes in the functioning of grassland ecosystems may be expected. This brief overview covers some of the aspects of current research addressing such questions as the probability and possible magnitude of carbon storage by grasslands, differential responses of constituent species to rising atmospheric CO, changes in turnover rates and other aspects of ecosystem function. Recent methodological developments, and possible directions and needs of future research on plant responses to elevated CO are briefly considered.
43519499|Eight critical European Didymodon taxa have been investigated. Data containing 13 quantitative and 13 qualitative characters are checked by cluster-analysis. The resulting dendrogram suggests that the formerly proposed phylogenetic relationship (Dll 1984) should be altered in some respects. It is also shown that cluster-analysis can be helpful in the identification of difficult taxa if one already suggests to which different taxa it could belong. By a different procedure of the same computer-program, the correlation between different characters was also calculated.
43519539|Reported is the experience for creating automated data bases, including their pattern, for plant communities. A library for geographical, ecological and biological indices for vascular plants is described; the possibilities for automated map charting are discussed.
43519540|Based on data from many-year investigations of mountain forests in the Khangai Upland (North Mongolia), the functioning of forest ecosystems under extreme environmental conditions (winter frosts and cryogenic soil moistening) is analyzed. We consider the physical nature of forest functioning as being determined by material and energy pathways between the community and the environment, as well as by the pattern of activity revealed by the ecosystem under actual conditions. The differences in the water regime of forest communities are discussed in a wide zonal aspect as they were observed along the longitudinal climatic gradient. It is suggested that under the conditions of extracontinental arid climate, the substantial increase of the activity and flexibility of physiological reactions in autotrophic organisms is mainly responsible for the functioning of ecosystems. As a result, energy consumption by the community accelerates and becomes more effective.
43519510|Since our last review on the distribution of flavonoids and other polar phenolic compounds in liverworts, many additional species have chemically been investigated. The present paper reports on results of flavonoid analysis of some 400 liverwort species: about 40 species of Marchantiidae and about 370 species of Jungermannidae. Most of the latter ones belong to the orders Metzgeriales and Jungermanniales. Flavonoid distribution structures are discussed. Some comments are given on the chemistry of Anthocertae species.
43519528|A semiautomatic procedure is proposed as a helpful tool for structuring vegetation data tables. Data analysis and typical procedures used for this purpose are discussed in the context of the theoretical steps involved, and an example is shown.
43519416|The present paper reports on a numerical taxonomic study of four Sorgum halapense populations from Hungary. The data consist of 21 morphological feactures of inflorescence, each population is represented by 34 individuals. Univariate analysis of variance and discriminant analysis were carried out in order to find the most useful charecters for distinguishing the populations. Due to several missing values in the data matrix, these analyses were based on 14 characters. The length and weight of inflorescence and the length and width of sessile spikelets proved to be the most significant features with respect to discrimination. Resemblance matrices between individuals were calculated according to Gower's general coefficient and the modified Euclidean distance function. Both of them allow missing data such that all characters could be taken into consideration. The matrices were analysed using complete linkage method and sum of squares agglomeration, respectively. The resulting hierarchies indicate that no sharp distinction can be made between populations. Principial components analysis of 14 characters was made to examine the relationships between the features of inflorescence. The most correlated characters constitute two groups:1. weight of inflores -cence; number of spikelets and florets in the inflorescence; 2. number of florets and spikelets in the longest branch of the second nodum.
43504899|In the frame of the IBP/PT we have conducted investigations on phytomass production of grassland communities at Csvharaszt in the calcareous sandy area of the forest-steppe region between the rivers Danube and Tisza. The first part of our work consisted in geobotanical, coenological and soil ecological explorations. We hawe worked out the coenological characterization of different plant associations, have made a detailed map of vegetation. The connections between the dominating plant communities and the characteristic soil-types have also been determined. The main task of our work was the detection of the phytomass production, ecological efficiency, mineral nutrient turnover of the generally characteristic grassland communities of a great dimension. After the preliminary studies on grasslands forming a successive line on grass development in the area, our work was concentrated on perennial open sandy grassland -Pestucetum vaginatae danubiale. Besides determining the primary production, turnover rate, ecological efficiency, dynamics of mineral nutrients, we carried on studies on environmental factors influencing productivity monthly average temperature, global radiation, relative air humidity, the monthly amount of precipitation and soil moisture/. By the application of path analysis the direct and indirect effects of the factors could be estimated.
43519105|Taxonomic revision of Tortula Hedw. sect. Rurales De Not. (Musci, Pottiaceae), and its distribution in the Carpathian basin  This paper is concerned with the taxa of the Tortula ruralis aggregate occurring in the Carpathian Basin. A total of 1250 specimens deposited in Hungarian herbaria (BP, EGR, VBI) was revised by anatomical and morphological methods. The evaluation is partly based on Kramer (1980) who deals with the Rurales section of the Holarctic but neglects the flora of the Carpathian Basin. It is confirmed that many characters formerly used in descriptions are in fact not suitable for the correct identification of many taxa. Of the 52 valid taxa of the Rurales section in the eastern Holarctic, the existence of 13 in Hungary is confirmed. Four proved to be new to the Hungarian flora; these are: 1) Tortula ruralis ssp. hirsuta var. hirsuta, which is distributed from the circumboreal to the warm-temperate zone; 2) T. norvegica var. norvegica, an alpine-circumboreal species which is a relict in Hungary; 3) T. ruralis ssp. hirsuta var. submamillosa whose distribution is insufficiently known; and 4) T. caninervis ssp. spuria var. spuria, a Turanian species. The key to the Tortula species is a modified and shortened version of Kramer's key: only the taxa present or expected in the Carpathian Basin are included. For each species, I list the valid names and synonyms, geographical distribution, phytosociological status, ecological requirements and the data of all specimens examined. These data are grouped according to countries and, within Hungary, floristic districts.
43504901|Making the summary according to the table of contents, as a preface I have gigen a review of the investigation tasks: investigation on the relict territories of Szerencs Sziget - mountain and of Hernd-valley, study of their flora and a detalied examination and description of coenological relations. For the sake of its successful carrying out, it seemed to be necessary to study the natural relations determining the formation of flora and vegetation /geology, climate and morphology of the territory/ After having stressed the working method it was continued by a brief account on flora and vegetetion. It was considered to be important to give an account on the table of per cent devision of the ways of life and of the flora elements as well as on the list of Pannonian endemic, subendemic, continental, relict and other interesting species. I have gigen only the list of associations with the exception of the theree of them worth for stressing in a floristic and of coenological way. They are as follows: 1. Tussilaginetum tipicum et crambetosum. 2. Pulsatillae Pestucetum sulcatae = rupicolae, 3. Genisto tinctoriae -Quercetum petraeae subcarpaticum.
43519139|Syrrhopodon prolifer Schwaegr. is newly reported for Africa and adjacent regions; S, armatus Mitt. subsp. insularus (Biz. & Onraedt) Orbn & Reese, comb, et stat. nov., is discussed; new synonyms for several species of Syrrhopodon are established and a key to the African taxa of Syrrhopodon is presented.
43519284|The effect of the dominance level of species or species groups on the information theory functions proposed by Juhsz-Nagy was studied through spatial processes. The dominance structure of the communities was changed during simulations of completely random plant patterns. We have demonstrated that the number of peaks of information theory functions depends on the dominance structure of the community and as many peaks occur as the number of dominance groups of species. Differences between the mean density of dominance groups must increase following an exponential function in order to produce distinct peaks. Therefore, the occurrence of more than three peaks is very unlikely in a real field situation. Rare species might frequently produce a narrow and pointed second or third peak probably not detectable by methods using grid cells rather than point maps of individuals. The elimination of rare species does not change the location of the peak produced by the dominant and subdominant species. We also demonstrated that associatum is extremely sensitive to the effect of rare species, suggesting elimination of rare species from the data in association analysis.
43519143|Analyzing the present state of cardinal concepts and models of biological pattern formation, it is shown that the description of evolutionary aspects of pattern formation is incomplete without considering the spread of developmental variants. The criteria of heredity, reproduction and variation must jointly be reflected in the explanation of the evolution of development. The difficulties of axial explanations of pattern generation and the complementarity of local and global developmental controls are discussed emphasizing the usefulness of field descriptions of ontogenesis. The axial explanations are necessary but not sufficient components in understanding the interactions of local and global developmental rules. The relevance of the combinatorial and cohesive nature of developmental genetic control of evolution and the significance of cellular coevolution embodied in mechanochemical developmental transformations are emphasized. A quantitative genetic approach to the treatment of collective behaviour of developmental trajectories on adaptive landscapes is proposed for the investigation of evolution of multicellular organization. The hierarchical aspects of change of rates and timing in patterning events of biological systems with different complexity are indicated.
43519431|After the spread of fractal methods in the all fields of science, multifractality a new more sophisticated geometrical notion emerged. I shortly introduce multifractals, and disscuss its applications in vegetation science. I propose a further generalization procedure on multifractals to be more effective in ecological analysis. In this extension the notion of conditional fractal moments is introduced.
43519208|The exsiccate "Lichenes Follicoli Exsiccati", edited by the author, is introduced. Up to the present, six fascicles, comprising 150 numbers, have been distributed, two in 1993, and four in 1995, including nine isotypes and three collections originating from type localities. Each fascicle is compiled under a certain topic, e.g. primary forests (Fase. I), open vegetation (Fase. IV), island floras (Fase. VI), and species pairs (Fase. V). Fase. II and III are dedicated to Sieghard Winkler and Rolf Santesson, respectively. The 150 numbers represent 119 species in 44 genera, thus 20% (species) or 60% (genera) of the presently known world-wide diversity. Taxonomic notes are given on Arthonia orbygniae (Upadhyay) Matzer [= A. opegraphina R. Lucking], Baciala psychotriae (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr.s.str., Badimia pallidula (Kremp.) Vzda, Byssoloma chlorinum (Vain.)Zahlbr., B. ortizii R. Lcking, B. wettsteinii (Zahlbr.)Zahlbr. [= Bacidia psychotriae (Mll. Arg.) Zahlbr. sensu Santesson p.p.], Calopadia subcoerulescens (Zahlbr.)Vzda, Echinoplaca hymenocarpoides (Vain.) R. Lcking comb. nov. [= E. heterella (Stirt.) R. Sant.) sensu Santesson p.p.], Porina leptospermoides Mll.Arg.[= P. limbulata (Kremp.) Vain. sensu Santesson p.p.], P. limbulata (Kremp.) Vain., P. rubentior (Stirt.) Mll. Arg., P. rufula (Kremp.) Vain. [= P. pseudofulvella Srusiaux], and Pseudosagedia Choisy. Asterothyrium gyalideoides Henssen & R. Lucking sp. nov. is described. It is characterized by sessile, gyalideoid apothecia with Asterothyrium-type anatomy.
43504898|Our production investigations were carried out on the species of irrigated and non-irrigated winter wheat "Kavkaz" at the Szrit-puszta Experimental Station of the Agricultural University, Gdll, at the breading season of the year 1975. We wanted to know the effect of irrigation on the biomass of winter wheat have had stood winter well. The investigations performed by our method and instrument may be related to a stand of plants. We have measured the biomass abore the soil surface and the root-mass ba 5 cm to 5 cm soil layers in every phenophore /when the samples were taken/./Table 3, 4, 5; Figure 1,2./. The irrigated biomass production during the breading season was unsignificant against the non-irrigated one, even the unique irrigation was surplus watering becouse of the rainy weather. The reasults can be isteresting, for the biomass production of winter wheat at a given ecological condition on the soil surface and in it.
43518941|A stepwise data transformation procedure is proposed. By applying a series of cover thresholds, low cover values are gradually deleted, whereas the remaining data are used in binary form after each step of deletion. The method does not aim at the selection of a single optimal weighting of cover-abundance data; instead, it provides a simple tool to investigate how different weightings of species of low vs. high performance influence the results of an analysis. The method is used to compare the species compositions of two grassland types in the semiarid region of New Mexico, USA. In an area where two grass species (Bouteloua eriopoda and Bouteloua gracilis) grow predominantly intermingled, patches dominated exclusively by either of the two grasses were sampled. The dissimilarity of their species composition was expressed by the complement of the Kulczynski index. Randomisation was used to test for significance. The two grassland types were different in species composition, and the stepwise data transformation procedure showed that this difference increased while gradually deleting the species of low cover and species of low frequency. Although most species can establish in both types, several of them reach higher cover or frequency in either of the two types.
43519437|A Similarity Index, which is the complement of the probability that two random selections of the attribute values reported for a set of OTU's would be as similar as a particular pair of the OTU's, or more so, is extended to include circular variables, and cases where an attribute is described for an OTU in terms, not of a single value, but a range of values. Similar improvements are proposed for the Affinity Index (expressing the similarity of other OTU's in the set to a specified subset), and the Deviant Index (expressing the departure of a particular OTU from the "norm" of the set).
43519101|This paper discusses the potential utility of in situ ionometry in ecological studies and shows some associated problems. Three examples illustrate field applications in grassland communities. Our studies revealed that temporal and spatial differences are well-measurable, but the quality of the electrode may influence much the measurements.
43519351|Recent years large number of site investigations were made on the Sandridge betwee the Danube and the Tisza rivers. Vegetation, found at the investigation spots, was also noted. Connections, between site conditions and vegetation, are demonstrated on a table /see Hungarian text!/ Site types being used to these investigations are the units of a site-type system elaborated for Hungary in 197o by Z. JR Site types occuring in the Danube-Tisza Midregion are mentioned only, that are influenced by a forest-steppe climate Site types connected with certain vegetation units are ranged in the table due to their hydrologie category and genetic soil type. As for the names of vegetation units they are corresponding to the ones used in the vegetation monograph of Hungary elaborated by R. SO. The study deals with natural vegetation units only, as the phytocenologic conditions of artificially established forests haven't been worked out in details up to now. It is the task of the near future, so they are not included in the table mentioned above.
43519088|The grassland communities of a small nature reserve situated within the city limits of Budapest are classified using floristic and non-floristic descriptors, and two different data types and resemblance functions. The comparison of three-cluster level groupings indicates that similarity to the floristic classification is method dependent, whereas the choice of characters has the least influence on the clustering of relevs. There are species exclusive to one or two noda, but diagnostic non-floristic descriptors were not found demonstrating that at the scale of this survey only quantitative differences are responsible for the distinction among types. In the nonfloristic cases usually 1-3 characters explain 80-90% of the between-cluster sum of squares. The correlation among these characters is highly positive. The principal coordinates ordination of relevs based on all non-floristic descriptors is in good accordance with most of the species-based classifications.
43519537|Since reed stands have replaced of the Sphagnum bogs in the nature reserve at Kelemr, it is examined whether cutting green reed plants or the removal of dry matter has positive effects on the regeneration of bogs. Cutting and pushing the dry matter below water level is favourable for the original vegetation. The study is completed by microclimatic and water quality measurements.
43519541|Recent methods produce climatic characteristics for mountain areas in form of temporal and spatial averages. No further progress is possible in ecological research in lieu of methods to study processes of energy and mass exchange pertaining to mountain areas. Such methods include 1) improved traditional techniques calculating the components of heat balance (how acceptable for heterogeneous surfaces is the Monin-Obukhov theory of similarity; account of anisotropy of radiation flows, processes of water condensation, orographic inversions, forced convection and advection of air masses; verification of data on the emissivity of the underlying surface, and on the agrohydrological properties of soils), and 2) remote sounding as the only system yielding estimates adequate to various hierarchic levels in the organization of the biogeocoenotic cover.
43519438|Fuzzy Set Ordination is extended in combination with Detrended Correspondence Analysis to summarize environmental information. It can be used to analyse the relationships between vegetation and environment no matter howmany environmental variables are involved. An example is presented with vegetation and environmental data collected from upland grasslands in Northern Snowdonia, Wales. Its results are consistent with that of CCA and DCCA. This technique may be used to correct the distortions produced by FSO using only one environmental factor.
43519529|The links between site moisture status and moisture indication of herbaceous species were studied in a pure, even-aged 5.5 ha stand of sessile oak (Quercus petraea (Mattuschka) Lieblein). Two vegetation types with different floristic composition were distinguished by numercal classification based on presence-absence data of all vascular species occurring in 200 12.5  12.5 m quadrats. They were characterized in more detail by presence-absence data collected in 120 circular sample plots with 1 m radius. W (moisture preference) indicator values of herbs were used to estimate the water regime of the sites. Vegetation type and W indices were found to be related. The moisture content of the top soil was studied in relation to the distribution of W indices in order to test the applicability of bioindicators in site quality assessment. The W values, indicating better soil water supply, were higher in the vegetation type in which the moisture content and available moisture content of the top soil were also higher.
43518945|A discrete mathematical approach to the analysis of vegetation pattern is proposed. The formal description of the pattern information is based on binary vectors, matrices of relations, and some analytical expressions called the Iterative Canonical Forms (ICF) of Boolean functions. As a first step, two simple classes of Boolean algebraic models are introduced for distinguishing spatial distributions and for detecting multi-species coalitions in vegetation. In a simulation study for distinguishing random and aggregated presence/absence data from transects, the numerical characteristics of the ICFs for Boolean functions were tested in comparison with the method based on the local entropy of species. For detecting coalitions of species, a Boolean network model is used. It is shown that coalitions with the same (positive or negative) type of interspecific associations can be represented by isomorphic Hasse-graphs.
43519511|Sampling was carried out chiefly in the plant communities Festuco vaginatae-Corynephoretum and Festuco vaginatae-Pinetum silvestnis. The soil samples were taken from the moss cushions. The pH-values (in HO), and the humus, CaCO, K, PO, $NH_4^ + $, $NO_2^ - $, $NO_3^ - $, contents were determined by prompt analytical (so-called half-micro) methods. The average annual precipitation in the study area is 640-720 mm, the average annual temperature reaches 10-11C. Characterizing the climate, the submediterranean, subatlantic effects are significant. The bedrock is built up by acidic, Pleistocene sand with pH 5.7-6. 3. The resulted concentration values were studied according to the water demand of species groups of mosses (xerophytic, xeromesophytic and mesophytic), too. Besides this, the species were grouped according to the values of each investigated variable (pH, CaCO, humus, etc.), and the group/species diversity and evenness were calculated. The pH values of species are in the moderately acidic interval, and decrease from spring to the autumn. Similarly decrease the pH values within the water demand groups, from the xerophytic species to the mesophytic ones. With the CaCO-values the situation is reversed. The values of humus increase from spring to the autumn and are lower in the xerophytic and xeromesophytic mosses than in the case of mesophytic ones. The potassium content is very low. The potassium shows dynamics in the xerophytic mosses only. The level of ammonium-N is low, the values are increasing from the xerophytic species to the mesophytic ones. The level of nitrite-N is low or moderate. The minimum is obtained in the xerophytic species. The values of nitrate-N increase from autumn to the xerophytic species. The quantity of phosphorous is moderate or relatively high. The group/species diversity is the largest in the potassium and phosphorous ecological species groups. The diversity based on the spring-values of pH- and humus-ecological groups is similar.
43519487|Despite the extensive vegetative spread (guerrilla strategy) in Carex bigelowii, little interdigitation of clones (genets) was found in two, genetically diverse, 8 000-year-old populations on Iceland. The study was carried out in moss-heath communities on lava-fields, with C. bigelowii ramet densities ranging from 0 to 40 ramets m. In a previous study of clonal diversity in the same populations, adjacent samples (taken 4 m apart) at some locations belonged to the same clone and at other locations to different clones. In the present study, fine-scale sampling plots were laid out in areas where lower or higher clonal diversity was expected according to the previous results. Five plots (of 16-20 m) were intensively studied, with samples being taken from ca. 50% of all the ramets present in each plot. In addition, less intensive sampling was carried out along five 20 m long transects, where the minimum distance between the sampled ramets was 0.5 m. Multilocus genotypes at eight enzyme loci were used to identify different clones. The plots were found to be dominated by large clones that seldom intermingled with other clones. Small clones were usually found on the outskirts of the areas occupied by dominant clones. Thus, contrary to the prediction that intermingling of clones would be found at locations where adjacent samples (4 m apart) in the previous study belonged to different clones, little fine-scale clonal intermingling was found in the present study. The results from Iceland are compared with preliminary data on clonal diversity within Scandinavian populations of C. bigelowii. Sampling strategies that will avoid intra-genet sampling in natural populations of C. bigelowii are suggested.
43519477|While a number of experimental studies and models have examined the foraging behaviour of single clonal genets, very few investigations have focussed on the dynamics of ramet recruitment in established clonal monocultures. This contribution discusses modelling the spatial structure of density-dependent clonal populations using Markovian spatialinhibition rules. Markovian dependence refers to situations where local conditions (interactions with neighbours) determine the outcome of a process. An example is presented in which the Markov spatial-inhibition model is successfully fitted to observed ramet spatial patterns in the clonal herb Aralia nudicaulis L. (wild sarsaparilla).
43519181|P. Juhsz-Nagy: Boak-reviev notes and other observations. Part 3. Considering the important topic of "historia Historiae Naturalis", it is fairly easy to conceive the ebbs and flows of naturaralists spirit. in particular in this century. First, (11) is a sincere laudation of the fact that two realevant books ("The Amateur Naturalist" by G. and L. Durrell. and "Life on Earth" by D. Attenborough) have been translated into Hungarian as well. Secondly, (12) contains an open letter, adressed to Prof. G. Fekete, to promote a better understanding of the "continental development", coming from natural history and going to abstractions of increasing sophistication. Looking carefully at this development, we find a number of "paradigmatic traps" (like the still unsolved controversy of "biocoenological tradition versus ecosystem ideals". The main conclusion is that these trape cannot be avoided without having a sound foundation of ecology (much better than we have).
43519282|Space series analysis is understood in a broad sense to refer to logical sequences of changes or transformations applied to vegetational entities in both topographic and conceptual spaces. This term is suggested to replace spatial processes which, although being historically clear, have a multiple meaning and may lead to confusions. A literature survey illustrates that space series analysis includes commonly used pattern recognition methods associated with the real, topographic space, but also supports generalization to data, resemblance, ordination, classification spaces and derived variables. It is suggested that space series analysis is a potential tool to evaluate any problems in vegetation studies where scale effects are influential.
43519149|The performance of five different clustering techniques (single linkage, complete linkage, group average, simple average, and incremental sum of squares method) as applied to matrices obtained by six measures of genetic distance (Nei's minimum and standard genetic distance, genetic distances suggested by Gegorius, Rogers, Krzakowa and Cavalli-Sforza) was analyzed using the allelic frequencies of fourteen Scots Pine populations. Of the clustering methods the incremental sum of squares technique gave rather uniform dendrograms, slightly differing from the results produced by the other methods. Single linkage yielded the least uniform subset of dendrograms; and the group average and simple average strategies gave results negligibly differing from each other. Considering genetic distance measures, Nei's standard genetic distance appears to have evolutionary interpretation.
43519543|The reciprocal relationship and the coherence of vegetation, climate and soil is investigated in Greek territory characterized by a high diversity of conditions in plant biotopes. This is due to the big geological differentiation and to the variability of geological background in relation to the strong climatic heterogeneity and especially to the topoclimate. In order to prove the relation between climate and cultivation, the map of the xerothermic index of Greece, as taken out of the meteorological data of forty meteorological stations, and the corresponding map of olive cultivation in Greece are compared. Phenological differentiations of the life-cycle of plants as well as the increase of endemics with altitude are mentioned. The vertical and extensive distribution of vegetation is commented. The Greek woody formations are categorized into ten vegetation zones: two Mediterranean evergreen hardleaved zones, one submediterranean zone of mixed deciduous forests, one continental zone of mixed deciduous and steppe forests, one subeuropean zone of mountain beechwood and fir forests, three mountain and subalpine zones of coniferous forests - except the azonal forests of Pinion nigra - and two alpine zones of high mountains. These vegetation zones are as follows: I. Oleo-Ceratonion; II. Quercion Hiele; III. Ostiyo-Carpinlon orleiitalie; IV. Queixzion frainetto; V. Fagion moeslacum; VI. Abletlon cephalonica ; VII. Pinion peucis; VIII. Vaccinlo-Picelon; IX. Seslerletalia; X. Acantliolimo-Asteagaletali According to the plant geographic structure of Greece, on the basis of vegetation zones and the climate, the proposed classification is summarized as follows: A. CENTRAL EUROPEAN MOUNTAIN TYPE a) South Central Balkan subtype B. GREEK PARAMEDITERRANEAN MOUNTAIN TYPE a) Aegean paramediterranean subtype in the North-East b) Ionic paramediterranean eubtype in the West c) Hellenic paramediterranean subtype in the Middle C. GREEK MEDITERRANEAN MOUNTAIN TYPE.
43519184|J. Garay & G. Zsigri: A coevolutionary model of sympatric speciation. - The coevolutionary model suggested shows that sympatric speciation is possible even when driven only by predation. Directional selection is also possible as an effect of predation.
43519413|Wir schlagen den strengen Schutz der nrdlichen Abbrechung des ber massa liegenden Jvor-Berges im Bkk-Gebierge, der an hochmontanen, subalpinen Elementen, an seltenen Assoziationen reich ist, vor, Die beilegenden znologischen Aufnahmen beweisen deren Begrndetheit. Auf dem Gebiet kommen auch Cypripedium calceolus zerstreuend neben den subalpinen Arten vor. In der Umgebung der steilen Dolomitfelsen bildete sich schne Assoziation mit Sesleria varias heraus.
43519207|An inventory of the epiphyllous bryophyte flora in a tropical rain forest in Costa Rica revealed 83 species, the highest species number thus far recorded from any single locality. 24 species were found on a single leaf of the palm Welfia georgii. Nearly all epiphyllous bryophytes belong to the liverworts: 78 species to the family Lejeuneaceae, the remainder to the Radulaceae (Radula), Metzgeriaceae (Metzgeria) and Frullaniaceae (Frullania). The only moss species was Crossomitrium patrisiae (Hookeriaceae). 83% of the species are neotropical, and 11% are up to the present only known from Costa Rica. 17% are widely distributed and occur at least on two different continents in the Neotropics and in the Paleotropics. Based on these data, and comparing with foliicolous lichens, the known diversity of typically epiphyllous bryophytes is estimated to be about 535 species world-wide.
43519244|The influence of increasing atmospheric CO concentrations on the growth and yield of alfalfa has been investigated by classic destructive techniques to assess the response of both above-ground biomass production and leaf area index, and by applying a foliar demography technique to the populations of leaves. The analysis of growth parameters showed that the above-ambient CO concentrations increase plant growth and yield during the whole period of CO enrichment. On the other hand, by the demographic technique, it was clear that increasing CO concentrations did not influence the age of the leaves forming the canopies, nor the intrinsic growth rate of the populations of leaves. The influence of CO enrichment on leaf mineral nutrients, mineral uptake and total non-structural carbohydrates (TNCs) content was also evaluated. Under high CO the observed stimulation of plant growth might be related to a leaf mineral nutrient dilution (except in the case of Zn). Mineral uptake per unit ground area increased, except in the case of Mg, Fe and Cu, and leaf TNCs content increased mainly as a result of a higher starch content.
43519474|In many ecosystems clonal plants form a major part of their species composition. The ability of these species to coexist is determined by the compatibility of their growth forms and the ability of them to replace their neighbours (dominance vs. founder control within the particular species pair). The dynamics of model communities (simulated by means of cellular automata) with dominance and founder control are radically different. The dominance/founder control seems also to yield interesting patterns of behaviour in interaction with the growth form of the component species (phalanx/guerrilla). A model example shows that the effects of the architectural/population biological parameters of coexisting plants may be modified by dominance/founder control. Also, the interplay of the dominance/founder control and the growth form may account for the coexistence of clonally growing species. Whereas the growth forms of the clonal species have often been studied, there is surprisingly little information available on the commonness of the founder vs. dominance control within pairs of the clonally growing species. Suggestions for the experimental protocol to determine the founder vs. dominance control are provided.
43519217|Epiphyllous liverworts were collected by the author in July 1993 in the primary lowland rainforest of Gunung Palung National Park of West-Borneo. More than half of the species identified from approximately 300 leaves proved to be new to West-Borneo and five species to be new to the whole island. The check-list of Borneo Hepaticae (Menzel 1988) is based mainly on collections from Malaysian Borneo and the Indonesian part of the island is still less known bryologically
43519379|Es wurde eine representative Untersuchung zur Effektivitt des Arbeitsheftes "Lebende Natur" Klasse 8 durchgefhrt. Auf Grund der Untersuchung wurde festgestellt, dass die Fhigkeit zum Systematisieren mit Hilfe des Arbeitsheftes bei den Schlern um 14,7 % gesteigen ist. Die Anwendung des Arbeitheftes bringt auch das Wissen in Systematik der Schler gntig zueinander, weil nach Angaben der Messungen die Streuung des Mittelfeldes um 7,5 % gesunkenist. Zur Untersuchung wurden solche Auffabentests gebraucht, welche mit offenen und multiple choise-Fragen die Vorkenntnisse der Schule: in morfologischen Pakten zu der Kenntnissen in Systematik gemessen werden konnte. Der Aufsatz analysiert die Antworten auf die Fragen in Einzelheiten und zeigt die Vorteile der Anwendung des Arbeitsheftes mit einem Graphikon.
43519358|Production investigations had been carried out for eight species of Graminae in two-factor experiment where these two factors were the root-system and the biomass. It was realized at the University Botanic Garden in Bucharest during the growing season in 1973. We intended to detect the rate of a plant iroot quantity to the part of the same plant biomass being above the soil surface, at the same nutriment quantity and climatic conditions, during several years. /Table 1. and 2./. In this paper we summarised the results at the second year comparing them to the earlier data. Production at the end of the growing season of the second year showed that among the eight species studied, the species of Phleum pratense Agropyron intermedium had the larges and the Pestuca rubra fallax. had the least biomass being above the soil surface, counting for plant by plant, wich were in an air-dried condition /with a water content of 12-15 psr cent, /Table 3./ The largest air-dried mass of the root-system was measured for the species of the Agropyron pectiniforme, Phleum pratense, and the Agropyron intermedium, and the least one was the Pactylis glonerata and Bromua intermis. Comparing the unit root-mass to the biomass being above the soil surface, we have got the unit root-mass 24; 6; 8; 7,5; 5,8; 4,2; 3; 3,2; times larger, than the air-dried biomass, for the Dactylis glomerata. the Agropyron intermedium the Phleum pratense. the Bromus intermis the Agros tis stolonifera, the Festuca rubra, the P. pratensis, the Agropyron pectiniforme respectively. 60-80 per cent of the root-mass, relating to the species had been studied, was in the o-5 cm soil layer. /Table 4; Figure 1./. When comparing the productions of the second year to the first ones, the increase of biornas being above soil surface, was not parallel with the increase of the root-mass, for the species studied. The wight increase of the air-dried biomass being above the soil surface, were 3 times larger, than the production of the first year for the species of the Agropyron intermediym. Agropyron pectiniforme, Festuca rubra fallax, Phleum pratense. During the second year only two of the species, the Agropyron pectiniforme. A. intermedium, grew considerable while the others have lost more r ess weight The last phenomenon can explained by the change of soil structure /soli-compaction/the supply of the water and nutritive material, the respiration of root-system and by the condensation of the biggest rate of the root-mass near to the soil surface.
43519213|Our goal is to compare and quantify diversity of epiphyllous bryophyte communities in East Africa and in the neighbouring Indian Ocean islands. Alpha- and beta-diversities and diversity ordering were used. We have also used nonmetric multidimensional scaling to compare their species composition. Separation of the samples is caused both by geographical factors and degradation. Vulnerable, degradation tolerant and degradation marker species were recognised by indicator species analyses. The average number of species of the most diverse communities is 8-9 species per leaf. In a degraded habitat it may decrease until 3-4 species, probably due to the worsening conditions for reproduction with decreasing number of juvenile specimens. The number of species per habitats, based on 1-5-15 relevs, varies from 25 to 14. While the average number of species per leaves is correlated with degradation, the total number of species in the habitat does not correlate, because the increased beta-diversity may balance the loss of species of the individual leaves. We have also demonstrated that the result primarily depends on the scale of the study and the method used to quantify the diversity.
43519502|A contribution to the bryoflora of Mozambique is given, based on the collections made by a Hungarian surgeon, Dr. L. Pntek. It contains records on 29 species, 24 of them being new to the flora of this country, among others the palaeotropical Acrolejeunea aulacophora (Mont.) Steph. and Homalia pygmaea Broth., furthermore Hyophila baginsensis C. Mll., Ptychomitrium marginatum Wager et Dix. and Trachyphyllum dusenii (Broth.) Broth. The authors compiled a checklist of the bryoflora of Mozambique, which consists of 103 species hitherto known from the area. Its flora shows strong South African and less prominent East African affinities with a certain number of SE African endemics.
43519258|J. Komldi, M. & . Barabs: Allergen fungal spores and conidia in the food of pets. A variety of fungal fragments, spores and conidia stuck to seeds were identified in the food of pets (parrot, canary, hamster and guinea-pig). This is why allergic people may suffer from allergic symptoms, although they do not show hypersensitivity to particles of animal origin (feather, rodent-fur, faeces etc.).
43519363|A szerz a magyarorszgi Orthotrichumok legfontosabb morfolgiai, taxonomiai sajtsgait bemutat cikfrsorozatnak ebben a rszben sszefoglalja az Orthotrichum genus alnemzetsgeit s sectiit. Kzli a hazai Orthotrichum fajok rvid diagnzist, praktikus species kulcsot ad, llst foglal a Magyarorszgrl leirt subspecifikus Orthotrichum taxonokkal kapcsolatban. A leirsok rtelmezst kzel 30 eredeti rajz segiti.
43519199|The first report of an epiphyllous bryophyte probably dates back to 1788 when Swartz described Jungermannia flava Sw. (= Lejeunea flava (Sw.) Nees) from Jamaica, growing on old fern fronds. Since then, hundreds of epiphyllous bryophyte species have been described. Compared with about 5-6,000 species of bryophytes occurring in the tropics, the "epiphyllae" are, however, a relatively modest group. Moreover, many of them are facultatively epiphyllous and are also common on bark or other substrates. "Typically" epiphyllous species (i.e. bryophytes growing exclusively or almost exclusively on leaves) usually occur as shade epiphytes in the understorey of the rain forest. They are small, pale-coloured, apressed-growing plants with rhizoids in bundles that differentiate into large, adhesive discs, serving as an effective hold-fast. Short-distance dispersal by means of gemmae is very common in typical epiphylls and some species produce neotenic gametophytes as an adaption to survival in the ephemerous habitat. The distribution within the taxonomic system of typically epiphyllous bryophytes is very restricted. Most of them are hepatics of the Lejeuneaceae subfamily Lejeuneoideae; other typical epiphylls include species of Radulaceae (Radula sect. Epiphyllae), Hookeriaceae sensu lato (e.g. Crossomitrium sect. Crossomitrium) and Nemataceae (Ephemeropsis tjibodensis). The restricted occurrence of typical epiphylls in bryophytes is tentatively explained by the special morphological and ecological requirements posed upon these organisms for their survival in the phyllosphere.
43505079|This paper is concerned with different series in the classification space of a large scale study on the salt marsh landscapes of Argentine Inland Pampa. The effect of the number of species, the taxonomic categories applied, data standardization and data transformations upon classifications is examined. Data transformations change the grain and scale; the quantitative descriptor emphasized the behavior of taxa for short segments of the multivariate environmental gradient while the binary descriptor reflects the coarsest grain. The univariate and multivariate analysis of dendrograms revealed that the vegetation under analysis is a redundant system and that classifications could be obtained without substantial changes when the species descriptors are replaced by genera or by a descriptor (lowest uniquely identifiable coding) that incorporates all the taxonomic information along the hierarchy. The successive changes generated a complex of series with emerging properties that suggest the importance they have on the operational decisions made during the different stages of the analysis.
43519211|Twelve species of the bryophyte family Calymperaceae are found to be facultatively epiphyllous. They occur in superhumide lowland, submontane and montane rainforests at 10-1100 m altitude. Among the determined specimens, one belongs to the genus Calymperes, two are Leucophanes, three are Mitthyridium and six are Syrrhopodon species. The specimens were collected from Africa, Asia and tropical America.
43519247|The desiccation-tolerant (DT) moss Tortula ruralis and the DT lichen Cladonia convoluta, collected from a dry sandy grassland in Hungary, were grown for 4 months at present (350 mol mol) and elevated (700 mol mol) CO concentrations in open-top chambers. Subsequent measurements showed no change in total chlorophyll, soluble sugar, starch or protein-N content in either species; short-term responses of gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence to drying out and remoistening were also substantially unaltered. The response of net CO uptake to ambient CO concentration at saturating irradiance and optimum water content showed either no change (C. convoluta) or (in Tortula ruralis) no change in the initial slope of the A/Ca curve and a small but significant enhancement of uptake at higher CO concentrations (i.e. upward acclimation) in material grown at elevated CO. These results are contrary to most published findings in vascular plants and in the endohydric moss Polytrichum formosum. They suggest that DT bryophytes and lichens may be favoured relative to vascular plants by rising atmospheric CO concentration.
43519412|This study gives the values for pH, humus, ammonia, nitrite, nitrate, potassium, phosphorus and lime of 95 saxicole and terricole species of mossy soil collected in various plant communities on Hossz-Hill in Pilis Mountains. During the pH measurements, also the pH seasondynamism was examined in case of some samples in the soil types of moss. These examination results broaden our knowlegde on the ecological needs of a given species of moss. At the same time, we have to emphasize the fact that these measured values relate to the given circumstances of a restricted area, and the determination of the actual soil-ecological valencia of a certain species of moss can be undertaken only if results of long examination series from many habitats are available.
43519099|Juhsz-Nagy, P.: Some problems of a conceptual system in biology. Part 2. Speculations on missing concepts.  The lack of an adequate metalanguage is responsible for many pathological features of modern biology, e.g., for difficulties of finding the proper place, or range of pouvoir of cladistics, vegetation science, etc. Contrary to common belief, such a language is definitely not a matter of "semantic luxury" but an every-day need for tracing connections between paradigm, methodology and theory. Neglecting, for instance, almost useless notions such as "vegetation plant cover", it is to be recognized that without introducing a number of missing concepts (e.g., Venn-complex, coenostate, coenosystem, etc.), it is hardly possible to make a proper foundation for vegetation science, coenology, etc. This paper attempts to show some simple ways and means of organizing certain missing concepts into useful conceptual networks.
43519347|On the basis of the results of the investigation period in the fall of 1962 we have established that the nocturnal coding of the air layers near the soil, depending on the density of the vegetation and the kinds of plant associations by heat conduction, developed in a much more complicated way than the waraing up. The influence of dynamic convention and advection was most noticeable in the open areas, as on the steppeeadow and the sedgemeadow, in the daytime but with significant differences in the various basic landscape units. The turbulent effect of the air flow sometimes produced absurd results in the air temperature. The active surfaces in the juniper brushwood with polars and the oakwood with lilies of the valley became active controllers of the temperature and humidity of the air layers near the soil.
43519133|The heart of the PC-ORD system is a group of Fortran programs for multivariate analysis on the MS-DOS family of microcomputers. The programs are linked by menu-driven batch transformations, and matrix operations. Analytical features include ordinations (detrended correspondence analysis, Bray-Curtis ordination, principal components analysis, and reciprocal averaging), descriptive statistics, and diversity indices.
43519443|Small-scale species mobility in alvar grassland, assigned to the Veronica spicata-Avenula pratensis association, leads to the phenomenon of high cumulative species numbers in very small plots over a short period of time. This implies that the "minimum area" of a plant community should be approached in a different way: the sample plot may be very small, but then analyses should be repeated over a series of years; or they should be as large as possible, in order to include species which may not be present in any smaller part of the plot, simply because it is not the proper year for them. In case of a large sample plot the plot should be carefully checked on homogeneity. The term "minimum area" should be replaced, because it is no longer only the area that matters, but also the period of time, and one should not restrict the sample to a minimum area. Instead the term "representative sample plot" is proposed.
43519229|The spatial pattern of dolomite grassland communities in the Buda Hills (Hungary) was studied using a family of information theory models developed by Juhsz-Nagy. Two stands of the open grassland of Seseli leucospermi-Festucetum pallentis (S1 and S2), two of the closed grassland of Festuco pallenti-Brometum pannonici (N1 and N2) and one stand of a degraded transitional grassland developed after forest clearing (D1) were sampled by long transects of contagious 55cm quadrats. Detailed analyses were restricted to the group of frequent species (with a frequency > 1%) to avoid potential sampling artefacts due to rarity: We have found consistent, invariant arrangement of the characteristic areas of functions: local distinctiveness, florula diversity and associatum, typical to the particular associations. For these simple communities the following relation holds: Aflor<Acomp=Aass The characteristic areas for the 20 most frequent species fall into the interval of 200-800 cm. The minimum area for these frequent species was found to be 2.56 m for the native and at 5.12 m for the degraded stands. A comparison of field data to their random references (the same frequency distribution of species, but with random positions along the transects) revealed that associatum values exceed the envelopes of random references at relatively large scales (at 200 cm for D1, at 400 cm for N1 and S2, and at 800 cm for N2 and S1). The analyses of simple floral multipletes suggested the importance of multispecies combinations at these plot sizes.
43519476|This simulation study presents results from individual-based, spatially explicit modelling of the clonal growth of two herbaceous species representing the two contrasting growth strategies "phalanx" and "guerilla". Elements of architectural and cellular models were combined to integrate production, growth and movement of juvenile modules, intra- and interspecific competition among juveniles or between juveniles and adults, and establishment and death of adult modules in combination with internal resource dynamics of the plants. The spatio-temporal module dynamics, i.e. the clonal growth of the two species Bellis perennis (phalanx) and Prunella vulgaris (guerilla) were investigated individually and in competition under equilibrium (undisturbed) and non-equilibrium (disturbed) conditions. A systematic evaluation of the dependence of simulation results on different parameters showed that in general the equilibrium behaviour of the two species was mainly determined by the demographic rates of adult modules plus a plastic reaction of juveniles related to the two growth strategies whereas the non-equilibrium behaviour mainly depended on the growth and movement of juvenile modules. In a homogeneous environment the phalanx species B. perennis on the long term was superior to the guerilla species P. vulgaris but under low-density conditions the overall competitive strength shifted towards the latter. No long-term coexistence mediated by the difference in growth strategies between the two species was found under the investigated conditions. In non-equilibrium situations the description of juvenile behaviour included both growth strategy and a temporal aspect, the time for juvenile establishment. The effect of this aspect could fully reverse the effect of the growth strategy. Regardless how detailed the definition of a growth strategy was, it was only one, and often not the decisive determinant of the dynamics of the two clonal species in a mixed stand.
43519039|On the basis of Hungarian populations, mostly from the Bkk mountains, the chromosome numbers of seven liverwort species have been determined and shortly discussed: Lophozia longidens n= 9 /first count/, Barbilophozia barbata n= 9, Jamesoniella autumnalis n= 9, Mannia fragrans n= 9, Metzgeria simplex n= 9, Plagiochila porelloides n= 9, Porella platyphylla n = 8.
43519302|The history of the mollusc fauna in the Bkk Mts is traced back to the Pleistocene. 42 species are known from the lower Pleistocene, whereas 66 species were identified from the Middle Pleistocene deposits. From the older part of the Upper Pleistocene 123 species have been detected, whereas 71 from the younger part. The figures show that we can make only very general statements on the fauna changes during this epoch.
43519176|A set of desert vegetation-environment data consisting of 22 concrete communities in Southern Sind was analyzed with two multivariate methods, viz. canonical correlation analysis (CCA) and principal component analysis (PCA). The major aim was to expose the underlying vegetation-environmental reltionships and to compare the results of the two multivariate techniques. The analytical sequence involves an extension of previous applications of CCA to provide a computationally efficient means for the examination of complex vegetation-environment interactions. Instead of employing the original variables, the component scores derived from PCA for one or both the vegetation and environmental domain were used in CCA. This procedure circumvents the problem of singular matrix, non-linearity of variables, allows condensation of data and permits singular value decomposition. Correlation between component scores derived from PCA of one data set with the original variables of the complementary data set showed well-defined patterns. The interset correlations in CCA revealed closely similar patterns of vegetation-environment relationships as were predicted by the PCA models. The measure of redundancy associated with the canonical variables was found to be a more useful tool for predicting the linear relationships inherent in the variable sets than the canonical correlations.
43519485|The structure of underground organs of Bolboschoenus maritimus ssp. maritimus and B. m. ssp. compactus was studied in natural populations to compare with tuber production and dormancy of plants studied in cultivation experiment. The two subspecies differed in tuber size and production regardless of habitat conditions; this confirmed the genetic basis of their clone structure. Both subspecies seem to differ in adaptability to submergence, which may be the cause of their habitat differentiation. Tuber dormancy may enable renewal of B. maritimus populations after unfavourable periods; it is also supposed to be one possible mechanism controlling shoot density.
43519219|A summary and evaluation of the results of the first IAB & IAL Symposium on Foliicolous Cryptogams is presented. The contributions are briefly reviewed and discussed in the context of existing knowledge, and conclusions are drawn towards further research needs. The main focus was on floristics and ecology. Taxonomy and systematics, although an important base for working with foliicolous cryptogams, received less attention. Interesting data and analyses on diversity were presented, and the role of foliicolous cryptogams in tropical rainforest ecology was emphasized. In the field of ecology, multivariate statistical methods proved to be helpful tools for the structural analysis of complex foliicolous cryptogam communities. Possible applications include their use as bioindicators in tropical vegetation systems.
43519141|Competition and dynamics of one-membered hypercycles - The behaviour of one-membered hypercydes as formulated by Szathmry (1984, 1985) is analyzed by approximate solutions and competition dynamics. An "overall" equation reflecting the basic behaviour of one-membered hypercycles showing exponential and hyperbolic phases of growth is solved analytically. The equation is extended by a plausible spontaneous decay term and the (implicit) analytic solution is given-Competition of two one-membered hypercycles with or without parallel (simultaneous) simple (first order) autocatalysis is investiqated by fixed-point analysis under the constraint of constant total mass. Conditions for the competitive exclusion of one hypercycle by the other are calculated analytically. A hypercycle without simultaneous simple autocatalysis cannot invade when rare. Numerical simulation shows the movement of fixed-points in the simplex interior as a function of parameter and total mass values. An attempt to analytically solve the detailed dynamics of the simple catalytic hvpercycle by Phillipson's (1982) method failed because of the appearance of complicated integrals.
43519153|Juhsz-Nagy, P. Some problems of a conceptual system in biology. Part 3. Importance of conceptual constructions. The starting statement is that the concept "environment" (incl. ecological environment) is still essentially undefined, and, therefore, several important questions (e.g., how habitat, niche and environment are related to one another) cannot be answered properly. The only way to find a better rsolution is to follow strictly the series of scientific activities ("what does de facto the scientists do?"), i.e., to study carefully the relations between scientific manipulations (e.g. observation, sampling, data-processing, etc.) and rather well-defined concepts (e.g., observational unit, topographical neighborhood, sampling space, etc.), by which a number of fairly acceptable "operation - concept" constructions can be established. In conclusion: the "purely verbal pseudo-definitions" of textbooks are hopeless; instead, useful conceptual constructions are needed.
43519374|Ler Verfasser stellt auf Grund seiner floristischen un znologisches Untersuchungen den zweifachen Charakter der Plora und Vegetation des Gebirges fest. Las Gebiet kann pflanzenp: eographisch /nach seiner Plora und Vegetation/in einen sdlichen und einen nrdlichen Teil aufgeteilt werden. Die Grenzlinie zwischen diesen Gebieten geht vom Tolvajberg durch den Hrmasberg, Mtysberg bis zum Vrbrg und Storberg bei Storaljaujhely, weiter nach dem Sinka-Gipfel, Mogyoros-Gipfel, Zabarla-Rcken bis zum Magoskaberg und von hier nach dem Gerelyberg, Eorsberg, Lobogberg von Gncz, bis zum Kagyberg und Szurokberg. Nrdlich von dieser Linie kommen die klimatischen und floristischen Einflsse der Karpaten zur Geltung. Einige Lokalitten dieses nrdlich-zentralen Teiles sind an karpatischen, montanen /zirkumpolaren, orealen usw./Elementen besonders reich. Lie wichtigsten Zentren und ihre interessanteren Arten sind die folgenden: Gilevr-Lackberg Gruppe, z. B. Eazzania trilobata, Blepharostoma trichophyllum, Licranum spurium, Lycopodium clavatum, L. annotinum, Liphasium complanatum, Huperzia selago. Chimaphila umbellata; Komlska-Tal, Eorzs-Seite, z. B. Sphagnum palustre, S. contortum, Licranum bonjeani, Philonotis caespitosa, Diphasium complanatum, Huperzia selago. Carex gtellulata; Kemence-Tal, Kkapu-Moor, z. B. Sphagnum palustre, S. contortum, Matteucia struthiopteris, Pamassia, Coronilla latifolia; Tokr-Gipfel, Boh-Wiese, z. B. Dentaria glandulosa, Botrychium silesiacum, Ophioglossum vulgatum. Platanthera bifolia, P. chlorantha. Traun-8teinera globosa, Dactylorrhiza latifolia, L. maculata. D. sambucina, Orchis signifera, O. morio, Gymnadenia conopaea. Epipactis helleborine, Listera ovata, Coeloglossum viride. Aconitum variepratun ssp. gracile, A. moldavicum, Achillea ptarmica. Iris sibirica  Gladiolus imbricatus. Adenophora liliifolia.
43519454|The practical and theoretical background leading to the development of MULVA-5, a program package for the analysis of vegetation data, is presented. By introducing the fuzzy set approach, methods representing an alternative to the eigenvalue procedures are made available; they lead to results which are easier to interpret than those derived by more traditional methods. Among the many new features of the revised version are (i) improvements in the import-and export facilities, (ii) enhanced capabilities for analysing relationships between vegetation, site conditions and spatial coordinates as well as (iii) a tool designed to resolve standard problems, based on expert knowledge. Solutions to deal with the growing complexity of data analysis are discussed.
43504900|Nowellia curvifolia is a rarely occurring species of the Hungarian Bryoflora. It was found by the author in the Bakonymountain where it is living in a dark narrow valley on limestone as the member of a Phyllitidi-Aceretum -association. The author presents further data on the occurrence of various species of mosses and liwerworts in different parts of Hungary. E.g. species living on the panelling of the water-mill of the village Turistvndi; species of mosses collected from a cave of the Remete-vally near Budapest and from the area of natural reservation of Csvharaszt /SIMON-SZERNYI 1975/. Before of the names of species the serial numbers of the book of BOROS /1968/re given. Before of the habitats' name the name of the floristic district /SO 1965/is given. The identified material was depisited in the herbarium of the author.
43519300|The microclimate of the southern, and lower, part of the Bkk Mts is primarily determined by exposition, geomorphology and macroclimate. Differences in microclimate cause differences in vegetation types and fauna. Measurements of several years from many sites support these conclusions.
43519377|In our liquid manure experiments were carried out with composition of grasses. We took the nitrogen content of the liquid manure into consideration. We applied two kinds of liquid manure /cow, pig/occuted to two occasions in two quantities, adequate to 130 and 90 kg/ha active ingredients, which were washed down 60-60 mm quantity of irrigation water. Greengrass add root samples were taken /till 50 cm root deepness/in three occasions during the growing season, and we done the releve of grasses too /Fig. 1-5/. Results showed the best utilization of cow liquid manure and the yield at 260 kg/ha nitrogen active ingredient was as high as were, for the grasses with high productivity /Fig. 6., Table 4. 1 Nevertheless, the utilization if the pig liquid manure was much smaller, for this reason we did not suggest it. The growth of rootmass was similar to the greengrass and drygrass yield /Fig, 7., 8 and Table 5./ We were able to measure the utilization of the doses of the active ingredients being in the liquid manure in the drought period of the year 1976, as for the phytocenology and phytoproductivity of grass.
43519538|The technical establishment of the Gabcikovo-Nagymaros barrage system (GNV), the changes predicted, and the principles of biological monitoring in the area are outlined. Monitoring involves bioindication studies reflecting changes in floristic and faunistic variables (cover, abundance of particular species, etc.).
43519441|Robust nonlinear smoothing is used to improve the result of gradient analysis and to eliminate the distorting effect of rare species. The usefulness of the method is demonstrated by a case study. The result of ordinations of the plots of a forest-margin-glade transect of vegetation was improved by the method.
43504896|The article is a study: it is divided into two parts. The first part informs about the origin, the dispersion and the taxonomy of the Iris genus on the basis of special literature. The second part is dealing with the morphological, morphogenetical, taxonomical and phytogeographical characterizations of Iris pumila L. -illustrated with selfmade drawings- as well as with the theratological phenomena observed and drawn in Gruzia /U.S.S.R./. This part involves partial numerical taxonomic investigations of the Iris pumila L. in the basin of Mts. Karpatok too. Orloci's agglomerative cluster analysis was applied to the investigations. The proper FORTRAN program for these /Goldstein and Grigal 1972/ was made by the computer CDC 3300 of MTA. The subjects of the investigations were the herbarium pieces of Iris pumila L. gathered in 35 different places of the basin of Mts. Karpatok. The measurements were carried out on the vegetative parts of the 100 herbarium pieces by the so called localized sampling method /according to HORNSZKY and SZCS 1972/ 14 characteristics were measured, and 12 rates were calculated from the absolute dimensions. The aim of the analyses were: - to examine, how do the individuals of Iris pumila L. originated from large geographical area, form clusters. - to examine, do the subspecies separate. Results: Iris pumila L. cannot be divided into homogen groups on the sampling area -on the basis of the measurements of the vegetative parts and of the rates calculated from them- neither in geographical respect nor according to the recent taxonomical divisions.
43505080|Effects of nutrient status and grazing on the growth and interspecific interactions of five upland grasses were investigated in greenhouse sandculture experiments in which grazing was simulated by clipping at intervals to 1cm height. An extension of experimental design to two factors, nutrient status and clipping frequency, was used in this study. All species responded positively to the nutrient gradient. Clipping strongly reduced plant growth. The more frequent the clipping, the less the cumulative yield for all species. Tiller number of most species increased after the first two cuts, then decreased; tiller numbers at the final harvest were reduced by increasing cutting frequency. Relative ecological performance was significantly affected by nutrients but not by cutting frequency. Based on relative ecological performance, the five species investigated were ranked in order of competitive ability: Agrostis capillaris > Anthoxanthum odoratum > Eriophorum vaginatum > Nardus stricta > Festuca ovina. Large plants were competitively superior to small ones. Species with higher growth rate and higher competitive ability were more tolerant to clipping. Tolerance of clipping increased when the amount of nutrients decreased.
43519299|This paper summarizes geological structure, relief development, geomorphology, soils and the hydrographie conditions of the Bkk Mountains.
43518938|K-neighbour sampling methods provide a convenient means of examining patterns in vegetation where individuals can be identified with specific spatial coordinates. By adjusting the number of neighbours the effects of scal can be examined. In practice, some nested scheme is usually employed, such as Greig-Smith's classic pattern analysis. However, the user still has options for a variety of choices which permit the sampling procedure to be more closely failored to the problem being studied. For analysing inter-sample patterns, we require some overlap in species composition, otherwise we can only say that the samples differ but have no simple means of determining the degree of dissimilarity. With very rich communities this overlap may only be attained when k is very large which is itself disadvantageous. Increasing k will certainly lead to increasing edge effects where the true neighbours lie beyond the plot boundary unless very large plots are examined with the consequent strain on resources (cf. Arya, Mount & Narayan 1996). Additionally, since each sample unit overlaps with its (mutual) neighbours large values of k are effectively providing a high degree of ' smoothing' of variation so we may overlook quite marked changes in composition. As an alternative to increasing k so as to define larger sampling units, we can also consider changing the variables used to describe the sample units. When examining variation with scale, the k-neighbour system uses a notion of a spatial adjacency. We can carry a similar notion into the taxonomic analogue by using the taxonomic hierarchy which is itself a nested classification. In this paper, I examine this possibility as well as noting some alternatives worthy of examination. A brief note addresses those situations where individual plant spatial locations are unavailable but other spatial information has been collected.
43519480|Tussocks of caespitose graminoids have been reported to consist of physiologically autonomous individuals. However, few data are available on structural individuals in tussocks, i.e., on separated tiller groups each representing a structurally autonomous unit. For this purpose, 3 annual and 24 perennial European grass species with a tussock growth form were investigated with respect to size distribution of structural individuals and clonal fragmentation. The size of structural individuals was understood as the number of physically integrated tillers. Clonal fragmentation was assessed by identifying abscission points of between-tiller connections. Correlations were calculated between the degree of fragmentation and a range of morphological and environmental characteristics to assess factors favouring clonal fragmentation. Mean size of structural individuals varied greatly among species but most individuals consisted of a rather small number of interconnected tillers which had originated in clonal fragmentation. The size of structural individuals was especially variable within tussocks of a few species, suggesting an irregular pattern of clonal fragmentation. However, in most species size variation of structural individuals was small. It is hypothesized that this species-specific pattern is part of a developmental programme rather than due to external causes. Species with a comparatively high ability to develop spacers were more susceptible to clonal fragmentation. On the other hand, no correlation was found between the extent of fragmentation and the quality of tillers and between-tiller connections. Species from humus-rich and, to a smaller extent, from nutrient-rich habitats tended to have more fragmentation than species from humus-poor and nutrient-poor habitats. The possible implications of the observed patterns in tussock fragmentation are discussed.
43519305|The paper summarizes malacofaunistical investigations performed in the freshwater habitats of the Bkk Mts between 1980 and 1990. The localities known previously from the mountains were doubled in number during these studies. The collections were extended to regions in the 100-900 m altitude range. The paper gives a full list of records, comments on the distribution of some more common species and presents distribution maps for 10 species. According to the present survey the most constant freshwater species of the Bkk are Pisidium casertanum (67%), Lymnaea peregra (35%) anAnisus spirorbis (34%). The endemic Sadleriana pannonica is a characteristic species of springs in the northern Bkk, whereas the more widely distributed Bythinella austraca lives in similar habitats in the southwestern part of the area. The synanthropic species are Lymnaea columella, Helisoma duryi and Hebetancylus excentncus.
43519104|Constraints in early eukaryote evolution  Constraints in evolution are regarded as limitations on a potentially infinite variation postulated in a null-hypothesis: in the course of evolution, any kind of genotype is allowed to show up, and to be reproduced any number of times, at any time, in any place and in any number. The causal factors responsible for the invalidity of this hypothesis are the evolutionary constraints (incl. selection). A very preliminary typology of constraints is presented. The number of possible designs is limited by two things; there are constructionally and ontogenetically impossible forms; where the latter would be able to function if realizable developmental pathways were leading to them. Some constraints are shown to have possibly been operative during eukaryote evolution with special emphasis on the origin of cilia and flagella. It is of no much value to consider constraints in a story-telling manner; one should rather elaborate a determinative network of constraints being almost analogous to an adequate model of the given level of organization. Models on the organismal level are badly needed in this respect. The sources of variation can be external and internal. The accumulation of selfish DNA can lead to the inheritance of acquired sequences; yet this process is not Lamarckian since the source of variation is internal. In the case of the acquisition of cell organelles, however, evolution has truly been Lamarckian.
43519183|The Btorliget Mire Preserve is one of the last relics of the mire and woodland area in the Nyirsg region, Northeastern Hungary. After a short historical account of previous researches, a vegetation map of the present state is given with a detailed description of the categories used.
43519214|Sporopodiopsis Srusiaux gen. nov. (Ectolechiaceae) is characterized by its unique campylidia which produce their conidia in small locules located in their upper half and which are organized in such a way that the conidia can be dispersed together with the photobiont. Two species are known: S. mortimeriana Srusiaux sp. nov. from Papua New Guinea (known only with campylidia) and S. sipmanii Srusiaux sp. nov. from Malaysia/Sabah (known with apothecia and campylidia).
43519470|This paper examines the problem of detecting nonlinear trends in vegetation data. An improved method of nonlinear ordination is suggested.
43519512|In the greenhouse, the germination of 14 phanerogam species from a chalk grassland was compared below a bryophyte layer and on bare soil. The germination of several species was severely reduced below the bryophyte layer. Lowering of the R/FR ratio and interception of Photosynthetically Active Radiation probably cause this reduction. Some data on the light reduction below a bryophyte layer in a chalk grassland suggest that in spring, when germination takes place and cover of the phanerogams is still low, the presence of patches of bryophytes could prevent germination of several species, resulting in habitat differentiation. In summer, a lower mortality of seedlings of several species within a bryophyte layer is observed. Survival might be enhanced by a higher soil moisture content below a bryophyte layer, even in dry periods, when compared to vegetation with out bryophytes.
43519514|Chromosome morphology and numbers of chromosomes are presented for six liverwort species from the Caucasus. In Trichocolea tomentella the tetraploid level was found for first time, but the other counts agree rather well with those known from materials from other geographical areas.
43519457|The package is especially useful for exploring data structures and for summarizing information in large data sets in a convenient way. These goals are achieved by classifications (hierarchical, non-hierarchical and fuzzy clustering), ordinations (principal component analysis, correspondence analysis, etc.), matrix rearrangements (block clustering, seriation), and character ranking. Results produced by such analyses may be subjected to further evaluation in order to compare alternative ordinations and/or classifications, to produce a synthesis of several alternatives (consensus methods) and to test significance of distances computed between results. Applications are by no means restricted to biology; the exploration of data structures is an interesting problem in any field of science where many objects (observations, entities) are described in terms of many variables (characters, descriptors, features, attributes). Part of SYN-TAX is more specialized; some routines are included for the analysis of mapped meltispecies point patterns (simulated sampling, detection of scale of pattern). SYN-TAX 5.0 offers a unique, hierarchically organized working environment equally useful for research and education. The most apparent novelty in this version is the user interface, a "shell" or "driver" program which manages more than 50 individual routines. On line help, utility routines, prevention of irrelevant combinations of input options, ample run-time information and many other new features minimize working effort in entering, modifying and analyzing multivariate data. Graphics routines provide high-quality graphic results that can be printed or saved in TIFF or PCX formats. Utility routines allow easy data entering, editing and conversion of formats. SYN-TAX 5.0 runs under the DOS operation system, and may also be launched from the WINDOWS environment.
43519151|The chromosome complement of two Aneura and twenty Riccardia species was examined in 100 collections. Chromosome numbers, brief descriptions and metaphase configurations for 10 species are presented.
43519354|Investigations were carried out in the reservation of Csvharaezt during the sixties by careful examination of the stands for the puszta typical plant species as well as by breeding work in the laboratoy in order to reveal the insect-communities forming around the food-plants as on the common source of energy on which the species-populations meteach other. The foodplant-community / catenarium/has been investigated on the following plant species: Juniperus communis, Eryngium campestre, Alyssum montanum ssp. gmelini, Alyaaum tortuosum, Achillea ochroleuca. Centaurea arenaria, Populua alba, Salix rosmarinifoila, Carex liparicarpos. Festuca vaginata, Phleum phleoidea, Stipa capillata and Stipa pennata. While establishing the qualitative composition of these catenaria, we have restricted us to the phytophagous and to some extent /by breeding/to the parasitic populations. On the other hand there were made collections by sweeping in two subassociations, viz.: Pestucetum vaginatae stipetosum capillatae and Festucetum vaginatae salicetosum rosmarinifoliae with the aim to establish the presocies formed by populations which are not confined to ono food-plant and are accordingly distributed more widely. As a rule we took into consideration only the fitophagous populations and attempted to determine the /quantitative composition of the cense, too. Por the two above mentioned plant communities there could be distinguished two presocies, viz.: ffeophilaeno-Myorrhinicium albilinetati preeocium and Idiocero-MelanoHoinaecium coliaria preaocium respectively. Informations resulting from sweeping collection in the habitats covered with Festucetum salcatae stipetosuiiu Festacet e vaginatae dnubiale and Brometum tectorum secaletosum gave a general picture of the different Saltatoria-groups. There were generally found 6-8 species per habitat, in such with more dense and higher vegetation Euchortippua pulvinatus. Glyptobothrus biguttulus, Omocestus haemorrhoidalis and Pecan thus pellucena. in those with opener and sparser vegetation the geophilous-psammophilous Calliptamus barbarus. Acrotylus insubricus Oedipoda coerulescens. Sphingonotus coerulans etc. came to the front. The estimated abundance seems to be low, not higher than one specimen per square meter in the area covered with Featucetum vaginatae danubiale vegetation. The grasshopper species Calliptamua barbarua, Stenobothrus fischeri, Myrmeleotettix antennatus and Acrotylus longipes must be considered as characteristic for the sandy steppe biotopes in Middle Hungary covered mainly with Peatucion vaginatae associations. Further two grasshoppers /Acrotylus insubricus, Sphingonotua coerulans/muat be considred as subcharacter species because their common occurrence both on the sandy area and the surrounding dolomit hills. Species showing outbreaks and being hence more important were: Melolontha hippocastani, Byctiscus betulae, Hypera tesselata, Myrorrhinus albolneatus, Melasome collaris /Col./, Idiocerus stigmaticus /Homopt./, Zerynthia polyxene/Lepid./, Rhopalomyia tarmica /Dipt./. Among the Vertebrates the lizard Lacerta turica and the rabbit Oryctolagua cuniculus seem to be important, the former as suspected predator of Saltatoria, the latter by causing disturbances and changes in the vegetation 
43518942|This paper evaluates multispecies plant pattern based on digitized field data to illustrate the utility of individual centered analysis formerly proposed by the authors. Three grassland communities were sampled for the present study; in each site the positions of all individuals were recorded within a rectangular tract of the community. These communities exemplify very different species patterns, in terms of of deviations from expected species combinations. A species-poor sand steppe stand shows a single spatial scale, whereas a richer version and a sagebush-bunchgrass community exhibit three. These scales result from the sensitivity of the measure to species density and, in particular, to the heterogeneity of individual patterns.
43519504|24 Syrrhopodon species can be found in tropical Africa. According to the distribution maps drawn by the author involving many new records, 6 of them are Madagascar-Mascarene-East African, 5 tropical African lowland, 2 Afromontane, 2 Afro-American disjunct elements, 1 is Asian with East African disjunction and 1 is pantropical. 7 species of the 24 are narrow endemics, such as S. stuhlmannii and S. usambanicus in the crystalline block mountains of eastern Tanzania, S. cuneifolius and S. graminifolius on Madagascar, S. nodriguezii, S. mahensis from Runion and the Seychelles and finally S. isleanus from southern temperate St. Paul Island. The richness of south eastern Africa in endemics is attractive compared to the rest of the continent.
43519188|Two new programs have been included in the SYN-TAX III package developed for data analysis. Program FCM performs fuzzy c-means clustering which results in a partition described by cluster membership weights rather than by unambiguous assignments which characterize hard partitions. Program FCOMP compares fuzzy partitions to yield either a distance matrix of partitions or a consensus fuzzy partition.
43519193|One drawback of nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination is that the axes have no meaning except insofar as they define a Cartesian coordinate system for the ordinated points (individuals). In this paper we present a straightforward strategy for examining vegetation-environment relationships that uses canonical correlation analysis to define a rigid rotation of the NMDS configuration which corresponds to the principal directions of trended environmental variation. It is assumed that information on both vegetation (e.g. species presence, abundance) and environmental factors has been collected for each relev. The strategy can be summarized in four steps: (1) apply NMDS to a standard vegetation data set to obtain a two-dimensional ordination of relevs; (2) perform a canonical correlation analysis, with the two-dimensional NMDS relev scores as the first variable set and the q environmental factors measured on each relev as the second variable set; (3) since the canonical correlation axes define a rigid rotation of the NMDS configuration (to environmental congruence), relev positions can be plotted in the rotated space after accounting for non-orthogonality of the canonical axes; (4) use the computed structure correlations to determine which of the environmental variables are most strongly correlated with trends in the NMDS ordination space. The utility of the method is illustrated using data from 135 relevs collected from inland boreal saline habitats near Overflowing River, Manitoba, Canada.
43519546|Three zones of the vegetation of the SE European area are present in Mt. Chortiatis, NE Greece: the Ostryo-Carpinion orientalis, the Quercion frainetto and the Fagion moesiacae zone. A floristic analysis showed that Angiospermae provide the dominant taxa (292) belonging to 47, 45, 38 families at the upper vegetation zones, respectively. The phytogeographical analysis shows that the hemicryptophytic-perrenial taxa dominate the three vegetation zones. This explanins the appearance of chorological elements from the northern and central Eurasia and the SE Europe, especially at the mountain level, in contrast to the Mediterranean elements. Auf dem Berg Chortiatis kommen in N. O.-Greichenland drei von den Vegetationszonen des sdstlich-europischen Raumes vor: Ostryo-Carpinion orientalis, Quercion frainetto-, und Fagion moesiacae-Zone. Eine Floristische Analyse hat gezeigt, dase die Angiospermen berwiegen und dass die in den obigen Vegetationszonen erwhnten Sippen (292) zu den Familien 47, 45, 38 entsprechend gehren. Die pflanzengeographische Analyse weist in den drei Vegetationszonen, dass die Hemikryptophyten Perennierenden Pflanzen berwiegen, was das grssere Vorherrschen von chorologischen Elemente des Nordzentraleuropischen-Asiatischen Raumes wie auch des Sdstlicheuropischen Raumes eigentlich der montanen Stufe gegen die Mediterranen Elemente erlutert.
43519102|Density-dependent life strategies 1. Study of the density dependence of the relationship between fertility and juvenile survivorship  We define a general theoretical framework for density-dependent life-history optimization. In this scheme, the intrinsic rate of increase, r, depends on arbitrarily chosen demographic parameters. It is supposed that selection maximizes r by changing demographic parameters within a restricted part of the parameter space. Density dependence is incorporated into the restrictions. The connection of population genetic and life-history optimization approaches is briefly discussed. In the given framework, we investigate a special case when there is a trade-off between fertility and juvenile survivorship (fertility can be increased only by decreasing survivorship), and these two parameters are independent of the others. The effect of increased mortality between the breeding seasons on the optimal fertility is also discussed. The optimal value increases/decreases; if the relative disadvantage of the strategies with higher fertility decreases/increases. A new mortality factor can affect the fertility directly by decreasing juvenile survivorship of indirectly changing the population size in a period which has some effects on the tradeoff investigated. Sometimes, these effects may compensate each other. Environmental changes that do not affect the shape of the trade-off curve do not change the optimal strategy either. The model presented gives a suitable conceptual framework for discussing and evaluating the hypotheses of global clutch size variation and a common sense interpretation of the classical formulation of r-k-selection.
43519286|This paper is a technical reference for the simulation model GRADEX described in detail by the author earlier. It is a cell automaton model using Monte-Carlo simulation to describe the spatio-temporal dynamics of plant populations, with, or without the effects of an environmental gradient introduced. If the gradient is present, it is supposed to affect the competitive abilities of the species considered, according to some response curves. The program may be helpful for theoretical research and teaching on the field of spatio-temporal plant population dynamics.
43519534|Ten categories are suggested for expressing the conservation values of species lists. The categories are as follows. 1. Unique or rare species (endemics, subendemics, relics) denoted by U. 2. Strongly protected species, similar to those in the preceding category but relatively widespread in nature reserves (KV). 3. Species protected in Hungary (V). 4. Natural species predominating in plant communites (E). 5. Main components, also native to the area (K). 6. Natural pioneer elements (TP). 7. Native species that tolerate disturbance (TZ). 8. Adventives (A). 9. Cultivated plants (G). 10. Cosmopolitan weeds (GY). The ranks for the vascular plants of the Hungarian flora are presented in the Appendix. The proportion of categories 1-6 reflects the naturalness of the species assemblage examined, whereas that of categories 7-10 indicate the level of degradation. Note that speciee belonging to the first three categories are protected by law in Hungary and they have definite Forint values. The author suggests a monetary value of 100 Forint/specimen uniformly for categories 4-5-6. The evaluation of a nature reserve provides information on the recent statue of the area in terms of the degree of naturalness and degradation. The comparative evaluation of checklists obtained in different years shows temporal trends in the change of flora. If the quantitative aspects of species (e.g., A-D values in coenological tables) are also considered as weights when preparing diagrams, then the resulting graphs are more meaningful and informative. The analysis of the Hungarian vascular flora based on the nature conservation ranks (Fig. 1) shows a significant degradation of the flora (44.3%). The comparison of diagrams for the reserves at Bugac and Csaroda indicates a more advanced degradation in the moors of Csaroda (Fig. 2). The comparison of years 1960 and 1984 in these moors (Fig. 3) shows a tendency towards degradation. The number of natural disturbance tolerants, weeds and adventives significantly increased.
43519281|Phytoplankton ecology has recently reached the point at which it is possible to generalize the results of thousands of particular studies and to discuss the processes in terms of general ecology. Based on phytoplankton samples taken daily in Lake Balaton, the largest shallow lake of Central Europe, this paper is intended (i) to quantify temporal scales relevant to phytoplankton population changes and to assess the importance of disturbances in maintaining diversity; (ii) to introduce the term 'minimal volume' and in this way to estimate the meanings of frequentness and rarity when applied to phytoplankton; and (iii) by coupling (i) and (ii) attempt the introduction of the term 'ecological memory' and to outline its implications in such controversial issues as convergency and divergency in succession. By analyzing community responses of phytoplankton to intermediate and to low frequencies of 'disturbance' (which has inevitably prior importance in vegetation changes) and comparing the results to a recently published similar approximation on terrestrial vegetation of New Zealand, the main conclusion can be summarized as: even if the question in terms of general ecology is similar, the appropriate (own or characteristic) scales should be carefully fitted, the community itself should be considered simultaneously with the environmental changes. Only the synchronous assessment of the scales of environmental changes and the scale dependencies of communities can lead to a better understanding of the central event, the community response.
43519469|Hyperbolic growth has received considerable attention in hypercycle theory. However, it is not consistent as regards the validity and consequences of this growth law. In this paper the simplest imaginable catalytic hypercycle is analyzed with the aid of various approximations of different exactness, namely adiabatic and exact elimination procedure, the constraint of constant mass, and Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Under the new constraint of constant mass the problem of coexistence is investigated by fixed-point analysis. According to the results of the approximations, the population, starting from low concentrations, exhibits hyperbolic growth which is taken over by exponential growth at high enough concentrations. This finding fits that of King (1981) on a more complicated catalytic hypercycle. The possibilities of the real chemical and biological existence of the simple hypercycle presented are discussed in brief. The constraint of constant mass can be realized in kinetics and population dynamics as well. Finally, a very simple equation is suggested which qualitatively reflects the results obtained by approximations. Dependence on a limiting nutrient is incorporated into this equation. The modified equation resembles some growth equations originating in the 'golden age' of theoretical ecology.
43519303|Early malacological studies, started in 1975, on the Holocene fauna of the Bkk Mts surveyed the mollusc records in cave deposits and freshwater limestone sediments. The complex faunistic, paleoecological and zoogeographical results allow an attempt for a biostratigraphic classification. The paper is a brief summary of 15 years of work.
43519190|M. E. D. Poore's classical idea of successive approximation is revisited in the context of ecosystem survey, process sampling, sample structure stability tests, and inference by E. C. Pielou's averaging method in the expanding sample. Application programs are offered to support the otherwise heavy computational task.
43519544|The transitional geographic position of Serbia in SE Europe, the history of its flora and vegetation, and the abundance of high mountains cause a rich and varied life to develop. In the refugia of the beech zone many relic and endemic species and communities occur. The climate of these zones did not change much in the period from the Tertiary to recent. The climate of Serbia is moderately continental, with more precipitation, higher relative humidity, and lower temperature fluctuations in the mountains. In the oak zone the dry and warm summer climate of the surrounding area is weakened toward the cooler climate of the spruce zone. The anthropogenic effects have always been fairly strong, especially in this century, leading to the degradation of extensive areas. Recently, the degraded forests with small trees are dominant. In the meantime, shrub vegetation replaces the former meadows and pastures in the mountains. The forests of high mountains are in a better condition than those at the foothills. Planned reforestation extends to increasing areas in all mountains of Serbia. More than 250 forest associations and many subassociations have been described from Serbia. The climatically zonal associations of the foothill zone are: Quercetum frainetto (with variants) and Quercetum frainetto-cerris, in the beech zone Fagetum montanum, Luzulo-Fagetum and Abieti-Fagetum (with variants), in the spruce zone Piceetum excelsae (with variants), in the subalpine region Vaccinio-Junipeno-Piceetum subalpinum and in the highest regions Pinetum mugi.
43519131|Textbooks often repeat the notion that plant dispersion pattern changes from closely spaced random patterns early in a sere, intermediate scale regularity as succession advances and a phasing in of widely spaced random dispersion as the community matures. For desert shrublands, succession is so imperceptible that tendencies toward regularly dispersed individuals or small clumps are often assumed to prevail because of competition for water. These generalities have been tested by others with mixed results and vociferous exchanges in the literature. At least part of the differences observed may be artifactual due to the bias in the method used. A suite of methods was used to study the dispersion patterns in salt desert shrub communities in western Utah. Successional gradients radiating from watering points and differences across fencelines were related to livestock grazing history. Haloseres around retreating saline lakes offered a third type of natural experiment. Dispersion patterns of most species and the total vascular plant community showed that aggregation prevailed in most shrub populations sampled, regardless of serai conditions. The size of these clusters was too variable for a consistent trend to be detected. Establishment of seedlings is evidently so enhanced by the positive micro-environmental modifications induced by other plants that the edification effect overcomes both intra- and interspecific comptition and chance dispersal of propagules.
43504892|Investigations were carried out on the producer subsystems of the plant associations within the frame of the IBP Ujazentmargita from 1966 to 1972 by the members of the Research Institute for Botany /ZLYOMI-MTH-PRCSNYI-SZCS 1972,1974/. In the present paper the author deals with the aboveground production, same factors affecting it, energy butget and mineral contents of the forest steppe meadow. The phenological rythm was demonstrated by the seasonal changes of the phytomass fractions /1. tabele/. The production was 560 g/m, from this 228 g/m was due to the living parts, and 332 g/m to the dead parts. The productivity of the living parts was positive during the whole sampling priode /0, 91- 3,84 g/m/day/. The connections between the meteorological elements /mean temperature, quantity of precipitation, relative humidity, global radiation / and the productivity were examined by path analysis. The productivity of the different species was affected by the mean temperature positively, and by the relative humidity negatively. The global radiation and the factors not examined had the strongest effects on the variability of the productivity. The efficiency of the assotiation was 0, 30% /calculated on the basis of PAR/. The vegetation utilised the solar energy more intensive in the first part /IV-VI/ of the sampling periode, than in the second one /VI-IX/. About 51% of the energy content of the association was due to the living parts. The energy flow reflected well the meteorological extremities, e.g. during the drought in 1968 the share of the living parts in the total energy content was only 18%. The turnover rate of the dead parts was less, than that of the living parts /1. figure/. The above mentioned drought is observable in the turnover rates too. The turnover of the dicotyledons was more rapid, than of monoctyledons. The values of the different element contents /Ca, Na, K, N, P/is shown in 2. table, and its turnover rates in 3. table. The large quantity of sodium of the character species /Peucedanum and Aster species/indicates the place of the forest steppe meadow in the alcaline meadow associations.
43519409|Mit Laubflechte-Transplantaten haben wir Luftverunreinigung-Untersuchungen in den industrialisierten Bezirke im Wintermonaten /X.XI.XII.I.II.III./ gemacht.Als Schdigungs-Kriterien.dienten morfologischen Anderungen /Verzerrung in Farbe und Erscheinung/in der Untersuchung. Budapest kann man praktisch als Flechten - Wste bezeichnen. Die Laubflechten fehlen aus den epiphyton-Vegetation in Parken und am Bumen neben den Wegen. Wir haben keine Angaben ber die Bedigungen der Vernichtung. Wir beabsiohtigten eben zu klren. Die Transplantaten wurden zur Untersuchung gewhlt, weil sie stammen von einem Verunreinigungslessen Gebiet, und sie schneller die Schdigungen wieder spiegeln, die Vernichtung der ehemaligen Flechtenvegetation verursacht haben. Nach unserer Beobachtungen von den 3 Test-Planzen Xanthoria parietina nach 23. Woche ausgestorben war /Thallus mosaikweise zerfallen/. Bei 80 % der Thalien der Hypogymnia physoides und Physcia tenella haben wir die Zeichen der End-Vernichtung beobachtet /Thallus ist dunkel-braun, der obere kruste ist auf mehreren Stellen zerrisst/.
43519206|This paper reviews the history and the current state of the study on the Lejeuneaceae in China. The first species of Lejeuneaceae from China was reported by Frans Stephani in 1894: Acrolejeunea cordistipula Steph (= Trocholejeunea infuscata (Mitt.) Verd.). Since then, the Chinese Lejeuneaceae flora has been studied predominately by European bryologists. Until 1920, the first bryophyte collecting was made by Chinese botanists, and in the following years, particularly after the Chinese "Cultural Revolution", China has . been in an active period of bryological research. Based on all the available literature on the Lejeuneaceae up to 1997, 190 species in 37 genera of the Lejeuneaceae currently occur in China. Most species are distributed in tropical and subtropical areas. The checklist of the species and their distributions are provided alphabetically. China has the third highest species diversity of the family Lejeuneaceae after Western Melanesia and Colombia. The flora is dominated by the genera Cololejeunea, Drepanolejeunea, Leptolejeunea, Lopholejeunea, and Cheilolejeunea, which are also present in majority in other Asian areas. Ten species in five genera are endemic to southeast Asia. No endemic Chinese species have been reported.
43519200|The nature of species, and the species concept in lichenized Ascomycotina is reviewed. The use of species concept is highly individual among lichen taxonomists and different characters have been evaluated differently. The taxonomic species concept is discussed with reference to the defining of taxa based upon morphological and also chemical discontinuities. A special case of the taxonomic species concept has been used in lichen taxonomy pertaining to closely related sexual and asexual morphs. Infraspecific taxa such as subspecies have been used to a limited degree in modern lichen taxonomy, and then mainly assigned to geographical races.
43519288|A great problem with the Lotka-Volterra assumption of mutualistic systems is that under certain conditions populations tend to be infinitely high. This artefact is generally neglected assuming that there are saturation effects between population interactions. This plant-pollinator or seed-dispersal description emphasizes that the pollen and nectar (or seed) interact directly with the pollinator (or disperser) rather than the plant itself. It is shown that such mutualistic systems remain limited in every biologically relevant case. Computer simulations examine the effect of time dependence of pollen production in two typical cases: in the case when there is a constant pollen production, and when the pollen production changes periodically.
43518947|There is considerable interest in measuring diversity, especially advanced techniques that make possible scale-dependent characterizations. Scale-dependent diversity characterization is provided by one-parametric diversity index families using so-called diversity profiles. In this paper, techniques of scale-dependent diversity comparisons are reviewed and density dependent vs. density independent representations are discussed. Finally, a new method to characterize the -diversity of a community is proposed.
43519467|166 vascular plant species have been recorded in the approximately 100 ha area of the Bugac Biosphere Reserve. The flora is rich in endemic, sub-endemic, relict and protected species (15% of the flora). Noted species are, for example, Botrychium lunaria, Ephedra distachya, Centaurea sadleriana and Colchicum arenarium. Species categories and scores are proposed by the author for expressing the conservation value of this flora. Natural species (I) and those associated with human impact (II) have been distinguished. Seven categories within group I and three categories within group II are set up. These are: 1. Unique or rare species (endemics, sub-endemics, relicts) denoted by U and scored by 512. 2. Strongly protected species similar to those in the preceding category but relatively widespread in nature reserves (KV, 256). 3. Species protected in Hungary (V, 128). 4. Natural species predominating in plant communities (E, 64). 5. Main components, also native to the area (K, 32). 6. Natural pioneer elements (TP, 16). 7. Native species that tolerate disturbance (TZ, 8). 8. Adventives (A, 4). 9. Cultivated plants (G, 2). 10. Cosmopolitan weeds (GY, 1). Table 1 illustrates that the natural elements predominate in the area. The unique (U), strongly protected (KV) and protected (V) elements together account for a relatively high percentage in both species number and score. These figures are the highest for the natural components (K). The percentage of non-natural species is low or even negligible in some categories. These results show that the study area is only slightly disturbed and still has a high nature conservation value.
43519312|Extensive loess areas of the Great Hungarian Plain were formerly covered by the Eastern European zonal forest steppe vegetation. Only small fragments of this formation have survived by now. The loess vegetation was for the first time described in the fifties in Hungary and sixties using the methods of the Central European school of phytocoenology. A recently renewed research interest in these plant communities provided further details useful for nature conservation as well. Since the eightieusm, nerous studies have dealt with floristic and coenological aspects, while vegetation dynamics have also been examined for years. This paper gives a restrospective account of the loess forest steppe vegetation and its research. The geographical subdivision of the loess steppe grassland is shown, and local differentiation processes directed by geomorphology are treated as well. Primary and secondary successional processes are characterized and degradation is also discussed.
43519526|Interspecific interaction between jack pine and trembling aspen was investigated in a 70  70 m plot within an even-aged, mixed boreal forest stand in east-central Ontario. A total of n = 621 trees were mapped (n1 = 241 trembling aspen, n2 = 380 jack pine). This empirical spatial pattern was analyzed using Ripley's bivariate second-order spatial analysis, with confidence limits set by randomly relabelling species affinities of the 621 trees. The results indicate strong negative association between the two species at all spatial scales investigated (0 - 20 m radius). Some possible mechanisms for the development of a strong negative association between jack pine and trembling aspen are outlined.
43519228|Procrustes analyses of ordinations yield a commensurable coefficient through standardization by the expected values for random configurations. Simulation of the distribution of these coefficients enables the user to test the significance of ordination dissimilarity.
43519146|The preliminary results presented in this paper suggest that there are clear differences between the indicator values of a species with different cover/abundances. The interpretation of ordination diagrams by calculating correlation between sample scores on axes and indicator values is discussed. Attention is paid to the variation of indicator values in the whole ordination space.
43519370|In opinion of the taxonomy, the species Molinia ooerulea /L/MUCH. is inonotypical. Author of this study, had naked genetical, ecological, Microscopic-anatomical, and cytological researchs with Molinia plants, collected from different places of occurence. He has found out; the Holinias - living in Hungary - can not belong to one species. The plants - cultivated in experimental garden - have formed isolated taxons. with Molinia coerulea, determinated by diagnosis, we can identify only one out of seven. We have to suppose: the rest are belonging to not discovered, new speciose.
43519463|The basic strategy of some divisive clustering techniques is the calculation of the similarity between species. . Several measures are known for this purpose. The simplest method is based on 22 contingency tables referring to binary data. The actual values in the cells of this table are influenced by many factors, such as the size of sampling unit. The author's aim is to study the relationship between the conditions and the results of technical sampling in simulated and actual situations. Two fundamental types of similarity coefficients may be distinguished according to their behavior in a spatial process related to plot size. The value of Type I. indices, for example, the Jaccard and Srensen index, monotonically increases over plot size. These functions do not consider the number of "negative" matches (d) in the contingency table. The Type II. indices (simple matching coefficient, Rogers-Tanimoto formula, etc.) are not monotonous, at a certain plot size a minimum value is taken, then the similarity starts to increase. These functions included in the nominator. The chi-square statistic is quite different from these indices in its response. to plot size changes. Detailed simulation experiments will be carried out to get a deeper insight into the problem of plot size/resemblance relationships.
43518936|The paper investigates the problem of evaluating sampling sufficiency in ecological surveys that aim at estimating parameters or detecting complex patterns. It offers a general approach and new methods based upon bootstrap resampling. The methods are useful in pilot studies to anticipate sufficiency or to find out a posteriori if the sample is adequate for a given type of analysis. Regarding the basic idea, the bootstrap algorithm generates frequency distributions of the parameter of interest in samples with increasing size. The parameter may be simple such as means, or describe cluster structure or ordination configuration. By definition the sample is considered sufficient if the parameter reaches stability or the required level of precision within the range of sample sizes evaluated. Examples with artificial and ecological data sets demonstrate consistency and utility. An application program performs the analyses and is available from the author.
43519132|A new simple method of ordination is proposed. It is based on classification of relevs, or variables, and matrix multiplication. An example of application is given with data from a simulated coenocline with different noise levels. The performance of the method may be considered as good as that of the most popular methods, or even better if the monotonous pattern is considered as an advantage.
43519136|In this second paper of a series, the results of a soil survey based on preliminary vegetation analysis are given. As possible limiting factors, some soil physical properties that affect soil-water availability to plants were studied. As a good measure of moisture retention properties, particle size distribution of the upper 50 cm of the soil was sampled. The classification of the soil samples, based on the relative proportion of particle fractions, resulted in three textural soil classes. The average moisture retention curve and unsaturated hydraulic conductivity function of each textural soil class were calculated using a computerized model. On the basis of textural properties of the successive five layers, the soil profiles were also classified. The distribution of the obtained three soil profile types corresponds to that of vegetation types. Except for one segregation, the distribution of vegetation types can be explained by the differences in the potential water supplying capacity of the soil profile types, since the annual soil-water dynamics of the area of each soil profile type was also studied. An explanation of the considerable heterogeneity of textural properties within such a small area is also presented.
43519287|This paper examines the outcome of the fuzzy equivalence clustering with an application to the upland grasslands of Northern Snowdonia, Wales. The results of this analysis, consistent with that of TWINSPAN, can be interpreted with ecological meanings. This suggests that fuzzy equivalence clustering is an useful and effective technique in vegetation studies.
43519355|The author has carried out investigations in woods ofdifferent states of succession consisting of the so-onvestigated consociations of Festuco-Querceturn roboris danubiale: juniperetosum, populetosum, betuletosum, and of the so-investigated facies of Convallario-Quercetum danubiale: Convallaria majalis, consociation caspinetorum. He has compared the identity of species and constancy between the collecting stations with RAMSAYPCCS s method /4/. The significance of results was checked with chi 2 test. The results were compared with his earlier investigations /1/. It may be established that the heath-oaks at Csvharaszt can be classified in the same morphological category as the wood-communities that are similar to those in the Danube-Tisza Interstream Region, anyway they developed under fresher habitat-conditions than those. Fresher surroundings are referred to be the presence os species Arion subfuscus, Vitrea cristallina, IJesovitrea hammonis^ Enomphalia strigella among the heath-oaks at Csvharaszt. The connection of plant-coenological succession between the heath-oaks and convallaria oaks can be demonstrated on the basis of molluscs even in mathematical way. The constant dominating species like Vallonia cestata, Vitrina pellucida are common, as well. A connection of significant species identity is between-the Mollusca Synusia that belong to the same series of soil developmention soils of sandy tissue, collecting stations 1-2,1-4,4-5/. Collecting stations 1-2 are displaying species identity with the similar oak-Woods in the Danube-Tisza Interstream region, as well.
43504893|In expressing the relations between plants we need logical and practical methods as well as intuition. Creating any of the classes one has to decide upon the quantity and quality of the characteristic features-which can be used in creating systematic units. In a certain case it is difficult to decide about the characteristics how much they depend on each-other. Having solved the problems of taking a sample and having chosen the individual-to-examine there comes the working up of the details serving the parpose. Metrical technics are used in the analysis of the samples, but at the same time some non-metrical datas can be used in creating a systematic unit. The experiments made on the two plants serve as an illustration of the theory mentionadabove. We had created different classes considering 14 characteristic features within lo populations and using the model of classification as well as by making use of the morphological and non-morphological features. An other method helped us in defining those features and groups of features, which are characteristic in both determining a systematic unit within a genus, and in and in differenciating the two genera. Further results can be given from the field of blastogeny, citology, citogenetics, physiology, ecology and plant-geography Consequences: 1. according to practical points of view systematization needs a never-lasting change. 2. aur methods really systematize non-existing average individuals, but at the same time aur intention is to describe a homogenous group. 3. The well-made groups always reflect in some way the temporal evolution.
43519280|Most long-term investigations of vegetation are designed to monitor change in species abundance and composition. This often leads to interpretational problems due to oscillations caused by environmental fluctuations within and between seasons. To improve the interpretability of such investigations, it is proposed to consider in addition to the original data also processes that can be observed with help of derived parameters only, e.g. changes in the resemblance pattern of a set of relevs. Such processes are, for instance, compositional convergence and divergence of data sets, subsets, centroids of subsets or the crispness of a group structure. Since several of the processes may occur simultaneously, there is a need to carry out the analysis at different scales or levels of aggregation, using several methods to measure species performance as well as different plot sizes and plot arrangements. The latter allows to recognize and measure change in spatial correlation of relevs over time. The importance of the scale of observation is illustrated with help of two sets of field data. In the first, where no interpretable trends can be detected, convergence of vegetation types emerges in aggregated data only and plot size has no influence. In the second, spatial relationship of relevs indicates the existence of a gradient. This is then destroyed by superimposed management treatments. It is therefore concluded that time data should be analysed at different levels of aggregation and the location of plots considered as an important analytical help m future monitoring projects.
43519445|The Bugac Juniper Forest consists of a mosaic of woods, shrubs and xeric grasslands lying on a sand dune system, and a part of the forest is a core area of the Man and Biosphere Program. Compared to the other sand dune areas of the Kiskunsg region, the Bugac Juniper Forest is composed of more differentiated patches interspersed with locally poorer vegetation. The succession of vegetation on drought-prone, sandy regions of the Carpathian Basin and especially on the calcareous sands between the Danube and Tisza rivers is less predictable than that on other soil types, but it is hypothesized that this difference from sites of the same climatic and edaphic conditions is mainly due to the high abundance of herbivores, particularly wild rabbits, relative to the low productivity of the grassland. The present state of the forest is considered to be the result of secondary succession consequent on burning, heavy grazing and forestry intervention. However, lack of an adequate species pool for this edaphic semi-dsert might be also involved. Nevertheless, the Bugac Juniper Forest is rich in xerofrequent plant species demonstrating a wide variety of adaptations to drought conditions. In order to document the present status of this unique biotope and provide a basis for future studies on the development of the forest, a systematic map of the vegetation within a 35 hectare area was prepared. The aim of this study is to estimate the relative extent of the main vegetation types and to start to describe the nature of current successional processes. Mapping was carried out based on aerial photographs. A 1:1000 scale was chosen and 18 vegetation types were distinguished and the resulting map was digitized in order to incorporate it into a GIS.
43519449|Based on the classical Fisher's differential equations, a selection-mutation model is considered. Under simple conditions on the selection and mutation parameters, the existence of an equilibrium is proved. For a particular class of selection-mutation models sufficient conditions for asymptotic stability resp. unstability in Lyapunov's sense are obtained.
43519212|The epiphyllous bryoflora of Madagascar and neighbouring islands contains the highest number of species among the African floristic regions (91 typically epiphyllous and 62 facultativdy epiphyllous species), with a rate of 32.6% endemism (Madagascar itself with 37.4% endemism), which is high compared to other island floras (Cuba has 11.4% and Galapagos Islands have 16% endemism among liverworts and even less among epiphylls). The affinity between the epiphyllous floras of the island-groups was calculated and the geographical elements of their bryofloras compared to each other and to that of the Usambara Mountains in continental Africa. The continental African and Asian influence and the rate of endemism and the insularity indices vary from island to island. Interestingly, the floristic affinity in many cases is greater between the small island; far from each other than between them and Madagascar. The obtained data suggest that the epiphyllous bryoflora of the archipelago could evclve mostly during a period when the terrestrial link had already ceased between the dissected parts of Gondwanaland, but they (especially India, the ancient Seychelles subcontinent and Madagascar) were much closer to each other than they are nowadays. These conditions prevailed during the Cretaceous. Most of the endemic species of the area possibly evolved since that time more from the dispersed elements than from the pre-Cretaceous archaic Gondwanan stock.
43519254|This paper reviews a concept on the ecological significance of morphological plasticity in plants. Several experimental studies indicate that plants may place their organs of resource uptake to relatively resource-rich sites, and perhaps actively select micro-habitats by means of morphological responses. This fact receives special importance in the ecology of clonal plants. Foraging models suggest a mechanism for optimal resource exploration and exploitation in a patchy environment. The theory was originally introduced in behavioural ecology for mobile organisms ("animals"), and then adopted for sessile but morphologically plastic organisms ("plants"). This review focuses on some critical aspects of the applicability of foraging models to plants. The concept is exposed within the wider frame of the modular construction of plants, and developmental rules in morphogenesis, as modelled in dynamic morphology. Computer models on strategies and tactics in resource acquisition are discussed, and contrasted with experimental evidences. Reasons for the differences, for example, physiological and morphological constraints of clonal development, are overviewed from the literature, and some new points suggested. Environment-dependent modifications of growth pattern are re-considered from the viewpoint of adaptation. The evolutionary background of foraging behaviour in plants is questioned. Some important elements of optimal foraging theory are re-examined, and it is argued that "plant foraging" is an analogy rather than a direct correspondence to the theory for animals.
43519349|The author determines the different kinds of soil in the nature conservation area of the sandy wood steppe of Cavharaszt and tries to throw light on the conditions of heat flow in the soil. He also takes the different plant communities into consideration and presents diurnal variations of the soil temperature.
43519103|This paper is the first of a series reporting on ecological investigations in planted pine forests in which surprisingly high number of fern species have established populations in the past 35 years. An enumeration of fern species and a preliminary description of the most interesting site, the Ebgondolta forest, are presented. An hypothesis on the conditions which facilitated the colonization of ferns in these habitats is proposed.
43519456|NuCoSA (Number Cruncher for Community Studies and other Applications) is a user friendly and totally menu controlled program package that allows interactive data analysis. Results of an analysis can be displayed on the screen and after inspection the result can be printed and/or the analysis pursued. It is written in Pascal, and the application of the results of modern numerical analysis guarantees the high speed of the package. Widely used multivariate methods and specific data analytical techniques applied mainly in ecology are included in the package. Some of the new methods are developed by the author (e.g. some of the robust standardizations, elimination of "noise" elements, logarithmic dominance ordering). The use of the package is not restricted to ecological and/or biological problems; most of the programs are equally applicable to any other field of science where classification, reduction of dimensionality and exploration of data structure are objectives.
43519134|Snow-bed and marble-scree plant communities (Salicetea herblaceae and Thlaspietea rotundifolii) studied in a glacial circle of the Great Kazan, Pirin Planina Mts., Bulgaria, were ordinated in order to reveal the dominating ecological factors responsible for differentiation of vegetation types. The Salicetea relevs were separated from the Thlaspietea relevs along a diagonal interpreted in terms of duration of snow cover. Separation along the other diagonal indicated the importance of controlling effects of exposure (aspect) within the Thlaspietea rotundifolii, and habitat moisture within the Salicetea herbaceae.
43519175|Water relations of six drought tolerant dehydration avoiding species dominant in a perennial sandy grassland community were studied. Seasonal and daily course of transpiration and water saturation deficit, and some leaf textural properties were investigated in the field. Multivariate analysis suggest that four types of water use regulation are distinguishable. Sclerophyllous grasses are hydrostable water savers, except Koeleria glauca, which can maintain stable water balance in spite of intensive transpiration. Perennial dicotyledons belong to the hydrolabile water spender type, while thin leaves of Carex liparicarpos suffer from relatively high water deficits even at moderate transpiration.
43519376|The biological productivity of higher plants depends on the moisture regime and mineral constituents of the soil. The distribution of natural vegetation on the earth is controlled more by the soil moisture regime than by any other factor. In most cases, water is the determining ecological factor in soil-plant systems. In soil-plant systems the quantity of available water for plants mainly depends on the physical properties of the soil, the characteristics of the soils' solid phases. The soil moisture regime can be characterized by three main factors: moisture content /with its vertical, horizontal and time distribition/; energy status of soil moisture; flow phenomena. These factors determine the role of water in soil formation processes, as well as the water supply of plants in various terrestrial ecosystems. Consequently, relationships can be established between the physical properties of soils and plant coenological parameters. Our investigations have been carried out in the valley of Szilas stream close to Budapest. In the valley various hydromorphic soils were formed on calcareous parent material and different meadow plant associations occure. By means of the simultaneous investigations of the soil physical characteristics, chemical properties and coenological parameters of plant associations we could take the following main establishes: -close correlation exists between soil moisture regime /which is determined by soil texture and soil moisture characteristics closely related to their genesis/, and the succession status of plant communities; -positive and causal relation exists between soil moisture dynamics and the aspect change of the plant associations; There are much closer correlation between the charecteristics of plant associations and soil physical properties than between plant associations and nutrient regime. It seems to be probable that the nutrient effect is only secondary because it depends on the water management of the soil.
43519283|Traditional methods for detecting multi-species patch- dynamics of vegetation usually oversimplify the developing patterns. Vegetation should be viewed as a mosaic of species combinations, rather than separate species patterns. The development of the spatial pattern of species combinations during primary succession was studied on dumps of a strip coal-mine in Hungary. Micromaps of the frequent species were recorded in four plots of different age. Using large samples, careful spatial scaling, and information statistics for pattern analyses, a considerable complexity of vegetation was detected even in the very early stages of succession. Florula diversity, and associatum (referring to some boundary conditions for coalitions) showed an increasing trend with time. The results suggest that most of the significant spatial dependence relations relate to multi-species combinations. The deducibility of multi-species coalitions from analyses restricted to pairwise associations is questioned.
43519359|Our production inveatigationa were carried out at the Szritpuazta Experimental Station of the Agricultural Univeraity at Gdll, during September of 1974. The MVSC 58o hibrid maize, atudied, were sovm in four rowa "couliaea", for irrigated and non-irrigated treatmenta. Mean oecological characteriatica of the experimental place are in the Table 1. adn 2. Our purpoee waa to meaaure the biomaaa production of the maize relating to the plant parta under and above the aoil surface on field circumatances during the phenophase of ripening. The Figure 1. shows the samplea where they have been taken from. Investigation of the root-systeni has been accomplished using self-created instruments for monolit method /KOVCS-GSPR, 1974/ Roots being in the monolits taken out, had been washed and devided into sections 5 cm by 5 cm. Considering the green and dried samples we measured the mass and the volume of the root-system treat by treat, in every soil layer from 0 cm to 25 cm depth. /Table 3. Figure 2./ This investigation yielded the values of the biomass increase due to irrigation, the change of the biomass being above the soil surface and also the productivity for the grain. The root-system beloni Tig to the non-irrigated plants was deeper and their mass vas bigger. The biomass being above th soil surface at the irrigated plants was 28 per cent more one, wich means o, 79 ton/acre/17,1 q/h/eurpluee cropproduction duo to 200 mm continually supplied water. The rate of the root-mass to tne biomass above the soil surface in the cultivated /tilled/soil layer /o-25 cm/was 7,5il for the irrigated treat, and 4,2: 1 for the non irrigated treat, and 4,2tl for the non irrigated treat 
43519202|It is generally assumed that biological species diversity is high in the tropics, and this is likely to be true also for fungi. The biodiversity of fungi is high, but estimates of the numbers of species vary widely. At the moment, c. 30,000 described and recognized species of ascomycetes are known, half of which are lichenized. Estimates for the total numbers of fungal species go as high as 1.5 million, about one third of which could be expected to belong to the ascomycetes. The current knowledge of tropical ascomycetes is very incomplete and unequal. In this context it is relevant to distinguish between the following categories: 1. lichenized foliicolous ascomycetes, 2. non-lichenized foliicolous ascomycetes, 3. lichenized corticolous ascomycetes and 4. non-lichenized saprophytic ascomycetes. Based on the results of a monographic treatment of the large saprophytic ascomycete genus Didymosphaeria, a tentative estimation of 20,000 to 40,000 species of existing non-lichenized ascomycetes is given.
43519203|Host plant preferences and associations of the foliicolous lichens occurring on three Ripogonum species (Monocotyledones: Ripogonaceae) at two rainforest sites in south eastern Queensland were studied using numerical multivariate community ecological approaches. Nineteen lichen taxa were identified, and their co-occurrence on the leaves was used as the basis for a cluster analysis and ordination. The results of these analyses showed that host preference was more important than site location, with the lichens on the leaves of R. album and R. discolor from two different sites more similar to each other than to those of the latter and R. elseyanum growing together at one of these sites. Individual differences between leaf cohorts on branches were also observed, which appear to reflect successional effects. In general the flora on R. elseyanum was depauperate relative to the others, and seemed to represent an earlier successional phase. Features such as hairiness in R. elseyanum possibly delay colonisation. It is also possible that the drip tips of the other host species favour colonisation by subcuticular Strigula close to the high flow areas.
43505081|During the screening of the Hungarian angiosperm flora for C plants, a considerable variation in Kranz leaf anatomy was encountered. Altogether eight structural variants occurred among 59 C species in the Amaranthaceae, Chenopodiaceae, Cyperaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Poaceae, Portulacaceae and Zygophyllaceae families. The Chenopodiaceae showed the greatest variation with three leaf anatomy types for eight species, and by possessing the most unusual leaf structural variants (i.e. kochioid and salsoloid types). While in the typical Kranz syndrome each vascular bundle is surrounded by an individual bundle sheath, these non-typical types contain a "collective" Kranz sheath organised around multiple bundles in the leaf. Interestingly, non-typical Kranz structures mainly occur among plants of the most extreme habitats (semidesert-like saline and sand grasslands). The observed anatomical variation reflects the polyphyletic origin of the C photosynthesis and the diversity of biotopes inhabited by C plants.
43519427|This paper is concerned with some aspects of the spatial pattern of vegetation. In particular it examines methods for finding 'edges' in data collected along a transect, and in identifying the complementary regions which these edges demarcate. Edges are of interest to vegetation scientists for several reasons. They may indicate the boundary between 2 communities, they may suggest where assumptions of constant environmental gradient are unacceptable in direct gradient analysis and they are strongly related to problems of scale, sampling and description. The methods are illustrated with data from 2 transects.
43519547|Three programs have been writen in BASIC to complement the data analysis programs of the SYN-TAX III package. Program DENDPLOT prepares dendrograms, program ORDPLOT draws orination scattergrams, whereas program MAPLOT displays point patterns. Theseprograms may be run on IBM PC-s and compatibles with medium or high resoluton graphics card.
43518931|This paper explores some new potentials in the simulation of local vegetation maps. It is assumed that the model design expresses the manner in which vegetation is perceived by the investigator. Three basic model properties are considered: the definition of the 'unit vegetation', the spatial scale design and vegetation dynamics. In an example of a small scale investigation in a wetland site, it is shown that the species and the community approach can be combined. As a result, continuous maps of both vegetation types and species are obtained. Provided the distribution of the individual species is known from field data, fuzzy vegetation maps can be generated. These are, like the simulated maps, continuous and after appropriate transformation, greatly enhance comparison of real and simulated patterns. The joint effect of plot size and resolution is discussed. It is suggested that the sensitivity of the spatial design should be tested in an example where species maps of high resolution are available and a flexible classification procedure can be applied.
43519513|The paper presented describes photosynthetic pigment responses in the carefully separated photosynthetically active leafy parts of desiccation tolerant ectohydric Tortula ruralis, during daily desiccation and upon rapid rehydration. Our investigations showed that in order to study pigment responses it is essential to separate reliably the photosynthetically active upper leafy parts of the moss shoots in hydrated stage, from the lower, photosynthetically inactive parts. The chlorophyll a and b as well as the total chlorophyll content in the photosynthetically upper leafy parts of T. ruralis remained unchanged during the daily desiccation and upon short time rehydration. There were significant changes in the -carotene and violaxanthin content. The decrease in the antheraxanthin content may be the consequence of the deepoxidation of violaxanthin during the process of desiccation. The increase level of -carotene content during the desiccation may have an adaptive structural and functional role in the desiccation tolerance of photosynthesis in T. ruralis, similary to drought tolerant higher species. From the fact that the neoxanthin content of T. ruralis did not decrease, we conclude that the neoxanthin, as carotenoid component of a highly hydrophyllous nature, may play an adaptive role in the binding of LHCP to the PSII core, in ensuring the stability of the LHCP. The single chlorophyll and total chlorophyll content in the lower shoot parts of T. ruralis are about 50% lower than in upper leafy parts. We have established that the recently reported changes of pigment content (Tuba 1984a), first of all that of the chlorophyll content, was caused by the uncertain and complicated separation of the upper and lower shoots of Tortula ruralis.
43519519|Several parameters of leaf water relations were studied in the field for three grass species of short lifespan inhabiting a semidesert-like semiarid sand steppe in Central Hungary. Compared to sympatric perennial xerophyte grasses remaining physiologically active throughout the growing season, these short-lived species showed a more mesophytic nature and maintained higher rates of water use. Out of the two winter-spring species, the annual Bromus tectorum L. attained conspicuously high transpiration rate (Tr) and photosynthetic water use efficiency (WUE) at favourable soil water status. This ability makes the species successful in exploiting the temporarily available water supply in spring. The perennial Poa bulbosa L. grows during the same season, but it behaved as a "water saver" possesing very low Tr and WUE at the leaf level. The third species studied, the C4 summer annual Tragus racemosus (L.) All. attained intermediate Tr values and did not exceed in WUE the C3 spring annual B. tectorum. However, this similar efficiency was produced in summer when the air evaporative demand is much higher than in spring. Water stress influenced daily courses of Tr in each species similarly by shifting the time of daily maximum activity from noon to the morning hours and also by decreasing the instantaneous Tr values.
43519536|The structure of the animal assemblages of soils in forest ecosystems of the Northern Tien Shan is analysed. Investigations were carried out in the Terskey Ala Too Ridge (East Kirgizia, USSR). Forest ecosystems occupy there mountain slopes at altitudes between 1900 and 3000 m above sea level. Picea schrenkiana is the main edificator of forest stands. High population density of soil invertebrates was recorded under the canopy of fir stands. In the middle of the forest belt the density reached 3480 individuals per m in stands with a shadow-herb ground cover. Animal communities typical of humid ecosystems were found under fir-groves, saprophages (Enchytraeidae, Diplopoda, larvae of Tipulidae) being the dominant trophic groups. Both the diversity and the activity of invertebrates were limited by water shortage near the upper limits of the forest belt. This is why the abundance of soil animals decreased in the upper and lower outlying fir stands. Population densities of saprophages represented mainly by mesophilous forms decreased.
43519182|E. Szathmry: Where have all the flowers gone? or Evolution deflorated. Csnyi's book: Evolutionary Systems. A General Theory of Evolution is reviewed. His theory of autogenesis, understood as the origin of autopoietic systems, suffers from several ambiguities and manifests mistakes. He confuses units of selection (with perfect heredity) with units of evolution (with imperfect heredity). The major (and novel) statement of the theory, that evolution of the biosphere is bound to come to a halt, is not proven at all.
43519216|Foliicolous cryptogams are poorly represented in the flora of the Hawaiian Islands. There are 25 truly foliicolous lichens with a further 10 corticolous species opportunistic on leaves. One alga, the parasitic Cephaleuros virescens, is abundant but there is also a number of undetermined unicellular green algae present. Trentepohlia is occasionally epiphyllous in wet, exposed situations. Six species of leafy liverworts are reported, all but one in the genus Cololejeunea, together with the hornwort Dendroceros crispus. Mosses are extremely rarely epiphyllous. Seventeen species of foliicolous fungi from three families are reported but this group has been little studied. The paucity of foliicolous cryptogams is probably not only the result of the extreme geographic isolation of the Islands but also extirpation of the indigenous flora resulting from deforestation by the aboriginal peoples, further exacerbated by the ravages of feral ungulates introduced after contact with western civilization.
43519152|P. Juhsz - Nagy: Book-review notes and other observations Part 2. These notes, inter alia, are concerned with such problems as the importance of the historical research, a need for developing more adequate ideas in theoretical biology, etc. The best items reviewed here are the German translation of E. Mayr's famous book (6), and a critical review on coevolutionary problems (9), stressing the relevance of sequential evolution.
43519429|Available methodology to detect pattern in plant communities (or sessile animal assemblages) is reviewed and criticized. Attention is focused on the area dependence of spatial analysis, as based on plot sampling. The discussion of procedures follows the conceptual scheme of Juhsz-Nagy showing that the methods reflect different levels of understanding community characteristics. It is pointed out that Juhsz-Nagy's information theory-based approach represents the most sophisticated analytical tool for the presence/absence case. We emphasize that any study of pattern-related vegetation phenomena should consider the spatial dependence of observation, measurement and description of vegetational properties.
43519084|Apart from a fairly detailed criticism of a new and bad ecological dictionary, this paper attempts to show how to handle classes of concepts, and how to construct tractable conceptual frameworks.
43519430|The increasing number of applications of fractal theory in the environmental sciences reflects the recognized importance of spatial and temporal scale to the study of ecological systems and processes. In this paper, we summarize the various algorithms that have been developed for estimating the fractal dimension of such natural phenomena as landscapes, soils, plant root systems, paths of foraging animals, and so forth. We also discuss the potential utility and limitations of a fractal approach, and outline how fractals have been used in ecology.
43519201|Lichenicolous fungi in the phyllosphere (i.e. fungi on obligately foliicolous lichens) are important sources of information for mycology. They are mainly distributed in tropical rain forests and represent a highly diverse group. General aspects of these mycobiota are considered under the headings: taxonomic groups and species diversity, biology, host specificity, radiation on different host groups, pleomorphism, setose sporocarps, and biogeography; the scientific and practical value (for fund-raising and use in laboratory programmes) is discussed.
43519240|As a part of the Finnish Research Programme on Climate Change (SILMU) the grass experiments of elevated CO and temperature were conducted both at Jokioinen (60 49'N) and near Arctic Circle in Rovaniemi at the Lapland Research Station (66 35'N 29 06'E) in 1992-1996. The experiments in the north showed that a substantial yield increase of 22% can be achieved, the effect of CO alone was 15%. The elevated temperature can increase the growth rate of the grass stands in normal weather conditions, but during very warm periods the growth rate of the stands can be reduced. The temperature rise can also cause difficulties in the winterhardening processes in the autumn thus causing severe winter damage.
43519447|The relationships between genetic, biochemical and physical mechanisms in the generation of forms and patterns have been discussed in some developmental, evolutionary and ecological contexts. A framework with an overall developmental conception is proposed for the representation of the typical or generic properties of the developmental systems. This framework is formulated in terms of a simple but completable developmental network. The presented developmental network contains genome, layered developmental units, and a sensory and motorie matching interface adjusting genetic, generic physico-chemical and environmental interactions during the generation of the coupled developmental units. The environment, the components and the relations of the developmental network can change during ontogenesis and evolution, driving the generation of novel developmental designs. It is proposed that the organisms can be regarded as a hierarchical infolding of shell/membrane systems, forming a compartmentalized network of sources and sinks. The dynamic couplings of the source-sink network consist of metabolic flows. The asymmetric spatiotemporal allocation of metabolic flows create an inhomogeneous pattern of developmental units. The interactions between the genom-dependent composition of the metabolic flows and the flexible shell/membrane domains ensure evolutionary conservatism, variation and developmental basis of morphogenesis and pattern formation. The interplay of generic, ubiquitous physical and genetic mechanisms shaping the shell/membrane systems connected by flows is discussed. The examples illustrating the evolutionary relevance of the developmental conception introduced here are: the origin of developmental modularity including the evolutionary origin of the roots, the possible organizational transitions between unitary and modular organisms, constraints in the evolutionary variation of division of labour, and autogenous and ecological interaction-induced morphogenetic modes. The extended phenotype idea has been revisited.
43505082|The weighted dissimilarity index (WDI), which defines the 'importance' of attributes as a linear function of their presence, is generalized. A new weight function based on Shannon's entropy is proposed, and the notion of relative and absolute weights is introduced. The relationship of weighted dissimilarities to classical binary dissimilarities is discussed. Differences between the uniform, linear and the proposed nonlinear weight are demonstrated by an artificial example which represents a continuous change of species composition. As a field example, the zones of a beechwood vegetation are separated along a 63 m long transect using multidimensional scaling.
43519085|A categorization of lichens is suggested according to their life-forms and growth types. This life-strategy system may prove useful in succession studies and environmental monitoring.
43519435|The combination of environmental characteristics under which a species reproduces and attains optimal growth is its niche hypervolume center. Two approaches are proposed to determine the niche center. One of these uses arithmetic averaging and the other relies on successive approximation. These are described in detail and illustrated on survey data from the Dinghushan Natural Reserve in South China.
43519503|The Chasagt Chajrchan Mts are situated in W-Mongolia, in the Gov' Altay ajmag (i.e., county). Their range extends as far as about 120 km to NW from Altay town (the county town). Though they are situated in the NW edge of the Gobi desert, the extremes of their climate are somewhat tempered, moreover in some valleys there is a fairly favourable microclimate. The aim of this paper is to give a complete list of species covering the literature data and the author's own collections as well. 20 species are reported as new to the investigated territory (the most interesting ones are Barbula perobtusa, Pohlia saprophila and Tayloria hornschuchii). The bryophyte flora of these mountains is closely related to that of the Changajn Nuruu Mts.
43519497|Hypnum cupressiforme Hedw. is common and greatly diversified in Europe. H. imponens Hedw. and H. jutlandicum Holmen et Warncke (C. to W. Europe, Macaronesian isls.; H. imponens also in N. Europe and extends further to eastern N. America), are considered good species excluded from the scope of H. cupressiforme. H. cupressiforme var. mammillatum Brid. (Europe, Canaries, Azores, SE Canada) is distinct in having slender leafy branches and suberect capsules with mammillate lid. In leaf characters it is scarcely separable from smaller forms of var. cupressiforme, but I support Smith (1981) who treated it as species, H. andoi. Var. resupinatum (Tayl.) Schimp. (W. Europe, Azores) is also significant both morphologically and phytogeographically. Var. lacunosum Brid. and var. filiforme Brid. sometimes intergrade with var. cupressiforme but their varietal status should be maintained because the world distribution of var. cupressiforme is not always associated the appearance of these varieties. Var. julaceum Brid. and var. subjulaceum Mol. are arcticalpine forms characterized by the julaceous branches with short acuminate leaves and by the silky subjulaceous plant having straight leaves with well-delimited, excavated alar parts, respectively.
43519357|The are two communities of breeding birds in the sanctuary forest Porrs-V/ood /in former times/or Bucks-Wood /now/, that is Picus viriais breeding community /I/12/and Burhinus oedicnemus breeding community /VI/. In a wider sence another two communities attach themselves to former ones in the whole wooded country at the village Csevharaszt, namely Locustella fluviatilis attach themselves to former ones in the whole wooded country at the village Csevharaszt, namely Locustella fluviatilis breeding community /I/8/and Pica pica breeding community /I/13/12 umbere conf in litt. 3./. Comparing conditions of former times with the present ones there are no essential changes in the bird life. The reason for this is that the trees have became older and the territory of forest has enlarged. More holes in old trees increase the number of holebreeding birds but not the number of holebreeding species. There is no doubt much more birds are living now than lived in this forest country. 30 years ago. Apart any other things only in ornithological Wiewpoint there is sufficient cause to support this territory as a sanctuary.
43519255|There is a need among botanists to include the costs and benefits of clonal plant growth into their foraging models. The present commentary focuses on some conceptional points of the possible applicability of existing optimality models to plants and points out the differences between traditional non-optimal and initial optimal plant foraging models. The assumptions and predictions of the Marginal Value Theorem are discussed through a comparison of animals and plants. Listing the difficulties of interpreting these assumptions for plants highlights that direct applicability of the model is limited, however, by giving a different interpretation to the decision variable and the gain function the model can describe the "foraging behaviour" of the model plant only in a simplistic environment.
43519177|Three stands of grassland communities on the andesite of the Visegrd Mts. were studied for 3 years. The sites were chosen so as to reflect different types of disturbance. A total of 145 relevs and 89 species were recorded and analyzed by ordination and classification methods, tabular sorting and analysis of concentration. Ordinations and classifications of binary data confirm the separation of the 3 stands. The grassland of Rm hill and Prpost hill can be characterized by one species group each, while the relevs of the Vadll rocks are not homogeneous reflecting probably the uneven disturbance of the stand. These differences among the stands, confirmed by microclimatic and soil data, occur despite their assignment into the same phytocenological category (Potentillo-Festucetum pseudodalmaticae). Disturbance is only one of the factors responsible for the differences among the stands; therefore their comparison on floristic basis is insufficient to evaluate degradation. Several types of investigations are needed for a reliable description of processes caused by disturbance in plant communities.
43519371|The present studa contains the descriptions of 11 taxa new to science of the family Melanomataceae. as follows: Miconia ecunae sp. n., Calycogonium rubens sp. n., Calycogonium floribundum sp. n., Pachyanthus moaensis sp. n., Pachyanthus acunaeanus sp. n., Pachyanthus neglectus sp. n., ssp. baracoensis ssp. n., Ossaea munizii sp. n., Ossaea rufescens /GRISEB./WR. ex SAUV. var. pilifera var. n., Ossaea pauciflora GRISEB. var. parvifolia var. n., Ossaea anomala sp. n., and three new combinations: Pachyanthus monocephalus, Miconia cordifolia and Henriettea cuabae. All taxa mentioned above are endemic of the Plora of Cuba.
43519414|Am 10. und 11. Mai 1982 fhrten wir Florenkartenaufnahmen auf dem strenggeschtzten Teil von Nagymez im BkkGebirge durch. Unsere Aufgabe war die Bestimmung. wie der geschtzte Charakter der Regenerierung der originalen Vegetation hielft und ein bestimmtes Bild nach dem Grund der floristischen Daten ber den Genzestand des Gebletes zu bekommen. Insgesamt auf 11 Hektare fhrten wir die quantitative und qualitative Schtzung bei 34 Arten durch. Wir zhlten unter den Arten etwa 17000 Exemplare ab. Auf der beilegenden Karte, geben wir die Endorten und die Menge sechs Pflanzenarten an. Wir stellen fest, dass der geschtzte Charakter auf die Regenerierung der Original vegetation und auf die Verbreitung der geschtzten Planzen einen guten Einfluss ausbt.
43519417|Two sets of phytosociological samples, 40 quadrats in each, from several stands of meadow vegetation in Hungary were analyzed by means of cluster analysis. The primary aim of this study was to compare the results of the sum of squares agglomeration technique with the traditional classification. In both cases the numerical method justified the subdivision of vegetation samples Into four types.
43519518|Three hundred and seventy nine publications that use constrained ordination techniques (canonical correspondence analysis and redundancy analysis) as implemented in the computer program CANOCO are listed. Brief details of each are given in terms of the numerical techniques used, the biological or other scientific subjects involved, and the organisms studied. The papers are indexed by technique, subject, and organism. A postscript about important papers published in 1994 -1996 is appended.
43519432|Our main objective is to show that certain theoretical notions linked with Rnyi's generalized entropy and generalized information, combined with randomization tests, provide a suitable framework for comparative diversity analysis. We discuss the concepts, describe algorithms, and give illustrations involving life-form spectra from broadly different vegetation. The examples reveal higher life-form diversity in temperate forest and scrubland than in rainforest, and interestingly, a level of diversity in arid scrubland that is about the same as in Raunkiaer's normal spectrum. Significant spectral specificity is shown in local vegetation types and broad formations, and recent experiences with perturbed vegetation are confirmed which place the tropical rainforest below both temperate forest and scrubland on the community stability scale.
43519411|The moss species Funaria hungarica was decribed by . BOROS as nova species under the name Entosthodon hungaricus from the vicinity of Ktegyhza in 1924. Later he got to know that the moss in question had been found by M. PTERFI near Nyiregyhza in 1912. There is a specimen in the herbarium of Mora Perene Museum at Szeged originating from LNYI's collection from 1913. These are the oldest data regarding this species. J. GUELMINO a botanist working in Zenta /Senta/ has found it in several places of Vajdasg /Woiwodina/in Jugoslavia on dry soils rich in soda. The Carpathian Basin area of Funaria hungarica was enlarged by these data.
43519249|Simultaneous measurements of gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence parameters were performed on perennial ryegrass cultivated for 6 months under 1) ambient CO and air temperature (Control), 2) doubled CO (700 mmol CO mol) and ambient air temperature (DC-AT), 3) ambient CO and air temperature elevated by 4 C (AC-ET), and 4) doubled CO and elevated air temperature (DC-ET). The relationship between quantum yield of carbon fixation (CO2) and quantum yield of electron transport through photosystem II (II) was investigated in details. II/CO2 ratio was calculated as dependent on incident photon flux density (PPFD) and external CO concentration. No long-term effect of DC-AT, AC-ET, and DC-ET on II/CO2 was found. There was also no short-term effect of doubled CO since II/CO2 did not show any difference when measured in 350 and 700 mol CO mol. These findings support the conclusion that photochemical and biochemical reactions of photosynthesis are well related in DC-AT, AC-ET, and DC-ET plants and their relation shows no difference from control plants. In this study, the phenomenon of negative acclimation of photosynthesis in DC-AT, AC-ET, and DC-ET plants is discussed as a consequence of a priori acclimated biochemical processes of photosynthesis which affect photochemical reactions. Therefore a long-term effect of DC-AT, AC-ET, and DC-ET on  is caused by long-term acclimated biochemical machinery of photosynthesis. In AC-ET and DC-ET plants, an increase in non-photochenical quenching (qN) was detected in contrast to photochemical quenching (qP) which showed no difference between treatments. Increased qN might be associated with a higher proportion of oxidized reaction centres of photosystem II in AC-ET, DC-ET plants and thus higher non-photochemical excitation energy dissipation.
43519352|Groundwater plays an important role in the lowland region of Hungary, first of all in the sandy soils of Danube-Tissa Midregion. In lower situations it may advantageously recompense che disadvantages caused her by poor precipitation conditions. Therefore affore stations and choica of tree species are not to be done without the knowledge of groundwater table. Certain plant associations and plant species occuring on sandy soils indicate with accuracy enough the depth of groundwater table. That's why it was a very important task for us to determine the connections being between the groundwater table adn vegetation. In order to find these connections 41 observation spots were designated 12 years ago and since that time groundwater table has been monthly recorded. Around these spots soil conditions and vegetation units were also surveyed. Though observations have been made for more than lo years, only the figures referring to the first 5 years have been evaluated on a more detailed way. Results of this evaluation are shown in Table 1. As the groundwater has an annual fluctuation, the range of which is approximately 1 meter, figures due to the maximum level of it are demonstrated in the table.
43519231|Two insufficiently known marshland sites at Esztergom, Hungary, were studied floristically during ten field trips. The flora of the area includes 154 species.
43519154|L. Almdi: Sublethal water saturation deficit and its change over the vegetation period in three species from a dolomite grassland. - According to the measurements of the author and using published results it seems that the sublethal water deficit of species with less stable water balance is larger and more variable over the vegetation period than those of species with relatively stable water balance. Some methodological questions concerning the measurement of seasonal changes of sublethal deficit are also discussed.
43519451|In this paper, we describe an unusual vernal bloom of Dinobryon sociale EHRENB. (Chrysophyta, Chrysomonadales) in the plankton of Lake Balaton, Hungary, in 1993. The event was aberrant for two reasons, both of which would have appealed to the scientific curiosity of our late colleague, Pl Juhsz-Nagy: one is that the alga seems ecologically unsuited to the environmental characteristics of Balaton and, indeed, has been recorded hitherto only sporadically. The second is that the 1993 bloom had a very localized origin - a near shore area subject to dredging operations - and the rapid growth of the inoculum did much to perpetuate a strongly patchy distribution with respect to the dispersion of the species in the whole eastern lake area. The observations are relevant to the perception and evaluation of patchy distributions and to the importance of measuring them at the appropriate spatial and temporal scales. They also raise once again important conceptual questions about the maintenance of species richness, diversity and rarity.
43519353|Growth and productivity of the foresta on the Sandridgea between rivera Danube and Tiaza are atrongiy influenced by the water regime of their site. So basic principles regulating the water regime of sandy aoila and forming their advantageous or disadvantageous traits must be known for a practical forester in order to incraese the timber yield of forest stands and to determine the best management procedures in them. This aim can be achieved by investigating some of the physical properties of sandy soils and surveying the water movements in the soil by means of artificial water infiltration. Results of such investigations are shortly summarized, in this study namely that referring to the bulk volume of various layers in sandy soils and the effect of humus layers being found in different soil depths on the water regime of soils.
43519311|Unpublished phytosociological relevs made by A. Hornszky between 1953 and 1959 were used as reference for the re-investigation of an andsite grassland community (Potentillo-Festucetumpseudodalmaticae) in 1991. The combined data set was analysed by ordination techniques. Compositional changes are demonstrated by trajectories showing the direction of changes for the two investigated periods. Trends are fairly similar in many sites. The changes are not due to the decrease of species number or diversity. Species replacement is found to be in favour of weeds and other stress tolrants. The main disturbance factors seem to be the over-populated game stock and tourist activities at certain sites. The authors come to the conclusion that the studied community remained within its resilience limits despite environmental impact.
43519501|The distribution of Rhytidiadelphus subpinnatus (Lindb.) T. Kop. is mapped. It occurs in North-Europe, Siberia, northeastern Asia and North America. The distribution pattern of it and its related species are discussed.
43519466|This paper provides general information on the principal characteristics of the extended version of SYN-TAX. The new release of this package includes eighteen FORTRAN programs designed to perform various types of data analysis, such as numerical classification, ordination, character ranking, evaluation of classifications, pattern analysis of species assemblages, and simulated sampling.
43519365|A szerz meghatrozza, hogy milyen felbontsban s sorrendben trgyalja a lelhelyeket, ttekinti az orszg flora-terleteinek bryogeogrfiai beosztst. A bryogeogrfiban ujszer rcshls trkpet vezet be, s ennek tkrben sorolja fel a magyarorszgi Orthotrichum lelhelyeket. Kzel 840 mg nem publiklt lelhely /a BOROS DM herbriumbl szrmazk OLH BELA, a TM Nvnytr herbriumnak pldnyai elssorban VAJDA LSZL hatrozsai/s az irodalmi adatok syntetizlsa revn 24 area trkppel szemllteti az Orthotrichum fajok elterjedst haznkban.
43518933|Remotely sensed data (LANDSAT) were used to investigate landscape-scale spatial and temporal dynamics in the boreal forests of Riding Mountain National Park, Canada. The analysis of temporal dynamics involved comparing the forest structure of regenerating post-fire sites (11 and 30 years old) to late-successional ones (> 95 years old), while the spatial analysis involved comparing sites of differing physiographic complexity (well-drained vs. impeded drainage). To facilitate the analysis, all images were simplified to K= 10 land-cover classes using K-mcans clustering. Fractal dimensions (computed using the probability-density function) were used to quantify landscape-scale spatial patterning. In addition, randomization tests (observed vs. randomized patterns) were used to compare spatio-temporal trends in landscape pattern. Without exception, observed landscapes were significantly more contagious (clumped) than random (maximally entropie) landscapes. The temporal analysis revealed that landscape-level spatial patterning becomes increasingly entropie during succession: regenerating (post-burn) sites showed greater spatial contagion than late-successional ones. Also, the equitability of land-cover classes declines as succession proceeds. In the spatial analysis, it was found that simple physiographies (well-drained sites) were characterized by a few dominant, overdispersed land-cover classes; less frequent classes showed high contagion. By contrast, sites of complex physiography (impeded drainage) had greater equitability of land-cover classes, and all classes had similar degrees of contagion. The implications of these findings to understanding ecosystem processes and management practices of boreal forests are briefly discussed.
43519089|This paper presents the first results of a study aimed at finding the underlying factors that determine the distribution of different vegetation types in a wet mountain meadow. Presence-absence data obtained by systematic sampling were analyzed using classificatory and ordination methods. The structured table was subjected to analysis of concentration. The results indicate that the main influential factors determining the distribution of different vegetation types are some environmental variables that affect soil water availability to plants.
43519224|The present study is concerned with the rate of emergence of weed seedlings from the uppermost 2 cm soil layer of agricultural lands in Qalubiya Governorate, North East of Cairo, Egypt. Since at the time of the year the experiment was carried out (April and May) the temperature is high, the emerged seedlings were dominated by summer weeds, particulary Portulaca oleracea. The number of emerged seedlings ranged from 256 to 3516 per square metre.
43519455|A spatially continuous, discrete-time simulation model of neighborhood competition among sessile populations is described. This paper is a technical reference for the program PATPRO, the structure and properties of which have already been given in detail elsewhere. The program produces point maps of multispecies population patterns, starting from random or pre-arranged propagule patterns, supposing species and age specific fecundities, dispersal, and a competition mechanism of the "distance model" type. The program produces maps for each time unit, one generated from the previous one. Besides the primary population dynamical relevance of the program, the series of maps may be used for testing methods of pattern detection and analysis as well, since they provide spatiotemporal patterns with known generating mechanism. This mechanism can be used as a reference against any dynamical interpretation of the pattern analytical results obtained for simulated patterns.
43519309|The spatial relationships at a scale of a few millimetres of some common species in upland grasslands of North Wales were investigated by the species-juxtaposition method. The cover/abundance of species at small scales varied due to the vegetation composition. Small-scale pattern is closely related to plant size. Most species were distributed together with other species as small-scale interspecific mixtures. Associations between species at small scales varied due to their competitive abilities and environmental differences.
43519548|In this first paper of a series the pattern of herb layer vegetation is studied in a sessile oak stand. The whole area (5.5 ha) was covered by 354 contiguous quadrats (12.5 * 12.5 m each). Presence-absence data of all the 175 higher plant species were recorded. Using this floristic data base, the classification of the relevs resulted in 5 vegetation types. Traditionally used temperature (T), water (W) and soil reaction (R) indicator values and F values showing fidelity to different coenotaxa were given to the species. The relevs were also classified on the basis of these 4 non-floristic character sets. In all the 4 cases 3 types were distinguished. Characteristic patches of the area with different water regime and acidity status were indicated by the vegetation. The significance of non-floristic descriptors in "producing" the 5 vegetation types was tested by discriminant analysis which showed that differences in coenological fidelity (F character set) has the most significant effect. The species were also classified on the basis of their relative distribution among the 5 vegetation types. The 4 species groups obtained are considerably different in the total number of occurrences, their coenological character (F) and their avarage W and/or R indicator values. In this study an expressed pattern of herb layer vegetation was detected under the canopy of a pure sessile oak stand. This pattern indicates considerable differences in site quality, which should be tested in the future.
43519083|A method measuring convergence of vegetation structure based on floristic data is presented. A convergence model in different spaces of different hierarhical meaning is described. The use of mutual information of contingency tables, describing the spaces, seems to be a suitable function on which to base measures of convergence.
43519191|The summergreen broad-leaved forests of South Korea have been classified within a new syntaxonomic order, the Rhododendro-Quercetalia mongolicae which includes three alliances, namely the Pino koraiensis-Quercion mongolicae, the Lindero-Quercion mongolicae, and the Callicarpo-Quercion serratae. The alliances comprise woodland communities limited to altimontane (higher and northern), montane (mid-altitude and central), and submontane (lower and southern) altitudinal belts and regions, respectively. All these syntaxa have been described here as new. The Rhododendro-Quercetalia mongolicae is a vicariant to the Japanese oak forests of the Quercetalia serrato-grosseserratae Miyawaki et al. 1971.
43519210|During the last year, eight new species of foliicolous lichens have been described from New Zealand, three of them in new genera. This poster illustrates all eight. One of the three new genera is of uncertain affinity, while the other two belong to the Ectolechiaceae and the Trichotheliaceae.
43519464|This introductory sketch is restricted to a rough-and-ready historical outline (I.) , some remarks on our present state of knowledge (II.), and some propositions for the future (III.) , where a complex, plural and dynamic approach to diversity studies is advocated.
43518946|Natural landscapes often reveal extremely complex patterns that can be only very roughly characterized by methods of Euclidean geometry. Conversely, fractals can be applied to a variety of landscape ecology problems because they conveniently describe many of the irregular, fragmented patterns found in nature. A strategy for computing local landscape complexity on classified raster GIS layers with a fractal non-regression technique is presented. This strategy is based on the use of Merchant's adaptive geographic window which is designed to operate on a neighborhood of patches instead of a fixed rectangular neighborhood of pixels (the conventional approach in image analysis). Preliminary results show that, owing to its enhanced flexibility, the geographic window seems to be a more appropriate tool for calculating local landscape complexity of classified raster GIS layers than the traditional rectangular geometric window.
43519279|This introductory essay-review tries to show the overall importance of scaling problems in general ecology; it tries to detect why have ecologists been so slow to recognize a number of these problems; it tries to outline some perspectives for the agenda of the future.
43519238|On a study site in southern Thailand productivity, carbon partitioning and energy storage were studied in two adjacent grasslands. Above and below ground phytomass was collected monthly from selected plots in an edaphic savannah (ES) and a managed meadow (MM). Above ground phytomass was sorted by species and then by organs. Above and below ground plant material was separated into dead and live tissue. Leaf area, dry weight, and calorific values were determined consecutively. Climatic data showed that grasslands were exposed to two major types of stress factors: drought and water logged soils. In addition the first year, 1992, was "dry" with a negative water balance, whereas 1993 was "wet" with 21 weeks during which precipitation exceeded evaporation. The two rainy seasons each year determined productivity of both grasslands. Fertilising the edaphic savannah with the ashes from burned plant material and the managed meadow with mineral fertiliser in 1992, both grasslands responded with comparable productivity of 15 t hay. However, the growth pattern was rather different: accumulation of phytomass occurred in the MM mostly in the first 1992 rainy season, whereas the ES accumulated phytomass during both wet seasons in that year. Surprisingly, the MM changed carbon allocation pattern in such a way that below ground phytomass was reduced in favour of above ground phytomass. During the second, wet year, without any fertilisation, this shift was observed in both grasslands. Below ground necromass decomposition and mineralisation probably supported new growth. In poor soils root growth is promoted, in wet soils microbial activity is enhanced, but in water logged soils both processes are strongly reduced. In the water logged soils the ES was still able to produce above ground yield supported by below ground phytomass, whereas the MM showed strongly reduced productivity. Both grasslands lost sequestered carbon during these changes, but with 3,600 kg ha y MM productivity was seven times higher than that of the ES. During adaptation to changing stress patterns, periods with high sink capacity and low source capacity (photosynthesis) and vice versa can be traced by studying calorific values and calculating the storage index. It was found that these oscillations mirrored changes of carbon allocation to above or below ground biomass. Our results suggest that careful management of below ground phytomass by grasses could be seen as a strategy to cope with stress factors like drought and water logged soils. As expected, the natural (edaphic) savannah was able to follow this strategy with more success than the managed meadow.
43505078|The potential application of canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) and related ordination techniques in classification processes is discussed. Constrained ordination techniques are rapidly becoming the most widely used methods of gradient analysis in vegetation studies. However, their capacity as a classificatory tool has not been tested, in spite of the advantages of other ordination techniques in this sense. To test this capacity, we have used two sets of data, a phytosociological and an environmental. The typology (groups of relevs) was obtained automatically performing first a CCA, and then, a space density analysis (GRID) on the planes defined by the first three axes, to improve the objectivity of the process and to avoid manual partition. The floristical classification was then compared with a battery of classifications, previously obtained after running the floristic data with widely-proved hard partition techniques. The adjustment was measured by means of the mean square contingency coefficient. The congruence between the CCA results and those obtained with the hard partition procedures was high in many of the tested cases. In addition, the ecological behaviour of the groups, which have been establised in the CCA planes, remains stable for each single environmental variable. For this, a test of ranges (LSD) was realized for any variable, and each ranking compared with those obtained in the ordination diagrams on each environmental vector. Even for those variables poorly represented in the CCA planes, the correspondence was significant. It seems evident that the two data sets (floristic and environmental) should contain similar information. This can be previously tested in several ways. The results indicate that CCA (and by extension, most related constrained ordination techniques) performs very well with classificatory aims; both in floristic as well as in ecological terms.
43519138|The most different sites of a stand of Impatiens parviflora DC. at Vadll-rocks, Hungary, were chosen by factor analysis based on floristic composition. Within the sites. density changes of I. parviflora were recorded during the vegetation period in 1985. In spring, a sudden rise in th? i density up to the maximum value was observed at every site. After reaching the maximum density, an exponential decrease caused by the considerable overpopulation was characteristic of sites with optimum ecological conditions. On a less suitable, warmer and drier site, the decrease proved to be linear in time. The seed-bank of I. parviflora seems strong enough to survival in an area, when seed production is hindered in a year.
43519549|This paper presents a critical review and evaluation of a bad Hungarian edition of C. Plinius Secundus:" Historia Naturalis".
43519373|Some data representing a part of a floral survey in Gerecse Hills, Hungary are presented here which will be followed by a more accurate one. Our aim is to contribute to the mapping of Middle Europa. The code numbers used by us refer to the map published for this purpose by the Botanical Institute, University of Vienna.
43519205|The habitat of five accidentally foliicolous populations belonging to four species of the tropical Marchesinia subgen. Marchesiniopsis corresponds to optimal rain forest conditions in equatorial primary forest in Latin America and Africa.
43504894|A connection is established between floral elements, floral phenological information and genetical ploidity grades of wild-growing Hungarian plants. On the ground of references, 1800 plant species have been ranged into 10 classes of floral elements, and classified in ploidity grade groups, as well as into 6 aspects from the point of view of inflorescence. The author made phenological observations with 80 plant taxa on the hill-country of North-Hezfld, distr. Fejr: village Vl, and in vale Vl-brook.
43519479|The natural variation in the growth rules of the clonal woodland herb Anemone nemorosa L. in an area of old coppice woodland is described in terms of internode length, branching angle and branching probability. Some of the growth rules are expressed in terms of the mean and its standard deviation whereas others are expressed in terms of probability functions. These growth rules are then incorporated within a relatively simple computer simulation model to demonstrate whether they can adequately describe the morphology and clonal development of A. nemorosa in the field. A comparison of natural rhizome patterns and those of the modelled output was made by comparing actual and modelled means and variations within the growth rules. This provided a good test of whether the model simulates the right rules, but does not tell us whether the pattern of rhizome development is correct. This was done by comparing properties of the field and simulated plants not used as growth rules. The results demonstrate that the spatial patterns produced by the computer fit very well with the observed structure of fragmented clones in the field, as do the frequency distributions of rhizome bulge size and the ratio of flowering to non-flowering rhizome bulges.
43519509|The broad costa characteristic for the genus Campylopus shows a high degree of variability in a number of aspects of its anatomical structure. This anatomical differentiation is interpreted as a successful means for a high efficiency in photosynthesis, water uptake, water storage and mechanical fixation, which allows the species to adapt to a broad spectrum of ecological niches, and is presumably the reason for its high species diversity (ca. 400 revised species). Comparisons of species pairs differing only in a single character in the costal anatomy such as lamellose vs. non lamellose dorsal surfaces, presence of ventral hyalocysts vs. stereids, dorsal stereids vs. substereids indicate that these structures have an ecological significance for different habitats and have probably evolved as adaptations to different ecological conditions.
43519209|Based on their ecology and distribution, the use of foliicolous lichens as bioindicators in tropical vegetation systems is analysed, including altitudinal zonation, seasonality, anthropogenic disturbance, and microclimate. The aptitude of foliicolous lichens as to the indication of altitudinal zonation and seasonality is rather restricted, whereas great potential is seen in the indication of anthropogenic disturbance and microclimate. Advantages of foliicolous lichens as bioindicators include their high susceptibility towards microclimatic factors, two-dimensional growth, well-known taxonomy, easy collecting and documentation, and high diversity in tropical lowland rainforests. As a working base, preliminary index values for altitudinal zonation, seasonality, anthropogenic disturbance, and microclimate, are proposed for c. 270 species.
43519484|This paper considers whether a loss of viability of axillary buds can reduce the effectiveness with which Trifolium repens (white clover) places resource acquiring structures in patches of high resource i.e. has a deleterious effect on foraging. From field data we establish that viability is lost in about 40% of buds before they reach the ontogenetic stage at which branch growth occurs. A plot of the potential for branch growth (viability of young buds) against the realized branch growth (subsequent fate of these buds) shows a positive relationship between viability and branching. We conclude that the local interaction of a mature bud with its environment (the branching phase) can be altered because of events that occurred previously (the loss of viability), and that these previous events took place at a point both temporally and spatially distant from the mature bud site. Consequently, we need to look beyond the local environment of a bud in order to describe how white clover forages in the heterogeneous conditions found in mixed species pastures.
43519505|The flora of the Rhineland contains nearly 630 different bryophytes with well-known distribution patterns (Dll 1980) figured as dot maps with 420 squares (5 km  5 km). The dot maps of 377 species (not rare species with more than 10 dots) were compared with 26 geographical dot maps showing nearly 60 different factors of climate, soil and vegetation by a computer-method (IMGRID-program). There is a strong correlation between the bryophyte distribution and the occurrence of edaphic factors, especially of calcareous/non-calcareous soil, rock and to the occurrence of fens. Climatic factors are of subordinate importance in the Rhineland with relatively homogeneous climatic conditions. The distribution patterns of several bryophytes show significant correlations to the human influence. Negative correlation can be shown for bryophytes from fens, marshes and bogs which have been destroyed by man in the last fifty years. Nitrophilous bryophytes and those from stony ground and walls show a positive correlation to built-up and industrial areas. The spectrum of the flora elements shows a homogeneous ratio in the whole Rhineland. But the single regions of the Rhineland have very different ratios for bryophytes with northern, western, temperate or southern distribution.
43518948|Program DIVERSI, written in dBASE III PLUS, calculates diversity indices and their confidence intervals, the significance of diversity differences, index sensitivity and fits some abundance models to actual data. Calculation of members of the ESS and NESS index family emerging from the generalization of the Morisita index and the quadratic entropy measure are also included. Hardware requirements, data file operations, short program descriptions and examples are provided in this paper.
43519444|This paper is a phytosociological summary of two floodplain communities from the Szigetkz area, the willow shrubs (Salicetum triandrae-purpureae) and willow woods (Salicetum albae-fragilis). Temporal changes in these communities are evaluated through the comparison of recent data with those obtained 30 and 60 years ago. Changes in ecological characteristics are revealed by biological indication, using W(ater) indicator values and nature conservation ranks of constituting species. The W-spectrum of willow shrubs indicates a bit more extreme and drier habitat than earlier. The nature conservation ranks show a marked, but not too drastic degradation. The willow woods of the Szigetkz indicate better conditions than indicated by data collected by Krpti in the 1950's from willow woods outside the Szigetkz. The reason for this finding is that the Szigetkz region is fairly close to the natural conditions, especially in the Moson-Danube branch, because of the huge meanders. If one compares the present situation with that of in 1937 recorded by Zlyomi, the changes in species composition and enrichment in weeds are clearly indicated by both the W-spectrum and the nature conservation rank spectrum in the form of marked drying and degradation.
43519148|This contribution deals with the results of a preliminary survey of the ecological behavior of Rhynchospora fusca and R. alba in the Belgian Campine and some adjacent regions. Special attention is paid to the relation of the occurrence, abundance and phenology of these species to soil moisture and nutrient status of the sites under investigation. For this purpose, we have used a set of vegetation samples to which multivariate analyses are applied. The use of Ellenberg's indicator values is evaluated in this particular case.
43519507|Several of our bryophyte collections or determined duplicates of collections of L. V. Bardunov from the area of East Sayan and surroundings of lake Baikal are reported. These collections represent prominent taxa especially from phytogeographic aspect. These are: Bazzania bidentula (Steph.) Steph., Calypogeia suecica (H. Arn. et J. Perss.) K. Ml., Cephaloziellaa divaricata (Sm.) Schiffn. var. scabra Howe, Frullania davurica Hampe var. chichibuensis (Kamim.) Hatt., F. muscicola Steph., Herbertus aduncus (Dicks.) S. F. Gray, Macrodiplophyllum micridontum (Mitt.) H. Press., Mesoptychia sahlbergii. (Lindb. et Arn.) Evans, Porella chinensis (Steph.) Hatt., P. gracillima Mitt., Scapania nufidula Warnst., S. sphaerifera Buch et Tuomik., Cephalocladium enerve (Broth) A. Abr. et I. Abr., Didymodon perobtusus Broth., Encalypta sibirica (Weinm.) Warnst., Lindbergia brachyptera (Mitt.) Kindb. and Trichostomum crispulum Bruch. Distribution maps of the above mentioned taxa are elaborated and the ratio of arctic, East Asian and other elements participating in the composition of the bryoflora of this area is given.
43519306|This paper summarizes observations on Sadleriana pannonica, a freshwater species endemic to the Carpathian Basin. Recent dispersion, spatial distribution and morphological traits are evaluated. Resettlement experiments are helpful for developing efficient nature conservation plans for this endangered species.
43519179|This paper presents the most recent records of microscopic fungi from the Nagyszns Nature Reserve, near Budapest, Hungary. A total of 108 species of Myxomycetes, Phycomycetes, Ascomycetes, Basidiomycetes and Adelomycetes have been reported from the area.
43518937|The paper addresses a fundamental issue of plant ecology: how to find the links between the analysis of spatial pattern and community dynamics. It is demonstrated that temporal processes can be effectively illustrated in abstract spaces with coenostate descriptors as dimensions. If these descriptors are based on Juhsz-Nagy's information theory methodology, then a new approach results which treats spatial and temporal aspects, spatial dependence (species associations) and spatial variability (diversity) simultaneously, providing a promising tool at the hand of plant eologists. The new method is illustrated by actual and simulated data.
43519419|Autor studierte -im Jahre 1968- die Unkraut-Verhltnisse der grssten Apfel-Plantagen Ungarns /in der folgenden Regionen: Sdwest-Transdanubien, Donau-Theiss Zwischenstromland, Nyirsg/. Er fhrt eingehend die Unkrautflora /A-D-Werte der Arten, Leitarten der Aspekten, Konstanz-Wert e der Arten, die Anzahlen der akzidenten Arten, die Verteilung der Arten in den verschienden znologischen Einheiten/ nach Regionen und noch der Frhlings-, Sommer- und Herbst-Aspekten vor. Die Ergebnisse, hauptschlich die kvantitatiznologische Angaben ermglichen die zuverlssige Schtzung der optimalen Pflanzenschutzmittel-Dosen.
43519087|A short account on the taxonomy, ecology and distribution of East African Aneura and Riccardia species is given, accompanied by an identification key and several distribution maps. Riccardia stephanii (Besch.) E. W. Jones is synonymous with the South American Riccardia amazonica (Spruce) Schiffn., thus it is a tropical Afro-American species.
43519364|A szerz herbriumi vizsglatai alapjn iamerteti, hogyan fgg ssze az egyea Orthotric hum /= O./ fajok elfordulsa a tengerszint feletti magaaaggal. ttekinti az Crthotriehum fajok kolgiai sajtagait. Uj, a hatrozst rendkivl megknynyit adatokat kzl a kreglak Orthotrichum fajok elfordulsnak infragenerikus korrelcijaval kapcsolatban. Szmazeren jellemi  kreglak Orthotrichum fajok s a forofitonok /phorophyte/, illetve a aziklalak Orthotrichumok a a azubaztrtum korrelcijt.
43519535|Density and breeding success of the great tit (Parus major), blue tit (Parus caeruleus) and collared flycatcher (Ficedula albicollis) were studied in nest box colony in an oak forest over a period of 19 years. Intraspecific density dependent clutch size reduction was found for the blue tit and great tit. In interspecific relation the density of blue tit reduced the clutch eize of great tit. In the hatching period neither intraspecific nor interspecific density dependence was indicated between the tits when the third competitive species, collared flycatcher, was present. The collared flycatcher significantly reduced the hatching success of both tit species and the number of fledglings of great tit. The great tit and the combined density of the great and blue tits influenced the clutch size reduction and number of fledglings of collared flycatcher when the density of the tits was high. There was no significant relationship to the single density of blue tits. The temporal variability of the competition of the three bird species is also examined.
43519180|J. Izsk: On diveisity studies outside ecology. Diversity investigations represent an integral part of statistical ecology and may also be useful in other research fields. This paper deals with the following areas: epidemiology, genetics, demography, medical science including analyses of death cause tables, and linguistics. It is concluded that diversity studies in these fields are almost exclusively restricted to the use of dominance indices and in comparison the methodology of ecological diversity studies is in the most advanced stage. Nevertheless, experience from other fields may be instructive for the cologiste as well. The cited references aid to explore the literature of reviewed fields.
43519508|In a Dutch forest on sandy soil, 16 permanent plots were micro-charted at half-year intervals during 2.5 years. Similar observations have been started at 3 months intervals on 4 plots in a grazed chalk grassland. Species dynamics (mortality and establishment rates) were generally very high. Mortality rates were lower with higher age or larger size in some species, but independent of age or size in most. Differences between the colonist life strategy (short life, much asexual reproduction) and the perennial life strategy (long-lived plants with restricted reproduction) could be demonstrated, but these categories appear to be endpoints of a continuous range of variation. In the microclimatically more extreme grassland site, dynamics tends to be higher than in the more equable forest site.
43519475|Three properties of clonal growth that might increase the net performance of clonal plants in natural communities are physiological support of vegetative offspring during establishment, physiological integration among established ramets in contrasting microsites, and non-random placement of ramets through clonal architecture. Only the first has been directly shown to increase the net growth of clones under natural conditions. Experiments in artificial habitats suggest that integration among established ramets might have a long-term effect on clonal growth by reversing typical patterns of allocation. It also remains possible that architectural patterns might help place ramets in favorable microsites, depending upon natural patterns of resource availability. To test whether these last two properties increase the net performance of clonal plants in natural communities will require more manipulative experiments in situ and better information on natural resource patchiness.
43519545|Thermophilous fringe communities of the Trifolio- Geranietea recorded on the southern slope of the Horn vrch Plateau in the Slovak Karst (E Czechoslovakia) were classified into 5 vegetation types, such as the Geranio-Trifolietum alpestris, Galium mollugo-Geranium sanguineum community, Inula ensi folia-Origanum vulgare comm., Trifolium alpestre- Brachypodium pinna turn comm., and Dorycnium herbaceum- Brachypodium pinnatum comm. The synsystematic relations among the vegetation types were studied by methods of cluster analysis and principal components analysis. A coenocline of the communities, spanning subxeric to xeric habitats was detected.
43519440|A new, species-centered method of definition for the "optimal number of clusters" in hierarchical clustering is presented. Contribution of the among-cluster variability of each species, and the heterogeneity in cover/abundance among the considered clusters, are the major element of the method. The algorithm is programmed and offered under the name SCHNIDSL.
43519520|Ecological and phytosociological characteristics of three club moss species (Lycopodium clavatum, Diphasiwn complanatum and Lycopodium annotinum) were investigated in the westernmost part of Hungary (Vendvidk). The objective of the study was to assess habitat preference of these rare and protected species by describing the vegetation as indicator of habitat characteristics. It was also asked if any difference as to habitat preference exists among these species. Phytosociological relevs, representing the vegetation of the club moss habitats, were analysed by multivariate techniques and grouped on the basis of club moss species present. The analysis of ecological and phytosociological characteristics of the vegetation and multivariate techniques (classification, ordination) revealed that in the Vendvidk the habitat of L. clavatum differs from that of D. complanatum and L. annotinum. The main difference is that L. clavatum can be extremely abundant at open sites with pioneer character, where competitive species of more optimal habitats cannot establish because of the harsh conditions (extremely acidic, oligotrophic soils, degradation, disturbance). D. complanatum and L annotinum are not so distinguishable although D. complanatum is more associated with species of open pine woods, whereas L annotinum, demanding more humid habitats, can much better tolerate the presence of deciduous trees.
43519450|Monotone decreasing diversity functions are suitable measures of death cause concentration, an important structural property of human death cause data. Attention is paid to some new possibilities of mortality structure analysis. Possible links with other topics can diminish the relative isolation of this research field. A number of methodical questions are also discussed, including the question of index sensitivity. This is of general importance in the investigation of biological diversity.
43519223|276 phytoplankton species (diatom species from 45 genera and dinoflagellates from 25 genera) were identified from 50 m mesh size plankton net samples towed monthly in vertical-(50-0 m) and surface horizontal hauls at different inshore and offshorestations along the coast of Lebanon (Eastern Mediterranean). The seasonal variations in abundance showed the same regular pattern through the three consecutive years, with a spring maximum bloom in April-May and a minimum density in August and December. Based on species density distribution and environmental factors, the hierarchical classification of multispecies groups and the spatio-temporal ordination of species were used to identify phytoplankton assemblages. Species diversity is the highest between December and February and lowest in August. During summer, because of water stratification, high surface water temperature, strong light intensity and nutrient depletion, low phytoplankton biomass is observed.
43519481|Phylogenetically closely related plant species with different growth forms usually show conspicuous differences in their meristem utilization pattern and in their response to changes in environmental conditions. Despite such differences, viable hybrids between species with fundamentally different growth forms can be found jn some genera. In a greenhouse experiment, the hybridogenous species Potentilla anglica was compared with its parent species, Potentilla erecta and Potentilla reptans. P. erecta has an erect growth form and P. reptans is strictly stoloniferous. The question was addressed to what extent the hybridogenous species resembled or differed from their parent species with respect to growth-form-related characteristics such as meristem utilization and changes in morphology and development as caused by changes in the light climate. Potentilla reptans and P. anglica had a stoloniferous growth habit. However, the hybridogenous species produced less rooting points than the stoloniferous parent species which resulted in fewer potentially independent ramets. In the two parent species the differences in growth form were associated with different meristem utilization patterns and different responses to light treatments. Compared to the parent species Potentilla anglica responded in an intermediate way as far as meristem utilization and plasticity of spacer length are concerned. New character combinations were found in P. anglica, such as a marked plasticity of meristem allocation to branch and rosette production. In addition, P. anglica allocated significantly more biomass to sexual reproduction than either of the parent species. The lower degrees of plasticity of vertical spacers and the lower percentage of nodes forming ramets may indicate that the performance of P. anglica is inferior in conditions of intense above-ground competition or disturbance as compared to the two parent species. This may explain why P. anglica is generally less common in the field than its parent species.
43519135|Methods potentially useful in vegetation science for the comparison of partitions of the same set of objects are discussed. Four different approaches have been distinguished, 1) measures using cross-classification tables, 2) coefficients based on incidence matrices describing partitions, 3) minimum length sequence metrics expressing partition distance in terms of the minimum number of elementary steps needed to transform one partition to the other, and 4) miscellaneous procedures which express partition agreement in a complex way (e. g., consensus methods). I suggest two basic possibilities for the normalization of coefficients whose actual range is either greater or smaller than unity. The distributional properties of several coefficients are examined by extensive Monte Carlo simulation experiments. I consider the following factors in the simulations: number of objects, number of clusters, effect of normalization, effect of the fixation of group sizes, and, for fixed group sizes, the effect of increased differences between group sizes. The exact distributions of one distance measure are determined for small number of objects; they are in close agreement with the simulated distributions. Possibilities for testing the significance of the dissimilarity between two partitions are examined. I propose a "minimum distance" test for evaluating the distance for all possible pairs of several partitions. Two computer programs are described, one for calculating coefficients of partition agreement and the other for the Monte Carlo simulation of distributions. The application of coefficients and significance tests to vegetation studies is illustrated by several cases. These exemplify effects of sample size, taxonomic level, clustering algorithm, and character set upon the partitions of 80 relevs from a rock grassland community. Significance tests appear at first glance to provide evident results in cases when high dissimilarity of partitions is apparent. Yet, the tests are useful for the statistical confirmation of these observations and, in other cases, they might show significant similarity of partitions that are subjectively judged by the investigator as being highly dissimilar. Significance tests, understood in the conventional sense, should not be applied to partitions that are based on the same data, since the independence condition is violated. Nevertheless, the comparison of actual dissimilarities with the criterion values is very informative on the degree to which partitions are influenced, for example, by the clustering methods used.
43519215|A search for foliicolous lichens and bryophytes in the crowns of 14 trees in a semi-deciduous tropical forest in southern Guyana yielded a total of 100 taxa of lichens. Of 11 trees reaching the upper level of the forest, 8 were without foliicolous lichens, and three had 20-30 taxa each. The 3 small trees, growing in the shade, had 34-46 taxa each. A search in the undergrowth yielded 119 taxa, making a total of 155 for the whole forest. The results confirm that foliicolous lichens preferentially grow close to ground level. A comparison between the investigated trees shows that they usually share only 12-26% of their species. A higher similarity, 42%, was shown by two adjacent trees of the same species with similar size. A much smaller nearby tree of the same species exhibited less similarity. A palm appeared to have relatively few species in common with the other trees. Most foliicolous lichen species did not show a clear preference for a certain level in the forest. Common and exclusively in the canopy were Echinoplaca epiphyila and Lasioloma arachnoideum, and, to a lesser extent, Aspidothelium fugiens, Aulaxina quadrangula and Strigula antillarum. In other regions, however, they are known from forest undergrowth. At genus level, Arthonia, Badimia and Porina show a strong preference for the undergrowth, and Asterothyrium and Echinoplaca for the canopy. No clear host specificity was found. While most of the taxa encountered appear to be obligately foliicolous, some occasional specimens of normally corticolous lichen species were found, both in the canopy and in the undergrowth. Eighteen taxa were recognized among the bryophytes of the investigated canopy leaves. Their distribution seems to follow similar patterns as the lichens. The list of observed lichens includes 39 species not reported before from the Guianas
43519530|We develop a fractal method, based on dispersal data, for quantifying the 'degree of clustering' of spatial point patterns. Clustered spatial patterns are commonly encountered in biology, from local to landscape spatial scales. We begin by outlining Mandelbrot's 'Lvy dust' fractal model for generating spatial point patterns. In this model, a high fractal dimension (D = 2) results in a relatively even distribution of points in the plane. Lowering the fractal dimension (D < 2) generates point patterns with increasing levels of clustering at all spatial scales. The Palm intensity method for determining the fractal dimension of point patterns is briefly discussed. Next, we note that the distribution function of dispersal distances ('Lvy flights') for the Levy dust model is an inverse power function. Since diaspore dispersal curves for higher plants also take the form of an inverse power function, the fractal point pattern dimension D for a given species can be estimated from a log-log dispersal plot. We apply this method to published dispersal curves. Our results suggest that species with limited diaspore dispersability have D > 2.0, indicating that they occur in the landscape as a colonizing front (a 'phalanx' colonization strategy). Species with special adaptations for potential long-distance dispersal, by contrast, generally have D < 1.0. Such species tend to disperse through the landscape as isolated colonists, forming new colonies far from the parent plant (a 'guerilla' colonization strategy).
43519542|Chloroplast ultraetructure in leaves of two forest herbs, the spring ephemeral Corydalis solida and the summer herb Pulmonaria officinalis with seasonal changes of leaf generations was studied under different light intensities. Corydalis solida leaves and the spring leaf generation of Pulmonaria offlcinalis developed at full sunlight possessed the sun-type chloroplasts characterized by numerous small grana with less developed membrane system, more intensive starch and lipid accumulation. Along with a decrease in light intensity, grana decreased in number but increased in width, the membrane system was more dense, the starch and lipid accumulation was less intensive. All these modifications showed that chloroplast structure changed to the shade-type. Summer leaves of Pulmonaria officinalis had a somewhat different response pattern. A notable feature of their chloroplasts was the presence of very large plastoglobules in high and medium light treatment. Modifications in grana configuration and thylakoid number per granum are regarded as general adaptive responses to light intensity. The comparative study showed that the chloroplast ultrastructure of Corydalis solida appeared to be more stable.
43519372|The present study contains the descriptions of 10 taxa new to science of the family Rubiaceae. These are: Portlandia ophiticola sp. n., Portlandia acunae 3p. n., Isidorea rheedioides sp. n., Schmidtottia corymbose sp. n., Schmidtottia stricta sp. n., Coccocyselum pseudotontanea GRISEB. var. glaberrima var. n., Antirhea minutifolia sp. n., Antirhea nipensis sp., n., Liachaonia urbinoi sp. n. and Casasia clusiifolia /JACQ. /URB. var. hirsuta var. n. All these new taxa seem to be endemics to the Flora of Cuja. Taxonomic revisions included new analytic keys for the cuban species of the genera Portlandia and Isidorea and a new combination of Coccocypselum are also contributed.
43519250|Effects of 15-month elevated (700 mol mol) CO on the CO assimilation rate, carbohydrate content and the activity of key enzymes in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism (glycolysis and gluconeogenesis) of two C perennial temperate grassland species, the dicot Filipendula vulgaris and the monocot Festuca rupicola were examined. The acclimation of photosynthesis to elevated air CO was downward in F. rupicola and upward in F. vulgaris. F. rupicola leaves accumulated starch, while soluble sugar content was higher in the leaves of both species at elevated CO environment. Under elevated CO both species showed an increase in the ratio of PFP/PFK enzyme activity. Accordingly, this high CO environment can be considered as stress situation for the plants. The primary cause of this may be the excessive amount of carbon besides unchanged levels of  and P. In leaf extracts from high CO grown F. vulgaris Fru-2,6-P2 strongly inhibited the Fru-1,6-P2-ase, while in F. rupicola the Fru-2,6-P2 inhibition was insignificant. This, however, may shift sugar metabolism in the direction of glycolysis (breakdown) for F. vulgaris and towards gluconeogenesis (synthesis) in F. rupicola. This all can be related to the upward acclimation of the photosynthesis in F. vulgaris and the downward acclimation of F. rupicola which is accompanied by starch accumulation.
43519178|Pets kept in flats are known to be major sources of allergens. Clinical observations suggest that pets can cause serious allergic rhinitis, urticaria, Quincke-edema and bronchial asthma even indirectly. Pollenanalytical examinations proved that the commercially available unwashed pet food (seed mixtures) in Hungary contains several seriously allergen pollen and mould spores attached to the seeds. Thus, seeds cleansed unproperly can prove to be serious indirect allergen sources.
43519187|The MINSPAN program from the SYN-TAX III program package has been replaced by a more efficient routine. The new interactive graphics program MINSPLOT utilizes an algorithm developed by the author to display topological relationships in minimum spanning trees.
43519378|In this short stdy we are dealing with the ideas relating to the explanations of geophysical and astrophysical phenomena occured in such investigations wich were found out by P. Bridgemen and improved by T. J. Gorazdovszkij. The rheological trials were carried out by a special equipment for realizing the rheological /mechanical/phenomena of different rocks and other solids, constracted and applied by the specialists of the Physical Lepartment of Hidromelioration Institute in Moscow. They put into the instrument a 10 mm diameter and 2 mm thick pill form material, which in compressed by a pressure of some million atmospheres to a lenticular ones. Turning of the equipment at such a huge pressure the matter has collapsed resembling an explosion, the radioactivity /y-rays/of tfce creating powder grows up, which can be measured by sensitive paper. By means of the y-rays following the rheological explosion that viere detected by T. J. Gorazdovszkij in the year of 1967 one can explain physically many natural phenomena. Such are the earthquakes, the radio-activity of the earth's crust, the meteorits, the craters of the Moon, the explosion of the stars  the rise of supernovas, the primary cosmic radiation at which the radio-activity created, can be explained by the rheological explosion.
43519482|In a previous experiment, clonal fragments of Trifolium repens were shown to specialize morphologically in the uptake of a locally abundant resource (water, light) and to exchange captured resources between ramets when subjected to a heterogeneous environment in which the availabilities of water and light showed a strictly negative association in space. The experimental set-up used in that study, however, did not allow for disentangling the effects of water and assimilate sharing, because integrated clone parts always represented sinks for one resource (e.g., water) and, at the same time, sources for another resource (e.g., assimilates). In the pilot study presented here, clonal fragments of the stoloniferous species Potentilla anserina were also subjected to spatially heterogeneous environments which showed a negative covariance in the supply of water and light. Two interconnected ramets were exposed to shaded, well-watered and unshaded, water-stressed conditions, respectively. A technique, usually called "steam-girdling", was applied to disable phloem transport between ramets without affecting water integration. Biomass production of shaded, well-watered ramets decreased by about 50% when they were prevented from sharing assimilates with unshaded, water-stressed ramets. The growth of unshaded ramets was not affected by steam-girdling. Ramets grown under shaded, well-watered conditions had significantly lower root-shoot ratios than control ramets, if phloem contacts with connected ramets were disrupted. The results of this study support the hypothesis that morphological specialization in resource uptake in response to spatial heterogeneity is linked to resource sharing between ramets. It is concluded that the steam-girdling technique is a suitable method to separate the effects of water and assimilate integration in clonal plants, even when there is reciprocal transport of these resources. Further application of this method may provide novel insights in the mechanisms and consequences of resource sharing in clonal plants.
43519090|In this second paper of a series the growth of a replicator replicating in a common autocatalytic and a catalytichypercyclic manner simultaneously is described kinetically. The mathematical tools include adiabatic elimination, the constraint of constant mass, and Michaelis-Menten kinetics. Coexistence is investigated under the constraint by fixed-point analysis. Population growth is exponential at very high and very low concentrations anyway. There can be a period of hyperbolic growth in between the two exponential phases provided the kinetic constant for the simple replication is sufficiently small. The analysis sets clearly the limitations of the adiabatic elimination and, hence, the internal equilibration concepts as applied to the concrete case. Based on the likely values of the dynamical constants the appearance of the embraced hyperbolic growth period is likely in prebiological systems but is more or less unlikely in sexual species being able to replicate asexually or apogamously as well.
