42883353|The cultivar Meski is one of the most widely planted olive cultivars in Tunisia. However, because of self-incompatibility, cross pollination is needed. Understanding of the correlation between the phenological stages and flower development can be helpful in choosing the right time for pollination in selecting suitable pollenizers for the Meski cultivar. In this work, floral biology in relation to phenological stages of six olive cultivars was studied to obtain a comprehensive description of suitable pollenizers for 'Meski'. The level of flowering, pistillate inflorescences, viability and germination rates of pollen grains were determined for each cultivar. The flowering period of the six tested cultivars was recorded in order to determine if their flowering duration coincides fully with the bloom period of 'Meski'. Viability, germination and pollen tube elongation abilities of all the cultivars were tested. Comparison of pollen viability of all the cultivars was done using acetocarmin staining technique and the fluorescein diacetate test. The pollen showed little loss in viability and germinability over the tested storage period at -18C. The productive characters of six olive cultivars showed a good productive behaviour of Besbessi, Picholine, Zarrazi, Arbequina and Ascolana cultivars with particular interest for 'Zarrazi' and 'Besbessi'. Regarding pollen characteristics, 'Zarrazi' and 'Besbessi' reflected better pollen quality while the evaluation of flower quality and bloom showed good performance in all cultivars except for 'Manzanille'.
24586787|Modern agricultural practices are mostly directed toward high application of commercial fertilizers to achieve high yield. It is widely recognized that application of fertilizer (especially nitrogen) can cause ground water pollution by nitrate leaching through the soil profile. A new approach to farming is often referred to as sustainable agriculture and it seeks to introduce friendlier agricultural practices to the environment and maintains the long term ecological balance of the soil ecosystem. Hence investigations were carried out to develop nutrient management for strawberry cultivar Sweet Charley subjected to various treatment combinations of organic and inorganic fertilizers. Traits such as plant growth characteristics (leaves/plant and plant spread), yield characteristics (flower buds, fruits per plant and fruit yield tons/ha) and quality characteristics (juice content, total sugar content, vitamin C and specific gravity) were observed. The runners of strawberry cv. Sweet Charley were planted in the first week of November with a spacing of 30 x 60 cm. The investigation was laid out in a randomized block design with five treatment combinations replicated thrice. The data regarding the different growth parameters observed at 30, 45, 60, 90, 105, 120, yield parameters at 45, 60, 90, 120, 135, 150 days after planting and their quality parameters clearly indicate that the application of integrated sources of nutrients significantly affect the vegetative, reproductive and yield characteristics of the strawberry plant. However the manure fertilizer combination under treatment T4 (75% Organic Fertilizers + 25% inorganic Fertilizers) was found to be the best treatment with regard to integrated and combined application of nutrient resources for strawberry cultivation in India.
42882926|The effects of active modified atmospheres were evaluated in 'Giombo' persimmons with tannins already removed (non-astringent) and stored at 0C and 85-90% relative humidity for 35 days. The goal was to maintain quality and delay ripening. The fruits were picked by hand when they were about 50% green, sanitized and subjected to different mixtures of CO and O. Fruits were wrapped in thin film plastic made of nylon + polyethylene and analyzed every seven days for weight loss, respiratory activity, coloration, titratable acidity, soluble solids, ratio, pH, firmness, pectin methyl esterase and polygalacturonase enzyme activities, reducing sugars, ascorbic acid and astringency index. Refrigerated storage and active modified atmospheres were effective in conserving the quality of 'Giombo' persimmons. The fruits submitted to the highest CO concentrations (7 and 8%) had the lowest weight loss and respiratory intensity with a delay in the climacteric peak.
42881747|A study of background colour as a harvesting index for peaches and nectarines was undertaken to achieve fruit of better and more uniform quality with resistance to handling. For each cultivar, the background colour matching the most advanced maturity stage at which fruit retained a firmness greater than 5 kg was selected as a reference, and colour charts were prepared accordingly. The fruit selected according to these colour charts remained firm after short storage and was more uniform, within each orchard and harvest, than normally harvested fruit as to background colour, soluble solids and firmness. A background-colour chart is a useful tool for harvesting peaches and nectarines of better and more uniform internal quality.
42882603|Three pot experiments were conducted in a temperature-controlled greenhouse at Newe Ya'ar Research Center in order to determine the limits of depth for germination and emergence in squash (Cucurbita pepo). There were no depth limitations to germination down to 12 cm in four different media. The mean emergence percentages of two accessions in four media were 78, 57, 26 and 2% from 1, 4, 8 and 12 cm, respectively. Seed size (weight) did not affect the emergence percentage based on findings of two experiments: one demonstrated similar emergence percentages of two accessions differing markedly in seed weight; the other demonstrated similar emergence percentages of different-sized seeds in each of these accessions. The effects of medium on emergence were mostly non-significant. However, the tuff medium (volcanic gravel with large particles) was less favorable than the other media, with lower emergence percentages and slower seedling development.
42883199|'Miho' satsumas received an anaerobic treatment with N or CO for 24 hr at 20C before being waxed with shellac and transferred to 20C for 30 days, in order to measure respiration rate, internal gas evolution (CO and O) and peel resistance to CO diffusion. Ethanol in the juice, as well as taste and appearance were also determined. Respiration rate decreased by more than half following 30 days of storage, while internal CO and O rose and decreased, respectively. Conversely, resistance to CO diffusion increased drastically with time in storage. Waxing significantly decreased respiration rate and doubled resistance to CO diffusion, while anaerobic treatments did not influence physiological parameters. Off-flavour development due to time in storage or wax application strongly affected taste of fruits. Exposition to CO negatively influenced fruit taste also, with respect to control and N exposed fruits. In general, the higher the ethanol content in the juice, the higher the off-flavour score and the lower the acceptability by panellists. The external fruit appearance declined with time in storage. Waxing or anaerobic treated fruits maintained a better freshness than control fruits. From a commercial standpoint the best result was gained with non-waxed nitrogen-treated fruits, which stored satisfactorily for 10 days.
42881339|A study carried out with the mild mutant M-1 obtained from a P strain, is reported. It was used for cross protection against the severe strain PepMV 10 on a pepper cultivation in greenhouse. Its influence on flowering and yield was analyzed, using the TMV susceptible cultivar XPH 833 and the resistant one NUN 3364. In the first cultivar, M-1 does not affect the susceptible plant flowering and it is also efficient in cross protection, whereas the flowering of plants inoculated with PepMV 10 was lower. The early yield of M-1 inoculated plants was identical to that of the control, but it became lower in challenged plants and in those inoculated with PepMV 10. The total yield of cv. XPH 833 was unaffected in the plants inoculated with M-1 and in those challenged, but it decreased in the PepMV 10 inoculated plants. These findings were confirmed by using the cv NUN 3364, but this variety was quite susceptible to the mutant. It was also susceptible to all the other inoculations made, so, it could be considered as a varietal susceptibility. Thus, M-1 might be proposed as a protective strain, but detailed studies of its diffusion within the plant and the concentration of the challenge inoculum required to infect protected plants in natural conditions are needed.
42881759|Root development was examined in roots of young olive trees (Olea europaea L., cv. Manzanillo) grown under wet and dry water regimes. Cross sections at sequential positions were observed along the root axis from the apex up to 18 cm from the root tip at intervals of 3 cm. An index was established to facilitate development comparisons. Complete transition to secondary growth was found closer to the apex in the roots grown in dry soil (at 9 cm) than in the roots grown in watered soil (at 12 cm). Up to 5 cm from the root tip, the cortical tissue was wider in the roots grown in dry soil than in watered soil. Based on maturity stage, both total root and central cylinder radii were greater for the dry than the irrigated treatment. No difference between treatments was found in metaxylem vessel diameter.
42882698|This review first revisits current knowledge about single-leaf function, viz. photosynthesis, chiefly in relation to environmental factors, that underscores the importance of multiple summer stresses. Emphasis is placed on the response different genotypes show under light and heat stress with or without soil-water shortage. Secondly, it tackles the thorny issue of extrapolating single-leaf readings to the whole-canopy level, with special reference to both methodological and physiological implications. Whole-canopy gas-exchange systems deliver and emphasise the usefulness of such an approach in achieving key research goals. One case in point is quantifying the amount and dynamics of canopy gas exchange in response to summer pruning, which alters a canopy's leaf population. Other examples show how useful a whole-canopy approach can be in monitoring diurnal or seasonal variation in light interception, photosynthesis and water use, or when the need is for an objective validation tool to assess the precision of models devised to predict carbon budget. The discussion of some of these case studies attempts to explain why conclusions driven by single-leaf surveys can at times diverge from those derived from a whole-canopy approach. The overall intent of the review is to highlight the single-leaf approach, especially when performed under a methodology suitable to the objectives, as well as the effectiveness of the whole-canopy approach, even limited by the small number of replicates, in understanding the whole vine behaviour. Indeed, the bottom line seems to be that conducting both single-leaf and whole-canopy measurements in the same experimental plot is an added value to research and can be reliably employed to judge the efficiency of different training systems.
42881854|The growth rates, yields and protein content of Amaranthus cruentos, L. and Sesamum radiatum, Schum. were studied at different levels of nitrogen application under rainfed conditions in the Guinea savanna ecological zone of Nigeria. Nitrogen application was 0,45,90 and 180 kg N ha for amaranth and 0,30,60 and 90 kg N ha for sesame. The results showed that at the highest level of N application, amaranth (a C4 plant) had a very high growth rate coefficient (0.471 ha day) before cutting while the growth rate coefficient of sesame (a C3 plant) was lower (0.221 ha day). The growth rate coefficients of both plants were drastically reduced after cutting; the values were 0.21 and 0.07 (ha day for amaranth and sesame, respectively. Total shoot and leaf dry matter yields increased significantly up to 45 and 60 kg N ha, for amaranth and sesame, respectively. The crude protein contents of the leaves at first harvest of amaranth and sesame were high and averaged about 30% on a dry weight basis.
42883430|Several aspects of pomegranate flower biology are addressed. Clones PTO1, PTO2, ME14 and ME15 were used in the study, all of them Spanish cultivars from the provinces of Murcia (the first two) and Alicante (the latter two). Pistil receptiveness was assessed by the "fruit set" method. Selected flowers were emasculated and later pollinated with either their own or foreign pollen grains from other cultivars; afterwards fruit set was quantified. Likewise, effective pollination time was also calculated. While all pomegranate clones showed a pistil receptiveness of seven days, ME15 yielded a receptiveness of just six days. The highest fruit set percentage was achieved one day before anthesis and two days after. Clone ME15 yielded an effective pollination time (EPT) of four days, whereas the others (PTO1, PTO2 and ME14) showed an EPT of five days.
42882631|In Italy the number of olive cultivars is extremely high, and together with the best known and widespread ones, in the collections numerous minor local cultivars and ecotypes exist which have not been sufficiently characterized. In Emilia Romagna this aspect is less evident, but nevertheless a great number of old olive trees and bushed is present on the northern slopes of the Apennins, to witness an olive cultivation which has always been present since the times of the Roman Empire. Many of these genotypes have been collected and characterized as not belonging to cultivars presently known, but which might have been cultivated in distant times. This kind of olive genetic diversity was studied using SSR technique, on plants growing in the Bologna area (IT). For genotype identification comparisons were made with a number of important cultivars of Central Italy. Screening was obtained by analysing patterns produced by 17 SSR primers. A dendrogram obtained from the analysis reveals the presence of an interesting amount of genetic diversity among the studied individuals.
42883079|Sexual crosses of Lycopersicon esculentum (LE) with two L. peruvianum (LP) accessions from 850 m above sea level (asl) (LP 850) and from 1650 m asi (LP 1650) were analysed for the temperature responses of photochemical chlorophyll (chi) fluorescence quenching (qp) before and after long-term chilling under low light and compared to the behaviour of their respective parental lines. Photosynthesis rates as a function of temperature were assayed in chilled and control plants of the parental lines as well as in the cross LE  LP 1650. The previously reported ability of LP 1650 for low-temperature acclimation of photosynthetic dark reactions, as visualized in increasing qp values at suboptimal temperatures, was also present in its hybrid with LE. This hybrid is only achievable through the embryo rescue technique. In contrast, the hybrid between LE and LP 850, which can be obtained by simple pollination of LE, revealed no cold acclimation of photosynthesis, nor did either parental line. It is suggested that the self-compatible LP 1650 accession is an interesting genotype for the introgression of genes for low-temperature tolerance into the cultivated tomato.
42881642|Stem cuttings of Flordabelle (FB) and Flordagold (FG) peach cultivars were prepared during mid-June and mid-August to investigate the origin of adventitious roots and the role of sclerenchyma tissue as related to nodal anatomy. The results show that FB and FG peach stems contain three leaf gaps (trilacunar type) immediately below the node area, where the median leaf trace is largest. The origin of the traces is the central core of the vascular tissue. Three orders of emergence for the leaf traces were observed, which are affected by the distance of sectioning made below the node. Moreover, the appearance of the traces leads to the formation of gaps which are either associated with the traces in the area below the node, or they disappear where the traces are freed from the vascular tissue, leading to the formation of a large gap. The results also show that no preformed roots are present; thus adventitious roots in FB and FG are either of nodal or internodal origin. In addition, parenchyma of all leaf gaps, such as parenchymatic tissue outside the trace, parenchyma immediately interior to the bud scales and xylem parenchyma are the origin of adventitious roots. The sclerenchyma ring in the area of leaf and bud gaps of both cultivars is not present.
42881595|One-year-old grafts of Prunus avium (scion) on Prunus cerasus (rootstock) were sampled at the beginning of July when slight symptoms of leaf yellowing appeared. Phenols were analyzed from the stem portions 0-3 mm above and below the union respectively. Steep gradients between scion and rootstock were formed by genistin, prunin, isosakuranin, chrysin-7-glucoside and dihydrowogonin-7-glucoside, all of them being higher in amounts in the scion. Prunetin-5-glucoside, tectochrysin-5-glucoside and pinostrobin-5-glucoside were found only in the rootstock. Some flavanols accumulated more strongly in the scion as compared with the rootstock. The presence of steep phenol gradients in the opposing cells of Prunus grafts favours the view that slight and delayed incompatibility might be caused by those phenols which move outwards from their original compartments.
42882486|The report aims at improving knowledge of the interaction between poplar and heavy metals and at parsing the poplar ability to remove or render harmless such inorganic elements contained in residual slags of leather industries. Scions of Populus  euramericana, clone 1-214, were grown outdoors, in pots, in inert soil, pruned for a single shoot and subjected to three treatments: non-amended (C), amended with a commercial mould (M), amended with tannery waste (W). The tannery waste consisted of a complex matrix composed of slags deriving from leather processing and containing different amounts of heavy metals, particularly trivalent chromium. Non-destructive measurements were taken during one growing season; plant biomass and heavy metals content were analysed at the end of cultivation. Plants reared in the W soil developed stem length, leaf area and biomass significantly greater than those of the other treatments. Values of B, Mn, Fe, Zn and Cr in some of the vegetative organs also demonstrated that the clone 1-214 uptakes significant amounts of these metals. According to the results, further studies should be planned to test both the toxicity risks of higher amounts of leather industry wastes and the phytoremediation ability of Populus  euramericana.
42881352|Climatic data and the incidence of asparagus rust (Puccinia asparagi D.C.) were recorded from 1991 and 1992 on two experimental fields in the two most important asparagus-growing areas of the Veneto region in Italy. One site was also monitored for 1993. Disease incidence was assessed by fortnightly records of the number of uredia or telia/plants; climatic data included daily temperature (minimum and maximum), relative humidity (minimum and maximum) and rainfall (mm). Stepwise multiple regression analysis showed six significant correlations between climatic factor and disease incidence; five of them referred to relative humidity. Data indicate that disease incidence during summer is the result of the interaction among foregoing climatic events, which affect early phases of the pathogen's biological cycle, and climatic factors that directly affect the pathogen's structures present at the time of the disease onset.
42881556|The appearance of superficial scald (S) on apples is related to the oxidation of a terpenoid substance (farnesene) contained in very large amounts in the fruit's skin. The production of farnesene-derived toxic metabolites (triene-conjugated hydroperoxides) seems to be inhibited in those parts of the fruit where S does not appear; an effect probably related to the natural antioxidant substances produced by the fruit. The antioxidant content was measured in whole and in parts of apple fruits with and without S which were stored at 0C. It decreased while fruits were in storage until S appeared. The concentration of total antioxidant substances, ad well as of tocopherol, was higher in healthy tissue, whether untreated or treated with diphenylamine (a synthetic antioxidant), than in the tissue damaged by S.
42883384|Olive oil production is one of the most important and valuable agricultural activities of Tuscany. Because of its importance, the control of insect pests and diseases has been mainly carried out by a large and inconsiderate use of chemicals. In particular the olive fly (Bactrocera oleae) has been always fought with the application of sprays at fixed dates with serious consequences for the ecosystem. Nowadays integrated pest management and organic agriculture are supplanting the traditional management of plant growing and protection, with the objective to obtain a high quality product, safeguarding the environment safety. The integration of different know how and technologies should be the starting-point to reach this important purpose. In this work a mathematical model based on thermal summation was applied to simulate the number of generations performed by the fly starting from temperature data collected by 68 weather stations scattered in Thiscany (Central Italy). In order to produce a thematic map of "dacie attack risk", the model output was spatially interpolated using three different methods, multiple linear regression, ordinary kriging and kriging topographically informed with altitude. The results of these different methods were analysed and discussed in order to evaluate their precision and eventual application to support farmer activity.
42883295|Parameters coming from Elliptic Fourier Analysis (EFA) and fractal analysis of the leaf were used as input in a backpropagation neural network to distinguish between ten accessions of grapevine (eight clones of 'Sangiovese' and two varieties, 'Abrostine' and 'Pugnitello')  The results enabled us to identify all the accessions studied. Cluster analysis of the backpropagation outputs revealed the existence of a uniform group for the 'Tebano' clones supporting the hypothesis that 'SG-12-T' and 'SG-14-T' could be mutations originated from the same genotype. The use of neural networks coupled to new tools in the shape analysis of leaves opens interesting prospects for ampelography.
42882368|An evaluation study was undertaken on 57 walnut trees pre-selected from a total of 342 trees of seedling origin growing in district Sirmour, Himachal Pradesh, India. Based upon synchronization of pollen shedding and stigma receptivity period, as many as nine trees, namely SS-13, SS-18, SS-24, SS-26, SS-51, SS-52, SS-53, SS-54 and SS-55, recording less than 25% degree of dichogamy have been found to be homogamous. The remaining 48 trees exhibit protandry. Yield, nut and kernel quality attributes varied considerably in the nine homogamous selections and most possess high yield and good nut/kernel quality. The evidence of existence of homogamy in selected walnut types and their subsequent promotion on a commercial scale would provide the growers an opportunity to obtain higher yield and enhanced return from walnut growing in Himachal Pradesh, India.
42881533|Approximately 40% of medicines in Middle European and US pharmacies and drugstores are of biogenic stock: for example antibiotics from bacteria and fungi, sera from animals and secondary compounds of higher plants. All these products play an important role in modern therapy. The lecture will support the fact that the use of substances, extracts and herbal preparations of higher medicinal plants (so-called phytopharmaka or phytotherapeutica) are not objects of an alternative green medicine, but a serious part and supplement of normal medicine. Examples are choosen which demonstrate the different application of medicinal plants as a direct resource for medicaments, or as producer of compounds which serve as models for constructing pharmacologically more effective substances, or as material to produce extracts to use the total composition of the plant or to use certain fractions. Problems and questions about using different forms of phytopharmaka, i.e. pure substances or total extracts, are discussed. Perspectives and limitation of therapy with phytopharmaka are shown.
42882564|Pyrus syriaca Boiss is an important wild species that is widely distributed in Syria. It is a very rich gene pool that may be used in the breeding programs of many closely related fruit trees in the region, and is one of the endangered plant genetic resources in Syria. In a previous study, we investigated the biodiversity of 59 Pyrus samples collected from different geographical regions of Syria. Based on the results generated, 13 samples including those with the highest percent disagreement values (PDVs) were selected for chloroplast DNA analysis using Cleaved Amplified Polymorphic Sequence (CAPS). This technique was carried out to detect the possible presence of different species or subspecies other than P. syriaca. Results from the present study reveal that two samples may represent two Pyrus species (or subspecies) different from P. syriaca to which the remaining samples belong.
42883203|In order to obtain information on the post-harvest physiology and to investigate the effects of a preservative solution on water relations and gas exchanges of cut flowers of Godetia during vase life, stems of two Godetia cultivars (Grace red and Grace rose) were placed in individual graduated cylinders for water uptake measurements and held for 10 days under an air temperature of 201.5C at 552.5% relative humidity. Two treatments were compared: tap water and a preservative solution for cut carnations containing 10 ml l of Chrysal AVB. The following parameters were measured: water uptake, water potentials of leaves and petals, leaf stomatal resistance and respiration, the percentage of blooming and flower longevity. Water uptake of cut stems declined during vase life following an exponential trend and was increased by preservative treatment. Chrysal significantly reduced total water potential and osmotic potential of leaves, contributing to leaf turgor maintenance at the same levels as leaves of non-treated stems. The decline in leaf water potential was associated with an increase in leaf stomatal resistance. The respiration rate decreased during senescence of cut flowers and was increased by keeping them in the preservative solution. The preservative solution increased the percentage of blooming and reduced flower abscission.
42881799|The influence of drought on leaf water relations and gas exchange was investigated in containergrown plants of standard (cv. Rosso Comune) and dwarf (cv. Petit Salmon) genotypes of Nerium oleander L. Dwarf plants had more leaves of smaller size and higher chlorophyll content than standard cultivars. Under nonlimiting water conditions dwarf genotype showed lower stomatal conductance and net photosynthesis than standard plants notwithstanding higher values of turgor pressure. In both genotypes water shortage caused similar decline in leaf gas exchange. The analysis of the relationship of leaf photosynthesis or stomatal conductance against turgor pressure indicates a greater responsiveness of standard genotypes to variation in leaf water status. Results suggest also that stomatal factors may play a more important role than nonstomatal ones in limiting photosynthesis of oleander subjected to rapidly-occurring water stress.
42881761|Growth and potassium nutrition of the tomato plant was studied in relation to root temperature in two successive experiments over a short time period in spring and in autumn. The results showed the predominant influence of crop growing season rather than that of root temperature or potassium concentration in the nutrient solution. Spring growth at 10C was approximately two times weaker than at 20C. However, in the autumn, growth at the two temperatures was very comparable being the same as spring growth at 20C. Both in spring and autumn the root system plays an important role in storing potassium reserves in the plant. Normal growth was found at highly varied potassium levels in the laminae, whereas calcium and magnesium levels must remain relatively high. When growth slowed down in the spring, the calcium and magnesium did react strongly to the increases or decreases in day length.
42881627|TBZ concentration in water, even in the presence of iprodione and diphenilammine, was determined with a portable spectrophotometer and the results were statistically compared to values recorded by HPLC. TBZ analysis by portable spectrophotometer was highly correlated to the HPLC data.
42883390|The area of the Andean Mountains is characterized by a high level of biodiversity. The species Ullucus tuberosus, which belongs to the Andean Root and Tuber Crop group, has a prominent role in feeding local communities. Despite its importance, little information on the basic aspects of this crop is available and its unknown genetic wideness is at risk to disappear. This study was conducted in order to delineate the effect of both temperature and medium sucrose concentration on Ulluco microtuber production. In fact microtubers represent an efficient way to preserve germplasm and thus the definition of simple protocols for microtuber induction is a valid tool to guarantee germplasm conservation and its economic sustainability. Three levels of sucrose (30, 60 and 90 gl) in the Murashige-Skoog medium and two temperature growth conditions (12-18 C and 18-24 C) have been chosen to assess microtuber production in Ulluco. The 3% sucrose concentration and the 12-18 C temperature range determined the highest microtuber number. The sucrose effect on microtuber induction is in contrast to what has been observed in other species, such as Solatium tuberosum and Dioscorea composita. Low sucrose concentration and temperature are also associated with high microtuber dormancy levels. The 18-24 C temperature range and the 3% sucrose concentration induced a higher plant development in terms of fresh plant and tuber weight.
42881765|Phloem samples from commercial apricot cultivars and some Prunus species used as rootstocks were examined by reversed high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) combined with chemical reaction detection (CRD) to determine qualitative and quantitative differences in monomeric (catechins) and oligomeric (proanthocyanidins) flavan-3-ols. The four apricot cultivars had similar qualitative flavanol compositions with a total of 7 to 9 peaks. However, large differences occurred among cultivars in total flavanols; the levels varying from 572 to 1669 absorption units (AU). Differences were observed in the qualitative flavanol composition of the eight evaluated rootstocks related to the cultivars. The number of rootstock flavanols varied from 4 to 11, and correspondingly very large differences were found in total flavanols; the levels ranged from 807 to 9719 AU. Application of (+ )-catechin as a monomeric flavanol to apricot shoots changed the plane of cell division in the phloem which resulted in a callus-like structure.
42882086|In order to further elucidate the role of flavanols in graft formation and incompatibility problems in apricot, analytical and histological data were collected from graft combinations consisting of P. insititia cv. Montizo as rootstock and either the cultivar Luizet or Moniqui as scion. The latter is known for its exigent character and for incompatibility problems occurring with numerous rootstocks. However, no visible symptoms of incompatibility were found when this cultivar was grafted onto 'Montizo'. This observation is in line with the analytical results revealing only minor differences between compatible 'Luizet'/'Montizo' and potentially troublesome 'Moniqui'/' Montizo' combinations with respect to the flavanol patterns present at the union and rootstock level one year after grafting, even though clear quantitative and qualitative differences exist between the flavanol patterns of the two cultivars. Thus, after a transient, wound-induced phase of enhanced flavanol accumulation at the union site during graft formation, harmonious metabolic interactions prevail in both combinations investigated, suggesting 'Montizo' as a relatively good rootstock for the cultivar Moniqui.
42882775|Research on potato was carried out near Naples (southern Italy) to obtain the so-called seed-use tubers starting from certified seeds. One experiment was carried out in 2003 to compare three planting times (January 19, February 18 and March 20) in factorial combination with three cultivars (Adora, Spunta and Tmate), arranging a split-plot design with three replicates. Planting time influenced productive results: tuber yield and number showed increases with the planting delay, whereas their mean weight had the opposite trend. Cultivar Adora was found to be the most productive. A second experiment was carried out in 2004 to compare three seed weights (402, 502 and 602 grams) in factorial combination with three cultivars (Adora, Spunta and Tmate), according to a split-plot design with three replicates. Tuber yield and number decreased with the reduction in seed tuber weight. 'Spunta' performed best and 'Adora' produced the smallest seed-use fraction (28-45 mm tubers). Results indicate that while planting delay gives seed tubers a higher probability of reaching physiological ripening, it causes a later harvest, which is more exposed to viral infections, reduces the time interval between two subsequent cycles and thus gives rise to quiescent tubers for subsequent summer planting. With regard to optimal seed tuber weight, 60 g was the most effective for yield performance and 50 g the most suitable for seed-oriented production.
42882758|Different harvest machines can be applied in different agronomic situations and groves, and it is essential to identify suitable parameters to compare the results. To assess the operational capability of the yard productivity the used parameter is the harvesting yard productivity (HYP) expressed as kg man hour, but it provides little information about yard/plant relationship or about the agronomic tool able to improve the suitability of the use. Two diffrent indexes are suggested, the harvest speed (SCH) as m of vegetation "harvested" in a definite interval of time, and the production efficiency of canopy (CPE), as kg m of vegetation. With them the linkage between the results with "traditional", "intensive" and "superintensive" training systems became more clear and some considerations on the need to improve the productivity of olive groves are made.
42881688|Infections of the two tospoviruses tomato spotted wilt (TSWV) and impatiens necrotic spot (INSV) are reported for the first time in Italian crops of Columnea sp. and Kalanchoe sp. INSV was found in Kalanchoe cultivated in Liguria, showing necrotic and yellow rings in the malformed leaves. TSWV was found in Columnea cultivated in Emilia-Romagna, showing brown rings and yellow spots on malformed leaves of only a few shoots. The two tospoviruses were identified by mechanical inoculations on herbaceous plants, electron microscopy observations and ELISA tests. It appeared that TWSV and INSV infection had been contracted during greenhouse growth of imported propagation material.
42882836|The citrus industry is at present increasingly oriented toward upgrading groves, discarding obsolete plantings and introducing new rootstock/scion combinations which are more tailored to local environmental conditions. A rise in production costs (but without a proportionate increase in profit) together with technological innovation have both led to many changes in citrus orchard management, and consequently there have been changes in cultural techniques. Many cultural and edaphic factors influence the choice of pruning frequency and intensity. The main goal of pruning is to reach a useful balance between yield and growth, and to reduce cultivation costs. Drastic pruning in young citrus trees with a vigorous vegetative habit causes an excess of shoot growth, thereby extending the juvenile stage and delaying fruiting. Adaptation of the technique to local conditions in bearing groves (species, cultivars, planting distances, etc.) is mandatory for pruning optimization. A fully mechanised approach to pruning leads to substantial changes in citrus grove management and sometimes to negative effects on yield. Functional integration of mechanical and assisted pruning seems to be the right choice for the Italian citrus industry.
42882835|The slender spindle bush type system is commonly used for compact-sized trees, especially grafted on dwarfing rootstocks. It is difficult to apply this system to trees grafted on vigorous rootstocks by winter pruning. Such practices only cause the trees to repeat imbalanced vegetative-oriented growth every year. Therefore, in the current work summer pruning was applied to slender spindle bush type of early maturing peach trees grafted on vigorous rootstocks. Three trials were conducted: summer shoot thinning, shoot heading back trials in the field and a shoot heading back and shading trial in the pot experiment. Summer shoot thinning reduced tree growth and recovered proper balance between vegetative and reproductive growth. The following season such shoot thinning enhanced bud burst and initial growth of new shoots but the final tree growth was less in the summer-pruned trees compared with winter-pruned trees. The fruit matured earlier and soluble solids content was greater and titratable acidity was lower in the summer-pruned trees. The summer shoot heading back trial revealed that it regenerates shoots, although they bear fewer flower buds compared with winter-pruned trees. Such heading back is effective to keep alive shoots and buds near the trunk in slender spindle bush type systems. Summer shoot heading back and shading experiments in the pot showed that shading reduced the number of regenerated shoots and flower bud formation and delayed flower blooming in the following year. Thus summer shoot thinning and heading back are applicable to early maturing peach cultivars grafted on vigorous rootstocks to maintain the slender spindle bush type because thinning favors reducing tree vigor and light penetration near the trunk, and heading back keeps alive shoots and buds near the trunk which otherwise weaken or die back due to apical dominance and/or shading.
42883096|Two mericlones each of the apple cv Starkspur Red and of the apple rootstock M.26 were maintained through monthly sub-cultures for 31 (mericlone A) and for 8 months (mericlone B) and tested in different bi-layer conditions to reduce handling and to determine their proliferating pathways. Of the seven solutions, added twice (one a month) to the agarized proliferation medium, only that containing growth regulators, alone or together with one of the medium components, had positive results. This was mainly true for 'Starkspur Red', probably because of its peculiar proliferation pattern. Compared to agarized proliferation medium, the bi-layer method proved unsatisfactory for 'M.26' because of vitrification and lower shoot production, whereas in some cases it might be economically viable for 'Starkspur Red' as this cultivar showed low proliferation in agarized medium. The age of the expiants, in terms of subculture number, was also an important parameter, i.e. older expiants had higher proliferation in bi-layer conditions.
42882532|Field experiments were conducted during the 1996 dry and 1997 wet cropping seasons at the horticultural garden of the School of Agriculture, Abubakar Tatari Ali Polytechnic Bauchi and the research farm of the School of Agriculture, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Bauchi, respectively. The research was aimed at establishing the optimum nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizer requirements of vegetable sesame (Sesamum radiatum Schum). The treatments consisted of three levels of fertilizer N as Urea (46% N) applied at the rate of 0, 30, and 60 kg N ha and three levels of fertilizer P as single super phosphate (SSP) (7.8% P) at the rate of 0, 15, and 30 kg P ha. These treatments were factorially combined and laid out in a randomized complete block design with three replications. Application of N significantly increased plant height, number of leaves per plant, leaf area index (LAI), leaf fresh and dry weight as well as total marketable yield in the two seasons; shoot dry weight was not significantly increased by N application in the 1996 dry season. Application of P significantly increased plant height, number of leaves per plant and LAI in the 1996 dry season, while in the 1997 wet season the number of leaves per plant, LAI, leaf fresh and dry weight as well as shoot dry weight were significantly increased. NP interaction was observed to be significant on leaf fresh weight, shoot dry weight and total marketable yield in 1997 but not in 1996. It is therefore suggested that farmers should grow vegetable sesame during the rainy (wet) season and apply 30 kg N ha and 15 kg P ha in a single dose at two weeks after sowing.
42883545|In the last decade, the safety of the collection of vegetatively propagated crops in the Czech Republic leads also to the application of the cryopreservation technology. At present, the main vegetatively-propagated crops cryopreserved in the Czech cryobank include Allium spp., potato, apple, pear, Prunus spp., strawberry and hop. In apple, a ' two-step freezing" protocol and the encapsulation-dehydration method are used with dormant buds and shoot tips, respectively. The "ultra-rapid cryopreservation method", consisting in the quenching in liquid nitrogen of aluminium foils containing dehydrated shoot tips, is used for potato and hop meristems. As for Allium, best results are obtained after shoot tips, excised from bulblets and microbulbs, are treated with PVS3 (50% glycerol, 50% sucrose) and direct plunged into liquid nitrogen. The DSC (Differential Scanning Calorimetry) is an important tool to carry out basic thermodynamic studies on the temperature of glass transition in meristematic tissues, during rapid cooling in liquid nitrogen and rapid re-warming.
42881914|Gerbera is an important cut flower and requires continuous improvement in certain characters like flower colour, flower morphology, flower longevity, flower size, and disease resistance. Possible approaches to create genetic variability for the selection of useful plants are mutagenesis, somaclonal variation and genetic transformation. As an alternative, Agrobacterium T-DNA (tumour inducing DNA) insertion in plants can also be used for creating genetic variability. Somaclonal variation may arise due to genetic or epigenetic changes. The latter are unstable and are not transmitted to the progeny and have to be identified before plants are multiplied for the large-scale production using biochemical (isozymes) and molecular markers (RAPD, RFLP, AFLP). Genetic engineering has yet to provide cost effective and reliable products and moreover unstable gene expression, especially for flower colour, is a major problem in transgenic plants under field conditions.
42883250|Leaf nutrient levels in relation to yield were investigated on 30 representative apple orchards (cv. Starkrimson) grown in northern Greece. Leaf samples were analysed for mineral content while the yield of each orchard was recorded for three successive years (1996-1998). Multiple regression analysis revealed that yield was closely related to leaf mineral content of N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Mn, Zn and Fe (r = 0.9433). Moreover, the nutrients K and Zn were identifed as significant for yield prediction after the application of a stepwise variable selection programme. The leaf nutrient sufficiency ranges were a) macronutrients (%): N 2.43-318, P0.12-0.22, K 1.04-2.07, Ca 0.80-2.13, Mg 0.33-1.15 and b) micronutrients (ppm): Mn 28.5-258.0, Zn 13.0-80.5 and Fe 76.5-186.5.
42882539|This study investigated different methods to propagate the cherry rootstock Gisela 5 by using micrografting and root cuttings. The results showed that use of parafilm, as wrapping material, significantly increased the success of micrografting in comparison to adhesive tape. Covering of micrografted plants with polyethylene bags showed higher success in comparison to uncovered plants. The possibility to create inter-stock by using micrografting, but with very low success percentage (10%) was also shown. Rooting and sprouting of root cuttings can be achieved in a high percentage without any benzylaminopurine (BAP) application. Finally, budding of root cuttings is possible with a very high percentage of success.
42882772|Thirty-seven pecan tree selections of seedling origin were evaluated for nut and kernel characters. Analysis of variance showed a substantial amount of variability for a majority of the traits. The range of mean performance varied from 1.24 mm for shell thickness to 69.41% for kernel oil content. Estimates of PCV were higher for all the traits investigated. High heritability estimation coupled with high genetic advance was observed for kernel oil (%). Furthermore, mean nut weight had positive and significant association with nut width, shell thickness, kernel weight, kernel width and kernel length. However, based on path coefficient analysis, nut length, kernel weight, kernel percentage, kernel width, kernel length and kernel protein showed positive effects towards nut yield.
42883067|CO at 400 to 1800 ppm increases rooting, dry weight and carbohydrate levels at the base of the normal cuttings and the dry weight of the fruit of fruit-bearing cuttings. Even with these positive effects the presence of fruit on olive cuttings durings the rooting period nullifies rooting in normal and CCh-enriched environments.
42883352|The present investigation was carried out to estimate combining ability effects of parents and hybrids for some biochemical constituents important for tomato fruit quality and processing. The experimental material comprised three genetic male sterile (pollen abortive type) lines, 12 male parents and their 36 F hybrids produced in a line  tester fashion. Observations were recorded on total soluble solids (TSS), pH, titratable acidity, dry matter (DM), lycopene and total carotenoids. Analysis of variance for combining ability revealed that MS due to hybrids were significant at P 0.05 for all the characters. The analysis further revealed significant differences among lines, testers and lines  testers for all the characters studied, suggesting the importance of both additive and non-additive gene effects. Based upon the information drawn, parents and crosses are identified for their utilization through pure line breeding and hybrid production.
42882451|Diversification of agro-ecosystems can play a role in developing sustainable agriculture insofar as they allow for the diversification of products and goods on the same farm. The present study deals with the possibilities of 'fruit and wood' orchard management in the case of chestnut trees. The main objective of this work is to determine, for two clones of hybrid trees Castanea sativa  Castanea crenata, the technical methods for getting (from the same tree) nuts in the short term and quality timber in the long term. Four varying lengths of pruned stems were tested on trees between three and eight years of age in a trial located in southwest France. After five years of pruning, growth was reduced by 3 to 4% in height and by 13 to 23% in diameter, according to fruit pruning literature, but for the two lengthiest pruning types of the more vigorous clone, the pruning effect is positive, indicating a fast top growth reaction to pruning of branches, assessed to be about + 6%. For fruit production, the reduction due to pruning is only in terms of bur number and varies from 30 to 70% between fruit pruning and forest pruning. The maximum length prunable in chestnut is limited by the amount of natural defects, but it can reach a maximum of 7 m.
42881700|Storage of cv. Fortune tangerines for 8 weeks at continuous (6C) or cyclical (6 days at 2C + 1 day at 14C) low temperatures, followed by 2 weeks at 20C (shelf life), resulted in an increase of the volatile compounds acetaldehyde, formic acid, formaldehyde, and acetic acid and a decrease in limonene content. The incidence of mycological disorders and the increase of ethanol, acetaldehyde and acetone in the juice were greater in fruit stored at continuous low temperature, whereas chilling injury and weight loss were significantly higher under the cyclical regime.
42882610|The effects of two moisture levels on the growth, antioxidant enzymes activity, K uptake and endogenous cytokinin levels of one-year-old ' Flemish Beauty 9 pear grafted on two Pyrus seedling rootstocks [Kainth (Pyrus pashia Buck and Ham.), Shiara (Pyrus serotina Redh.)] and three donai quince rootstocks [BA 29, Quince A and Quince C] were studied for six months. Irrigations were applied as and when soil water potential reached -0.5 bar in control and -5.0 bar in water-stressed plants. Growth data suggest that plant height, leaf area and shoot and root dry weights of plants on different rootstocks decreased markedly in parallel with water stress. Plants grafted on Kainth and BA 29 rootstocks seemed to be less affected by water stress than those on the other rootstocks. The activities of antioxidant enzymes, such as peroxidase and Superoxide dismutase (POD and SOD), and free proline content increased significantly with water stress; however the increases were higher in plants grafted on Kainth and BA 29 rootstocks. The concentration of K and two endogenous cytokinins (zeatin and zeatin riboside) decreased markedly with the onset of water stress. Plants on Kainth and BA 29 rootstocks showed less reduction in the concentrations of K and the endogenous cytokinins with water stress. These results suggest that plants on Kainth and BA 29 rootstocks exhibit a better protection mechanism against oxidative damage by maintaining higher proline contents and stronger POD and SOD activities than those on other rootstocks.
42882612|A few pleiotropic, single gene ripening mutants such as slow-ripening alcobaca (ale), ripening inhibitor (rin) and non-ripening (nor) inhibit or greatly slow down a wide range of processes related to ripening of normal tomato fruit and in homozygous form extend fruit shelf life by 250-500% making fruits less prone to post-harvest fruit rots but giving poor colour and inferior flavour. Fruits from plants heterozygous for these mutants exhibit shelf life which is many times more than wild cultivare, develop acceptable colour and flavour, extend fruit availability period and retain resistance to fruit rots. Mutant htrozygotes generally show a higher number of fruits/plant, total yield/plant and marketable yield/plant than their parents. Lycopene content, fruit firmness, alcohol insoluble solids, ascorbic acid and shelf life of fruits of mutant htrozygotes are mostly intermediate with respect to their parents. Fruits of mutant htrozygotes mostly have titratable acidity higher than and total soluble solids at par or lower than those of their wild parent. The commercial use of rin , nor and ale mutants has been made in various countries including Australia, Russia, China, Poland, Bulgaria, the United States and Israel. Their use is restricted due to a lower lycopene content that may be improved by utilization of colour enhancing genes (og  and hp). Reaction of these mutants to water and salt stress, characteristics of double htrozygotes and evolution of new fruit ripening mutants are also reviewed.
24586790|An experiment was conducted to assess the agronomic performance and essential oil composition of Ocimum basilicum L. (basil) with two genotypes during autumn-winter cycle, in a hydroponic system in greenhouse. Genotypes (i.e. green and purple) were provided to study productive parameters. Two harvest dates and both genotypes formed treatments to investigate oil composition and its stability. One pruning was made before the last harvests. Results of fresh and dry weight (g. plant-1), absolute growth rate (g. day-1) and relative growth (g. g-1.day-1) and yield (g. plant-1) showed great differences in comparison with the optimal growing season values. Although pruning encourages new growth, it was strongly reduced in purple basil. Essential oil composition varied for both genotypes and between harvest dates. Linalool prevailed at the first harvest date whereas methyl-eugenol increased towards the second harvest date, and significantly in purple basil. Radiation and temperature data showed a downward trend during the cycle which influenced biomass production and essential oil composition. Green basil had better productive behavior than the purple variety. Essential oil stability between harvest dates varied for both genotypes. Pruning strongly affected purple basil growth which altered essential oil composition. The findings presented in this study confirm that it is possible to grow basil in autumn-winter season in greenhouse. Although yield slightly decreases in comparison with optimal growing season, high quality aromatic plants can be obtained.
42883370|The results of research carried out in a two-year period (1999/00-2000/01) in the district of Portici (Naples) on the "Tropea" onion, particularly appreciated as a fresh or green onion by northern Italian markets, are reported and discussed. Eight treatments obtained by a factorial combination of four planting times (September 4th, October 4th, November 3rd or December 2nd) and two propagation modes (direct-seeded bulbs or seedlings with three completely expanded leaves) were compared using a split-plot design with three replications.A gradual crop cycle extension corresponded to the progressive delay in planting, since the increasingly unfavourable temperature trend caused reduced plant growth. Use of bulb sets resulted in harvest more than a week earlier. Summer planting provided the best yield (an average of 66.2 g per plant), whereas a halved yield (33.8 g per plant) was obtained with the December planting, which instead produced a higher edible fraction percentage (53.2 vs 33.5). Cumulated dry matter and leaf area were highest with the first planting time (463.4 gm and 3.58 m nr respectively) and lowest with the last (240.6 gnr and 1.84 mm); crop growth rate attained the highest level with the first cycle as well (5.21 gm d) but the lowest was recorded with the third time (2.26 gmd).The latter planting time was effective with regard to quality, as the highest levels of dry and optical residues, sugars, citric and malic acids, proteins and most of the analysed mineral nutrients were recorded in the bulbs. Propagation mode showed no influence on either bulb yield or quality.
42881643|The location of Prunus necrotic ringspot (PNRSV), prune dwarf (PDV) and apple mosaic (ApMV) ilarviruses in pollen and seeds of infected trees was investigated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in eight cultivars of almond, four of which were infected by ApMV, two by PNRSV and two by PDV. PNRSV and PDV were found in pollen grains, both internally and externally, and in ovules. ApMV was detected only in the ovules of cv. Tuono. Integuments, cotyledons and embryos of seeds collected from fifteen infected almond varieties (five per virus) were tested separately. The incidence of infection was higher for integuments (up to 75.5% for ApMV, 92.6% for PNRSV and 100.0% for PDV), than for cotyledons and embryos (up to 15.0% for PNRSV, 2.6% for PDV). Tests on 1,810 seedlings from various seed stocks confirmed in part the results for embryos: PNRSV infection ranged from 4.5 to 11.5%, whereas PDV and ApMV were not detected in any of the seedlings assayed.
42882054|The effects of "rindite" and bromoethane on dormancy breakage, tuber germination, sprout development, the number of sprouts and total yield of small (<100 g) and large (>100 g) potato tubers of potato cv. Spunta were investigated over a two-year period (1996-97). Both bromoethane and "rindite" promoted tuber germination, more rapid sprout development, a greater number of sprouts per tuber and a higher yield in comparison with the untreated control. The beneficial effects of bromoethane indicate that this chemical may be used successfully to replace "rindite" to break the dormancy of seed potato for autumn cultivation.
42881794|Adult leaves of quince BA29 grown in vitro were used to promote somatic embryogenesis. A series of experiments is reported on both the induction of the phenomenon and the subsequent phases of embryo maturation. Induction was achieved with a liquid MS medium supplemented with 2,4-D at concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 10.0 mg/l. The effect of ABA, TIBA and sucrose is discussed. The resulting proembryonal masses and embryoids were abnormal and did not reach full maturity.
42882694|The response of 'Nabali' olive plants to salt stress relief or exogenous salicylic acid (SA) pre-treatment under short-term salinity to improve salt tolerance was investigated. Transplants of 'Nabali' olive grown in plastic pots in sandy loam soils and irrigated with a nutrient solution supplemented with multicomponent electrolyte solutions were used. Irrigation water salinity was increased at 20 molc/m increments to a maximum of 120 molc/m at a constant stiochiometric ratio of 1:1 for Cl:SO and 1:1 for Ca:Mg and fixed sodium adsorption ratio (SAR) of 5. Number of new shoots, leaf area, dry weights of shoot and root and relative growth rate were reduced progressively by higher salinity levels. Leaf and root Na and Cl contents increased by salinization. Root content of both Na and Cl tended to be higher than those of leaf. During the period of relief from stress, a partial recovery of growth was detected. In addition, although leaf Na and Cl contents in leaf and root continued to increase as electrolyte concentration increased, a considerable decrease in their accumulation was observed, compared to corresponding salt concentrations, during recovery. SA pre-treatments partially diminished the inhibiting effect of salinity on growth of olive plants. SA pre-treatments reduced Na and Cl concentrations of leaves and roots, and prevented toxic effects of salinity because less Na and Cl accumulated in leaves and roots. These results suggest that the use of relief and SA pre-treatments may be useful methods to increase salt tolerance in olive on a long-term basis, for use in arid and saline environments.
42881838|In this first contribution we report the outcome of the growth analysis, yield and water use efficiency (WUE) as well as of nitrate content in hydroponically grown endive with two N levels (8 and 16 mM) supplied in two $NH_4^ +:NO_3^ - $ ratios (50:50 and 0:100). Upon application of the 8 mM N nutritive solution, plants accumulated more dry matter than with 16 mM N. With the first N level, CGR and RGR were higher and also yield was greater, particularly when N was supplied in mixed form. On average, with 8 mM N, 3.9 g dry matter per litre of uptaken water were produced; with 16 mM N, instead, 3.6 and 3.2 g.1 were produced depending, respectively, on whether N had been supplied in mixed form or as nitrate only. Also shoot quality was positively affected by the mixed form and the lower level of N. With 50:50 $NH_4^ +:NO_3^ - $ ratio, dry matter content was, on average, lower than with 100 % $NO_3^ - $-N (6.0 vs 6.6 g.100 g fresh product) and also nitrates decreased (4,116 vs 5,676 mg.kg of fresh product). By increasing N level from 8 to 16 mM, nitrate leaf content increased from 4,157 to 5,634 mg. kg of fresh product.
42883404|A method is described for producing de novo shoots from internode-derived callus of carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus L.). Plants were regenerated in four steps: callus induction, control of callus hyperhydricity, shoot regeneration and root formation. Callus induction occurred on full strength MS medium supplemented with NAA and TDZ. Callus hyperhydricity was avoided using half-strength MS medium. From internode callus, shoot buds obtained on medium containing 0.05 mg/1 NAA with 2 mg/1 BA and 10 mg/1 AgNO needed to be subcultured on 1 mg/1 NAA supplemented MS medium for proliferation. Shoots were rooted on half-strength MS medium with 0.5 mg/1 IBA. Regenerated plants with well-developed root and shoot systems were successfully transferred to field conditions following acclimatization.
42882309|Fresh-cut melons dipped for 1 min in a 2.5% calcium lactate solution, and stored in air and in active (AMA) and passive (PMA) modified atmosphere conditions for 12 days at 5 C, presented firmer texture (14.7 N) than untreated samples (10.5 N). Untreated pieces showed a translucent appearance which was not visible on treated samples which consequently presented a better color retention. Modified atmosphere conditions (active and passive) did not induce any improvement in quality attributes of melon pieces, although packaging conditions did not ensure proper atmosphere composition within plastic bags. Decay incidence in air was double compared to the samples in both AMA and PMA.
42881975|Observations are reported on Phyllocnistis citrella in Tuscany on citrus trees cultivated for ornamental purposes. Investigations took place in the parks of two Medici villas on the outskirts of Florence in plants of sour orange, cultivated in soil in an espalier, and on potted plants belonging to ancient collections of citrus trees: lemon, sour and sweet orange, grapefruit, mandarin, ponciro, hybrids and miscellaneous cultivars. The citrus trees were cultivated in the open air from April to October; the plants in pots were then transferred to the unheated citrus greenhouse, and the espaliers were sheltered with reed mats. Seven to eight generations per year were observed between May and December with the pupa overwintering stage. The development times from egg to adult ranged from 16 to 18 days in the middle of summer and up to 39 days in November. In the laboratory, on leaves of lemon trees maintained at 80% RH and 12-hr photoperiod, the development cycle took place in 18.8 days at the thermoperiod of 15C: 25C. The lowest thermal threshold was a constant 5C, but pupae survived at 2C at least one month. Citrus myrtifolia and Severinia buxifolia were the only resistant species. No significant differences in infestation and damage appeared among the other species and cultivars of the collection. In the plants with less extensive foliar surface, such as mandarin, ponciro and Citrus aurantium salicifolia, the damage was less evident, the infestation being equal. In relation to the aesthetic and, at times, historical value of the citrus trees considered, the tolerance level for damage is about 10% of the plants with symptoms of attack. Natural enemies of P. citrella are practically absent in the outskirts of Florence: one single specimen of Cirrospilus pictus (Nees) (Eulophidae) was found and one Braconidae.
42882921|In the current context of global changes, phenology is expected to be one of the major processes affected by temperature increase, notably through the dynamics of endodormancy release. However, the actual impact on bud break pattern is difficult to predict due to poor knowledge about the spatial extent of chilling sensing, which likely affects bud break heterogeneity. Indeed, contrary to a widely held opinion, the strictly local perception of the chilling air signal has never been demonstrated. The present experiment addresses this issue through local chilling or heating of selected nodal groups of buds on shoots of peach tree under endodormancy. A temperature-conditioned localizable air-jet device was designed to provide the sharpest possible temperature contrast between selected treated buds and the 'not-treated' rest of the tree structure, including adjacent axis tissue. Different chilling doses were tested over two experimental seasons, and a heat treatment was applied on single nodes in a cold environment. Chilled vegetative buds did not break when the local chilling dose received was less than 50% of the requirements even though neighboring axis tissue received the standard chilling dose. The maximum rate of bud break reached 80% at chilling completion and most of the broken buds produced long shoots. We conclude that temperature sensing occurs on a very local scale with the signal not reaching neighboring untreated buds, meaning that endodormancy release should be considered a very local process. The local response permits analysis of the intra-canopy heterogeneity of bud break and the possible relationship between bud status and intra-canopy heterogeneity of bud temperature.
42881703|The softening of cv. Hayward fruit kept in air, air + CH, and CA (2% O + 5% CO ) + CH 4 at 20  C was related to ethylene biosynthesis and action. Fruit softening (firmness below 40 N) occurred after 10,14 and 21 days of treatment with air + CH, air, and CA + CH, respectively. No relationship between whole fruit measurable ethylene evolution and loss of firmness was found. In air and air + CH treatments the ethylene rise generally appeared only after the fruit had partially softened (firmeness about 50 N). No ethylene peak was observed, at least during the experimental period, in fruit softened in CA + CH. ACC content slightly increased in control fruit during ripening. A higher ACC concentration was induced by exogenous ethylene only in fruit kept in air. ACC oxidase activity was stimulated in air + CH and reduced in C A + CH. In control fruit the highest ACC oxidase activity (over 40 nl ethylene/gfw/h) was observed when the penetration force dropped below 50 N. The appearance of the ethylene peak, which took place in the second phase of the ripening process was concurrent with a great increase of ACC oxidase activity.
42883313|This study was undertaken to determine the degree of mycorrhizal colonisation in the European olive (Olea europaea L.) and assess its effect on phosphate uptake, growth and tissue phenolic content. The experiment consisted of rooted cuttings of olive cv. Frantoio, grown under five levels of applied soluble phosphate, plus or minus inoculation with a mixture of three arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, Glomus invermaium, Acaulospora laevis and Scutellospora calospora for a 20 week period. Root colonisation was found to be high across all phosphate levels with a range from 58% to 77%. Under the zero applied phosphate treatment inoculated plants had a 173% and 136% higher shoot and root weight respectively than uninoculated plants. Total leaf and root phenolics in inoculated plants were found to remain similar with increasing phosphate (-135 and 90 mg/g dry weight respectively) but decreased significantly for non-inoculated plants. The decrease in the total leaf and root phenolics was found to be the result of a reduction in the phenolic acids + aldehydes and phenolic glycosides + tannins phenolic fractions. In conclusion mycorrhizal colonization was found to alleviate the physiological effects of soil phosphate deficiency. It was also suggested that mycorrhizal colonisation induces changes in root phenolics that then regulate the degree of mycorrhizal colonization.
42881929|A field experiment was conducted in 1994 and 1995 to estimate the critical period of crop-weed competition in the starchy food crop sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas L.). In both years the plants were kept weedfree for various periods after planting or weeds were allowed to grow with sweet potato for different periods before being removed. The tuber yield was significantly reduced when weeds were allowed to grow beyond 45 days after planting in both years. Further delay in weed removal treatments caused drastic yield reduction. There was no significant difference in tuber yield per ha when kept weed-free up to 45 days after planting or up to harvest. The effect of long interference periods on tuber number per plant was drastic. Trends were similar to those obtained with total yield. Based upon average yield of the two years, the critical period of crop weed competition was between 30-45 days after sweet potato planting. Farmers must control weeds in this period to get optimum yield.
24586791|Two greenhouse F1 tomato cultivars, M19 and M79, were grown hydroponically and the mature green fruits were harvested and subjected to eight polyamine (PA) treatments including 1 and 2 mM putrescine (Put), spermidine (Spd) and their combination before being placed at 3C for 15 and 25 days. Electrolyte leakage, weight loss, fruit firmness, decay percentage, chilling injury index, titratable acidity, total soluble solid content and ascorbic acid content were then measured after keeping at 20C for 3 days and compared to control. The Put:Spd (2:2 mM) treatment decreased electrolyte leakage (over 50%), chilling injury index and fruit decay percentage. Combinations of PAs caused greater total soluble solids and greater effect on decreasing weight loss during storage when compared to their sole PA application. PAs caused a net increase in fruit firmness during post-harvest life. Titratable acidity increased with increasing duration of low temperature storage for all treatments. Ascorbic acid in fruits stored at low temperature for 25 days was greater than those stored for 15 days. The effects of exogenous PAs on reducing chilling-related disorders decreased with time. Correlations among weight loss, electrolyte leakage, chilling injury, decay percentage and fruit firmness during low temperature storage were positive and significant, but they were non-significant or significantly negative when compared against ascorbic acid, titratable acidity and TSS.
42882364|To evaluate the commercial potential of Tropaeolum majus climbing mix cultivar flowers as edible produce, yield, postharvest performance in various packages and antioxidant levels were determined. Increasing the day length by artificial illumination, from 10-11 hr natural day to 16 hr and 20 hr, hastened flower development and increased flower yield during a productive period of 30 days by two and four fold, respectively.Tropaeolum majus flowers are ethylene-sensitive since ethylene application enhanced their deterioration and 1-MCP reduced it. Flowers packaged under polyvinyl chloride or polypropylene films with either passive (equilibrium) or active-modified atmosphere (MA), or without atmosphere modification (in perforated packages) demonstrated improved postharvest quality as compared with non-wrapped flowers. Nevertheless, the level of deterioration in all packages was similar and flowers were kept at marketable quality up to seven days at 2-5C. An active modified atmosphere slightly reduced the deterioration of flowers. Results suggest that flower deterioration under PVC is probably a result of water loss and under polypropylene films is probably due to ethylene action. Antioxidant activity in yellow and orange flowers of the climbing mix cultivar was similar and lower than that in red flowers. Storage of flowers for seven days at 2-5C did not change the antioxidant activity.
42883195|In order to characterise the physiological phenomena which occur during acclimatisation of oil palm (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.) plantlets produced through somatic embryogenesis, a comparison of the growth and carboxylase activities of in vitro propagated plants and seedlings was carried out over a 100-day period. Growth parameters (total fresh weigh (FW), relative foliar FW and the number of expanded leaves) and biochemical characteristics (soluble protein and chlorophyll content, specific Phosphoenol pyruvate carboxylase (EC 4.1.1.31) (PEPC), Ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (EC 4.1.1.38) (RubisCO) activities and relative RubisCO content) were studied. Oil palm in vitro propagated plants were found to undergo an original pattern of acclimatisation, as their PEPC/RubisCO ratio was not affected during transplanting to the greenhouse environment and remained at the same level (ca. 0.05) as was measured in in vitro growing leaves. At about D after sowing (or ex vitro transplanting) the main physiological characteristics (chlorophyll and soluble protein contents, and PEPC/RubisCO ratio) were similar in both seedlings and in vitro propagated plants, but growth characteristics were markedly different. Rocket immuno-electrophoresis revealed that relative RubisCO amounts were in a comparable range (ca. 230 mg.g prot.) in leaves from in vitro grown and already acclimatised in vitro propagated plants and were found to be lower than in greenhouse-cultivated adult oil palms (350 mg.g prot.).
42882479|Lilium has gained popularity in past few years in many countries of the world and is in great demand in the floral industry as cut flower, as well as potted plants, due to its beauty, colour, long vase life and capacity to rehydrate after long transportation. The most commercial cultivars are propagated through vegetative means like stem bulblets, bulbils and adventitious bulblet formation on bulb scales. However, to commercialize this crop and to meet the growing demand for planting material, tissue and organ culture techniques are being used as alternative methods for propagation in many countries. Most of the work has been on plant regeneration by adventitious organogenesis from bulbscales, leaf and other parts of the plant. Growth in size of in vitro bulblets of this crop requires more attention as the bulb size affects flowering upon transfer to soil. From the literature, it is evident that lilies are highly amenable to in vitro studies as various explants have been found to favorably respond to different culture media with different types and concentrations of growth regulators.
42883231|Genetic diversity of cultivated strawberry was investigated using RAPD markers. Nineteen different strawberry genotypes, including cultivars and breeding parental lines, were analyzed with fifteen 10 bp primers. The amplification patterns revealed a high level of polymorphism. The results obtained with one of the 10 bp primers allowed a characterization of all genotypes. The DNA patterns obtained with three other primers characterized all but two genotypes. Similarity coefficients were calculated based on RAPD patterns obtained from 15 different primers and a dendrogram representing the genetic relationships among the genotypes was constructed. The results obtained in the present study, compared to previous breeding information available on the cultivars analyzed, confirm the genotypes parentage contribution. Therefore, RAPD markers can be considered a useful tool for further strawberry genetic analysis.
42881324|A study on the pollen germination of 12 cultivars of almond at low temperatures (5, 10 and 15C) and with different times of incubation (2, 6 and 24 hr) is reported. The cultivars showed different responses: the pollen of 'Jordanolo', 'NPU' and 'Peppino Lella' almond was unable to germinate within 2 or 6 hr of incubation at 5C; the pollen of 'Genco', 'Rachele piccola' and 'Tuono' exhibited germinations in most cases above the mean of the varietal population. A temperature of 5C induced a satisfactory pollen germination in all cultivars, but only after 24 hr of incubation. The evaluation of pollen germination of the cultivars divided into groups made it possible to ascertain a slower response of early-blooming and selfincompatible groups, due to the lower coefficient of germination rate of the pollen of the same three cultivars, 'Jordanolo', NPU and 'Peppino Lella', present in both groups. The pollen of 'Sannicandro', early-blooming and self-compatible, showed a germination pattern similar to that of the former three cultivars. It is suggested that the genotype of early-blooming cultivars kept the pollen from germinating quickly even at 15C, a temperature close to the optimum for the species.
42881992|We report the mode of action of a yeast Debaryomyces hansenii, 43E, isolated from fig fruits, which was able to inhibit the development of Penicillium digitatum (100-96% inhibition), Penicillium italicum (89-91%) and Botrytis cinerea (98-90%) on artificially wounded orange and satsuma fruits. Strain 43E did not produce toxic substances against the pathogens and it grew rapidly at the wound site (100 times in 24 hr). Moreover, the yeast elicited the production of phytoalexins, scopoletin and scoparone as determined by TLC and HPLC analyses. Scoparone reached fungitoxic levels at the wound site 48 hr after the inoculation. The yeast proved to be resistant to 5 g 1 TBZ, and to 0.2 g 1 IMZ, and it could grow in the wound even in the presence of 0.2 g  TBZ. The ability to apply the yeast together with TBZ to reduce P. digitatum decay on artificially wounded citrus fruits demonstrated that it is possible to use integrated control, not only reducing the dose of TBZ commonly used, but also reducing the number of yeast cells inoculated.
42882384|To verify the effects of compost-based substrates on plant biomass production and leaf gas exchanges, 200 uniform, rooted cuttings of Cornus alba 'Elegantissima' and 200 of Acer campestre 'Elsrijk' were potted in 3-1 containers using three different media (in volume). Treatments included: a) compost 1 (20% peat moss, 40% of composted yardwaste, 40% of pumice); b) compost 2 (40% peat moss, 30% of composted yardwaste, 30% pumice); c) compost 3 (40% peat moss, 20% of raw fiber, 40% pumice); 4) control (60% peat moss, 40% pumice). The effect of the different substrates was species-specific. No differences were found in terms of biomass production after two years of cultivation in both species, while some differences were found in the first year with plants grown in uncomposted raw-fiber showing less growth. Leaf gas exchanges were not influenced in Acer campestre plants in the first year, while in the second year, substrate 3 showed lower Pn and evaporation rate. No appreciable differences were detected in Cornus plants. The study shows that it is possible to use compost-based substrates in container nursery production without negative effects on plant biomass accumulation and leaf gas exchanges.
42882644|Accurate measurements of leaf area are important for agronomic and physiological studies. Determining the individual leaf area (A) of medlar (Mespilus germanica L.) involves measurements of leaf parameters, such as length (L) and width (W), or some combinations of these parameters. A two-year investigation was carried out in 2005 (on seven genotypes) and in 2006 (on one cultivar) under open-feld conditions to test whether a model could be developed to estimate leaf area across genotypes. Regression analyses of A versus L and W revealed several models could be used for estimating the area of individual medlar leaves. A linear model having LW as the independent variable (A = 1.81 + 0.68 LW) provided the most accurate estimate (R = 0.981, MSE = 7) of medlar leaf area. Validation of the model having LW of leaves from another genotype measured in the 2006 experiment showed that the correlation between calculated and measured areas was very high. Using the selected model, agronomists and physiologists can accurately and reliably estimate the leaf area of medlar without the use of expensive instruments.
42882067|Tomato fruit at turning stages of ripening were cut into disks or slices, rinsed with water containing 50 l.1 sodium hypochlorite solution and drained. They were then stored in perforated polyethylene package at 1C in air and controlled atmosphere (CA) (2% O and 5% CO) for five and ten days. Weight loss, chlorophyll and lycopene contents, seed discoloration, fungal infection, total soluble solids (TSS), TA (titratable acidity), sugar/acid ratio, pH, flavor and taste, firmness, ascorbic acid content, rate of respiration and ethylene production, and electrolyte leakage were evaluated after each storage period. The overall quality of CA-stored fresh-cut tomatoes was better than that of those stored in air. Compared to slices, fruit disks had lower weight loss, minimum seed discoloration, lower chlorophyll degradation, higher TSS and ascorbic acid content, better taste and flavor, and lower rates of respiration, ethylene production, TA content, and electrolyte leakage. Extended storage time resulted in increased weight loss, seed discoloration, pH, TA, rate of respiration and offflavor, less chlorophyll and lycopene and less TSS, sugar/acid ratio, and ascorbic acid content.
42881758|Solar radiation interception was measured at various canopy positions in 10-year-old Stark RedGold nectarine trees trained to free palmette or free spindle. Planting distances were 4.5  3 m and 4.5  2.0 for free palmette and free spindle, respectively. Measurements were made at harvest by 60 sensors placed at five heights, 25, 75,125,175, and 225 cm, and distributed so as to cover the ground area allotted to each tree. Values are expressed as percentage of total radiation available over the tree canopies. The average radiation intercepted by the canopy at 25 and 75 cm from the soil by the two training systems was higher in free spindle than in free palmette trees; at the other heights no remarkable differences were observed between the two planting systems. The lowest radiation supply to the foliage was around 20%, as recorded in the lowest and innermost part of the canopy, with highest values in free spindle tree; at greater heights the values of light penetration were very similar between free spindle and free palmette. The only appreciable difference was found at 175 cm from the ground, where radiation supply at 25 cm from the central leader was higher (10%) in free spindle than in free palmetta. This resulted in a better illumination of the free spindle canopy, particularly over midday hours.
42882194|Oregano plants were grown in soils containing various levels of copper [0.3 (control), 13.0, 17.0, 19.0, 22.0 and 24.5 M Cu/g of soil]. Treated plants showed a reduction in height which was concentration dependent. In spite of this effect, the levels of gibberellin-like substances in the stem apices and leaves of the treated plants were higher than those of the control. Application of 30 M, gibberellic acid (GA) (drops put on the stem apical meristem) resulted in a significant increase of the height of the controls. GA-treated plants grown in copper rich soil also exhibited a not statistically significant increase in height. The uptake and distribution of essential elements in the organs of the organo plants were also studied. Differences among the elements concerning their accumulation in the plant organs were observed. Their levels became modified when gibberellic acid was added on the stem apex. With some exceptions, application of GA 3 decreased the levels of Cu and other metals in the plant organs compared to non-treated plants. The negative effect of copper on the growth of organo plants is considered not to be due to the level of GAs, but probably to other parameters (toxicity, etc.).
42882857|Yield loss from rain-induced fruit cracking is a perpetual risk associated with the production of sweet cherries, and is difficult to manage due to the unpredictability of fruit responses to late season rainfall. The aim of this five-year study was to investigate the relationship between fruit crop load and incidence of cracking. The results showed a negative correlation between crop load and incidence of fruit cracking, and it was found in both natural and manipulated crop load trials for all varieties studied and in all seasons assessed. The effect of crop load on final cracking levels are determined post cell division. Results from this study showed that fruit width was positively correlated with cuticular cracking but, contrary to what has been purported in literature, no relationship between concentration of soluble sugars or firmness with the incidence of cracking was found. This study has confirmed that crop load should be a major consideration in orchard practices in developing strategies to manage fruit cracking.
42883179|Predators of Colorado potato beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata (CPB)) are an important component of CPB suppression by biological control in New Jersey (USA) eggplant fields. Here we report the results of a preliminary study on the effects of strip-insectary intercropping with flowers on predator abundance and CPB suppression in experimental eggplant fields. Strip-insectary intercropping with flowers is known to increase beneficial insect survivorship, fecundity and retention and crop pest suppression in agroecosystems. However, little is known about the compatibility of predator foraging ability with floral architecture, i.e., the spatial relationship of the nectary with other floral parts. This a critical factor in the selection of 'proper' floral host plants, i.e., those having pollen and nectar that is accessible to predators. Laboratory evaluations and field observations of the foraging performance of Coleomegilla maculata and Chrysoperla carnea on flowers with disparate floral architectures indicated that dill (Anethum graveolens) and coriander (Coriandrum sativa) had floral architectures that were complementary to the head morphology and foraging behavior of these representative CPB predators. To measure the effect of strip-insectary intercropping with "proper" flowers on CPB suppression, the fate of 120 eggmasses and resultant larvae placed on individual sentinel eggplant plants was followed during two 9-day periods in 100 m  40 m eggplant fields intercropped with two rows of either dill or coriander and in a flowerless control field. In addition, coccinellid species richness and abundance was censused weekly in each test field from early July to mid-August. Throughout this study, the numbers of coccinellids observed during each census were significantly higher in the fields interplanted with dill and coriander than in the flowerless control field. Although there were no differences among treatments in the number of hatched CPB eggmasses, significantly more CPB eggmasses were consumed in the dill-intercropped fields than in the control field. Survivorship of CPB larvae at the end of each survey was highest in the control field and lowest in the dill field. These results suggest that strip-intercropping with "proper" flowers can greatly enhance CPB predator conservation and augmentation in vegetable cropping systems.
42881629|Storage roots of Asparagus officinalis L. in two and six-year-old cv. B.A. Marionnet plants were analysed from autumn to late spring  early summer to determine dry matter, total 80% ethanol soluble carbohydrates (TESC) and reducing sugars (RS). The date of sampling had a significant effect on all variables. In plants of both ages the concentration of TESC was lowest and the concentration of RS was highest during spring, the period of active plant growth. The two  year  old plants had a second peak of RS in January, the rest period for plants, which was larger than the one observed in spring. The dry matter in the two  year  old plants was highest in winter  early spring and lowest in late spring.
42883214|Four gynoecious F hybrids (mmFF) of cucumber were evaluated for six years to determine the level of hybrid (G)  Year (Y) interaction for fruit number/plant and yield/plant in subtropical field conditions with the aim of developing efficient field evaluation techniques to maximise yield gain. G  Y interactions were significant for both characters but these were of a lower magnitude for yield/plant and the ranking of the topperforming hybrids was consistent through the years.
42883040|A long-term experiment on fertilization, started in 1964, on three soil types (clay, peaty-clay and sandy) is being carried out in north-eastern Italy. Two annual levels of fertilization (medium and high), using mineral fertilizer (MF) alone, farmyard manure (FyM) alone or a combination of MF and FyM are compared with a non-fertilized control, with treatment being repeated each year on the same plots. This paper reports the 1989 results on spring-grown (SG) crisphead lettuce (Lactuca sativa L. var. crispa L.), kohlrabi (Brassica oleracea L. var. gongylodes L.) and autumn-grown (AG) crisphead lettuce. SG lettuce received 100-50-140 kg ha of N-PO-KO at medium level, double that amount at high level; kohlrabi received 50-25-70 kg ha of N-PO-KO at medium level, double amounts at high level. AG lettuce was not fertilized. The clay soil resulted to be the most suitable for the production of all the crops, showing good and fairly steady productivity with different fertilization management. In such conditions, fertilization was useful, but its effects on the various crops varied according to the source and amount of fertilizers. In sandy soil, fertilization was necessary and, generally, when organic fertilizer was used, it allowed the lowest natural productivity of this soil to be offset almost completely. For both lettuce and kohlrabi, the peaty-clay soil performed similarly to clay, showing slightly lower productivity and higher variability of yield.
42883586|Trunk shakers are primarily used for the mechanical harvesting of oil olives in intensive orchards. The objective of this trial was to determine the efficiency of mechanical harvesting of olives with a self-propelled trunk shaker with a reversed umbrella interceptor (model F3, SICMA, Catanzaro, Italy), from adult trees of two autochthonous cultivars, 'Ortice' and 'Ortolana', growing hi southern Italy with 6  6 m spacing and trained to the vase system. The main characteristics of the trunk shaker were: an engine power of 77 Kw (105 CV), a very-high-frequency vibrating head (1800-2000 vibrations/min), a self-braking system and a 6-meter diameter umbrella opening. The worksite consisted of two workers one for maneuvering the harvesting machine and the other for handling the olives. Mechanical harvesting was carried on 30 November 2006 when the fruits of 'Ortice' and 'Ortolana' had a weight and detachment force around 2.8 g and 3.1 N and 3.8 g and 4.6 N, respectively, and the fruit drop was around 14% and 10%, respectively. Both cultivars had a good production (26.06 and 21.18 kg/tree). The mechanical harvesting yield (percentage of mechanically harvested olives) was very high, reaching values around 97% in both cultivars. Moreover, the low number of workers, the reduced time for the operation (2.5 min/tree), the good yield/tree and the high quantity of harvested fruit allowed a very high work productivity to be obtained: around 302 kg/h/worker for 'Ortice' and 246 kg/h/worker for 'Ortolana'. The quality of the oils extracted from the harvested olives met the requirements set by European law for extra virgin olive oils. The results indicate that the use of a trunk shaker with a reversed umbrella can be an efficient solution for mechanical harvesting of the 'Ortice' and 'Ortolana' cultivars in southern Italy.
42881516|Almond trees (Amygdalus communis L. cv. Garrigues) were grown in the field under drip irrigated conditions. The effect of four different amounts of water applied on floral biology were studied. There was an increase in the time necessary to complete the evolution of the almond's phenological stages in the drier treatments. Flowering intensity, fruit-set and yield were higher in the wetter treatments. No statistically significant differences were observed in flowering density, which indicate that the number of flowers per tree is a direct function of canopy area. The kernel characteristics were unaffected by the amount of water applied.
42881558|Twenty-one F hybrids from a 3x7 factorial mating design together with parents were evaluated in three locations of Italy's Po valley. As compared to mid-parent, hybrids were superior for both marketable and soluble solid yields (+11.0 % and +8.7%, respectively, as an average over environments); heterosis proved to be higher in the less favourable environments. The yield advantage of F progenies was attained through a higher number of fruits per m (+14.5%), which offset a slight decrease in fruit mean weight (-4.3%). Hybrid performance, however, did not prove better than the high parent for any trait. The genotype  environment interaction was, for almost all the examined characters, more limited in heterozygous than in homozygous genotypes. For branch length as well as for total, marketable and soluble solid yields, a rather high correlation between hybrid and mid-parent values was found: this suggests the desirability of a preliminary screening of parental lines based on a per se performance.
42881520|Embryoculture is already extensively used in plant breeding. Its most common application is to overcome incompatibility barriers in the obtaining of interspecific and intergeneric hybrids. In our work embryoculture was used to single out bean genotypes whose seeds are able to germinate at low temperatures. Several media were examined and the techniques involved in embryo extraction and cultivation were determined. The genotypes were seen to vary much more at 8 C than at higher temperatures. The low temperature germination results were negative for the beans with white seed coats. After examining the development of the embryos it was observed that the negative results were due to the seed coats. Most results obtained by embrioculture were confirmed in field trials. Accession VL0002 of Phaseolus vulgaris was found capable of germinating at low temperature. For this reason it was chosen for a breeding programme which aims at transferring this characteristic to other genotypes.
42881399|Research was conducted in Southern Italy with the aim of comparing the physiological light response of Lilium plants cultivated in full sun-light compared to those commonly grown under shading nets. Leaves at different heights within the canopy and in different light conditions were used to test their reaction to modulated light. Fv/Fm ratio (Fv = variable fluorescence; Fm = maximum yield of fluorescence under ambient light) of leaves exposed to full sunlight condition was similar to those of sheltered plants on two dates out of three, suggesting there had been no damage to PSII. Photon yield (overall of photochemical energy conversion) of sunlight leaves was consistently lower than those of shaded plants, meanwhile the electron transport was similar. Thermal energy dissipation activity of sunlit leaves increased as the level of excess light absorbed by chlorophyll increased, probably to prevent any damage to plant physiological processes and growth. Data on Fv /Fm , dry matter partitioning and leaf area support this hypothesis. Data on light penetration showed that a high portion of radiation energy was absorbed by the soil in the last growth month.
42881725|The levels of free and bound putrescine and spermidine increase mainly in tobacco thin cell layers when root meristemoids appear (Torrigiani et al., 1989). Inhibitors of putrescine and spermidine biosynthesis depress the rhizogenic response and no recovery of root formation is observed when the polyamine is added to its inhibitor at the onset of culture (Altamura et al., 1991b). The proliferative growth of the explants is markedly disturbed and particular cytological events, such as nucleolar extrusion and cell expansion, are induced when polyamine biosynthesis is inhibited. The addition of the corresponding polyamine to its inhibitor drastically reduces these events (Altamura et al., 1993). The addition of spermidine at the time of its maximum depletion induces, in explants treated with a specific inhibitor of its biosynthesis, a good recovery of the rhizogenic response (Torrigiani et al., 1993). Thus, a relationship seems to exist between polyamines and rhizogenesis in the thin cell layer system.
42883369|The expression and inheritance of the npt II (neomycin phosphotransferase II) gene was studied in progenies deriving from parental plants earring one (genotype 9A) or three (genotype 4A) active transgene copies. Both self-pollination (T)and back-pollinated (BC) progenies were analysed, considering that self-pollination leads to an increase of the homologous sequences, thus to higher probability of gene silencing in the progeny plants. Kanamycin resistance analysis showed a Mendelian inheritance for T and BC progeny from 9A genotype indicating that the single T-DNA keeps its functionality both in homozygous and heterozygous state.Kanamycin resistance is inherited in a Mendelian fashion also in the BC progenies of 4A genotype showing that the T-DNA loci, which segregate independently, keep their functionality when present in the heterozygous state. T progenies from 4A genotype contain several kanamycin sensitive plants. Some of them proved to be methylated in the promoter region of two or three transgenes and expressed none, or a very low amount of npt II encoding RNA.
42882927|With dense shoots above ground, a well-developed root system and large amounts of biomass underground, turfgrass provides many environmental benefits, including moderating soil erosion, water runoff and leaching, contributing to carbon sequestration, moderating temperatures, and reducing noise, glare, and visual pollution. In this investigation, (Cynodon dactylon [L.] Pers.) tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea Schreb.) and common bermudagrass were compared in monoculture and different mixtures of 0 to 100%, based on the number of seeds used. Perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne L.), a common lawn in Shiraz, was used as control. The experiment was conducted in a split block design (season as main plot and turfgrass types as subplot) and each treatment had four replications. Data were analyzed with MSTATC software and means were compared using Tukey's test at 5% level. Turfgrasses were compared by measuring visual quality after winter and summer, rooting depth, verdure and/or root fresh and dry weight, tiller density, and clippings fresh and dry weight. Results showed that, with the exception of mean rooting depth and chlorophyll index after summer, spring sowing is better than fall sowing. However, it can be concluded that the 80% tall fescue and 20% bermudagrass treatment is the best treatment, or has not significant differences with the other good treatments, except with regard to tiller density. This type can be used alternatively in overseeding programs in areas with soil and environmental conditions similar to the present investigation site.
42882087|The effects of salinity and high temperature stress conditions which often occur during greenhouse cultivation have been investigated in sweet pepper (Capsicum annuum L.). The responses were evaluated by measuring growth, nitrate content and reduction, protein and chlorophyll contents, proteolytic activity, as well as Na, K, Ca and Cl contents. Plants exposed to salt stress strongly reduced growth and reproductive activity. In addition, salinity caused higher rates of membrane-bound NR activities and higher levels of total chlorophyll. Na and Cl contents increased. On the contrary, high temperature did not affect growth and reproductive activity. In response to heat, pepper showed a significant increase in the NADH-dependent NR activity and increased nitrate content suggesting a possible enhancement in nitrate uptake during heat stress. A slight increase in chlorophyll content and a strong reduction in Na and Cl content were observed under the same conditions.
42882445|The bryophyte epiphytic biodiversity in some chestnut stands on Mount Etna were investigated. This is a numerically poor xerophytic flora, with a clearly dominant moss component and a rather high acrocarpous/pleurocarpous ratio. Based on the biodiversity index, incidence of the degree of resistance of the various taxa to pollutants, and degree of reproductivity of the species, some considerations on the environmental state of health are expressed. Some different moss species were evaluated for the bioaccumulation: Scleropodium touretii and Hypnum resupinatum at Piano del Vescovo, Bryum capillare and Brachythecium velutinum at Fossa La Nave, and Hypnum cupressiforme and Homalothecium sericeum at Ballila.
42883146|In root cells of a woody fruit species, Olea europaea L. cv. Frantoio, electrophysiological measurements were carried out for the first time. A strong dependence of electrogenesis on low temperatures emerged. The depolarization provoked by addition of K was closely related to the external concentration of the ion. In addition, anoxia and DNP (2,4-dinitrophenol) reversibly depolarized the cell PD (electropotential difference). The plasma membrane was impaired by prolonged contact with the inhibitor.
42881800|Field experiments were conducted to determine the effects of nitrogen levels (0,30,60 and 90 kg N/ha), timing of nitrogen application (single and split applications), intra-row spacing (5,10,15 and 20 cm) and harvesting frequency (every two and every three weeks) on the growth and yield of vegetable sesame. The experiments were conducted at Bauchi in the savanna ecological zone of Nigeria. Plant height, leaf area index and marketable yield were significantly increased by nitrogen application. Split application of nitrogen produced significantly higher total marketable yield than single application. Decrease in intra-row spacing resulted in a significant decrease in yield per plant, however yield per hectare increased significantly. Although total marketable yield was not significantly affected by harvesting frequency, harvesting sesame at fortnightly intervals produced higher yields. The results encouraged a split application of 60 kg N/ha and a spacing of 20  10 cm for optimum production of vegetable sesame.
42883406|Research was carried out in 2000 and 2001 in a fifteen-year-old Sangiovese/420 A vineyard to evaluate groundcover in an environment characterized by scarce summer rainfall. Four treatments were included: a) soil tillage; b) groundcover with natural grass; c) groundcover with Subterraneum clover; d) groundcover with Tall fescue. Readings were performed on vegetative and productive characteristics as well as on leaf gas exchanges. Results of leaf gas exchanges showed that ground cover versus soil tilling decreased net photosynthesis (A). In both years, the lowest values of A were found in vines grown with Tall fescue, while the highest values were found with soil tilling. A corresponding reduction in the transpiration rate was not observed, indicating that A reduction is regulated by a non-stomatal mechanism. Reduction of pruning material weight, shoot growth, and leaf area per vine were observed in both years in the grass-covered plots. These results show that groundcover influences vegetative activity by affecting leaf gas exchanges. Groundcover negatively affected vine yields, especially in the Tall fescue case in both years; the reduction was due to a lower cluster number as well as lower cluster weight. Time between veraison and harvest was reduced by all types of grass covers and especially by fescue. The groundcover could be used even in areas with scarce rainfall during the growing season, with positive influence on qualitative berry characteristics and harvest date.
42882329|One-year-old Actinidia deliciosa cv. Hay ward were grown in a controlled environment at normal and elevated CO concentrations to determine the effect of high CO on plant growth, biochemical characteristics and oxalate synthesis. Actinidia is a plant rich in oxalate. Plantlets exposed to elevated CO had lower photosynthetic activity and were shorter, and leaves were only about half the size of those produced by plants grown with normal CO. Chemical analysis revealed that plantlets grown with elevated CO had somewhat higher levels of nitrate nitrogen and higher levels of oxalates in the leaves and shoots, but levels of ascorbic acid were low. The higher CO concentration also reduced the rate of ascorbic acid synthesis, which has an important role in key aspects of plant metabolism.
42882533|Two okra varieties ('White velvet' and 'Ex-Borno') were grown in the field during the 1997 and 1999 wet seasons and 1998 and 2000 dry seasons, representing different environments. Okra seeds were treated with three concentrations (0, 75 and 150 ppm) of gibberellic acid (GA) in all the seasons to compare the seasonal response of the crop to GA. A more favourable response of the yield and yield parameters was recorded during the wet season. GA affected days to flowering, fruit set and yield of the two okra varieties in the dry season only. A reduction in days to flowering in 'White velvet' with 75 ppm GA over the control by 14 and 22 days and 15 and 19 days in 'Ex-Borno' was observed in 1998 and 2000 dry seasons, respectively. The same concentration (75 ppm) of GA increased percent fruitset by 22.9 and 45.5% in 'White velvet' and 12.2 and 33.6% in 'Ex-Borno' in 1998 and 2000, respectively and increased number of fruits/plant, dry weight/fruit and fruit yield by 13.7, 12.5 and 40.1% respectively in 'White velvet' and 21.9, 42.9 and 20.9% respectively in 'Ex-Borno', all in the dry season. A higher concentration (150 ppm) had an appreciable effect on all the parameters of the two okra varieties tested.
42882808|Shoot tips from in vitro stock plants of red chicory 'Rosso di Chioggia' line were cryopreserved by one-step vitrification. After two days of cold-hardening on hormone-free MS medium and loading for 30 min in a mixture of 2 M glycerol and 0.4 M sucrose at 25C, shoot tips were dehydrated with PVS2 vitrification solution at 0C for 60 min and plunged directly into liquid nitrogen. The post-thaw survival of shoot tips was achieved 79% when was cultured on recovery medium containing 0.5 mM BA. Observed regrowth, after six weeks of culture in the same medium composition, was 100%. Rooted cryopreserved microshoots showed good quality when transferred to the greenhouse. Preliminary results proved that the genetic fidelity of the cryopreserved line was maintained. The same vitrification protocol was then applied to three other red chicory lines, 'Rosso di Treviso precoce', 'Rosso di Treviso tardivo' and 'Castelfranco'. A simple and effective protocol for the cryopreservation of red chicory shoot tips has been successfully developed as a result of this study.
42882537|A field study was conducted in 2005 at the Jordan University of Science and Technology campus to evaluate the role of native honeybees (Apis mellifera syriaca) in pollination of muskmelon (Cucumis melo var. Reticulatus) under semiarid conditions. Four different cultivars, namely Summer, Afnan, Asal and one landrace, were evaluated. The experiment was composed of two treatments: the control (covered plants), in which the plants were caged before flowering to prevent any contact with insect pollinators, and the second treatment in which the plants were left uncovered to permit contact with honeybees (uncovered plants). Most of the pistillate or/and hermaphrodite flower stigmas of the four cultivars remained receptive until 11:00 for both half-opened and fully-opened flowers. Opened flowers in uncovered plant treatments had longer receptivity which extended to 14:00 in comparison to half-open flowers in Asal and landrace cultivars. In general, fruit set, seed set, fruit weight, fruit circumference, fruit flesh thickness and fruit total soluble solids percentage were significantly higher in uncovered than covered plants. Honeybees play an important role in the production of greater fruit quality and quantity of muskmelon grown under semiarid conditions.
42882310|The search for non-chemical methods to control soil-borne pathogens has recently intensified considering the coming phase-out of methyl bromide in 2005, and none of the alternatives to methyl bromide match this fumigant's wide spectrum control. Pre-planting treatments were carried out with a self-propelled soil-steaming machine designed for the release of steam after the incorporation in the soil of a substance that causes an exothermic reaction. The experiments were conducted from 1999 to 2003 in open-field conditions by assessing the effectiveness of steam and exothermic reaction chemicals -potassium hydroxide and calcium oxide - against Sclerotinia minor on lettuce, Rhizoctonia solarii on radish and Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. basitici on basil. The combination of steam and exothermic reaction chemicals reduced the incidence of lettuce drop (-92.4%), as well as in Rhizoctonia solani/radish and Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. basilici/basil, and the reduction in infection compared to the untreated control was found to be very high (-74.9% and -76.8%, respectively). Effects of treatments on microbial population and yield were evaluated. The results show the potential for this approach to control various soil-borne pathogens and it may serve as an alternative to chemical soil disinfestation for high-value crops.
42882984|Shoot regeneration was obtained with different auxins, after 23 days of culture, from leaf portions of the apple rootstock M 26 excised from shoots grown in vitro. Regeneration occurred only from expiants kept under dark conditions. Alternating temperatures seem to increase differentiation. Leaf expiant of the cv Golden Delicious gave a very low percentage of regeneration and only on media containing NAA and BA; a higher morphogenetical response was obtained from cotyledon expiants of the same cultivar.
42882678|Simple, accurate, and low-cost methods to determine individual leaf areas of plants are a useful tool in physiological and agronomic research. Determining the individual leaf area (A) of Euphorbia x lomi Rauh Thai hybrids involves measurements of leaf parameters, such as length (L) and width (W), or some combinations of these parameters. Two experiments were carried out in 2008 on five genotypes (calibration experiment) and on one cultivar (validation experiment) under greenhouse conditions to test whether a model could be developed to estimate leaf area across genotypes. Regression analyses of A versus L and W revealed several models could be used for estimating the area of individual Euphorbia x lomi leaves. A linear model having LW as the independent variable (A = 0.691 LW  1.428) provided the most accurate estimate (R =0.981, MSE = 7) of Euphorbia x lomi leaf area. Validation of the model having LW of leaves coming from other genotypes showed that the correlation between calculated and measured areas was very high. Using the selected model agronomists and physiologists can estimate accurately and reliably the leaf area of Euphorbia x lomi hybrids without destructive measurements or the use of expensive instruments (e.g. a leaf area planimeter or digital camera with image measurement software).
42883535|This study compares agronomic traits of three cultivars of strawberry in plants derived from conventional propagation, micropropagated and cryopreserved apices. The apices were stored in liquid nitrogen for one year. The agronomic traits evaluated were fruit production and fruit quality: no major changes were found in plants derived from cryopreserved apices, as compared with those from in vitro micropropagated and conventionally propagated plants. Differences were, however, found in some of the fruit production traits studied in the in vitro micropropagated plants of the cultivar Camarosa.
42882244|The effects of environmental factors and the plant growth regulator paclobutrazol on Lantana camara L. subsp. camara plants were investigated under glasshouse conditions in Attica, Greece during June to November 1997 and 1998. Lantana plants were grown at two shading levels (0 and 66% shading) and treated with paclobutrazol (0, 50,100 and 200 mg/l) foliar sprays after pinching. The cumulated function was used to detect several trends in environmental (photosynthetically active radiation, air temperature, relative humidity) and biometrical (growth index) data. Results showed that the general increase trend of the growth index (GI) of the non-treated plants coincided, in general, with the trends of variation of the environmental data at the two shading levels, while for the plants treated with paclobutrazol at 50 mg/l, the trend depended on shading level and followed approximately the trends of the environmental data. The trends of GI increase of the plants treated with 100 and 200 mg/l paclobutrazol showed an earlier onset of decline in comparison to the non-treated plants at the two shading levels.
42882695|Two RAPD markers linked to resistance (assayed as total girdling of stalk by black leision) to stalk rot (Sclerotinia sclerotiorum) in cauliflower were identified using a mapping population of 200 F (Olympus  PSB) plants with Olympus being the resistant parent. The analysis of genetics of stalk rot resistance was based on the parents and F generation. Stalk rot resistance in cauliflower appeared to be governed by many genes (polygenic character). A total of 222 random decamer primers were subsequently used to survey the parental polymorphism with regard to DNA amplification by Polymerase Chain Reaction. The primers which showed polymorphism in parental lines were used for bulked segregant analysis. Those that amplified consistently and differentially in the resistant and susceptible bulks were used for single plant analysis of 200 F plants. RAPD markers D-3 (5 GGACCCAACC 3) and C-20 (5 ACTTCGCCAC3) flanking the stalk rot resistance gene with a distance of 2.7 cM, and 42 cM, respectively, were identified. These two markers are close enough to the stalk rot resistance gene to allow a dependable marker-assisted selection for stalk rot resistance.
42883508|The genetic diversity of 216 accessions collected in CRA olive farms was analyzed using two different molecular markers. Olive (Olea europaea L.) was one of the first plants to be cultivated for virgin olive oil and for olive table production. The genotyping of cultivated varieties using molecular markers is a crucial aim of modern plant breeding programmes and germplasm collection management. The aim of the present report is to characterise 216 olive varieties cultivated in 12 different countries of the Mediterranean basin. Genetic similarity analysis of 216 olive cultivars, chosen from the main Mediterranean olive-cultivating countries, were carried out by means of 9 loci SSR and 36 primer RAPD markers. According to the UPGMA results of the present study, based on SSR+ RAPD similarities, a large number of Italian olive accessions are genetically distinct from most foreign cultivars analysed. Most of these clusters could be classified into three main groups according to their origin. This report can be considered a milestone for the large number of molecular markers utilized for the characterization of olive germplasm and for the large number of cultivars coming from different origin areas.
42882622|Rapid technological changes in olive growing have increased interest in breeding programs and new cultivars. A breeding program aimed at selecting new dual purpose (i.e. oil and table olive) cultivars began in Italy in 1971. In this paper we describe the agronomic performance (i.e. fruit and oil yield, fruit size, pulp to pit ratio, and oil content) of 134 olive selections grown in three locations of central and southern Italy. Twenty-one genotypes were selected as candidates for possible new cultivars based on their higher yield and yield efficiency. Data on many genotypes allowed assessment of variability of the studied traits in olive. The presence of many genotypes at all three locations, having different climates, allowed a quantitative analysis of the environmental (E) vs. the genotypic (heritability: H) effects on some traits in olive. Both environment and genotype had significant effects on all parameters tested. Ewas greater than H for average fruit weight and oil content on a fresh matter basis, while oil content on a dry matter basis and pulp to pit ratio were mainly under genetic control.
42882474|Seeds from Daucus species (D. carota, D. bicolor, D. aureus, D. muricatus, D. littoralis, D. guttatus, and D. Durieua) growing in Syria were collected and used to investigate the ability of wild Daucus species to form callus and regenerate plants in vitro. Three callusing and three regeneration media were used in the study. A significant variation was observed among Daucus species in their ability to form callus. Species D. carota L. and the cultivated carrot (Daucus carota L. ssp. sativus) were the fastest in callus initiation among studied species taking only four and nine days, respectively. The slowest species were D. durieua and D. aureus with 23 days or more needed for callus initiation. The best callusing medium was the one containing 0 mg/1 kinetin, 1 mg/l BA, 1 mg/1 NAA, and 2 mg/1 2, 4-D. It was possible to regenerate plants from all Daucus species used in the study. Daucus carota was also the best Daucus species in regeneration ability and species D. durieua had the least capacity for shoot regeneration. Daucus species varied in their response to the use of growth regulators in the regeneration media. However, all of the species had the potential to produce embryos and shoots on hormone-free medium and two of them, D. durieua and D. littoralis, started embryogenesis and forming green shoots while still on callusing medium. The highest percentage of surviving plants (70.8%), from test tube to mature plant, was produced by D. guttatus and the overall percentage of surviving plants from all Daucus species was 36.63%.
42881527|Papers published during the period 1970-1989 on a comprehensive range of fruit, vegetable, ornamental and plantation crops were classified according to crop, discipline, language of publication and year of publication. Horticultural literature represents approximately 10% of the world's total agricultural research literature. Papers on apples, tomatoes, grapes, citrus and Phaseolus accounted for more than a third of all papers relating to horticultural crops. Comparing the major disciplines within horticultural science, nearly a third of all papers published were concerned with crop protection. Very large discrepancies were revealed in the amount of research effort devoted to the study of different horticultural crops in relation to the size of the industries concerned.
42881731|In vitro rooting on agar medium is rather difficult with many woody species. After induction, the use of a well areated medium allows easy development of the root system, which is normally inhibited by the unfavorable anaerobic conditions of the agar medium. Experiments carried out on two apple (Malus domestica) rootstocks (Lancep and Cepiland) and on two walnut (Juglans regia) clones (RG1 and RG2) show that a good physical structure of the rooting medium gives an increased rate of rooting, as well as a significant improvement in the quality of the plant rooted in this way (higher number of roots, presence of secondary roots, growing apex), allowing a better control of the acclimatization phase.
42881348|Two winter squash varieties, Butternut and Buttercup, were harvested at different developmental stages and their yield, quality and shelf-life were determined. The yield of these crops was 20-40 ton/ha; multiple picking presented no advantage over a single picking at the fully ripe stage. The varieties differed markedly in their quality characteristics and their postharvest behavior. Butternut fruits were most storable if harvested during maturation, in contrast to Buttercup fruits, which had the longest shelf-life when harvested earlier, just after growth termination. Butternut flesh was sweeter and its orange color more intense than that of Buttercup. The changes in fruit quality characteristics during storage were similar for both varieties, but the rates were different. Butternut and Buttercup fruits should be harvested 3-4 weeks past anthesis to ensure best quality and longest shelf-life. When harvested at the proper stage, fruits retained and, in some respects, improved their quality in the first two to three months under ventilated and shaded storage, without costly artificial storage facilities.
42883144|Kiwifruit vines (cv. Hayward) were grown under 0, 25 and 50% sunlight conditions for four continuous years. Both vegetative growth (canes per vine, fruiting shoots per cane) and crop load gradually decreased with a higher rate at 50% shade. Vine productivity on the fourth year decreased by about 40 and 70% under 25 and 50% shading, respectively. Fruit growth and final size varied from year to year depending on the interaction with the reduced crop load. Shading significantly delayed fruit harvest (minimum Soluble Solids Content of 6.5%) and decreased firmness compared to the control.
42882630|The olive collection of the Consiglio per la Ricerca e la Sperimentazione in Agricoltura - Centro di Ricerca per l'Olivicoltura e l'Industria Olearia, including more than 400 accessions, represents a large part of the Italian cultivated olive germplasm. In this paper we report the use of SSR molecular markers to characterise 119 accessions and to study the genetic relationships among cultivars. All investigated microsatellites were polymorphic. A total of 56 aleles over nine loci were observed. The results of allele identification were then used to create a qualitative data matrix of presence (1) and absence (0) that was processed using NTSYS-PC software. Pairwise similarities between cultivars were calculated using Dice coefficient for qualitative data. The resulting similarity matrix was used to construct a dendrogram by means of the UPGMA (unweighted pair-group method with arithmetical averages) algorithm. The detection of identical genotype under different names is very important to avoid genotype redundancy in order to maximise genetic diversity in Italian olive germplasm collections; also the presence of cases of identity were investigated. Thus, this study allowed the identification of several identical genotypes and showed that the use of SSR molecular markers is very useful for building a data base for variety analysis and for olive germplasm collection management.
42883217|Two experiments were conducted. In the first, kiwifruit shoot tips of Actinidia deliciosa [(A. Chev.) C. F. Liang et A. R. Ferguson var. deliciosa cv. Hay ward] and Actinidia arguta (Planch.) preserved from previous in vitro cultures were grown in vitro on Murashige and Skoog (MS) revised medium with boron (B) levels ranging between 10 and 1.000 M. The culture of expiants in a medium containing 1.000 M B produced double the number of shoots, which were also longer than in other treatments. Furthermore, shoots of Actinidia deliciosa produced in vitro with 1.000 M had the greatest concentration of B, P and Fe and the lowest of Ca and Mg in comparison to the other B treatments. In the second experiment, one-year-old kiwifruit plants [Actinidia deliciosa (A. Chev.) C.F. Liang et A.R. Ferguson var. deliciosa cv. Hay ward] were grown in a growth chamber and irrigated daily with 200 ml of modified Hoagland's nutrient solution containing 20 to 1.000 M B. After 40 days in culture the photosynthesis rate (Pn), transpiration rate (TR) and water use efficiency (WUE) were measured. Maximum photosynthetic rate was recorded at 50 M B and minimum at 1.000 M.
42883573|In vitro mutation method was used to obtain salt-tolerant clone in apricot. Small propagules of Canino apricot cultivar were irradiated with gamma ray at doses of 0,10,25,35,50,75 and 100 Gy. After 30 days from treatment, both the radio sensitivity and post-irradiation recovery were assessed as the number of proliferated shoots per expiants, fresh weight of cultures, shoot length and productivity of irradiated explants. A sudden and sharp decrease in the survival percentage occurred with the dose 75 Gy, while the highest dose (100 Gy) was lethal for all propagules. A marked decline in the number of regenerated shoots per expiant and fresh weight of produced cultures was associated with an increase of irradiation doses. Doses in the range of 10-75 Gy, which preserved high survival percentage of irradiated expiants, seemed to be more suitable for in vitro mutation in Canino apricot cultivar. Irradiated shoots were exposed to different concentrations of NaCl which were added to the multiplication medium at the rates of 25,50,75,100,125 mM and after 30 days, vigorous shoots were selected from salinity treatments. In conclusion, apricot tissues exposed to different doses of gamma irradiation in the range of 10-75 Gy, followed by culturing the plantlets produced in a medium containing additional salts (ranging from 25 to 125 mM) can be considered a good method to identify the most tolerant mutants to salts in apricot cultivars.
42883385|Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPDs) technology was used to study the genetic relatedness between 40 olive cultivars grown at Jill in gene bank in southern Syria. The origin of the studied cultivars were: 18 from Syria, 20 from north and south areas of the Mediterranean Sea, one from Oman and one from USA. All 40 decamer primers produced polymorphism between the cultivars. The mean percent disagreement value for the olive cultivars was 0.23 with values ranging between 0.02 (between 'Dan' and 'Dhremlali') and 0.41 (between 'Atem' and 'Khulkhali'). The resulting dendrogram was in general agreement with the matrix and did not show any relationship between the degree of cultivar relatedness and their country of origin, agronomical characteristics or the fruit end use (table or oil). However, when these cultivars were divided according to their three geographical regions (East EM, North NM and South Mediterranean SM), the cultivars of each country tended to cluster together. The results demonstrated the ability of RAPDs to identify all studied olive cultivars and to reveal the degree of their relatedness to each other, thus ensuring a better gene bank management of the olive tree.
42882478|Spikes of gladiolus cv. White Prosperity were subjected to modified atmosphere storage in seven polymeric films [High Density Polyethylene (HDPE); Low Density Polyethylene (LDPE) and Polypropylene (PP) of 60 gauge (15 ) and 100 gauge (25 ) thickness and Polyolefin (PO) of 60 gauge (15 ) thickness]. Four films (LDPE-60, HDPE-60, HDPE-100 and PO-60) maintained low levels of CO and high levels of O inside the packages, whereas PP-100, PP-60 and LDPE-100 films accumulated high CO and low O levels. PP-100 film exhibited maximum vase life and percent opening of florets followed by PP-60 film. Likewise, PP-100 followed by PP-60 film maintained high levels of starch and low soluble sugars, thereby indicating low rate of starch hydrolysis. PP-100 polymeric film was found most suitable for modified atmosphere storage of gladiolus spikes.
42882408|One-year-old Actinidia deliciosa cv. Hayward were grown at ambient (Pc) and elevated CO concentrations (Pco2) to determine the effect of high CO on mineral concentration in leaves and shoots. The concentration of P, Cl and Na did not show any consistent or significant pattern in leaves and shoots between the two groups of plants. Leaf concentration of N, S, Ca, Mg, K were lower in those plantlets exposed to elevated CO than in those grown with ambient CO Pco2 shoots had lower N, Ca and Mg content than plants grown with ambient CO. These findings show that the decrease in plant nutrient status causes a reduction in photosynthesis activity and, as a result, a decrease in the growth rate of plants exposed to elevated CO.
42883332|A survey was conducted to determine whether variety and location influence the oil quality and content of olives. Samples of olive fruit from different varieties were taken from various locations around Australia and determinations made for fatty acid proflies, Maturity Index, whole fruit weight, percentage oil in dried flesh, percentage moisture in whole fruit and flesh to pit ratios. Differences in oil composition and fruit characteristics were found in different olive varieties from different areas of Australia. The survey indicated that the oil percentage in dry flesh was not significantly affected by the level of ripeness, even though the Maturity Index ranged from 1 to 7. However, water content in the whole fruit decreased by 1.9% for each increase in maturity unit. Stearic acid, a saturated and therefore less desirable fatty acid, was the only fatty acid to significantly increase with increasing Maturity Index. Oleic acid is a favourable fatty acid for olive oil quality. In the varieties Manzanilla de Sevilla and Frantoio, higher levels of oleic acid were found in fruit samples from southern latitudes of Australia than from more northerly latitudes.
42883322|The evolution of CO and ethylene in air-tight vessels of olive shoot cultures (cv. Frantoio) was studied during eight-month slow growth storage at 4C in darkness. While the production of ethylene was negligible during the whole storage period, CO increased rapidly and reached very high concentrations (up to 70000 l.l). A correlation between this strong accumulation and the poor shoot regrowth after conservation at 4C is hypothesized.
42882641|In this study the response of three hot pepper cultivars, Baklouti, Beldi and PM797, to saline water with different NaCl concentrations (0, 2, 4 and 6 g l NaCl) were analysed in terms of growth, chlorophyll fluorescence, chlorophyll content, electrolyte leakage and ionic nutrients. The study was conducted in a glasshouse for six weeks. Plant growth and chlorophyll were significantly reduced at all salinity levels. Membrane leakage, as well as sodium (Na) concentrations in plant tissues increased in all three cultivars in NaCl-treated plants but to a greater extent in 'Beldi' and 'Baklouti'. The concentrations of K and Ca were reduced in shoots whereas they increased in roots of NaCl-treated plants. Chlorophyll fluorescence parameters (F, Fm and (Fm-F)/Fm ratio) of young leaves remained stable. However in mature leaves, F, Fm and photochemical efficiency of PSII was affected by salt stress for the cultivars Beldi and Baklouti.
42882770|A line  tester analysis involving eight promising bell pepper lines (Kandaghat Selection, EC-464115, EC-464107, HC-201, AC-48, SKAU-SP-613-1, PBC-631, and SKAU-SP-633-1) and three well adapted testers (California Wonder, Yolo Wonder and Solan Bharpoor) was carried out during 2007-08 at the Vegetable Experimental Farm of CSK Himachal Pradesh Agriculture University, Palampur (HP), India (326 latitude and 763' E longitude at an elevation of 1290.8 m above msl). All the lines used as female parents were crossed to each of the testers by hand pollination using a standard procedure of emasculation in a line  tester mating design during the spring-summer season 2007 to obtain 24 F hybrids. The F population of 24 crosses along with their 11 parents were evaluated in Randomized complete Block Design (RBD) with three replications during summerrainy season 2008. The plants were spaced 60 cm row to row and 45 cm plant to plant. Data were recorded for 12 quantitative traits: days to 50% flowering, days to first picking, plant height (cm), harvest duration (days), fruit yield per plant (g), fruits per plant, marketable fruits per plant, fruit length (cm), fruit width (cm), pericarp thickness (mm), average fruit weight (g) and lobes per fruit. Among the parents, EC-464107, Kandaghat Selection and Yolo Wonder were found to be superior general combiners for fruit yield and yield components. The cross-combinations EC-464107  Yolo Wonder, AC-48  Solan Bharpoor and EC-464115  California Wonder were found promising on the basis of combining ability and mean performance for fruit yield and other contributing traits. For a majority of the traits, both additive and non-additive components were important, but in the case of fruit yield per plant, non-additive gene action was in preponderance suggesting that the heterosis component could be exploited in hybrid development in bell pepper. These three cross-combinations can either be utilized in future heterosis breeding programmes or released directly as hybrids after further field testing.
42883330|Results of tests on new olive harvest equipment: a rotating excavator equipped with shaker on the mechanical arm and gather umbrella on the blade grader are presented. The research is motivated by the increasing problem of maintenance of olive production in central Italian hillside areas. An innovative olive harvester has been developed with an excavator that controls the olive shaker and the gathering umbrella. The fitted equipment does not compromise the original functionality of the excavator. The implements have a sustainable cost and are quickly joined to the machine. Field tests were conducted in the olive harvest season 2001 at the Montepaldi farm belonging to the University of Florence. The module achieved a productivity of 27 olive trees per hour with a harvest efficiency of 90.5%. The field test is a terraced area with olive trees having these features: 22 m canopy volume, about 15 kg/plant production, 1.3 g drupe mean weight, 5 N detachment resistance. Continuous use of the module during the harvest season produced an average productivity of 180 plants/day.
42882785|An effective procedure of pomegranate (P. granatum L. cv. Rabbab) micropropagation is reported. Nodal segments were used as explants. The results showed that a combination of alcohol, warm water and sodium hypochlorite was needed to control fungal and bacterial contaminations. A comparison between three types of cytokinin (BA, TDZ and kin) on shoot proliferation indicated that 2 mg l BA produced the highest shoot number (3.5 shoots per explant) and shoot length (6.1 cm). Using a quick dip of in vitro-derived shoots in 1000 mg l IBA for 3 s significantly increased average root number per shoot (7.4), in comparison with control (12). Rooted shoots after acclimatization were transferred to soil with a survival rate of 92%.
42881853|The photosynthetic activity of three peach genotypes, differing in size and habit (standard, semidwarf and dwarf) was compared under variable Photosynthetic Photon Flux (mol m s) (PPF) conditions. Trees were both grafted on GF677 and self rooted. The grafted peaches showed higher Net Photosynthesis (mol CO m s) (Pn) values than those self rooted, although the incremental effect of the rootstock on the photosynthetic activity tends to diminish under reduced PPF conditions. Dwarf type showed the highest net photosynthetic ability both when self rooted and grafted, while the semidwarf peach showed a photosynthetic activity higher than standard peach only when grafted; in dwarf trees the rootstock affects the intercellular CO concentration, conditioning the photosynthetic response to reduced PPF.
42882783|Persimmon is worth processing for its important nutritional value, linked to its high carotenoids, polyphenols and fiber content. Osmotic pre-treatments could be applied to improve fruit product quality together with postharvest treatments that remove astringency without concomitant softening. The aim of this work was to analyse persimmon tissue structure at a microscopic level to define the influence of osmo-dehydration time on mass transfer rates. Ten mm thick persimmon slices ('Kaki Tipo'), CO-treated and not, were osmodehydrated for 120 and 240 min at 25C in 60% (wt/wt) sucrose solution and solid liquid exchanges were calculated. Histocytochemical analyses, performed under light microscopy on semi-thin sections of both fresh and embedded samples, showed the polymerization of soluble tannins in crystalline bodies, accounting for the lower astringency of CO-treated slices. Polymerization, by freeing intercellular spaces, and thereby allowing sucrose intake, could explain the higher solid-liquid exchanges of CO-treated persimmon. Moreover, osmosis induced soluble tannins polymerization. Results confirmed the utmost importance of fruit cellular structure analysis in optimizing the osmo-dehydration process.
42882673|Field experiments were conducted at the Hadejia River Valley Irrigation Project Area, in the Sudan savanna ecological zone of Nigeria between February and June in 2005 and 2006, to evaluate the response of okra to varying levels of nitrogen fertilization. The treatments were made up of three levels of nitrogen (0,50 and 100 kg N/ha) laid out in a randomized complete block design and replicated four times. The results indicated that application of nitrogen increased both the growth and fresh yield of okra. Plant height, number of leaves and number of fruits/plant increased significantly with application of nitrogen up to the highest (100 N kg/ha) rate tested in both seasons. Application of 100 kg N/ha produced a significantly higher fresh fruit yield in 2005. However, in 2006 and the combined analysis, yield increase was significant at 50 kg N/ha, which was at par with 100 kg N/ha. With the high cost of N fertilizers, application of 50 kg N/ha in moderately fertile soils appeared optimum for higher okra yields.
42882223|The aim of this work was to investigate the yield and postharvest behaviour of Asparagus plumosus Baker and Asparagus densiflorus Jessop cv. Myriocladus grown in a soilless growing system. Both species were transplanted with two different planting densities, six and 12 plants per m. The results obtained showed that the higher planting density increases the number of stems and total fresh weight in both species. Postharvest behaviour was evaluated in a vase life room characterised by a temperature of 20C  2, RH 60%  5,12 hr of photoperiod and light intensity of 10 mol m s PAR. Planting densities did not affect the longevity of cut foliage in either species. Water uptake and weight variations were higher in cut foliage harvested from cultivation with higher planting density. Cut foliage harvested from cv. Myriocladus plants grown at 12 plants per m had higher chlorophyll content. During vase life, the chlorophyll degradation rate was not different in cut foliage harvested from either planting density. Ethylene production was similar in both species and increased at the end of their vase life.
42883023|Angular leaf spot of strawberry caused by Xanthomonas fragariae is recorded for the first time in Argentina. The identification of the causal organism was based on disease symptoms, pathogenicity and cultural and biochemical characteristics. Sensitivity tests were performed in order to achieve control; six biocides were employed and the best results obtained with streptomycin + oxytetacycline and streptomycin.
42881745|Xylem development was studied in the apricot cultivars Portici, characterized by unsatisfactory yield when grown outside its original environment, and S. Castrese, which in contrast presents regular and elevated productivity. The observations were performed from October to bloom as anatomical studies to assess development of xylem elements and the movement of a water-soluble dye was monitored to follow the continuity of the flower bud vascular connection. Vascular continuity over a two-year period between bud axis and ovary appeared to stabilize considerably earlier in 'S. Castrese' than in 'Portici'.
42883335|A high monounsaturated fat diet has not been advocated for obesity, due to concerns that its fat content would promote weight gain. Our studies indicate that olive oil based monounsaturated fat diets have acute (meal related) as well as chronic (diet related) effects that influence the regulation of body weight. These include an increased postprandial fat oxidation and greater diet induced thermogenesis, factors that attenuate weight gain. A review of the literature indicates that there are no differences in body weight between high monounsaturated fat diets and low fat diets, when fed ad libitum or in energy restricted amounts. There are fewer human studies that compare the effects of ad libitum monounsaturated fat versus saturated fat diets, at equivalent total fat intakes. While some have shown no difference, we have observed a greater weight and fat loss following a short term, ad libitum olive oil diet. High monounsaturated fat diets designed for weight loss should also incorporate traditional Mediterranean dietary patterns. Such vegetable-rich diets can have a low energy density, are well accepted and offer the prospect of greater long-term compliance with dietary advice. Further substantiation of the role of olive oil in the dietary management of obesity is required.
42881663|The effects of Ca and Mg fertilization on the yield and quality of the processing tomato cv. Hypeel 244 was determined on the basis of an experiment carried out in acid soil at Comacchio (Ferrara) in 1991. The experimental design consisted of one control and 11 fertilization treatments using Ca and Mg, individually and in mixtures. Eight of these treatments were applied to the soil and 3 to the leaves. The results showed statistically significant differences in early ripening, total yield and total soluble solids. Leaf treatment with Ca + Mg gave the best result as regards earliness and total yield. There were no significant differences observed as regards quality, although the above treatment and the soil treatments with Ca2 + Mg1 and Ca1 + Mg1 markedly increased the soluble solid content per unit area.
42882605|The aim of this work was to investigate the effects of two different irrigation regimes on growth and physiology of some widely used shade tree species grown in containers. Trees were irrigated with 1200 ml/day (normal irrigation, NI), according to the standard water volumes distributed in the nurseries, or 600 ml/day (reduced irrigation, RI). Among the species investigated, only Tilia cordata showed greater growth under normal irrigation if compared to reduced irrigation. The other species included in this experiment (Acer pseudoplatanus, A. platanoides, T. tomentosa, and T. platyphyllos) had no benefits from normal irrigation and, under reduced irrigation, showed no symptoms of water stress. Irrigation had no effect on leaf gas exchange of the species considered. Therefore, for these species, water consumption can be reduced by a half without affecting nursery stock quality. This study demonstrated that irrigation volumes usually distributed in nurseries are generally too high if compared to the real needs of the crops and that they can be reduced without decreasing product quality. This will lead to greater sustainability of nursery management practices and water savings.
42883568|Experiments to investigate the effects of disbudding on growth analysis of two ceiosia cultivars, 'Carmine' and 'Chief Gold', were carried out on the field in 2009 and 2010 at the Sinna Garden of Department of Crop Science, University of Ghana, Legon, Accra, Ghana. The treatments consisted of disbudding once, disbudding twice, and no disbudding, as control, and were arranged in a 32 split plot in a randomized complete block design with four replications in 2009 (experiment 1) and three in 2010 (experiment 2). The two cultivars were harvested weekly during the growing period and separated into the various plant parts and oven-dried for dry weights, using appropriate formulae to calculate the various growth parameters. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to analyse the data and a correlation coefficient matrix showed relationships among growth parameters. Disbudding resulted in increased leaf area index, leaf area ratio, leaf area duration, relative growth rate, and harvest index, but reduced crop growth rate and net assimilation rate. 'Chief Gold' had a higher harvest index than 'Carmine'. Disbudding plants once gave the best flower head size and weight result. Carmine' gave the best flower yield and quality results in experiment 1 and 'Chief Gold' in experiment 2.
42881748|In the developing kernel, the total free amino acid N accumulates initially in the funiculus and ovule. During the overall growth of the embryo, protein N increases as the soluble N declines. Developmental events in the kernel are used as temporal markers to chart the sequential accumulation and dominance of metabolic families in the free amino acid N pool. The free amino acid N pool is dominated by the aspartate and glutamate families of amino acids (mainly arginine N). Strong network rigidity in the flow of N is indicated by linear and non-linear correlations among components of the free amino acid N pool. Changes in the soluble  are related to phenology and levels of insoluble N in the developing kernel. The flux of N through components of the soluble N is presented as a departure from average behaviour and portrays a response surface that can be used to characterize the metabolic stability of kernel development.
42881746|Two field experiments were conducted at the Newe Ya'ar Research Center (northern Israel) to examine the effects of spacing and irrigation regime on the production of watermelon for seed consumption. Increasing the plant population from 3,000 to 12,000 plants/ha significantly increased fruit number per unit area and only slightly decreased mean fruit weight. In contrast, increasing the water supply from a dryland farming regime to a weekly irrigation regime significantly increased the mean fruit weight and had only a small effect on the fruit number. Seed yield was positively related to fruit number and negatively related to seed yield index. Maximal seed yields were 1.33 and 1.24 kg/10 m, respectively, in the two experiments, and they were obtained from the highest plant population combined with supplemental irrigation. The percentage of seeds having coat defects was significantly increased by increasing water supply but unaffected by spacing. The heterogenic line, Yellow Malali, had a seed yield twice that of cv. Malali and may be used as a promising genetic source in breeding watermelon for seed consumption.
42883028|The starch content of rose petals was assessed semi-quantitatively using the iodine staining method. Starch was found to be homogeneously deposited over the petal. Two patterns of starch breakdown were found. One started at the border of petals and proceeded towards the base and was named borderside breakdown; the other proceeded equally over the entire petals and was named equal breakdown. In plant-attached roses only borderside breakdown was evident. In cut roses borderside breakdown occurred after corolla development had passed stage 2. Up to stage 2 (obligatory minimum stage for auction sales) only the equal breakdown of starch was relevant. The equal breakdown proceeded at a rather similar rate within the petals of a flower. Under these circumstances, the starch content of one petal may be considered to reflect the starch status of the whole flower. Low amounts of petal starch were shown to be caused by insufficient synthesis due to premature picking and/or by breakdown after cutting. Low temperatures did not arrest this breakdown; at high temperatures starch disappearance was rapid. Practices such as immature cutting, long storage, or exposure to high temperatures are known to be detrimental to the quality of vase life.
42881633|A field test was established in 1987 in which vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) fungus-infected roots of three naturally-infected field-grown grasses (Pensacola Bahia, Coastal Bermuda, St. Augustine) and Glomus macrocarpum and G. intraradix-infected greenhouse-grown rough lemon and G. intraradis-infected millet roots were used as inocula in a citrus seedbed. Infection ranged from 34% in Coastal Bermuda to 83% in G. intraradix-infected citrus. The principal fungus trapped from the naturally-grown grasses was G. intraradix. After methyl bromide treatment of the soil, root inocula were applied in furrow, covered with soil, and planted with sour orange seed. In 1987 and 1988, citrus growth, in general, was taller where root inocula were applied. Sour orange grew significantly taller, both years, in soil amended with rough lemon infected with G. intraradix and Pensacola Bahia root inocula when compared with seedlings in soil amended with autoclaved control roots. VAM fungus infection was present in roots of all inocula and control treatments when analyzed in 1988. No VAM fungus inoculum treatment improved infection significantly more than that present in the no-root, no-inoculum control. This study indicates that G. intraradix-infected roots can be an effective plant growth-promoting lightweight inoculum for field plantings.
42881722|In vitro shoot cultures from stump sprouts and basal shoots of 15 to 80-year-old chestnut proliferated and rooted with rates higher than those originating from crown material of the same tree. A higher amount of anthocyanins was recorded in basal shoot cultures than in crown cultures. The concentration of N-benzyl-aminopurine (BAP) introduced to the growth medium modified the content of anthocyanins in the shoots grown in vitro. A higher content of endogenous cytokinins was measured in crown shoots than in basal shoots before in vitro establishment. In vitro shoots from two of the three clones examined showed the same relationship at the end of the multiplication cycle. No direct relationship could be found between peroxidase activity (estimated in shoots before in vitro establishment and at the end of multiplication cycle), or the absolute amounts of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) or the total auxin content (at the end of the multiplication cycle) and the rooting capacities of either type of shoots. There was however a direct relationship between the ratio of IAA/cytokinins and the rooting abilities.
42883480|The aim of the study was to evaluate the influence of nitrogen fertilization, crop season and genotype on the quality of fresh-cut lettuce. Trials were carried out during fall-winter and spring season with butterhead (cv. Daguan) and leafy lettuce (cv. Brisa). Fertilization treatments were: N (0 kg ha), N (75 kg ha), N (150 kg ha) applied as urea and vermicompost (24 t ha). At harvest, lettuce leaves were classified (inner and outer leaves), dipped in 100 ppm chlorine solution, centrifuged, packed in polyolefin bags and stored 7 days at 10.5C. Measurements during storage period of weight loss, nitrate and ascorbic acid concentration, carbon dioxide and ethylene inside bags and overall visual quality were taken. Quality of fresh-cut lettuce was according to nitrogen fertilization level, cultivar, crop season and type of leaves. In general, a lower nitrate concentration was found in outer leaves. 'Daguan' showed higher ascorbic acid concentration for both seasons with differences between N fertilization treatments and type of leaves. The changes in atmosphere composition inside the bags were according to the cultivar, type of leaves and fertilization used. Overall visual quality of all treatments exceeded the limit of consumer acceptability for both fall-winter and spring seasons. 'Brisa' had higher scores than 'Daguan', especially in inner leaves.
42883234|Measurements of H extrusion in leaves of Olea europeaea L. cv. Frantoio, under different experimental conditions, were carried out for the frst time. The results obtained lead to the following conclusions: a) The cuticle constitutes an obstacle to the diffusion of protons from the apoplast toward the exterior. In order to remove this barrier a specifc technique was devised which does not damage the cells of surrounding tissues, b) Proton extrusion is blocked, or greatly reduced, by hypoxia, low temperature and orthovanadate while it is stimulated by K , isobutyric acid and light. IAA did not show, in mature leaves, notable effects, c) pH values around 6,1-6,2 represent the equilibrium threshold below wich H + extrusion is inhibited and above which it is stimulated, d) The amount of H extrusion varies as a function of leaf age. Extrusion in growing leaves is more than triple that of mature leaves, e) A H extrusion gradient exists which depends on the position of the leaf on the shoot. Proton extrusion increases progressively from proximal to distal leaves, f) Cell transmembrane electrochemical potentials (Em) of distal, median and proximal leaves indirectly confirm the findings from H extrusion trials. The results of this study support the existence of a proton pump at the cell membrane level which corresponds to plasmalemma H-ATPase.
42881325|Leaf and fruit samples of apple, pear, peach and grapevine were taken in the same area near Bologna and analyzed by Gamma-spectrometry to follow the trends of Cesium and Ruthenium contamination after the Chernobyl accident. Different radioactivity levels were found among species according to their growth stage, i.e. specific leaf area at the moment of fallout. Less Ruthenium was translocated from leaves to fruits than Cesium. Leaves formed in 1987 showed a low radioactivity that depended on both Cesium uptake from the soil and its migration from the woody organs where it was recovered before leaf fall.
42881760|Aseptic explants were grown from shoot tips of Artemisia absinthium. Contamination decreased when streptomycin sulphate was added to the basal medium at the beginning of culture, although shoot proliferation was reduced. A high proliferation rate was recorded in the basal medium of Murashige and Skoog supplemented with 1.78 M benzyladenine, 0.27M naphthaleneacetic acid, 3% sucrose and 0.7% agar, but shoots often appeared hyperhydric. Hyperhydricity decreased when the benzyladenine dose was reduced to 0.88M and the agar concentration raised to 0.8%. The newly formed shoots rooted easily when placed in growth regulator-free MS basal medium with 1% sucrose.
42882366|Seven potato (Solarium tuberosum) genotypes (Kufri Badshah, Kufri Pukhraj, Kufri Chandramukhi, Kufri Jyoti, Kufri Ashoka, Kufri Jawahar and Kufri Sindhuri) were grown from 1999 to 2001 in low phosphorus soil in the absence and presence of three rates of P in pot experiments to test their P use efficiency. Two harvests were carried out to obtain final dry matter accumulation (DMA), DMA (Shoot+tuber) rate per unit root length and P uptake rate per unit root length, per unit time (P-influx). Taking the external P requirement (rate of P fertilizer needed to obtain 90% of maximum DMA) as a measure of P efficiency, i.e. capacity to grow under low soil P supply, 'Kufri Badshah' and 'Kufri Pukhraj' were found to be less P efficient than other genotypes because their external P requirements were one and a half to two times greater. Higher external P requirement of these genotypes was not explained by their internal P requirement (shoot P concentration needed to produce 90% of DMA) because their internal P requirement was similar to that of the other genotypes. Low P use/uptake efficiency of 'Kufri Badshah' and 'Kufri Pukhraj' was due to their low P-influx (P uptake rate per unit root length) at low P supply. Roots of P-efficient genotypes had the capacity to keep more applied P in an available form than inefficient genotypes. The relationship between P efficiency and DNA fingerprints of these genotypes is also discussed.
42883059|In thirty-six tomato genotypes from the species Lycopersicon pimpinellifolium, L. hirsutum, L. peruvianum and L. esculentum, the dependent relationship of fifteen agronomical and nutritional characteristics were determined at four salinity levels by principal component analysis. Genotype distribution on the plane defined by the first two principal components was also studied. The characteristics that constituted the three principal components were different in the control plants and in the plants grown at different salinity levels. In the control plants, the first component was mainly defined by Cl, Na, K, Caand Mg leaf concentrations, the second component was defined by leaf and stem weights, plant height and number of leaves and the third component was defined by number of clusters and number of flowers. In the plants grown on saline medium, the three principal components were fundamentally defined by the same characteristics for each salinity level. The first component was defined by Cl and Na leaf concentrations, stem diameter and leaf and stem weights. The second component was considered a growth factor since it mainly consisted of plant height and number of leaves. As in the control plants, the third component was considered a fructification factor consisting of the number of clusters and the number of flowers. Salinity varied genotype location on the plane defined by the first two components, but it did not modify the distance between genotypes. L. esculentum and L. peruvianum were the most homogenous species.
42883158|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers are receiving increased attention in molecular fingerprinting. This paper describes the identification of 'Annurca' varieties and its mutant 'Rossa del Sud', among 14 different apple varieties, by using three sequences selected from 72 primers. The obtained patterns are constant and reproducible. These results confirm that RAPDs technology can be successfully utilized not only for varietal identification but also for mutant differentiation.
42882226|Growth and yield data obtained from the response of roselle to some agronomic practices were correlated and regressed. Red variant roselle calyx yield was found to be very strongly correlated with growth parameters such as canopy diameter, number of branches per plant and number of leaves per plant. Within the yield components, there was a highly significant correlation (P  0.01) between calyx weight per ha and number of calyces per plant as well as seed weight per ha. Yield analysis indicated that the direct contribution of canopy diameter and number of branches per plant were the main yield contributing factors in 1999, while canopy diameter and number of leaves per plant were the main yield contributing factors in 2000. The total contributions (direct and combined) were found to be 56.61% and 36.87% in 1999 and 2000, respectively. Regression analysis showed that yield and yield components in roselle cultivation were mainly determined by the agronomic practices such as sowing dates, intra-row spacings and nitrogen levels.
42882692|The critical factor in setting of tomato fruits is night time temperature, the optimum range being 15-21C. Fruit set in tomato is reduced markedly when average maximum day time and minimum night time temperatures go above 32 and 21C, respectively. In the northwestern plains of India, temperature crosses the favorable limit from the fourth week of April onwards, thereby reducing yield, lowering quality and shortening the fruit harvest span. The situation has forced tomato breeders to develop heat-tolerant cultivars and, therefore, the present study was conducted to determine the nature of gene action controlling various characters and to identify a few good combiner genotypes that may be used in further breeding programmes for high temperature tolerance. Highly significant general combining ability (gca) and specific combining ability (sea) variances indicated the importance of both additive and non-additive gene action in the expression of all the characters. However, the ratio of components of genetic variance revealed the predominant role of non-additive gene actions in controlling total yield, marketable yield, number of fruits per plant, average fruit weight, days from fruit setting to turning stage, endosperm utilization efficiency, harvesting span, pericarp thickness, number of locules, lycopene content and titratable acidity. Therefore, heterosis breeding may be used to bring improvement in these traits. However, additive gene action played a major role in controlling days to anthesis, number of flowers per cluster and setting percentage per cluster. Hence, lines having good gca for these traits (LST-6, LCT-9, LST-42-1 and LST-65-2) may be hybridized and selection may be practiced in segregating generations to develop advanced generation lines having high heat-tolerance ability.
42882242|The influence of different casing materials on the production and quality of the cultivated mushroom, Agaricus bisporus (Lange) Imbach, is evaluated. The behaviour o sphagnum peat, black peat and composted vine shoots used as structural and water-holding correctors of the casing soil was studied. Two aspects of mushroom quality were considered: the commercial, defined by the division of the mushrooms into different commercial categories, and the physicochemical, defined by the dry matter, protein, total soluble solids and ash content, together with the colour, texture and pH of the harvested mushrooms. The effect of raking on the different casing types was also considered. The yield was greater with composted vine shoots and black peat, although the prospective use of composted vine shoots is limited due to the appearance of spots caused by Trichoderma spp. on part of the fruit bodies. Because of the resulting brightness (L*), colour deviation (E*), texture, dry matter and soluble solids content, black peat is the best alternative of the tested materials. Casing with composted vine shoots increases the yellow value (b*), pH and ash content of the mushrooms. Raking of the casing improves the yield, although the texture of the mushrooms is worse. Furthermore, this operation supposes a decrease in the soluble solids content and an increase in the pH of mushrooms.
42881593|Research into the effects of cold-storage and shelf-life on the hybrid mandarin  Murcott  showed the best results with storage at 6 C or 6 C for 6 days and 14C for 1 day. Longer or lower temperature cycles: 6 C for 18 days and 14 C for 7 days; 2 C for 18 days and 14 C for 7 days; 2 C for 6 days and 14 C for 1 day, caused greater chilling injury and higher weight loss. The production of ethanol and other metabolites in the juice proved to be low during storage, especially at a constant 6 C ao at 6 C for 6 days and 14 C for 1 day cycle, with a marked increase in shelf-life. No endogenous ethylene was produced, and due to their resistance to microbiological infection (with no post-harvest protection), these mandarins responded well to 2 months cold-storage, followed by 2 weeks of shelf-life under all the temperatures tested.
42883409|Strawberry tree (Arbutus unedo L.), an evergreen shrub, is a post-fire resprouting species in the Mediterranean maquis, relevant for its ornamental value and utilised for fruit, honey, charcoal and fodder production. Seed and cutting propagation is currently used by nurseries. This paper investigates in vitro establishment, shoot elongation, proliferation and rooting of strawberry tree in vitro germinated seedlings, as well as callus induction from different expiants. The best results in terms of non infected seeds and germination rate were obtained by disinfecting seeds in a 7% NaClO solution for 1 min. Axillary shoot development was relevant on apices cultured in a WPM medium with 22.2 M BA. A light intensity of 25 mol. m.s, in comparison with 40 mol. m.s, increased shoot elongation and axillary bud formation. Genotype noticeably influenced axillary shoot formation. Microcuttings rooted better when pulsed with 0.3 or 0.6 raM IBA for 15 min as compared to continuative treatment and trasferred to auxin-free medium. Yellow friable calluses were obtained from internodes, foliar discs and root cuttings cultured in 1/2 N -MS basal salts and vitamins supplemented with zeatin (1 and 5 M), being the largest those derived from internodes and cultured with the highest zeatin level.
42881668|A survey was carried out in Apulian sweet cherry orchards and in a varietal collection to assess the presence and distribution of viruses. Over 1,500 trees were individually sampled and checked by ELISA for the Prunus necrotic ringspot (PNRSV), prune dwarf (PDV), apple mosaic (ApMV) ilarviruses and apple chlorotic leaf spot closterovirus (ACLSV). On average, more than half the plants of commercial orchards and of the varietal collection contained one or more viruses, the infections in certain cultivars ranging from 80 to 100%. The dominant virus was PDV (75% in commercial plantings, 45% in the varietal collection), followed by ACLSV (10%), ApMV (8%) and PNRSV (7%). All these viruses were recovered by sap inoculation and found to be very close to ordinary isolates of the respective type species. A new virus with filamentous particles, serologically related to a similar one from almond, was isolated and provisionally named Prunus latent virus (PLV). Improvements in the serological detection of ilarviruses and ACLSV were achieved using extracts from woody material (buds and cortical tissues) collected in autumn and cold-stored for up to six months.
42883216|The loquat fruit suffers from russeting, a physiological disorder which severely decreases the marketable value of the fruit. The disorder can be detected as a skin blemish four weeks after fruit set, while the fruit is still green. Toward the phase of fruit color change, the blemish appears as deep brown stripes of ca. 1 mm width. The number of fruits affected and the percent skin cover contribute additively to the severity of the disorder. The extent of the damage varies between years and cultivars and it seems to be influenced by microclimate. The objective of the present investigation was to identify some of the conditions contributing to the russeting of the fruit in order to develop means for alleviating the damage. The number of fruits affected by russeting was reduced from 75% to 25% by growing trees at 30% reduced light intensity under black net covers. The effects of temperatures and irradiance level during fruit growth were measured in the field by enclosing fruiting shoots in various net and bag covers. An increase in percent russeted fruits was correlated with the increase of air temperature under cover from 17.7C to 21.6C, and the deviation from ca. 1000 mole m s irradiance level, to higher and lower values. Environmental conditions (reduced temperatures and extreme light intensities) which delayed fruit development during the cell division stage (20-60 days after fruit set) were associated with reduced incidence of russeting at the cell enlargement stage.
42883429|Microsporogenesis, microgametogenesis and the morphology of mature pollen grains of the Forastero peach cultivar are described. This process started in winter, when the mean temperature was 5.6C. Some aborted microspore mother cells were observed in the archesporium of anthers. Tapetai cells were bi-nucleate and numerous micro vacuoles and oil droplets were present in their cytoplasm. Mature pollen grains were observed some days before anthesis, approximately one month later than the differentiation of microspores. Vegetative cell showed a dense cytoplasm with abundant lipids, proteins and some amyloplasts containing one or two starch grains. Mitochondria were present in a high proportion with two different structures, some of them with well developed cristae and other ones with little or without discernible cristae. The amount of pollen grains observed within mature anthers, was not uniform. Anthers with numerous pollen grains and other ones with few or without pollen grains were observed. A great amount of abnormal pollen grains were present in the 'Forastero' anthers, like pollen grains without pore regions and with different types of exine and columellae disposition.
42883470|Selection of the high quality persimmon cultivar Rojo Brillante from the native germplasm from the local area 'Ribera del Xquer', along with application of the technique for removing astringency without losing fruit frmness, allowed expansion of the culture in the 1990s in the Valencia province. The acreage and production of 'Rojo Brillante' have increased by more than 200 times in the last 15 years. In 2007, 62% of production was exported. The Regulatory Council of Origin Denomination (CRDO) "Kaki Ribera del Xquer" has been created to guarantee product quality. In this paper, the origin, characteristics and management of ' Rojo Brillante' are described as a novel resource in the persimmon industry.
42883427|A complete evaluation of flower quality for the olive tree includes parameters at different levels of morphological organization, from the inflorescence to the pollen and ovule. In this study we examined inflorescence, flower gender, ovary structure, ovule development and pollen integrity in commercial orchards of olive cv. Morisca, suspected of having floral quality limitations to production. Low values were found in flower number, perfect flowers and pollen quality, but fertile inflorescences (with at least one perfect flower), ovary growth and ovule development were normal. The observed shortcomings appear to be a characteristic of this cultivar, but not necessarily a serious limitation to fruit production. In this report, the methods for evaluating different floral quality parameters in the olive tree are described and it is suggested that compensation among them is part of the reproductive strategy of this species.
42882052|Cold hardiness in different organs and tissues of four different olive (Olea europaea L.) cultivars characterised in a previous work as different in frost tolerance, was assessed by four different methods (differential thermal analysis, visual score, vital stain and electrolyte leakage) to determine which method is more reliable for estimating freezing injury in olive. Results obtained with the different techniques consistently agreed. Among the four different procedures utilised, DTA was by far the fastest, whereas the visual score method the simplest, although not as quantitative as the other three methods. It would appear from the present study that the order of sensitivity in the different organs of olive is secondary roots > primary roots > apical leaves > basal leaves > shoots > vegetative buds. 'Ascolana' was the most chilling-tolerant variety, whereas 'Coratina' the most chilling-sensitive. The wide range of tolerance showed by olive (i.e. from -11.2 to -15.3C for the leaves) together with the recurrent danger of frost in many areas of cultivation, made this species an ideal candidate to breeding for low-temperature-tolerant plants.
42881708|Field experiments were undertaken to determine the response of time of initial topping, spacing, cutting height and harvesting frequency on amaranth. The results revealed that early initial topping (2 weeks after planting) decreased both total yield and leaf/stem ratio. The closest spacing of 45  45 cm, which produced the minimum total yield per plant, produced the highest total yield per hectare, while the reverse was the case with the widest spacing of 90  60 cm. There was no advantage in quality of shoots, leaves or stems by the spacing regimes tested. The cutting heights of 10, 15 and 20 cm did not influence total shoot and stem yield. 15 and 20 cm cutting heights, however, produced higher total leaf yields and leaf/stem ratios than the 10 cm height. The 2-week harvesting interval produced higher total shoot and leaf yields and a higher leaf/stem ratio than the 3-week harvesting frequency.
42882371|Many different apple (Malus domestica Borth) rootstocks are used in Moroccan orchards but cultural practices are based on models from other areas. Orchardists tend to focus more attention on the variety and neglect the importance of the rootstocks. Using the dwarfing rootstocks results in many problems such as loss, death of the scion or limited growth and yield. Each of the rootstocks used has deficiencies, and their performances are highly dependent on the local climatic conditions. The behaviour of the main cultivars 'Golden Delicious' and 'Starking Delicious' grafted on five rootstocks (MM.111, MM.106, Emla 9, Pajam 1, and M.27) was evaluated during a four-year period at the INRA station at An Taoujdate near Meknes, Morocco. Results showed that vigor was reduced with Emla 9, Pajam 1 and M.27 and this was always associated with 'graft-pad'. These rootstocks significantly affected vegetative growth with a decrease in shoot lengthening for the two varieties. Dwarfing rootstocks tended to reduce leaf area but did not affect the stomatal density. Leaves of trees grafted on dwarfing rootstocks abscised three days earlier than those of trees on more vigorous stocks. Blooming period varied over 12 days and differed among years. Differences between rootstocks for full bloom were four days. Rootstocks did not affect spur load and yield was generally low. Difference in global yield was significant and the cumulative yield for 'Golden Delicious' varied between 17.2 kg per tree for Pajam 1 and 27.3 kg for MM. 111. Yield results with 'Starking Delicious' also differed and varied between 5.7 and 9.2 with Emla 9 and MM. 111, respectively. Yield efficiency was higher on dwarfing rootstocks but fruit size was little affected. In spite of differences between years, trees on vigorous rootstocks, such as MM.111, performed well under warm and semi-arid climate.
42883334|This study was undertaken to assess the organoleptic and nutritional quality of olive oil from the south-western region of Australia. The study involved the analysis of 34 olive oils to determine free fatty acid content, fatty acid composition, total polyphenol concentration and organoleptic rating. Based on the parameters tested the quality of olive oil across the region was found to be high. The average free fatty acid content was 0.2% with only one oil exceeding 1.0%. Only one oil did not meet the International Olive Oil Council standards for fatty acid composition with a linolenic acid (C18:3) value of 1.4%. Oils originating from the southern cooler areas within the region had significantly higher oleic acid (C18:1) contents and were lower in both polyunsaturated and saturated fatty acids. Levels of polyphenols also tended to be higher in more southern areas, however further research needs to be undertaken in this area. The average organoleptic score obtained was 13.90.4 out of 20 with the highest score being 18.5. These results indicate that the south-west region of Australia has the potential to produce high quality extra virgin olive oil.
42881389|In trials investigating the effects of soil water availability on gas exchange of olive tree leaves (cv. Leccino), plants reacted to low levels of available water by drastically reducing their gas exchange with the environment, particularly during the hours of high evapotranspiration demand. Irrigated plants also reduced gas exchange, especially CO during the hottest time of the day.
42881669|Dark treatment for 7 days of cuttings from in vitro propagated apple (Malus domestica Borkh). shoots increased rooting of 'Golden Delicious', 'Triple Red Delicious' and 'Oregon Spur Delicious', but darkening only the basal 1 cm of microcuttings increased rooting only of 'Oregon Spur Delicious'. Microcuttings receiving distal darkening only had rooting as poor as, or poorer than, control cuttings receiving no dark treatment. Root number for 'Triple Red Delicious' was increased by total darkness, but was not affected by other treatments. Coumarin increased the rooting percentage of 'Delicious' in the absence of indolebutyric acid (IBA), of 'Gala' in the presence of IBA and did not increase rooting of 'Redchief Delicious' and 'Redspur Delicious' whether or not IBA was present. In the presence of IBA coumarin induced an increase in root number in 'Delicious' microcuttings that was quadratically related to increases in the coumarin concentrations evaluated (0-150 M).
42883536|In vitro approaches, including cryopreservation, may provide an important component for a sustainable olive (Olea europaea L.) germplasm conservation strategy. Although there are reports of the successful recovery of olive shoot tips after cryopreservation to date none present evidence of sustained post-thaw regrowth. In this study, the effectiveness of several cryopreservation approaches was compared. No post-thaw shoot tip regrowth was observed after either encapsulation/dehydration or encapsulatio osmoprotection/dehydration protocols. Post-thaw regrowth of 'Frantoio' shoot tips (up to 38%) was achieved following a "two-stage" incubation with PVS2 (50% PVS2 for 30 min, plus 100% PVS2 for 1 hr), direct plunging into liquid nitrogen and post-thaw culture on OM medium containing a high concentration (46 M) of zeatin. Despite the modification of zeatin and gibberellic acid combinations in the post-thaw culture medium, long-term regrowth of shoot tips could not be sustained significantly beyond 10 weeks. Histological examination indicated that the PVS2 treatment and subsequent plunging into liquid nitrogen of shoot tips did not modify the structure of the meristematic apex; however, several changes were noted in the sub-apical cells following PVS2 treatment, such as cell wall gelification of sub-apical cells, significant dehydration of external parenchyma cells and cellular starch accumulation. These changes became more enhanced by immersion in liquid nitrogen. The significance of these results in terms of olive cryopreservation is discussed.
42881320|The uptake of macronutrients by a tomato crop in NFT at two nutrient solution concentrations (total salt contents of 3.2 g.l and 1.8 g.l respectively) was followed. Fruit yield and total mineral removal were increased at the higher concentration of nutrients. Growth rate and mineral absorption were high from fruit set of the first truss to the beginning of harvesting. Total nutrient uptake was low in both nutrient solutions because of the reduction of root efficiency with time. No nutritional disorders of leaves were found, although low quality fruits were produced. The higher salinity promoted blossom-end rot of fruits in our condition of high air temperature and low relative humidity. No influence of nutrient solution concentration on root death in the early stages of the crop was observed.
42883291|Cluster and shoot thinning was performed on four-year-old Nero d'Avola vines (Vitis vinifera L.), grafted on 1103 P, so as to leave on each vine, nine well-spaced shoots of similar length, each one with 1 bunch. Modifications of source-sink ratios were subsequently imposed when the berries reached pea-size by carrying out summer-pruning treatments. Treatments were: C-1= no summer pruning; C-0= cluster removal; T1-1= removal of shoot apex and laterals; T1-0= removal of shoot apex, laterals and clusters; T2-1= removal of shoot apex, laterals and 50% of the main shoot leaves; T2-0= removal of shoot apex, laterals, 50% of the main shoot leaves and all clusters; T3-1= removal of laterals and 50% of the main shoot nodes; T3-0= removal of laterals, 50% of the main shoot nodes and all clusters. Defoliation greater than 60% did not affect yield or fruit composition. Reduction in the leaf area increased net photosynthesis and caused less photoassimilate allocation to permanent plant organs. Vines without bunches, compared to fruited vines had a greater increase in circumference of the vegetative organs, while no differences in leaf photosynthetic activity were detected. This behaviour suggested that clusters have a higher sink strength to attract photoassimilates at the cost of other organs, but also have a scarce capability of promoting source activity. Leaf area being equal, greater vegetative sink strength in T2-1 and T2-0 plants, compared to T3-1 and T3-0 plants, plays an important role in promoting source activity. For this reason, in order to maximise grapevine dry matter production, carbohydrate sink strength must be in balance with photosynthetic source potential.
42883317|The phenological behaviour of the olive varieties Bosana and Nera di Gonnos was studied from 1997 to 2000 in four areas of northern Sardinia characterised by different elevations. The lack of winter rest on the apical buds was observed in both varieties and the occurrence of flowering showed lower annual variation in the warmest area, where the olive tree is traditionally grown. The meteorological data of temperature and rainfall were acquired and correlated to the phenological phase observed. The results indicated the level of variability in the expression of the flowering and fruit colour change as affected by the environment. A linear relation between days of year and the calculated degree days was evidenced in the Bosana variety, thus showing the effect of climatic conditions as related to increasing elevation. The data obtained are also discussed according to a phenological model previously proposed for the climatic condition of northern Sardinia.
42883525|Male sterility in vegetables is a never-ending process due to rapid advancement in molecular techniques and their implementation. Substantial progress has been made in understanding the mechanism of male sterility in selected vegetable crops. On a global level, cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) and cytoplasmic genetic male sterility (CGMS) are the most widely utilized in the majority of vegetables. In India vegetable hybrids based on CMS and CGMS system have been limited. In India, genetic male sterility (GMS) has been exploited commercially only in the cases of chilli and muskmelon to develop F x hybrid seed commercially. Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, India has released two chilli hybrids (CH-1 and CH-3) and one muskmelon hybrid (Punjab Hybrid) based on the GMS system. Similarly in tomato, work on GMS lines is in progress at PAU. The CGMS system has been commercially exploited in chilli, onion and carrot. In the recent past, chilli CGMS lines were introduced at the Indian Institute of Vegetable Research (IIVR) from AVRDC, which are utilized directly or indirectly to produce CMS-based hybrids, i.e Kashi Surkh (CCH-2) and Kashi Early (CCH-3). The Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR), Bangalore, India has also released chilli hybrids based on the CGMS system, i. e. Arka Meghna (MSH-172), MSH-149 and MSH-96. In carrot, the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) regional station, Katrain (HP), India has developed one hybrid, 'Pusa Nayanjvoti', which is based on petaloid CGMS and it was identified for release from Delhi state seed subcommittee in 2009. In the tropical group of carrot, IARI, New Delhi India has also reported CGMS system in different genetic backgrounds and evaluation of different hybrid combinations is in progress. In onion, IIHR, Bangalore has released two hybrids based on the CGMS system, i.e. Arka Kirtiman and Arka Lalima, and IARI, New Delhi has developed two hybrids in onion (Hybrid-63 and Hybrid-35) which are based on the same system. The CMS system has been commercially exploited in cabbage, cauliflower and onion. The IARI Regional Station Katrain (Kullu Valley) has evolved a few hybrids in cabbage by utilizing Ogura CMS system and one of the hybrids (KCH-5) was in field testing under All India Coordinated Research Project on Vegetable Crops. The Ogura-type CMS has been transferred into heat-tolerant Indian cauliflower from kale and broccoli through repeated backe rosses; four lines (MS-91, MS-51, MS-11 and MS-110) from the former and five lines (MS-01, MS-04, MS-05, MS-09 and MS-10) from the latter were developed. In India, research on the transgenic male sterility system has been initiated in selected vegetables but our first priority should be the utilization of existing and established, but unexploited, male sterility systems. This will not only promote adoption of hybrid vegetable technology by economizing the cost of hybrid seeds but also provide basic material and scope for the development of more efficient male sterility system in respective vegetable crops.
42883315|Heat resistance in shoots and leaves of 10 olive (Olea europaea L.) cultivare was assessed by two different methods. Stem impedance analysis and electrolyte leakage of leaves and shoots were evaluated to determine which method is more reliable for estimating heat injury in olive. A significant decrease in DZratio and increase in electrolyte leakage was found in all genotypes after heat treatment Results from the two methods showed that both methods were able to detect heat injury in olive. However, electrolyte leakage seemed to work more effectively detecting bigger differences among the heat tolerance of the cultivars tested. It would appear from the present study that shoots are more resistant than leaves to heat injury. On average, leaves and shoots are injured at temperatures around 48 and 50C, respectively. The lethal temperatures allowed to share out the cultivars in four groups with different tolerance to heat stress. The heat response of these genotypes has been analysed in detail and the limits of artificial heating tests are discussed.
42883098|The present paper reports the effects of several keeping solutions on the vase life of cut cv. Rebecca gerbera flowers. Postharvest life was prolonged by all the tested keeping solutions, which in some cases increased it about four times with respect to distilled water. The 8-HQS + NaB + AOA + 3,4,5-T and sucrose solution not only increased vase life but also caused a different type of senescence; ligulae and disk lost colour, probably because of low transpiration and a good absorption level, whereas in distilled water and other keeping solutions the inflorescence lost turgidity and wilted.
42881823|Olive trees have very low fruit set due to intense fruitlet abscission. To determine the reasons for this shedding, we simultaneously monitored the reproductive processes and fruit population dynamics in 'Arbequina' trees growing under controlled conditions. Although low pollen adhesion in undersized pistils may limit fruit set, ovule penetration by pollen tubes was observed in 60% of flowers prior to the onset of abscission; nevertheless 96% of the initial pistil population abscised. Most of the abscission occurred during the first two weeks after bloom and affected primarily smaller pistils, both unfertilized and fertilized; only a small percentage of pistils reaching 3-4 times their initial size were shed. Ovule degeneration was often observed in unfertilized flowers prior their abscission, but there was no evident cause for shedding of the fertilized flowers. The results suggest that rapid ovule and ovary growth following fertilization required an increased nutrient supply causing competition among the developing fruitlets. Such competition for nutrients triggers selective abortion of smaller, less competitive fruitlets.
42883354|The current study was carried out in an attempt to correlate the yield attributes with the physical properties of lettuce. The effect of four types of slow release and soluble fertilizers and a control treatment (only water) on the growth and yield attributes (such as number of leaves, head size, fresh and dry weight of head) of two Lactuca sativa cultivars (Great Lake and Nabucco), was investigated at two different sowing dates in Spring. Yield differences in general were not significant between fertilizer treatments and control. The physicochemical [moisture content, color parameters (L*, a* and b*), firmness, nitrate content, total phenols] and sensory parameters of these two cultivars were studied. A trained panel of ten individuals and an untrained panel of 60 individuals were employed for assessing the sensory properties and consumer preference of lettuce, respectively. Principal Component Analysis was employed in order to correlate the physico-chemical parameters with the sensory properties as well as with field yield productivity at the various fertilizer regimes employed. Significant differences were only found between the two cultivars whereas in most cases no significant differences were observed among fertilizer treatments of the same cultivar.
42881925|The effect of increasing the nitrogen supply (50, 100, 200 mg N I) to hydroponically grown chrysanthemum stock plants on glucose, fructose, sucrose and total soluble carbohydrate concentrations in cuttings was studied in relation to subsequent rooting. The influence of cool-storage (0.5C) of cuttings in polyethylene bags in the dark for different periods (2,3,4 weeks) was also assessed. Higher nitrogen nutrition increased the nitrogen concentrations in cuttings up to 6.8% of their dry mass and significantly lowered 'soluble carbohydrates. Increasing nitrogen concentrations in cuttings diminished the influence of harvest date and storage on soluble carbohydrates. Significantly higher sucrose values were measured after cuttings had been stored for two weeks. The number, length and fresh mass of adventitious roots, determined after 12 days, were positively correlated with total nitrogen concentration and negatively correlated with total and individual soluble carbohydrates. This contradicts the conventional view that high nitrogen and low carbohydrate levels inhibit rooting. The contradiction is probably linked to the use of a higher photosynthetic photon flux density during rooting in the present work. The influence of other compounds, their distribution within cuttings and their interactions with light must also be involved in explaining the positive influence of nitrogen content on rooting capability.
42883178|Over a four year period (1988-1991), Colorado potato beetle eggmass, larvae and adult populations in 17 commercial eggplant fields were sampled twice weekly using a 100 plant fixed sampling program. Eggmass and adult/larvae (placed on an equivalent feeding basis) densities were determined. The spatial dispersion of eggmasses and combined motile forms was determined using Iwao's regression technique and Taylor's Power Law. Each technique described aggregated distributions for both eggmasses and combined motile forms. Taylor's Power Law, however, more accurately described Colorado potato beetle dispersion and was used as the basis for estimating optimal sample sizes and the creation of two sequential sampling plans, one for eggmasses (ET=1 eggmass/plant) and one for combined motile forms (ET=8 individuals/plant). The resultant plans were implemented in two commercial eggplant fields during 1992. Field verification showed a high degree of agreement between the decisions made by each plan and the densities determined from separate 100 plant samples.
42881692|Inheritance of some traits in Phaseolus vulgaris L. (seed-coat color, plant height, pods/plant, and 100-seed weight) was studied in crosses and selfing of hybrids between parents with contrasting characters. The results indicated that seed-coat color depends on the interactions of at least 2 loci (P and R), with  showing an epistatic effect over R. Genotypes) that are recessive for some of these genes phenotypically exhibit white seed but segregate coloredseeded recombinants when crossed inter se. The mottled pattern in colored seed-coat has a monogenie control. Indeterminate growth habit was dominant over the determinate and segregated according to a 3: 1 ratio, suggesting a monogenie control. Similar genetic control was shown for pods/plant, with dominance of lower pods/plant. Finally, 100-seed weight appeared to be polygenic. These findings were useful in the bean breeding program developed at our institute to choose the best selection strategy. Qualitatively inherited traits were manipulated using simple selection procedures while phenotypic recurrent selection was performed to improve the seed weight trait.
42882920|In this paper, after reviewed recent advances in research of endodormancy, research on Japanese pear were reported. In the case of Japanese pear, endodormancy was induced by low temperature of 5C, without effect of day length. Chilling requirement (CR) of Japanese pear for completion of leaf bud endodormancy shows wide range from below 800 to 1800 chilling units (CU). We investigated the budbreak percent in Taiwanese pear Yokoyama, in Japanese pear strain TH3 and their F1 for 3 years. The percentage of budbreak in TH3 was lower than Yokoyama on any observational days and it gradually increased from early December to early January. The percentage of budbreak in F1 plants was widely distributed between that of Yokoyama and TH3 on all observational days. From results of chi-square test, it was suggested that pear plant had quantitative trait loci (QTL) as genetic factor to decide chilling requirement (CR) for breaking endodormancy. Expression levels of gene encoding GAST-like gibberellin (GA) regulated protein increased with development of endodormancy in Japanese pear cultivars. ABA concentrations in bud of Japanese pear in open-field were increased with the induction of endodormancy by chilling. However, the ABA concentrations in un-chilled plants were lower.
42882679|This study reports an efficient in vitro regeneration protocol for apple rootstock M111. The procedure consists of inducing vegetative shoot apices from leaf explants of in vitro plantlets maintained in a modified QL medium supplemented with two phytoregulators, 1 mg l benzyladenine and 0.1 mg l gibberellic acid. Percentage of regeneration, total number of shoots and number of shoots/explants were recorded and compared to those obtained for M26, another well-studied apple rootstock. Two different concentrations of benzyladenine and thidiazuron were analysed in combination with a stable presence of naphtalene-1-acetic acid. Thidiazuron showed to be more effective on induction of regeneration and high regeneration frequency: 58-63% for Mill and 80-83% for M26, respectively. Regenerated shoots were successfully excised and multiplied in vitro.
42881401|To understand the role of lipids in Citrus fruit adaptation to chilling stress, we examined changes in fatty acid composition in the flavedo of the cv. Fortune under cold storage. Fruits were stored at 2.5 or 12C and 80-90% RH. Dry weight, total lipids, fatty acid composition of total lipids and, subsequently, of the neutral, polar, and galactolipid fractions of same were analysed after harvest, after 20 and 40 days of storage, and after 40 days storage plus a shelf-life period of 3 days at 20C and 60% RH. Flavedo water content decreased more in fruit stored at 12C than in those stored at 2.5C. Moreover, total lipid extract increased more in the part stored at 2.5C. Linoleic acid was the most abundant fatty acid. The percentage of linolenic acid in the galactolipid fraction was considerably higher than in the other fractions. At 12C, a general decrease in fatty acid content in the composition of neutral and galactolipid fractions occurred. A decrease in palmitic, linoleic, and linolenic acid and an increase in oleic acid were the main modifications accompanying fruit senescence at the non-chilling temperature. At 2.5C, on the contrary, mandarins showed a total fatty acid increase. A decrease of linolenic acid in galactolipids and an increase in polar lipids, as well as an increase of oleic and linoleic acids in polar lipids were the main modifications that determined a more unsaturated fatty acid profile in flavedo polar lipids of chilled fruits.
42881909|Embryogenie callus cultures of Cyclamen persicum 'Giganteum' Mill. cv. Purple Flamed were used to investigate the effect of different gaseous exchange conditions of culture containers on callus growth and on the development of somatic embryos (SEs). On the hormone-added medium, better growth was achieved by using jars closed with twist-off metal screw-caps wrapped with a double layer of PVC film throughout the subculture, and especially by reducing the initial callus amount per vessel. In this case, a higher uniformity of cultures was also induced. A regular development of somatic embryos was recorded when plating the callus on the hormonefree medium. Headspace gas analyses revealed a slight CO accumulation, a correspondent O reduction and only traces of ethylene. Comparable growth rates were observed when using other sealing systems for short periods, i.e. a double ring of PVC film or Parafilm or tightly closed jars. When these conditions were prolonged beyond day 14, the yield was remarkably lower. In particular, in tightly closed jars, neither callus growth nor development of SEs were observed during the four weeks of culture and ultimately necrosis and cell death occurred. Furthermore, considerable CO production, correspondent O consumption, CH accumulation and traces of ethane were recorded.
42883408|Accurate measurements of leaf area are important for agronomic and physiological studies. Determining individual leaf area (A) of radish (Raphanus sativus L.) can involve measurements of leaf parameters such as length (L) and width (W) or combinations of these parameters. Two greenhouse experiments were carried out to compare models for radish leaf area estimation from simple linear measurements that were able to accommodate the effects of genetic material and nutrient solution concentration. Leaf area was predicted accurately from the product of L and W (R = 0.93 and MSE= 6.2 cm), but this model was dependent on genetic material and nutrient solution concentration. The model became independent of nutrient solution concentrations and accessions when leaf length and width (L, W) were added. The linear model having LW, W and L as an independent variable provided the most accurate estimation (R= 0.97, MSE= 3.8 cm) of radish A irrespective of nutrient solution concentrations and accessions. Validation on leaves measured in the second experiment showed that the ratio between calculated and measured area was very high.
42881486|Miho satsuma fruit (Citrus unshiu Marc.) were dipped in a solution of an edible coating (Semperfresh) or wrapped in a plastic film (Cryovac MD15) and cured at 38C and 100% relative humidity (RH) for 72 hrs, before being transferred to 20C and 75% RH for 24 days in simulated shelf-life condition. Weight loss, pH, TSS, acidity, Vit. C, colour and relative freshness, were determined at 8, 16 and 24 days. The curing combined with wrapping was the most effective treatment in maintaining freshness during the storage period and in drastically reducing both weight loss and incidence of decay.
42883080|Alternate bearing in the pistachio occurs by abscission of female inflorescences (next year's crop) on shoots bearing a current year's heavy crop. Reallocation of nitrogenous (N) compounds from abscising buds to developing kernels is dependent initially on the availability of N from the rootstock, and starts with the rapid growth of the kernel as a major sink for soluble N. Nitrogen trafficking patterns for abscission over the 5 to 6 weeks explain how food supply, rich in proline and asparagine N, interacts with environmental conditions and plant growth regulators to predispose alternate bearing.
42882196|Five potato cultivare, belonging to early and medium maturing groups, grown under short (Min. 5-21C, Max. 15-34C, day length 11.5-9.75 hr) and long day (Min. 6-25C, Max. 17-41C, day length 11-13.5 hr) conditions in autumn and spring, respectively, were evaluated for important crop characteristics, contents of chemical compounds and indices of tuber quality at different stages of growth. Mean tuber yield, tuber specific gravity and dry matter content, tuber dry matter production and starch yield increased up to the last stage of harvest in both the crop seasons, but were significantly higher in autumn. Both long day conditions and high temperature favour high growth of the foliage apparently at the cost of the tubers, which initiated later and developed slowly in spring. Fresh weight of the foliage decreased up to the last harvest in both seasons and the average harvest index (fresh tuber yield/total fresh biomass) of the cultivars at 100 days after planting was 0.77 and 0.64 in autumn and spring, respectively, indicating higher translocation of photosynthates from the source to the sink during autumn. Mature tubers grown in autumn displayed a significantly higher content of reducing sugars and total phenols and produced darker chips, while those grown in spring showed higher levels of sucrose and free amino acids. ' Kufri Lauvkar' was most suitable for the preparation of chips during autumn, while all five cultivars produced chips of acceptable colour quality during spring. The yield of fried products from tubers grown during spring was expected to be much lower due to less tuber dry matter production, but these tubers can be used to prolong the period of processing. ' Kufri Jyoti' produced the highest starch yield per unit area in both seasons and was the most suitable for the production of starch and dehydrated products.
42882858|Fresh convenience products represent a category of minimally processed fruit and vegetables (chunks, mousse, smoothies) that respond to the changes in consumer attitudes. Thanks to the image of convenience (time-saving, snack sizes, no waste, smart packaging) and healthiness their sales are steadily increasing. In this study 26 varieties (including peach, nectarines, and clingstone peaches) from Apulian production were divided into three groups according to harvest dates in early (A), middle (B) and late (C) maturing. Physical, chemical and sensorial analyses were performed in order to select high quality fruits for minimal processing according to the harvesting season. A multivariate Principal Component Analysis was applied to discriminate different varieties for quality attributes. Within Group A, 'Honey Kist' showed the lowest acidity and intermediate susceptibility to mechanical damage. For Group B, 'Stark Red Gold', 'Zee Glo' and 'Venus' resulted different in sensorial evaluation, while 'Loader' and 'Eolia' were more susceptible to browning. For Group C, 'Tardi Belle' and 'Baby Gold7', although more sensitive to mechanical damage, were differentiated for flavor. Results of this work confirm the extreme variability among varieties in terms of sensorial quality, susceptibility to browning and to mechanical damage, and the importance of assessing varietal screening for selection of most suitable varieties for minimal processing.
42883544|Cryopreservation is the only technique ensuring the safe, long-term and cost-effective conservation of germplasm of vegetatively propagated species. Its applicability is currently being evaluated in Guadeloupe for the long-term storage of the yam germplasm collection maintained by INRA. The first preliminary positive results have been obtained with Dioscorea cayenensis-rotundata shoot tips frozen using the droplet-vitrification technique. Additional experiments are under way to improve the results, to test other cryopreservation techniques and to apply them to different Dioscorea species. Indexation of regenerated material, to evaluate the efficiency of virus elimination through cryopreservation, will be performed when recovery after freezing in liquid nitrogen is consistently achieved.
42883506|Sweet potato {Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.) is an important crop for human consumption, as animal feed and as industrial raw material for the production of starch, sugar and alcohol. Since the nitrogen use efficiency is very low in soils where sweet potato is generally grown in India, field experiments were conducted to study the effect of an integrated use of inorganic fertilizers and farm yard manure along with and without the application of the nitrogen fixing biofertiliser, Azospirllum brasilense. Treatments included full dose, 2/3 and 1/3 of the present N recommendation along with and without Azospirllum applied either or both as vine dipping and/or as soil application. The results indicate that the present level of nitrogen application can be reduced to one-third if we integrate this level with dipping of sweet potato vine cuttings at 2 kg ha for 15 min before planting and soil application of Azospirllum at 10 kg ha at the time of planting. The B: C ratio was highest in this treatment. Even though the cost of cultivation was slightly higher in this treatment, due to the significantly higher tuber yield obtained, the economic returns as well as B: C ratio was the highest. It can also be seen that application of Azospirllum along with fertilizer nitrogen had a beneficial effect on the fertility status of the soil in terms of available phosphorus and potassium.
42883078|Effects of pH on leakage of phenolic substances and ions from roots of rose (Rosa indica major) cuttings propagated in a nutrientless aeroponic fogging system were examined by incubation of root segments or intact roots in solutions of biological MOPSO+BTP buffer with pH 6.2, 7.6 or in water, following exposure to the buffers. The content of phenolic substances was measured spectrophotometrically at A= 260 nm, whereas the contents of K and N were measured by means of Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectroscopy (ICP-AES) and the content of K was also measured by flame photometry. Leakage of phenols or K into the buffer was not affected by the pH of the buffer. On the other hand, the leakage into water following incubation in buffer of pH 7.6 was significantly higher than the leakage following incubation at pH 6.2. In contrast to K, the leakage of Na into the buffer was greatly affected by the pH of the buffer, whereas leakage into water was not affected by the pH of the buffer. The direct effects of high pH on root function, in addition to the indirect effects on the availability of mineral ions, are discussed in context with a previously reported hypothesis.
42881671|Trials were carried out on "Stark Red Gold" nectarine trees to evaluate the effect of available irradiance, canopy side and training system on stomatal density and size, and stomatal area per cm leaf area. Stomata were less numerous with low available irradiance, with moving to East side of the canopy and in Free Palmette trees than in Free Spindle. Since size of stomata increased as the density decreased, the proportion of leaf area occupied by stomata did not show significant differences for each combination of the variables considered.
42882988|Owing to the extreme difficulty to obtain rooted cuttings of adult chestnut, a research was carried out on the effects of treatments with combinations of several substances (auxins, vitamins, naphtol, boric acid, PVP, BAP), and of etiolation, on epicormic shoots of Castanea sativa Mill., cv Rami di Tosi, and on adventitious root formation in cuttings collected from the treated shoots in autumn. A mixture of IBA, PVP, naphthol, boric acid and vitamins, supplied to shoots as EtOH sprays and followed by etiolation, gave high percentages of rooting and survival. Basal treatments with auxinic substances further improved such performances. Etiolation appeared to strongly reduce the differentiation of sclereids in the sclerenchymatous ring, and the treatments with chemicals induced the formation of multiseriate xylem rays, where root initials and, eventually, primordia arose, before the collection of cutting for propagation.
42883165|Research to verify the effects of indolebutyric (IBA) and indoleacetic (IAA) acids complexed with otcyclodextrin to improve chemical stability and increase water solubility on the rooting potential of olive cuttings was carried out. Results indicate that complexed IBA, compared to its potassium salt (KIBA), significantly amplifies rhyzogenic potential of cuttings when the treatment has a duration of 45 sec. The same effect is attained by employing an elevated concentration of complexed auxin (7000 ppm). Under the same conditions the effectiveness of KIBA significantly decreased. Also the complex with IAA demonstrated a positive effect on rooting, however to a lesser degree than the one with IBA. At present, only hypotheses can be formulated regarding the activity mechanism of the complexes with -cyclodextrin; more precise information may be acquired following further, specific studies.
42881562|The major features of the 'Dynamic Model' (Fishman S., Erez A., Couvillon G.A., 1987  J. Theor. Biol. 124: 273), which evaluates the temperature dependence of bud rest breaking, are briefly analyzed and discussed. The chilling accumulation calculated according to this new approach is compared with that predicted by the 'Utah Model' and by counting the the total number of hours below 7C. Results obtained by simulations show some differences, occurring mainly during periods with steady high or freezing temperatures. The 'Dynamic Model' proved to be able to account for chilling enhancement due to short exposures to high temperatures. However, differences tend to cancel out, when the models are applied to a set of real temperature records. While it seems possible that greater differences would come out in milder climates, the need for a stronger linking to physiological events is finally emphasized.
42882367|Explants of three rootstocks Pyrus cummunis L. "Old Home"  "Farmingdale" (OHxF 69,40 and 87) were initiated from branches of field-grown trees on MS medium, MS one-half the NH NO and KNO concentrations medium and Lepoivre added with BA and IBA. MS one-half the NH NO and KNO concentrations medium with BA and Lepoivre with BA and IBA seem to be the best media for the initiation of the three rootstocks. The best multiplication medium for the three cultivars is the MS medium one-half the NH NO and KNO concentrations with 8.8 M BA or added with 0.25 or 0.5 M BA. The subculture's number increases the shoot explant's number but it also increases the hyperhydricity percentage. Pyrus communis OHxF seems to be sensitive to nitrate. In vitro rooting of rootstocks requires the use of well-developed micro buds and an adequate auxinic pre-treatment of each rootstock. IBA at 10 M seems to be the most suitable auxin for the rooting of the three rootstocks, while the dilution of the basic medium MS seems to be essential for the improvement of the rooting. A phase of obscurity appears to be compulsory for OHxF69 but not for OHxF40 and OHxF87. Only rooted and developed plantlets survived greenhouse acclimatization.
42883039|Excised leaf segments taken from in vitro grown shoots of several Rhododendron cultivars were induced to produce adventitious buds on Anderson's medium containing 4.9 M indolebutyric acid (IBA) and 73.8 M isopentenyladenine (2iP). Genotypic differences in the ability to regenerate shoots were observed. 'Argentina', 'Everestianum', and 'Persia' regenerated shoots most readily. 'Argentina' and 'Everastianum' were most amenable to in vitro shoot regeneration with as many as 9.0 and 6.8 shoots per explant.
42882559|Microshoots of Pyrus syriaca were grown in vitro on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 1.0 mg/l benzyladenine (BA) and 0.1 mg/l indole-3- butyric acid (IBA) and roots were initiated on MS medium containing 0.2 mg/l IBA rooting media. Microshoots were successfully grown on proliferation media at various levels of sucrose, glucose or fructose (from 0-60 g/l) for 2-, 4-, 6- or 8-week growth period. Growth parameters (length, number of shoots, number of roots and root length) indicated that sucrose was superior at 15-30 g/l for optimal growth. In vitro microshoots were successfully rooted on MS rooting medium supplemented with sucrose at 15, 30, 45 or 60 g/l, or with fructose at 15 or 30 g/l. Sucrose accumulation in the media increased with increasing sucrose concentration over the growth period. Accumulation of glucose in media increased over 4-week growth periods, and significantly decreased in the media over 6- or 8-week growth period; fructose was significantly increased in medium containing 30-60 g/l sucrose or fructose. The highest concentration of sucrose (17.2%) in shoots was obtained in medium containing 30 g/l sucrose over 8-week growth period. The maximum percentage glucose (33.5%) content in shoots was recorded in medium containing 60 g/l fructose over 8-week growth period. This study demonstrated the effect of subculture duration as well as the type of carbon source on growth of in vitro grown Pyrus syriaca.
42883061|In vitro propagation of Lilium speciosum Thunb. 'Uchida' (clone 5UL) and Lilium longilorum Thunb. 'White American' (clone 17WAL) was carried out using scale expiants from in vitro cultured bulblets. The basal medium was Linsmaier and Skoog medium supplemented with 30 g. 1 sucrose. Maximum number of regenerated bulbets and leaves was obtained on media containing benzylaminopurine (BAP) but a medium containing 0.1 mg. 1 naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) was the most suitable for bulblet growth in both Lilium species. Liquid media resulted in poor organ regeneration. No difference was evident between apical and basal expiants except in bulblet growth. There was no relationship between bulblet formation and ethylene production.
24586789|The effect of rootstock, fertilization and post-harvest heat treatments on the antioxidant capacity and total phenolic content in fruits of peach cultivar Flavorcrest was studied. `Flavorcrest' grafted on `MrS. 2/5' and `Flordaguard' rootstocks produced fruits with the highest antioxidant capacity while the activity in the fruit skin was around ten times higher than in the flesh. Treatment without fertilization produced the highest antioxidant capacity in fruit flesh while the fruit skin showed no significant differences between treatments. A moderate heat shock (34 and 42C), evaluated at 24 h post-harvest, improved the antioxidant capacity of fruits but after keep them for 72 h at 20C, the values were similar to those observed in untreated fruit. Pre-harvest (rootstocks and fertilization) and post-harvest (heat shock) treatments influenced the functional quality of 'Flavorcrest' peach cultivar fruits.
42881529|Genebanks worldwide now have in store large numbers of accessions (eg 32,000 for tomato; 105,500 for Phaseolus species). These seeds can be maintained in a viable state for extended periods particularly if they are dried to an ultralow level, and kept at low temperature. Some germplasm, such as that of vegetatively reproducing crops, or those with recalcitrant seeds require alternative methods of conservation such as in vitro storage or cryopreservation, in some cases of artificial seeds or embryos, and for this material in the future, DNA banks may be appropriate. For many horticultural plants there already appears to have been sufficient material collected and stored in genebanks, although wild species relatives have often been neglected and may require further collecting activities. Certain geographical regions also need targeting. Such collecting may still be a matter of urgency, as in addition to the past causes of genetic erosion and loss of genetic diversity, namely changes in land use, urbanisation, tourism and industrial development, climatic change brought about by the greenhouse effect now needs to be considered as a threat to genetic resources over the next 20 years. Many examples of genetic vulnerability of cultivated plants can be cited to accentuate the need for ensuring that germplasm is fully collected, adequately conserved and then effectively utilized within the crop improvement process. All crops, including those of horticulture have many genes which can be targeted for improvement. More and more of these genes are being found to exist in genetic resources, particularly those represented by wild relatives. Providing that the existence of those genes within genebanks can be adequately evaluated and documented, then the use to which wild germplasm can be put will increase. New methods of gene transfer and genetic engineering will allow for the establishment of a close link between plant genetic resources and biotechnology, as the latter will lead to a fuller exploitation of the former.
42883026|Protoplasts isolated from young cotyledons of Capsicum annuum cultivated in NT, KM or B5 liquid medium without hormones were able to survive for many days but did not undergo any proliferative processes. Auxin added to the culture medium caused deleterious effects on protoplast viability. Protoplasts eventually started to proliferate when purified preparations of cell-wall degrading enzymes were adopted. These results appeared widespread throughout the seven cultivars tested. Protoplast derived calli, cultivated on MS or B5 medium with various supplements, did not show any organogenetic capability but were able to grow without auxins suggesting a certain degree of habituation.
42882639|A two year investigation on hazelnut mounding layer was carried out at a nursery in a typical Italian hazelnut production area (Langhe District, Piedmont). The suckers ringing has been considered to forcing coppices of 'Tonda Gentile delle Langhe'. The role of irrigation was also investigated as the effects of irrigation are still unknown. The results obtained by us clearly show a positive effect of ringing on the rooting percentage and also on the 'marketable' rooted suckers, while irrigation hasn't any significant effect. The number of 'marketable' rooted suckers obtained from each coppice, significantly increased from 3.08/coppice without ringing to 11.67/coppice with the ringing treatment. The percentage of ' marketable' rooted suckers results in a value slightly higher than 50% in the 2 years of investigation, but these results could still be considered very good because without ringing, these percentages were nil in 2003 and only 21 % in the following year.
42882802|Pollination is the most critical and complex part of fruit production, particularly in cross pollinated crops like almond, and it is affected by pollen characteristics. In the present study 100% pollen viability was observed when stained by acetocarmine for all considered genotypes, except GP-17 (99%). Optimum stigma receptivity was observed for two days before anthesis, on the day of anthesis and one day afterwards all the stigmas remained receptive. In open pollination, maximum fruit set was noted in Primorskij (32.37%) with minimum in Makhdoom (17.96%). No fruit set was observed in any of the genotypes by self-pollination, confirming the self-incompatible nature of all tested genotypes. In cross pollination, fruit set was found between 0.00 and 42.84% for different cross combinations. Makhdoom, Pranyaj, Shalimar, Waris, Nonpareil, Waris, Waris and Shalimar yielded maximum fruits when cross-pollinated with IXI, Merced, Drake, Primorskij, Pranyaj, Nonpareil, Shalimar, Makhdoom and Waris, respectively. No pollen tube growth was observed in the style when genotypes were crossed with their own pollen. In crosses between IXL and Nonpareil, pollen tube growth was arrested in the styles. In compatible crosses, the pollen tube reached the base of the style after different times following pollination.
42881724|Walnut shoots raised in vitro did not root on a single rooting medium, with or without auxin and/or riboflavin, in the light or under darkness. About 100% rooting was achieved through the use of two successive rooting media: an "inductive" medium composed of MS nutrients in agar Kobe (the medium of Driver and Kuniyuki (DKW, 1984) in the same agar or in other ones did not work) with IBA 3 mg1 (7 days in the dark), followed by an "expressive" medium of DKW nutrients in a gelrite vermiculite mixture without auxin, under light. Peroxidase activity of the rooting shoots underwent a typical variation with an early transient minimum followed by an increase up to a peak and then a characteristic decline. Such a variation did not occur on non-rooting medium. Ethylene accumulated in glass jars of rooting shoots only, which corresponded to a very early stimulation of ethylene production in the presence of auxin.
42883249|The growth responses to elevated Red (R)/Far Red (FR) light in aurea tomato mutant, which contain low amounts of phytochrome, and in its wild type tomato (cv. UC 105) in two different seasons were compared. The plants were subjected to three light treatments by growing them: i) under water filter panel (control) with R/FR ratio light similar to natural light (1.09); ii) under water filter panel plus 15 minutes supplementary end-of-day red light; iii) under copper sulphate (CuSO) filters with high R/FR ratio (4.68). Photosynthetic Active Radiation (PAR) and air temperature were similar in all treatments. The growth responses under CuSO light filters were similar in both the genotypes, being characterised by lower height, stem dry weight and leaf area. Growth inhibition by CuSO filter was more pronounced in spring than in autumn. This result suggests that in tomato stem elongation is controlled by light quality during the day and that the end-ofday response does not have an important influence on tomato growth.
42883290|Vegetative growth, gas exchange, yield and berry characteristics of Cabernet Sauvignon vines (Vitis vinifera L.) grafted on Kober 5BB and grown in pots under different soil water regimes were studied. Vines were trained on Guyot system (cane pruning 0.30 m above the ground) and were grown in 45-liter-pots containing an equal loam, sand and peat mix (1:1:1 in volume) and irrigated by drippers. Three different water regimes were imposed: 100%, 50% and 25% of transpiration water evaluated each ninth day by pot weight. Each third day, vine water losses by plant transpiration were fully re-intregrated for the 100% treatment, whereas it was one-half and one-fourth of transpiration water for 50% and 25% treatments respectively. The aim of this work was to investigate the effect of water regime on vegetative and reproductive growth and carbon partitioning in young container-grown vines. Both vegetative growth and gas exchange were affected by vine water status. Vine total dry matter resulted proportionally related to the water regime, the values obtained for the three treatments being significantly different. Results showed that water regime may affect yield per vine and berry size, according to previous studies. The analysis of berry composition pointed out the enhanced sugar accumulation in the case of full reintegration of transpiration water (100% treatment). The organic acid component was also proportionally increased as the soil water content was higher. The components of fruit quality were directly affected by vine water status.
42882197|Fresh-cut tomato fruits at pink stage of ripening were heat treated at 35C for 6 hr and were stored in perforated polyethylene packages at 2C in air or controlled atmosphere (2.5% O and 5% CO) for six or twelve days. Weight loss, chlorophyll and lycopene contents, seed discoloration, fungal infection, total soluble solids content, titratable acidity, sugar/acid ratio, pH, taste, firmness, ascorbic acid content, rate of respiration and ethylene production, and electrolyte leakage were evaluated after each storage period. Heat-treated slices had greater weight loss, minimum seed discoloration, less chlorophyll, higher total soluble solids and ascorbic acid content, better taste, and lower rates of respiration and ethylene production, lower titratable acidity content, and higher electrolyte leakage than unheated slices. The overall quality of controlled atmosphere-stored slices was better than that of air-stored slices. Prolonged storage resulted in increased weight loss, seed discoloration, pH, titratable acidity, rate of respiration and off-flavor, lower chlorophyll and lycopene content, and lower total soluble solids, sugar/acid ratio, and ascorbic acid content.
42881840|Fertility in the interspecific allotetraploid somatic hybrid 'Valencia sweet orange (Citrus sinensis L.Osbeck) + Femminello lemon' (C. limon L. Burm.) was demonstrated. Data on flower and fruit characteristics and fertility of this somatic hybrid are reported. The pollen grains showed sufficient germinability and were used successfully in interploid cross-pollinations to generate progeny of triploid zygotic seedlings. The fruit of the somatic hybrids were large, spherical with thick peel and contained many well-developed polyembryonic seeds.The fertile allotetraploid 'Valencia + Femminello' will have a great potential in Citrus cultivar development and germplasm enhancement.
42881911|This paper discusses the biological cycle of Heliothrips haemorrhoidalis (H.h.) and Frankliniella occidentalis (F.o.) in the laboratory and in the field, the damage they cause, and methods for their control. In Tuscany F.o. infests greenhouse cultivations in particular, while H.h. damages ornamental shrubs out in the open. In the laboratory H.h. takes longer than F.o. to complete its egg-adult cycle, twice as long at 15-20C (42.9 days compared to 25.7). The lowest thermal threshold for development is between 7 and 10C for F.o. and 13C for H.h. In the greenhouse F.o. reproduces continually, producing more than 10 generations/year, while outdoors H.h. overwinters as an egg (adults also survive during mild winters) and produces four generations/year. The damage tolerance threshold for the latter species is three thrips per leaf on myrtle and five per leaf on viburnum. The most effective insecticides tested against H.h. are methiocarb and deltamethrin which eliminated more than 99% of the thrips in a single treatment, while pyrethrum gave 96% control of the thrips population after three applications.
42882604|Tree height and terminal shoot growth of four olive cultivars ('Chtoui', 'Meski', 'Manzanille' and 'Picholine') were regularly monitored over a six-year period in a young orchard located near Tunis in order to identify periods of active vegetative growth. Following planting in March 1998, plots of three olive trees with four replicates per variety were used in the experiment. Average growth rates ranged from 0.5 to 6.7 mm/day for tree height and from 0.4 to 2.2 mm/day for the apex within the year. Growth flushes occurred mostly during April, July and September producing an alternation of accelerating and decelerating growth rates with a latency phase during the winter months. The spring active growth period accounted for 33% of the total growth whereas summer and autumn flushes contributed, respectively, 27% and 26%. Inter annual variation was very large with the highest values observed in the month of April of the third year (2001) when appropriate irrigation coincided with high temperatures. Observed maximums were around 17.2 mm/day for plant height and 4.5 mm/day for terminal shoot. Growth stages were quite consistent among varieties and fruiting behaviour did not seem to have an overriding effect on the overall pattern. However, growth flushes may occur earlier or later within a given season and their magnitude may vary in a wide range. Temperatures, the timing and severity of pruning, fruit load and watering conditions were the main factors affecting the intensity and timing of active vegetative growth.
42883127|Flowers of chrysanthemum did not show any response to atmosphere containing up to 100 l l ethylene. Flowers also produced low quantities of ethylene. ACC levels in florets remained very low throughout the vase life, though there was marked increase in MACC content. Basal treatment of ACC greatly increased flower ethylene production without affecting flower vase life. AgNO, on the other hand, considerably reduced physical blockage of xylem vessels and prolonged flower longevity.
42881857|In the years 1992/93 and 1993/94 four trials were carried out to compare 15 new pea breeding lines and five commercial varieties ('Belinda', 'Madria', 'Renata', 'Solara' and 'Stehgolt'), sown in the autumn and spring. The trials were located at Anzola Emila (Bologna) using a split-plot experimental layout with three replications. The main parameters recorded were cold resistance, biometrical traits and seed yield. The results evidenced an interaction between sowing time and year as regards seed yield, that was higher with the autumn sowing in the first year (6.2 vs. 5.3 t-ha) and with the spring sowing in the second year (5.1 vs. 4.6 tha). Production was also influenced by the "genotype  sowing time" interaction: lines P27, P26 and P33 and cv. Renata (with good resistance to cold) gave the best response with autumn sowing (7.2, 6.7, 6.0 and 5.8 tha), while lines P16, P29 and P25 gave a better response with spring sowing (5.7,5.2 and 4.1 tha).
42881764|Physiological weight loss, weevil (Cylas formicarius Fabricius) infestation and fungal rotting were found as the limiting factors for storage of sweet potatoes under Indian conditions. A mean weight loss of nearly 20 per cent was observed during 45 days storage period, and curing of tubers had no appreciable benefits during storage except somewhat restricting the fungal decay. Storage of tubers in mediums like sand, soil or sawdust retarded the decline in fresh weight loss and it was more evident after 45 days of storage. Several fungi were isolated from decayed tissues, however, three important pathogens i.e. Rhizopus oryzae Went & Prinsen Geerligs (Soft rot), Botryodiplodia theobromae Pat. (Java black rot) and Fusarium oxysporum Schlecht (surface rot) were confirmed of their pathogenicity when inoculated into healthy tubers.
42882675|Studies were conducted from July 2003 to March 2005 in a polythene-covered greenhouse at Maseno University, Kenya, to investigate the effect on morphological and physiological parameters of mango (Mangifera indica) rootstock seedlings of three container sizes: V (1.7 l), V (2.7 l), V (3.9 l), and three irrigation frequency levels W (irrigating every day), W (irrigating every two days), W (irrigating every three days). The experimental design was a completely randomized design. The morphological parameters determined were number of leaves, plant height, stem diameter, shoot and root dry weights, whole plant dry weight and root to shoot ratio. The physiological parameters were CO assimilation rate, substomatal CO concentration, transpiration rate, stomatal conductance and soil respiration. The results showed that container size significantly (P=0.05) increased plant height, canopy height, shoot and root dry weight, whole plant dry weight, root to shoot ratio and number of leaves. Irrigation frequency significantly increased the number of leaves, plant height, roots and shoot dry weight, root to shoot ratio, and whole plant dry weight, but did not affect canopy height or stem diameter. The interaction between irrigation frequency and container size had no effect on canopy height and whole plant dry weight but increased all the other determined parameters. Container size and irrigation frequency did not affect substomatal CO concentration but significantly increased soil respiration and CO assimilation rate during the early months of growth. The interaction between container size and irrigation frequency was significant for CO assimilation rate, transpiration rate, soil respiration and stomatal conductance. It is concluded that container size and irrigation affect plant growth through morphological and physiological changes in mango rootstock seedlings.
42882870|The aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of the type of fertilization (mineral and combined fertilization with compost in pre-transplant plus mineral addition during cultivation) and stage of maturity at harvest (mature-green and full-colored) on post-cutting quality of red and yellow 'Cazzone' peppers. Peppers were cut into strips, and air-stored for 8 days at 5C. During storage, color, appearance score, firmness, respiration rate, soluble solids, acidity, pH, vitamin C, total phenols, and antioxidant activity were measured. The maturity stage influenced color parameters and soluble solids, acidity and pH for both yellow and red types. Full-colored peppers showed a lower respiration rate, and higher SSC than mature-green peppers; for the yellow type, a lower firmness value was observed for full-colored fruits compared to the mature-green ones. A lower antioxidant activity was also observed in the yellow type fertilized with the combined treatment, while phenol content in full-colored peppers was higher than in mature-green ones. Fresh-cut yellow peppers showed higher susceptibility to decay compared to red types: after 8 days of storage, the appearance score in mineral fertilized full-colored yellow peppers dramatically decreased below the limit of marketability. The results of this experiment show that the type of fertilization and maturity stage can have varying impact on the quality of yellow and red peppers.
42882752|French olive production is currently limited by its very high cost mainly due to labour expenses. A new olive planting system based on hedgerows and harvesting machines could be a solution to decrease olive oil production costs while maintaining good quality. In France various methods have been investigated to improve the management of such training system, based on architectural studies, improvement of tree training and search of low vigour material (existing genotypes, dwarfing rootstocks, offspring progeny) for the new orchards. The initial results for each approach and the research prospects are presented in this paper for better knowledge of tree development, influence of tree manipulations on tree architecture and productivity, and exploration of genetic solutions.
42883366|To investigate the typical weed communities of perennial medicinal crops, floristic analyses were conducted both in spring-summer and autumn-winter throughout the four years of the agronomic cycle of ten different medicinal herbs cultivated with organic methods. The data were analyzed using the most commonly adopted parameters for determining plant communities (relative density percentage, relative ahundance) and the Shannon and Simpson diversity indices. Although a predominance of certain species was observed in the warm season (Amaranthus retroflexus, Chenopodium album and Portulaca oleracea) and the cool season (Poa annua, Stellaria media and Veronica persica), altogether 69 species were found, 38 of which were detected in autumn-winter samplings, and 31 during spring-summer samplings. During the four-year period there was an increase in perennial species (geophytes and hemicryptophytes) and a consequent decrease in annual species (therophytes). Also, an increase in relative density of warm-season and cool-season grasses was observed, the relative density percentage being confirmed by significant linear regressions (p<0.05). Furthermore, probably on account of the minimum agronomic soil disturbance during the four-year period, significant increases (p<0.01 and/or 0.05) in species diversity were noted. The study showed the high biodiversity level of weed communities of medicinal crops cultivated with organic agricultural systems.
42883058|Kiwifruit shoot explants cultured in vitro were rooted in media containing different combinations of paclobutrazol (PP 333), IBA and GA. Both paclobutrazol and IBA stimulated explants forming roots at high percentages, but the rooting process was delayed some weeks in plants treated with paclobutrazol alone. The latter, moreover, showed a low callus proliferation. Shoot elongation was dramatically reduced by paclobutrazol, while the addition of gibberellic acid to the medium did not improve shoot growth.
42883327|With the rapid expansion of the Australian olive industry during the past decade, plantings have been made in many parts of Australia including both temperate and sub-tropical regions, where summer-dominant rainfall may present production problems. Australia appears to be free of many cosmopolitan olive pests and diseases such as olive moth (Prays oleae), olive fly (Bactrocera oleae) and olive knot (Pseudomonas savastanoi), although some species such as black scale (Saissetia oleae) and peacock spot (Spilocea oleaginea) are widely distributed. Australia also has several native pests of cultivated olive, including olive lace bug, Froggattia olivinia and Queensland fruit fly, Bactrocera tryoni. The industry has identified sustainable pest and disease management as a key priority, and a national project has been funded by the Australian Government through the Rural Industries Research and Development Corporation.
42882311|Membrane potential (Em) and cytoplasmic pH (pHc) were monitored in leaf cells of Olea europaea L. during urea treatments. At 100 mM of urea, reversible membrane depolarisation of about 13 mV and transient cytoplasmic acidification were observed. When pH of the ureic solutions was buffered at 7.0 and 8.0, membrane depolarisation was, respectively, lower or almost absent. At 5 C or in presence of the uncoupler CCCP, depolarisation was completely inhibited. Instead with the photosynthesis inhibitor DCMU, depolarisation by urea was less than half. All these results are consistent to support a metabolic and pH dependent transport for urea. A chemiosmotic model for urea/H cotransport is proposed.
42882871|Field experiments were conducted at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Pulwama, Jammu and Kashmir at an altitude of 1601 m amsl to identify the suitable strawberry cultivars for higher production of good quality fruits. Eight strawberry cultivare were evaluated for two consecutive years (2008-09 and 2009-10) under polyhouse conditions. Maximum plant spread (2743 cm) along with maximum number of runners (854) was produced by 'Chandler'. 'Tioga' produced first flower in 97 days after planting, while runners of 'Chandler' (56.79) flowered for maximum number of days. 'Chandler' produced maximum number of flowers per plant (2723) and set maximum berries (86.01%), however final yield of berries was more hi 'Tioga' which recorded maximum yield per plot (2 26 kg), closely followed by 'Chandler' (2.19 kg). Berry weight (1224 g) and berry size (5.10 cm length and 4.73 cm) was maximum in 'Tioga'. 'Catskill' registered maximum for all the biochemical characters, closely followed by 'Tioga'. Overall, 'Chandler', 'Catskill' and 'Tioga' performed well under polyhouse conditions in Kashmir Valley.
42882304|Six rootstock selections of Pyrus communis L. "Old Home"  "Farmingdale" (OHxF 40, 69, 217, 87, 230, and 34) were conserved by introducing the accessions into in vitro collection and proliferation techniques were evaluated. Explants of this genetic resource were initiated from branches of field-grown trees. Initiation of cultures and shoot multiplication were also undertaken. For the six accessions, the effect of four basal mineral media with factorial combinations of BA, NAA or IBA on proliferation, callus formation, hyperhydricity and necrosis, are shown. A clear genotype dependence was found in all the parameters recorded and all the clones responded to repeated subcultures with an increased multiplication rate. Among the macro-elements and organics tested (Cheng, Lepoivre, MS and Viseur media), Cheng medium was the most effective for OHxF 230, 217 and 69 and the best combination of benzyladenine (BA) and auxin (NAA or IBA) was 1 mg/l and 0.3 mg/l, respectively. For 230 and 69, NAA promoted shoot formation better than IBA. The best micropropagation medium for OHxF 40, 34 and 87 was Lepoivre with 1 mg/l BA and 0.1 mg/l IBA. For all the accessions tested, the regeneration was achieved in both Cheng and Lepoivre media while MS and Viseur media seemed to be less efficient. OHxF 230, 87 and 69 responded as well as all the media. Viseur medium with 0.01 mg/l NAA and 1 or 1.5 mg/l BA produced, for all the clones, a lower proliferation rate and a lower number of shoots per explant but greater shoot length, suitable to make roots.
42883289|Leaf gas exchanges, vine water status, chlorophyll and macronutrient leaf concentration were evaluated in 'Erbaluce' grapevines. Vines were grown own-rooted and grafted on 'Kober 5BB', and were trained to Calusiese pergola (CP) and alternate curtain (AC) in the typical growing area of this Italian cultivar (Piedmont, North Italy). In order to point out differences in physiological behavior under maximum diurnal air temperature and air evaporative demand, measurements were taken at 12:00 and at 15:00 local solar time. Training system exerted a noticeable influence on the tested parameters while only few differences were related to the root system. Greater values of leaf temperature and vapor pressure deficit were measured in July and August on AC, the foliage of which is more sun-and air-exposed due to the canopy structure; under these ambient conditions, leaf gas exchanges were depressed. On the contrary, CP had higher leaf N concentration, higher rates of leaf gas exchanges and of net CO assimilation per N content. Possible causes of variations in leaf concentration of the other macroelements are also discussed. Changes of water status in vines trained to AC seemed related with changes in the shoot position during their free growth and elongation. Own-rooted vines showed a higher leaf magnesium concentration and, in June and early-July, a lower water status.
42883368|In vitro preservation of African violet (Saintpaulia ionantha Wendl.) via slow growth was evaluated using different osmotic agents and temperatures. Microshoots were excised from in vitro plantlets and cultured on a hormone-free MS medium containing different concentrations of sucrose (0,0.09,0.18,0.26 or 0.35 M), mannitol or sorbitol (0, 0.16, 0.33, 0.49 or 0.66 M). Other microshoots were cultured on a hormone-free MS medium supplemented with 0.09 M sucrose and incubated at 2,10, or 24C in the dark. Results indicated that preservation of microshoots on a medium containing 0.18 M sucrose or 0.16 M mannitol or sorbitol under 16 hr light was able to decrease shoot growth and maintain expiant quality for 12 weeks. Preservation of microshoots at 10C in the dark was effective in decreasing the growth and maintaining expiants in a good condition for six weeks.
42882990|A trial was carried out on the use of mixes with expanded clays as substrates in the cultivation of Croton (Codiaeum variegatum L. v. aucubaefolium). Four types of expanded clay were used: Leca 2-3 mm, Leca 3-8 mm, Agrileca (new type) 0-3 mm and Agrileca 3-8 mm; the expanded clays are mixed with a commercial peat compost (50%, 33,3% and 20% by volume; ratios 1:1, 1:2 and 1:4). Analysis made on the chemical and physical properties of the mixes shoved good values; the expanded clays increased the free porosity in the mixes; Agrileca showed lower pH and salinity if compared to the Leca expanded clay. Growth was good with all mixes, but the best growing results in Croton were obtained with the mixes containing Agrileca (both 0-3 mm and 3-8 mm) and the peat compost at the ratio of 1:2 v/v.
42883318|Human activities have increased the number of environmental constraints for olive plants. Water, soil and air pollution are rapidly becoming important environmental concerns for plant growth and productivity. In addition to pollution problems, modifications in gaseous composition of the atmosphere, as well as terrestrial solar radiation changes associated with pollution, are the new factors studied by olive physiologists. Significant changes in atmosphere composition have, in fact, been observed for several gases, such as sulphur dioxide, tropospheric ozone and carbon dioxide. Long-term depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer has substantially contributed to an increase in terrestrial solar ultraviolet-B radiation, which may also affect plants. In this paper the recent literature on the response of olive plants to elevated CO concentration, tropospheric ozone, sulphur dioxide and UV-radiation is reviewed.
42883115|The aim of the present study was to set up a quick test for determining nitrate concentrations in edible parts of fresh vegetables via Merkoquant (R) nitrate test stripes in combination with a hand-held reflectometer (Nitrachek). The Jesuits elicited with the different sample the preparation modes show that crushing fresh plant fragments with a garlic press and measuring the nitrate concentration in at least 5-10 fold diluted plant sap is the most favourable method as to effort spent and time consumption. The values of NO concentrations recorded after applying this procedure showed only small differences compared to other methods such as boiling or drying the fresh plant material. All the results were highly correlated to each other. A comparison of the quick test with data from two laboratory methods (ion-specific electrode and ion chromatography) produced very close correlations (r = 0.945*** and r = 0.980***, respectively) when vegetables with a homogeneous edible part (leaf and/or petioles) were studied and NO concentrations were relatively high (up to 7000 ppm NO in fresh plant material). Using the quick test for the heterogeneous heads of broccoli, cauliflower and rapini with relatively low NO concentrations (mean ca. 200 ppm) produced a rough and over-estimated indication of NO concentration (r= 0.646*** and r=0.874***, respectively).
42883117|The results of rooting tests with young shoots of the 'Gialla' prickly pear cultivar (Opuntia ficus-indica Mill.) are reported. The growth regulators IAA, IBA and NAA at concentrations of 100 and 200 ppm were tested. The young cladodes were cut in June, July and August 1989, soaked in one of the growth regulator solutions, and planted in pots for four months. The cladodes cut in June showed the lowest survival rate. Samples treated with NAA showed the best performance in the number of roots and their weight per cladode.
42883539|This study aimed to develop methods for in vitro germplasm conservation and cryopreservation of shoot apices of some minor fruits. In vitro apices of mulberry (Moms alba L.) 9 blackberry (Rubus fruticosus L.) cv. Rotata and raspberry (Rubus idaeus L.) cv. M. Exploit were successfully cryopreserved using encapsulationdehydration. The highest survival was obtained using sucrose concentrations of 0.75 M or 1 M and water content between 23% and 17%. The survival rates were 74% for mulberry, 57% for blackberry and 43% for raspberry.
42883450|Tree vigour is regulated through complex mechanisms, whose exploitation might allow more efficient management of fruit orchards. Vigour depends on several factors, but can be controlled by grafting the cultivated species on suitable rootstocks, that influence tree growth. According to a widely accepted hypothesis, rootstock and scion reciprocally control their growth through the exchange of hormonal signals. Among these, cytokinins are thought to enhance shoot vigour, being rootstock growth correlated with cytokinin export from roots. Data available for auxin are less clear, therefore we decided to investigate the hormonal flow in xylem exudates of field-grown Prunus rootstocks and peach scions grafted on them. Data were compared with primary growth parameters, representative for vigour, thus showing that auxin and cytokinin sap flows are positively related with tree vigour. Consequently, we hypothesize that the supply of indoleacetic acid and zeatin riboside through the xylem enhances shoot development. The hormone flow rate depends on rootstock genotype, which may modulate hormone metabolism and transport, as well as gene expression in the scion. In this view, the xylem flow of auxin and cytokinin from the rootstock would represent a basic chemical signal regulating gene expression in the scion, thereby controlling tree vigour. The growth of the crown of peach scions of grafted trees was lower than that of Prunus rootstocks: this may be caused by the restriction imposed by the graft union on the acropetal hormone transport.
42882613|Segments (3-4 mm) from middle and distal zones of in vitro roots (2-3 cm long) of oriental hybrid lily were isolated and cultured on Murashige and Skoog (MS) nutrient salts supplemented with benzyladenine (BA) alone or in combination with naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Hormone-free MS medium was not effective in inducing bulblet regeneration. A significant increase in the percent of expiants producing bulblets and number of bulblets per expiant was observed from the middle zone segments cultured on nutrient medium supplemented with 2 mg/1 NAA in combination with 2 mg/1 BA. The heaviest bulblets were obtained with 1.5 mg/1 NAA in combination with 2 mg/1 BA after 90 days of culture. The distal zone segments with root cap failed to initiate bulblets. he bulblets that reached 14-16 cm in size flowered in two years in pots without any phenotypic variations.
42881855|The effect of different kinds and levels of growth regulators, ions, myo-inositol and liquid as compared to solid media was studied to set up a protocol for mass micropropagation of Calathea makoyana Nichols. Optimal basal bud proliferation (second step) was achieved in a shaken liquid medium (M2) containing 24.61 M of 2iP and 38.83 M Ade.SO. The addition to M2 of 13.32 M of 6BA was necessary to develop the expiants into shoots (first step). Optimal plant development and rooting (third step) was obtained in stationary liquid medium (M3) without growth regulators. Microsalts and FeNaEDTA were as prescribed by the MS (Murashige and Skoog) formula. The requirement of macrosalts and myo-inositol was step dependent. The average multiplication rate on M2 medium was 4.3 every 28-day cycle at 28C under grolux light at 15 E-m s for 15 h day. Plants were easily acclimatized to the soil.
42882807|Field experiments with Sangiovese vines were carried out in the Chianti Classico region over a period of two years to examine the effect of molybdenum (Mo) foliar sprays on nutrient composition of leaves, petioles and berries, leaf gas exchanges, must composition, total yield, bunch size and pruning weight. Two Mo foliar doses and time sprays (Mox1: one application in early flowering; Mox3: three applications in early flowering, early fruit set and veraison) were applied. Basal sample of petioles, leaves and berries collected at fruit set (except berries), veraison and harvest for mineral analyses showed not relevant interactions between Mo and the main macro and micronutrients. Leaf gas exchanges monitored after the applications, as well as SPAD units, showed a higher activity in the Mox3-treated vines. Increased vigour was also confirmed by the slightly higher total yield, bunch size and pruning weight, as well as the delay in fruit maturation (lower sugar and polyphenol contents at harvest). No relevant discrepancy between Mox1 and the control was found, except for higher soluble solid and yeast-assimilable nitrogen contents (YANC) in the treated vines. YANC was positively influenced also in the Mox3 vines, however with no significant differences towards the Mox1 treatment. The application of Mo as a useful tool to stimulate nitrogen metabolism, as well as indications about dose and time of Mo application, are discussed.
42883500|The aim of the study was to quantify macro-nutrient contents and annual requirements of young olive trees in order to manage mineral fertilization more efficiently in irrigated olive orchards. Experiments were carried out in Mornag (latitude 36.8, longitude 1030, elevation 26 m above sea level), northern Tunisia from 1998 to 2004 on own-rooted olive cuttings of cvs. Chtoui, Meski, Manzanille and Picholine. Trees were planted at 66 m spacing on loamy-clay-sandy soil in March 1998. Before planting, the soil mineral status was determined; fertilizers were then applied (200 kg ha of PO,200 kg ha of KO and 6 T of dry manure ha). N fertilizer (ammonium nitrate, 33% N) was supplied twice a year (February and October), accounting for an annual increase of 100 g per tree per year of growth. Irrigation was supplied each year for six months, starting in March, in response to plant requirements. In order to determine annual macro-nutrient removals, mineral analyses were performed annually on 0.2 kg samples of mature fruits and 1.0 kg of pruning material, removed from 12 olive trees per variety. Results show that nutrient contents and removals vary according to biomass and fruit production, and also to the year's climate conditions. Annual removals increased remarkably after the third year of cultivation in response to increasing yields. Annual N, P and K uptakes removed from pruning material and fruits varied from 10 to 70 kg ha for N, 1 to 7 kg ha for P and 7 to 70 kg ha for K following to year's conditions. Fruits exported in percentage of total removals, 3 to 57% of N, 2 to 46% of P and 5 to 73% of K. Maximum N uptakes were recorded for Chtoui cultivar, while maximum K and P removals were observed for cv. Picholine. On the basis of these nutrient removals, an appropriate fertilization program can be proposed, thus reducing excessive chemical applications.
42882475|The effect of marine bioactive substances (IPA extract) on K and Ca fluxes and water stress tolerance was evaluated on potted Vitis vinifera plantlets. Different foliar treatments were compared during the experiment: a control treatment (distilled water), a pure fertilizer treatment (9-5-4 at 2%), and a marine bioactive substances (IPA extract, supplied by BiotechMarine, Roullier Group, Pontrieux, France) treatment added to a fertilizer (0.1% solution of IPA extract with distilled water and 9-5-4 at 2%). Ion fluxes, measured by selective non-invasive microelectrodes, were monitored in leaves. IPA extract significantly enhanced both potassium and calcium fluxes compared to the other treatments. Total dry weight and macro- and micro-nutrient content were subsequently measured: results showed an improved growth in IPA extract plants, together with a better capacity in accumulating macronutrients in plant organs, but not micronutrients, especially in leaves. Marine bioactive substances were finally tested for their effectiveness in promoting water stress tolerance: IPA extract was very effective in inducing water stress tolerance, maintaining a higher leaf water potential and stomatal conductance during the stress period, and inducing a quick recovery in rehydrated plants.
42883585|The present work evaluates the limits and possibilities of development with regard to the most recent olivegrowing techniques in light of up-to-date knowledge of species characteristics. After a brief introduction regarding the productive capacity of olive, the new taxonomic position of the cultivated species and a reorganization of the genus Olea is presented in the first part of the work. Examination follows of the assumed stages of domestication, spread (from the Bronze Age until decne hi the 6-10th centuries AD.) and then globalization of the species from the 19th century until the present. The second part addresses the spread of olive to the different continents, environmental limitations to its cultivation and the growth model that distinguishes it from most of the other cultivated woody species. The various problems that arise when olive is cultivated outside its areal of origin are considered, from induction processes to effective chilling requirements, as well as the effects of climatic environment on plant growth and product quality following shifts hi areal. The paper concludes with a brief analysis of open questions relative to new models of cultivation.
42881644|The effects of post-bloom CPPU applications to cluster or shoot at 15 mgl on several new stenospermocarpic ('Argentina', 'Noica', C.G. 88086, C.G. 87908, C.G. 87746, 'Carina', 'Moscatuel', 'Patrizia') and seeded (C.G. 88435, 'Alba', C.G. 44099) table-grape cultivars recently introduced into Italy were evaluated. Cluster sprays induced a marked increase in berry size in most of the cultivars while shoot sprays were generally ineffective. Bunch density also increased in treated clusters as a consequence of larger berry size and, to some extent, of increased berry set. Berry ripening was not substantially affected by cluster and shoot treatments except for the cultivar 'Moscatuel', which showed a marked delay. The overall findings confirm CPPU as a reliable promoter of berry size when applied directly to the clusters but evince its scant influence on the ripening pattern. The very limited effects induced on cluster development by CCPU shoot sprays indirectly support the assumption that there is little transport of the agent from its application site, and hence localized treatments of the fruiting area are recommended in field use of this compound.
42882066|Phytotoxic effect of culture fltrate (CF) of Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. zingiberi was determined on seedlings, callus and cell cultures of Zingiber officinale. Partially purified CF exhibited phytotoxicity in ginger calli bioassay. Similar disease symptoms of ginger yellows were obtained in seedling bioassay performed with the spore suspension and CF of the fungus. Increased disease ratings, with the increase in the concentration of both the spore suspension and the CF of pathogen, were obtained. In vitro effect of CF was studied on the calli of four cultivars viz., Dadasiba, Maran, Poona and Suprabha. In general, 31.98% callus survival was obtained when callus induction medium was amended with CF in a ratio of 4: 25 (13.79% v/v). The callus cultures of cvs. Dadasiba and Maran were comparatively resistant to the CF. The Dadasiba cells were less sensitive to CF than Wynad. Enzyme activities in CF-insensitive calli of cv. Dadasiba was accompanied by an increase in the activity of peroxidase and phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL) enzymes. However, in cv. Poona an increase in activity of PAL enzyme was obtained in the calli selected on the highest CF concentration.
42881837|Tracheary element formation was induced in friable callus cultures of Cupressus sempervirens. A positive reaction for nuclear endonuclease activity, used in assays for apoptosis, was observed as tracheids differentiated. In cells not differentiating into tracheids, a reaction to the antibody for the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (cyclin) was present. Results show the importance of apoptosis in ending cell cycling and in determining terminal differentiation of cells in vitro.
42883253|Ethanol, industrial alcohol, methanol, acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin), salicylic acid, and hydroxyquinoline sulfate (HQS), inhibited climacteric ethylene synthesis in cut carnations (cultivars Buffalo and Figaro), and significantly delayed senescence, except for methanol which was effective only in Figaro. With the exception of HQS and salicylic acid, these chemicals failed to reduce bacterial counts in the holding solutions. A twoday "pulse" treatment with ethanol or salicylic acid and their replacement for the rest of the period with distilled water helped to overcome stem bending and stem base damage caused by high concentrations of the two substances, respectively. Most of these substances are inexpensive and easily accessible.
42882458|In Sicily, chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) is present at altitudes that run from 300 to 1600 m asl and, due to the extreme variability of the environmental conditions, a large autochthonous germplasm has been differentiated. On the island, starting back as far as ancient times, chestnut was an important crop for rural communities but, after the Second World War, the tendency of the rural population to move to the capital cities and because of Cryphonectria parasitica attacks, chestnut plantings reduced dramatically. Recently, an investigation has commenced in the Etna area to collect the residual genetic resources of chestnut. Although many of the chestnut genotypes found on the slopes of Etna produce fruits that do not fully meet the international quality standard for direct consumption (marroni), scientific interest toward the genotypes selected rely on the fact that trees grow well and produce at such a low latitude as the middle of the Mediterranean basin.
42882869|Some non-pathogenic rhizobacteria called Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR) possess the capacity to induce defense mechanisms effective in plant against pathogens. The effect of Pseudomonas putida BTP1 on reproduction and development of phylloxera, which infested the roots of our local grape variety "Balady", was evaluated. Our results showed that the life table of grape phylloxera was different between treated and control plants. The percentage of matured females, developmental time, fecundity and oviposition period were reduced when plants were treated with bacteria. The results showed that the phylloxera resistance was influenced by root soaking duration in P. putida BTP1 suspension. The present study provides good information on the possibility of using Pseudomonas putida BTP1 to increase the resistance of grape to phylloxera.
42881402|Plum pox (PPV) is a potyvirus causing serious damage and heavy economic losses to stone fruits in all the European countries. The control of PPV is based on early eradication of foci, certification of propagative material and use of resistant varieties. A research program was carried out to screen several apricot, plum and peach varieties for resistance to PPV, using a fast and reliable glasshouse method. Preliminary results show that six apricot (Aurora, Blenril, Giada, Perla, Pisana, Sabbatani), one plum (Simka) and two peach (Flavorcrest, Glohaven) varieties are resistant to the experimental infection with an Italian PPV-D strain isolate. These resistant varieties could be taken in consideration as good parents in breeding programs for PPV resistance.These results must be confirmed in the open field under a high natural pressure of the viral population.
42883114|Young broad bean plants were sprayed daily with acqueous solutions of NaF (10, 10 M) before and/or after artificial inoculation with urediniospores of the rust fungus Uromyces viciae-fabae. Fluoride treatments resulted in Faccumulation in leaf tissues, but no visible symptom was induced and the only effect observed on treated plants was an increase in the shoot/root ratios. Stomatal resistance of the abaxial surfaces was increased by the treatment. Both uredinia and urediniospore production were significantly reduced by the NaF treatments, the double application (before and after the inoculation) having the most effective result.
42882834|Spring and summer pruning are based on the possibility to manipulate the physiological control of axillary sylleptic growth and carbon allocation in the shoot through alteration of the apical dominance and light distribution in the canopy. The practical result in modern orchards is a higher flower bud differentiation for apricot and an easier training system maintenance for peach with more efficient use of labor. Cultivated apricot varieties show diverse tree architectures, habit and fruiting branches. The effect of pruning intensity at different times during spring and summer seasons is specific for the singular growth habits. Differences among the peach varieties are less evident than in the apricot. The ease with which peach water sprouts produce axillary sylleptic shoots makes the use of mechanical topping possible in the first two years of intense growth in order to train the tree as a bush and then to open it as a vase with manual pruning (Catalonian open vase). In all modern peach orchards, pruning in late summer results very useful to obtain a better light distribution in the canopy and a more efficient carbon allocation to fruiting shoots, preventing and reducing the need for winter pruning.
42881532|A number of wild species have been developed this century into new crops for use in horticulture. Notable successes include kiwifruit, avocado, blueberries, pistachio and macadamia nuts, and many others. Currently there are a number of species in the process of being domesticated for horticulture including the Australian quandong, the Mexican white sapote, two Zizyphus species - the Chinese jujube and the Indian ber - and a range of ornamental species from the Australian flora. As well there are a number of Asian vegetable species which are increasingly grown and consumed in western countries. The sequence of events involved in developing a wild species to the point of commercial production is in most cases similar. It involves making an extensive germplasm collection to establish whether there are genotypes suitable for direct utilisation. Studies of the floral biology of the species are required to bring about regular cropping, in new environments. Attention must be paid to fruit quality as quite subtle differences in acid, sugar and flavour levels can affect the palatability of fruit. Postharvest aspects are most important as for commercial production, fruits, vegetables and flowers with extended shelf life are required. Subsequent steps involve developing methods of clonal propagation so that superior genotypes can be multiplied by rooting cuttings or by budding or grafting them to rootstocks. Increasingly in vitro tissue culture methodologies are being used for multiplication. With perennial plants it is desirable to develop rootstocks that modify scion performance, reduce vegetative growth and help to regulate cropping. With most species plant breeding is used to combine into potential cultivars the desirable characteristics of different genotypes. Increasingly the techniques of genetic engineering are being applied to under-exploited species to equip them with specific characteristics. It is essential with new crops to develop methods to control both insect pests and micro-organism infections. With new species with new flavours, textures and appearances, market acceptability trials can be unrewarding. There is a requirement to have growers, processors, and enthusiastic consumers who have faith in the crop and are prepared to promote its use over a long period of time to obtain market penetration.
42881927|Two infected plants of P. mahaleb (Pml and Pm2) were used for studying the seed transmission of prune dwarf ilarvirus (PDV). Seeds were collected in 1995 and 1996 and tested by DASI-ELISA with monoclonal antibodies raised against a P. mahaleb isolate of PDV (PDV-11). The presence of the virus was ascertained in the integuments, cotyledons, germinating embryos and seedlings, coming from seeds that were germinated in Petri dishes without or with the integument, or directly in potted soil placed outdoors. Seed transmission of PDV in P. mahaleb is a major means for virus spread, with an average rate of transmission of about 40% and peaks that, depending on the year and the isolate, can exceed 50%. It ensues that for producing seedlings of a sanitary status compatible with certification schemes, the selection of mother plants free from PDV is mandatory.
42883410|Sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.) is an important vegetable and food crop for humans and an important feed for domestic animals as well as an industrial raw material for producing starch, sugar and alcohol. Potassium is the most important nutrient element needed by sweet potato in terms of nutrient uptake per unit area per unit tuber production. Since sweet potato is generally grown on highly weathered and leached soils where available K status is low, management of K assumes greatest significance. This paper is a comprehensive review of the work done on potassium nutrition of sweet potato throughout the world and covers aspects such as the role of potassium in sweet potato nutrition, potassium absorption during growth cycle, effect of K on growth and yield, diagnosis of K deficiency, interaction of K with other nutrients and effect of K on tuber quality.
42882642|A simple, rapid micropropagation protocol for Pimelea spicata using microshoot explants taken from mature trees is outlined. Proliferation was experimented with different levels (0.0,0.5,1.0,1.5,2.0 or 5.0 mg/1) of Benzylamino purine, (BAP), kinetin or zeatin. The greatest shoot proliferation (4.8 microshoots) was obtained when 1.0 mg/1 BAP was used. Rooting was experimented at different levels (0.0,0.3,0.6,0.9,1.2,1.5 or 2.0 mg/1) indole-3-butyric-acid (IBA), indole-S-acetic-acid (IAA) or 1-naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). The highest percentage (85%) of shoots developing roots was attained in media containing 1.5 mg/1 IBA. Rooted plantlets were ex vitro acclimatized (40% survival), transferred to soil and successfully grown in the greenhouse.
42881515|Pollen grains of twenty almond (Amygdalus communis L.) cultivars of international origin were observed under SEM to evaluate differences useful in distinguishing different genotypes. The following biometrie parameters were measured: grain length and width; length/width ratio; number of pits in 100 m of the exine surface and their mean diameter; number of ridges and striae in 10 m of the exine equatorial section and respective mean widths. In the 190 possible comparisons, all parameters were found to be useful to distinguish the cultivars tested. Significant differences at P  0.01 were 179 overall. The most discriminating parameter was the grain length, with 104 significant differences at P  0.01. On the other hand, the ridge width was the least useful parameter, with 41 significant differences at P  0.01.
42881491|Plant micropropagation has an outstanding place in biotechnology industry. Plant production through this technique can benefit from the utilisation of mycorrhiza, the mutualistic association between plant roots and fungi. Mycorrhizas can act as bioregulators, biofertilisers and bioprotectors, making possible the production of healthy high-quality plants with low chemical inputs. Research data in this field is presented, management procedures are suggested and potentialities for the joint use of micropropagation and mycorrhizal biotechnologies are discussed.
42881585|In prickly pear-Opuntia-ficus indica (L.) Miller  the complete removal of the spring flush (flowers and cladodes) promotes a further flowering. The reflowering behaviour of the two main cultivars of the Italian industry, was investigated in Sicily. Gialla had a greater aptitude for reflowering: than Rossa which also showed an alternate bearing habit. Spring flush removal promoted a further flowering depending on the stage of the flowers at the time of treatment. The prebloom treatment resulted in the highest reflowering rate whilst removing the spring flush after petal shedding reduced reflowering by 50%. The second flush load of each cladode was related to that of the first by a quadratic regression. Treatments affected the time span of reflowering, fruit development and ripening. Early fruits (preblooming) had the shortest fruit development period and reached harvest maturity 40 days earlier than the late ones (postblooming). Fruit size and weight were greater the later the fruits ripened. Late fruits showed the lowest seed/core ratio.
42883124|Pure sources of apple mosaic (ApMV), prune dwarf (PDV) and Prunus necrotic ringspot (PNRSV) ilarviruses were identified in naturally infected almond trees in Apulia (southern Italy). The properties of almond isolates of ApMV, PDV and PNRSV were found to be the same as those known for ordinary strains of the same viruses. Naturally infected plants were used as donors for graft-transmission trials in which the four virus-indexed almond cultivar Tuono, Genco, Filippo Ceo and Ferragnes and GF 305 were inoculated, each with one virus (i.e. ApMV, or PDV, or PNRSV) or in combination (i.e. ApMV+PDV; ApMV+PNRSV; PDV+PNRSV; ApMV+PDV+PNRSV). PDV and PNRSV had a slight adverse effect on graft take as compared with ApMV. Major differences were observed in the symptomatological response of inoculated cultivars. ApMV invariably elicited outstanding chrome-yellow discolorations of the leaves (mottling, rings, line pattern), whereas PDV induced chlorotic discolorations accompanied by various degrees of stunting. PNRSV infections were of the necrotic type (shock symptoms) in the year after inoculation but became symptomless in the following year. These results indicate that ApMV is mainly responsible for induction of mosaic symptoms in almond which, as reported in the literature, typically consist of bright yellow chromatic alterations of the leaves.
42881341|Putrescine at 10M applied at anthesis on 'Cornice' pear increased yield efficiency by 220% and 47% during 1985 and 1986 respectively, and also improved fruit set, crop density, fruit size, and seed content. Putrescine did not affect fruit maturity or return bloom during the two seasons of this study.
42881973|Electrophoretic analysis of plum PER-2 isozyme revealed two bands with different mobility, a slow-(s) and a fast-migrating (f). This isozyme was found in wild forms and cultivars of Prunus cerasifera and in Prunus spinosa plants, as well. Inheritance of the two bands was screened in F plum hybrids and in F interspecific (plum  apricot) hybrids. Constant expression of PER-2 was observed in different somatic tissues (bark and leaves), making it suitable for genetic analysis and for cultivar identification. The expression of PER-2s phenotype was not detected among the commercial plum cultivars and breeding forms, although it was found in F progeny of cultivars expressing both bands. All individuals possessing this phenotype were with primitive morphological characteristics. These results suggest that such plants are probably lost during the selection.
42881353|7-years-old olive trees cv. Kalamon, irrigated for 5 years at soil water potential levels higher than -0.02 and -1.5 MPa, were compared with non-irrigated trees. Irrigation water was applied by two drip laterals per row or a microtube-fed basin per tree for -0.02 MPa and one drip lateral per row or a microtube-fed basin per tree for -1.5 MPa. Tree height, canopy diameter and trunk perimeter were significantly smaller in all years in the non-irrigated than in the irrigated trees, which showed no significant differences. Tree height, canopy diameter and trunk perimeter were increased in all treatments during the irrigation season but did not show significant differences between irrigated and non-irrigated trees. Fruit drop, from fruit-set to harvesting, did not differ significantly between treatments although was generally higher in the non-irrigated than in the irrigated trees. The oil content of the fruits was significantly lower in the non-irrigated than in the irrigated trees but only in the high yield years. The irrigation water which was used depended closely on the rate of evaporation during the year. It was two times higher for the -0.02 than for the -1.5 MPa level while it did not differ notably among the methods.
42882072|The genetic stability of regenerants in Rhododendron catawbiense Michx. 'Grandiflorum' and in vitro regeneration process from leaf expiants were determined. Chromosome diploid number (2n= 2x= 26) in actively growing shoot apices and a high degree of cultivar genetic stability were found. The effect of different concentrations of thidiazuron (TDZ) in the presence of indoIe-3-butyric acid (IBA), 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or 2-isopentenyladenine (2iP) on embryogenic/organogenic induction was compared. Histological evidence demonstrated embryognie capacity of mucilaginous callus at a concentration of 11.4-22.7 M of thidiazuron. Somatic embryo initiation was exclusively induced with TDZ, while IBA, 2,4-D or 2iP alone did not have any effect on formation of the embryognie structures.
42882820|Research was carried out in Latina province (Italy) on rocket, radish and zucchini grown under tunnel. Ten treatments, obtained by the factorial combination of two crop cycles (autumn-winter and winter-spring) and six nitrogen fertilizer forms (organic, organic-mineral, mineral in three modes, control with no nitrogen fertilization) were compared. The effects of these treatments were evaluated in terms of yield and nitrate content in the edible organs. In rocket, no significant difference in yield was detected between the autumn-winter and winter-spring crop cycles, although the former cycle resulted in a higher leaf nitrate content. The organic fertilizer treatment and the N-unfertilized control gave the lowest yields, but the mineral fertilizers caused the highest leaf nitrate accumulation. Radish yield did not vary between the two crop cycles, but the hypocotyl nitrate content was higher in the autumn-winter cycle. The crops fertilized with the two highest mineral supplies produced the highest yields, compared with the organic or organic-mineral treatments. In the autumn-winter crop, the mineral N fertilization resulted in the highest hypocotyl nitrate content, whereas in the winter-spring crop only the highest mineral N dose caused a higher nitrate content compared with the organic fertilizer. The highest zucchini yield was obtained from the winter-spring cycle at the two highest mineral fertilizer supplies. In the autumnwinter crop the highest mineral nitrogen dose resulted in the highest fruit nitrate content, while in winter-spring the two highest supplies caused this effect.
42883273|The effects of ultrasonic waves (1700 KHz) on germination of Capparis spinosa L. seeds are reported. Only the seeds previously scarified with sulphuric acid responded to the ultrasonic treatments. A specially prepared apparatus made it possible to carry out the ultrasonic treatments in water at controlled temperatures. A significant increase in germination percentage was found for exposure times from 10 min to 6 hr. Optimal temperatures for the treatment were 25 and 30C. The highest germination percentages (above 50%) were obtained when ultrasonic treatment was carried out in the presence of gibberellic acid (400 mgl). Significant differences for average germination time did not emerge from the trials. Various hypotheses are advanced to explain the mechanism of action of ultrasonic waves. The acquired information, however, supports the concomitant and/or sequential effect of more than one action, at both a physical and biochemical level. The importance of provenance of the seed population is also underlined.
42883552|Research on invertebrate species, such as nematodes, insects and mites is crucial for plant-protection programs. Among this phylum many important species (entomopathogenic worms, parasitoids and predators) have been identified and mass produced under factory-like conditions to be subsequently employed in biological control strategies. Some applied problems including correct identification, culture production, genetic stability and storage are fundamental when working with these organisms. Recently, preservation of biological materials through the use of ultra-low temperatures has proved to be a valuable tool also for multicellular organisms such as nematodes. In this paper we give a look at cryopreservation research for invertebrate storage to improve their availability for both scientific and commercial needs.
42881721|We examined the rooting responses of 1-mm stem-disks excised from the same 'M9 Jork' microcutting. A significant relationship was found between adjacent disks for root number and rooting percentage. Between nonadjacent disks there was a significant relationship only for root number in disks cut from the apical section.
42882754|Mechanical harvesting must be developed for successful table and olive oil production in California. Both canopy contact shaking head and trunk shaking harvesters can produce processed black ripe olives that trained sensory panels and consumer panels cannot distinguish from hand-harvested olives. However, both types of harvesters remove and capture less than the 80% efficiency required for economically feasible mechanical table olive harvesting. The harvesters differ in their removal patterns, efficiency, and types of tree damage. No successful abscission compounds to decrease fruit removal force have been identified. Therefore, as with oil olives, the tree shape must be modified for successful mechanical table olive harvesting. Recent results demonstrate training to an espalier shape, with and without a trellis, in high density hedgerows, does not decrease yield. These espaliered hedgerow orchards can be harvested with both canopy contact and trunk shakers. Therefore, the traditional California table olive industry must adapt a modified version of the high density and super high density orchards, designed specifically for mechanical harvesting, now being developed for olive oil production in California.
42883112|An infection system designed to develop an in vitro screening methods with which to evaluate the resistance of potato (Solanum tuberosum) plantlets to the early blight (EB) agent Alternaria solani during micropropagation is described. Thirteen potato cultivars were inoculated at the 8-leaf stage and the results compared with EB ratings from detached leaf inoculations. The effectiveness of both screening techniques is examined with respect to the field ratings reported in the literature.
42882767|Developmental biology of the potato tuber moth (PTM), Phthorimaea operculella (Zeller), was compared on foliage of biostimulant-treated and untreated potato plants. Neonate larvae mortality on biostimulanttreated foliage was greater than that of larvae confined to untreated foliage. No significant differences in feeding parameters were observed between larvae fed on treated potato foliage and untreated plants. However, according to the host suitability index (HSI), biostimulant-treated plants became less suitable for PTM development. Biostimulant applications significantly increased the number of hairs and trichomes per unit potato leaflet surface suggesting that neonate's mortality, or larval failure of initial establishment, may have been an outcome of a higher number of hairs and trichomes associated with biostimulant-treated plants. From a horticultural perspective, the organic biostimulant significantly increased tuber yield per plant and induced early maturity in potato plants by 20.9 and 19.6% above the control, respectively.
42881596|Presowing incubation in a polyethylene glycol 6000 solution, which does not allow seed germination (osmocondtioning), releases tomato seed (cv. UC 105) under continuous red light or in darkness from far-red light induced inhibition. The same osmotic treatment under continuous far-red light prevents the subsequent germination of tomato seed in the presence of the far red light. The role of phytochrome in discussed.
42881584|Even if the olive has been classified as moderately tolerant to salts, little information is available as to the physiological processes of Na salts in such plants. The influence of daily additions of NaSO and NaCl (at concentrations of 40, 60 and 90 meql) to the nutrient (30 meql) over a three-year period was investigated. At the lowest concentration neither salt affected plant survival, whereas at the intermediate concentration the mortality rate averaged 23% and at the highest saline concentrations, its averaged 56%. Salt concentration also proportionately affected the growth of the surviving plants. As the concentrations increased, the linear growth, number of shoots, number of leaves and total foliar surface decreased. Saline treatment altered the nutrient equilibrium of the different plant organs (leaves, shoots and roots). Nevertheless, while no changes in the levels of N, P, Mg, Fe, Mn, Cu and Zn were noted, there was a decrease in K. However, there were important increases in Na with the addition of each Na salt to the nutrient; S increased in the presence of NaSO while Cl increased in the presence of NaCl. As the decrease in the concentration of K did not reach levels of deficiency, the lower K ion accumulation may indicate K losses.
42881744|The results of seed germination and rooting experiments with selected Tilia species are presented and discussed. Seeds treatments included pericarp removal, moist-chilling, superficial sterilization, acid scarification, application of giberellic acid and fungicide Thiram, while those applied to semihardwood cuttings included IBA at 0, 6000 and 10000 ppm and its effects on the origin of shoots and suckers. The seed development of all the species tested was prevented by the hardened pericarp. When the pericarp was removed, both fungicide application and superficial sterilization proved to control seed pathogen development. The germination of T. platyphyllos and T. tomentosa was improved by treatment with concentrated sulphuric acid (52% and 56%, respectively), but was not affected by moistchilling treatment and Ga application; the germination percentage of T. cordata was always very low (max 17.4%). Shoot cuttings showed a poor rooting potential, but IBA treatment significantly raised rooting percentage of cuttings in T. cordata (from 43% to 61%) and T. tomentosa (from 5% to 32%); mean root number and length were only slightly influenced by the hormone. Rooting success was greatest when cuttings were taken from suckers, but rooting was not stimultated by IBA. T. cordata registered the best rooting results.
42883121|Analysis of a seedling population of Prunus serotina subsp. Capuli was carried out to identify plants of high-yielding capacity and good fruit quality. Parameters included trunk diameter growth, production efficiency, and fruit weight and diameter measured at harvest; ripening index was also employed. Principal component analysis indicated twelve seedlings as having promising traits; two of these can be used for experimental plantings.
42881729|The phenols chlorogenic acid, phloroglucinol, catechol, p-coumaric acid and caffeic acid were applied to commercial horseradish and to 'M9 Jork' peroxidases. Chlorogenic acid, catechol and phloroglucinol inhibited peroxidase activity, while p-coumaric acid and caffeic acid enhanced it. Since peroxidase activity is related to rooting, chlorogenic acid and caffeic acid were applied for 24 hours to microcuttings of the apple rootstocks 'M9 Jork' during the rooting process so as to influence peroxidase activity and enhance rooting. Chlorogenic acid decreased peroxidase activity immediately after the treatment and registred a higher rooting percentage than control. Caffeic acid effect on enzyme activity was detected only two days after the treatment and rooting was not improved.
42883389|Plum pox potyvirus (PPV), the causal agent for Sharka disease, is considered the most detrimental viral pathogen of stone fruit crops in Europe and around the Mediterranean Basin. In North Africa, particularly in Tunisia, it was thought for a long time that PPV is absent in this area. Our field and laboratory works have shown that it is infecting several varieties of Japanese plum. Biological, serological and molecular methods were used to detect the virus. Barks of infected plums were chip-budded onto GF 305 peach seedlings; crude extracts from Japanese plum leaves were inoculated to appropriate herbaceous indicators, and tested in Triple-antibody sandwich-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (TAS-ELISA); using strain D specific-monoclonal antibodies gave rise to the identification of nine PPV isolates occurring in two mother block stands. Confirmation has been obtained by immunosorbent electron microscopy (ISEM) and Immunocapture-Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction-based assay (IC-RT-PCR) amplifying a 243 bp fragment using the PI and P2 primers. In an Heminested second PCR cycle (H-PCR), using the nested primer PD, amplification resulted in a 198 bp fragment. RFLP analysis showed Alu I and Rsa I restriction sites in the PCR products. Eradicating infected trees, strengthening regulations regarding the importation and movement of propagative materials, using certified virus-free materials, better and accurate checking by quarantine services and regular inspections and surveys in orchards and nurseries are the main recommended control measures against PPV in Tunisia.
42882222|The many-faceted relationships that exist between plants and humans play an integral role on the development of our civilisation that goes merely beyond some productive aspects, involving other scientific sectors like anthropology, ethnobotany, geography, art and environmental sciences and, above all, the group of social sciences like psychology and sociology. Comprehension of the psychological, physiological and social responses of people towards plants can be a valid tool for the improvement of physical and psychic conditions, both of single individuals and of whole communities. Though some very ancient references are present in the literature, the study of these aspects of fundamental importance has stimulated the interest of several researchers mainly in the last 10-15 years, especially in Anglo-Saxon countries and the United States, producing, as a consequence, a substantial bibliography. So-called horticultural therapy is not a new therapy. It can be done at home, in either public or private gardens, in green spaces or in structures for the cultivation of plants attached to hospitals, rehabilitation clinics and hospices. It has, therefore, great flexibility and, probably, its great therapeutic value resides in the fact that it can be a preventive medicine and a therapy of support to traditional medical treatments, contributing to the harmonic exploitation of residual potentialities and to a more structurally defined personality of the patient.
42881342|A phytochrome-less mutant of Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. (V au) was regenerated from cotyledons cultured in vitro. In six-day-old dark grown hypocotyls of the mutant (V au) no phytochrome was detectable. The germination response of the mutant to light was altered. The results are discussed with respect to the role of the phytochrome.
42883434|This paper reviews aspects of grapevine flower anatomy and biology (with special emphasis on Vitis vinifera L.), pointing out some recent works which highlight the progress made in this field. Grapevine flower anatomy is complex because there is the contemporary presence of hermaphroditic, male and female flowers. Flowering in grapevine involves three main steps: formation of uncommitted primordia (called anlagen), differentiation of anlagen to form inflorescence primordia and differentiation of flowers. The literature on environmental factors that influence flowering in grapes is reviewed under three major headings: temperature, light intensity, and nutrition. This review attempts to bring together past research on the biology and physiology of grapevine flowering and recent investigations of genes involved in flowering.
42883468|In Japan, persimmon cultivars (Diospyros kaki Thunb.) are generally propagated by veneer grafting onto one-year-old seedlings of D. kaki in spring; D. kaki roots adapt to pH 5 to 7 in soil. D. kaki roots grow well in aerated soil and are sensitive to drought, however they can develop deeply in soil with less aerobic conditions as the tree grows. For successful persimmon growth, it is effective to create underdrainage in the open ground before planting and irrigate during hot and dry spells. In Japan, persimmon trees are commonly grown freestanding without trellises. Currently, trees are frequently trained to approximately 3-3.5 m in height and to have a few primary scaffold branches, with a planting density of 200 to 400 trees/ha. Primary scaffold branches are trained to grow at an angle of about 45 degrees to the horizontal, while secondary scaffold branches horizontally. The shoots change from sink to source after flowering. Winter pruning balances the number of buds (sink) and storage nutrients in order to obtain moderately growing shoots, arranges leaves uniformly to obtain the maximum efficiency in photosynthesis, and facilitates cultural practices in terms of tree shape and height.
42881561|Trials were carried out to test the effect of light-dark cycles different from the largely adopted 16 hours light  8 hours dark, without altering the amount of radiation supplied to the cultures. The following treatments were compared: 16 hr light  8 hr dark, 8 hr light  4 hr dark, 4 hr light  2 hr dark, 2 hr light  1 hr dark. Light intensity at culture level was 40 mol m sec. Shoot tips of two peach rootstocks, the  MrS 2/5  and the  GF 677 , a plum and a peach  almond hybrid respectively were utilized. Growth medium was MS supplemented with BA (0.6 mg/1), GA (0.2 mg/1) and IBA (0.06 mg/1) for shoot proliferation; only IBA (0.4 mg/1) was used for shoot rooting. After 6-8 weeks of culture, shoot cluster fresh and dry weight and number of shoots produced from original shoot tips were much greater with 4 hours light  2 hours dark compared to 16 hours light -8 hours dark. Also root length and average leaf area were positively influenced by this light-dark cycle. Concerning the physiological aspects involved with the enhanced growth, the hypotheses of a possible role of the phytochrome and of a higher CO availability in the culture vessels are considered.
42881802|The effectiveness of a 3-min postharvest water dip at 52C or combined dips at 52 and 25C, with and without the fungicide imazalil (IMZ), on peel pitting and mould decay control in cv. Di Massa lemons was investigated. A single dip at 25C acted as control. Nine weeks of storage at 6C and 10 days of simulated shelflife at 20C were the experimental conditions. More significant reduction of peel pitting and mould decay occurred with water dip at 52C than at 25C. The toxic effects on rind determined by IMZ at 52C were prevented by double dip (water at 52C followed by IMZ at 25C). IMZ markedly inhibited the development of rots in all experimental conditions. Less marked were the differences in the physiological (respiration rate and endogenous ethylene concentration) and internal quality parameters (ethanol and acetaldehyde concentration in juice, titratable acidity and total soluble solids) of fruit. A pre-storage water dip at 52C followed by an IMZ dip at 25C effectively control decay development in 'Di Massa' lemons without adversely affecting fruit quality characteristics.
42882691|An experiment was conducted in the Jordan Valley, Jordan to examine the effect of the order of flowering of racemes and the distance of bee hives from flowering trees on pod set, seed set, and pod characteristics of Prosopis juliflora. Flowers of Prosopis were subjected to three pollination treatments: i) open pollination; ii) open pollination plus removal of first raceme; and iii) supplementary pollination plus removal of first raceme. Trees were selected at three distances from the bee hives (0, 2, and 4 km). Number of pods per node for open pollination treatment tended to decrease with the decrease in raceme order on the flowering node. Removal of raceme improved pod set in the consequent ordering raceme as compared with open pollination treatment. The pollination treatment  distance interaction was significant for pod number and weight. Supplementary pollination plus removal gave higher pod number per node than other pollination treatments. The role of honeybees in Prosopis flower pollination is restricted to the nearest trees; trees should not be more than 2 km from the bee hives to improve pod set and seed yield.
42881822|Micropropagated shoots of Vitis vinifera were wounded and inoculated with wild-type Agrobacterium rhizogenes. Different inoculation sites (scraped internodes, decapitated stems, petioles without leaf blades) and different combinations of grape cultivars ('Nebbiolo', 'Moscato' and 'Barbera') and bacterium strains (A4, 15834, NCPPB2659 and 8196) were tested. Root production was obtained in all the inoculation sites and for all the combinations tested, but never in non-inoculated shoots. Cultures of roots obtained after inoculation were established and tested for opine production. Not all the fast-growing root lines synthesized opines: an incomplete transfer of A. rhizogenes T-DNA can be hypothesized in those cases.
42882608|The SSRs amplification test is widely used as a genotype control instrument to monitor the identity of accessions undergoing clone selection programmes. In this work, 14 grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.) accessions which are widespread in Tuscany, including Sangiovese and other minor grapevines known for their importance to release coloured pigments to red wines such as Colorino, Alicante and Abrusco, were characterized by SSRs amplification test (MS). The genotype data were obtained following three alternative methodological approaches. Statistical elaboration of the three data sets led to the production of three distinct dendrograms. Accuracy of SSRs analysis for genotyping depends on appropriate molecular tools, like the MS amplification test for genotyping, dependent on appropriate statistical elaboration rigour, since setting up an unsuitable methodological approach leads to inexact conclusions concerning the genetic similarity of individuals within population.
42882623|In the dynamically changing olive oil industry, new cultivars with greater adaptability to modern cultivation techniques and with high quality oils are needed. In this paper, oil quality, in terms of fatty acid composition and content in phenolic compounds, was analysed for many new genotypes previously selected in a breeding program and cultivated in three different locations of central and southern Italy. Data on some cultivars commonly grown in each area were included for comparison. The availability of data from many genotypes cultivated in all three locations allowed quantitative analyses of the genetic and environmental effects on the oil quality traits studied. The acidic composition varied greatly both with genotype and with environment and so did the concentration in phenols, though the effect of genotype on phenols was not significant (P=0.09). The fatty acid composition, particularly, the oleic/(palmitic+ linoleic) ratio, appeared predominantly under genetic control, with a broad sense heritability of 0.58 while the environmental effect explained 0.31 of the total variance. The oil content in phenolic compounds, instead, had lower heritability (0.29) and was more affected by the environment, which explained 0.50 of the total variance. Few genotypes were selected as the best for each location, but none performed best in all locations. This suggests that, in olive, the highest oil quality is difficult to achieve with a single genotype in different environments, due to a strong or even predominant effect of the environment on some quality traits. More likely, combinations of genotypes and territories can produce oils with high and typical quality. In this paper, we provide information on potential new genotypes with promising performances in different Italian regions. Further testing of oil quality, together with agronomic performance, is necessary prior to any release of new cultivars.
42881861|Rhizopus oryzae, a mucoraceous fungus, causes soft rot of sweet potato in storage. The optimum temperature which favoured the growth of the fungus on culture and on tuber was around 35C while the relative humidity (RH) favourable for the growth was in the range of 75 to 85 per cent.
42882805|During two-year studies, we evaluated the influence of photoselective coloured shade nets on the quality of fresh harvested pepper fruits (Capsicum annuum) after prolonged storage and shelf life simulation. Pepper cultivar 'Romans' grown in a semi arid region under 35% pearl and yellow shade nets significantly maintained better pepper fruit quality after 16 days at 7C plus three days at 20C, mainly by reducing decay incidence during two consecutive years (2008 and 2009), compared to commercial black and red nets. No significant differences were observed in percentage of weight loss, firmness and total soluble solids in fruit harvested under the different coloured shade nets. The skin colour of fruit harvested under Pearl net was significantly lighter than that of fruit harvested under red and black shade nets and this fact can be associated with inhibition of fruit ripening during growth. After storability and shelf life simulation however skin colour was red to dark red under all shade nets. Pearl and yellow shade nets significantly reduced Alternaria spp. population in the field, which was evaluated with Alternaria-selective growing medium. The highest Alternaria population was found under red shade net. The significant low decay incidence in fruit harvested under pearl and yellow shade nets can be explained by the low inoculum level of Alternaria spp. in the field, and inhibition of fungal sporulation, and/or by a slowing of fruit ripening during its growth, reducing fruit susceptibility to fungal infection in the field due to the scattered light, its quality and the ratio between the light spectrum under the two shade nets.
42882780|The life table of the local strain of grape phylloxera was examined on local grape varieties and one resistant rootstock 41 B. Small root pieces from these varieties were taken directly from the field and used for the study. The results showed that there was a great variation in percentage survival, number of eggs laid, oviposition period, developmental time, number of nodosities and population among most of the tested local varieties and the rootstock. Among the tested varieties 'Kalb Tearr' and 'Kasuofee' were the most tolerant to local grape phylloxera. In fact, the resistance of 'Kalb Tearr' and 'Kasuofee' was similar to that of 41B rootstock. The results showed that 'Baladi' and 'Aswad Sharrar' were good and suitable hosts for this destructive insect.
42883464|The anti-oxidant activity of persimmon fruit appears to be mainly due to its high-molecular-weight tannin content. Antioxidant activity is variety specific with some astringent varieties showing very high antioxidant activity, comparable to strawberry and blueberry. In vitro, and limited animal studies, have shown that condensed tannins in the fruit may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes and a wide range of cancers. Persimmon has an unusual property in that it appears to alter and reduce the rate of alcohol absorption and metabolism and thus ameliorate the symptoms of a hangover. The health and medicinal benefits of persimmon are considerable and should be further researched and promoted by persimmon industries around the world.
42881906|Kiwifruits (Actinidia deliciosa cv. Hayward) were collected in the Piedmont region (Northwest Italy) throughout the growing season. Fruit growth was evaluated by measuring berry fresh and dry weights and berry size. Soluble sugars and acid content were evaluated by gas chromatography and starch amounts by enzymatic essay. The seasonal trend in sugar content was similar to that found in fruits produced in other environments while the amounts of starch and acids, the accumulation trend and the peak of starch content showed some important differences.
42881489|In order to test the sensitivity of colorimetric technique in phytodiagnostics, with particular regard to color variations caused by water stress, and to verify the potential for use in irrigation timing of horticultural crops, water stress was induced on two-year-old, container-grown Citrus macrophylla and Citrus paradisi cv. Star Ruby plants in the third year after grafting. Measurements on plant leaves were preceded by a test of the colorimeter with the aim of evaluating the accuracy of the instruments and to point out possible drift effects due to prolonged use. The trend of colorimetric and xylematic pressure potential values over time were measured on leaf samples. Color of well-watered plant leaves showed very small variations while unwatered plant leaves presented a wide change in color. In addition water stress determined an increase in both the dominant wavelength and the saturation. The chromaticity co-ordinates y and z and the index (x+y)/z showed the best sensitivity in discriminating color variations. Moreover, clear correlations between xylematic pressure potential and chromaticity co-ordinates were found. Use of colorimetric technique may improve the possibilities for irrigation management, with particular regards to irrigation timing.
42882909|Research was carried out on potato (Solarium tuberoswn L., cv. Spunta) growing in the field in the Campania region (southern Italy) in 2007 and 2008, adopting organic farming practices, in order to evaluate the effects of two mulching treatments (black biodegradable film and bare soil) and six plant densities (12.5, 10.0, 8.3, 7.1, 6.2 and, as a control, 5.3 plants per m) on growth, yield and quality of "new potato" winter-spring and summer-autumn crops. Only in the case of the summer-autumn crop cycle, mulching resulted in a higher yield, plant dry matter and leaf area compared with the bare soil control, while in both crop cycles this latter treatment induced a delay in harvest. The winter-spring cycle gave a higher production of 40-70 mm tubers, while the summer-autumn cycle resulted in a higher vitamin C content. For the winter-spring crop cycle, the plant density of 8.3 plantsm resulted in the highest yield for food-use tubers, whereas the highest production of seed tubers was obtained with a density of 12.5 plantsm. The plant density of 8.3 plantsm also resulted in the highest plant dry matter and leaf area. For the summer-autumn crop cycle, the 10 plantsm density gave the highest production of 40-70 mm calibre tubers, as well as the highest plant dry matter and leaf area. In this cycle, the 6.3 plantsm density resulted in the highest production of 70-80 mm calibre tubers. In terms of cost effectiveness, the choice of biodegradable mulching could save the expense of manual weed control and, in the case of the summer-autumn crop cycle, it is also associated with a higher yield. Overall, tuber yield increased with plant density but the final production was also affected by the crop cycle. This may depend on the different environmental conditions and duration which characterized each cultural cycle and, therefore, affected the vegetative development of organic new potatoes.
42881329|Pollen germination on the stigma and tube growth in the styles of three apple and three pear cultivars were investigated in relation to the type of pollen applied: compatible, self-incompatible and incongruous (apple on pear and pear on apple). Germination of the three pollen types on the stigma was about the same, but tubes of the compatible pollen usually penetrated faster and further into the style than those of the self-incompatible and incongruous pollen. The tubes of the incompatible and incongruous pollen generally stopped in the top half of the style and showed the same kind of inhibition in both apple and pear styles. There was a weak relation between pollen load - measured by the number of germinated pollen grains on the stigma - and tube growth in the style, irrespective of the type of pollen. In about half of 65 samples, pollen tube growth was more or less depressed below 20 germinated grains on the stigma, above 40 grains tube growth was usually normal.
42882757|The authors illustrate the general results of a five-year programme (M. A. T. E. O. Project "Technical and Economic Farming Models for reducing production costs for Tuscan Olive growers ) co-funded by A. R. S. J. A. (Regional Agency for Development and Innpvation in Agricultural and Forestry Activities). An analysis of the different types of olive growing classified in the project, of the technical evaluations and the technologies and management approaches to make sustainable mechanization possible are evaluated. In relation to the specific case of harvesting, the results of the development of three innovative projects are presented.
42881666|Asparagus virus 1 (AV1) is involved in asparagus decline together with asparagus virus 2 (AV2) and Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. asparagi. Ultrathin sections of naturally AV1-infected asparagus and mechanically inoculated Chenopodium amaranticolor leaf tissues were examined by electron microscopy. Cylindrical inclusions (pinwheels, tubes, scrolls and laminated aggregates), typical of the potyvirus group, and cytological alterations were observed in infected cells. Particular features associated with this isolate, were tubules and "pentatome-like" structures. No cytological alterations were observed in healthy controls.
42881421|Cluster analysis methodology was used to measure relationships among 104 artichoke accessions on the basis of eight quantitative characters with the aim to identify homogeneous groups having similar characters and presumably similar genetic basis. Cluster analysis identified five large groups of accessions designated the Early, Medium early, Late with small heads, Late-violet and Late with big head clusters. The diameter and weight of main head were the most important sources of variation showing the highest discriminating value. Accessions resulted grouped also on the basis of qualitative characters like spininess and the violet colour of bracts and on the climatic homogeneity of the area of origin. The study confirms that the germplasm of artichoke, despite the diversification to which it was subjected during the time, can be reconducted to a few main entities with relatively reduced genetic bases. The shape and size of heads, the ripening time and yield per plant proved to be the parameters principally used in the selection process during the diffusion of cultivars in artichoke growing areas.
42883065|Six-year-old vines of cv. Sangiovese, trained to Guyot, were treated with either 1% and 2.5% Hydrogen cyanamide seven, five and three weeks before expected buldreak and compared to unsprayed vines. Timing of budbreak, expressed as days after April 1, was affected only by the earliest sprays: 1% or 2.5% HCN induced 8-day (P= 0.05) and 4-day earlier budbreak than untreated vines respectively. The earliest HCN treatments also enhanced the speed of budbreak compared to control but did not prevent overlapping among early phenological stages. Vines sprayed with HCN seven weeks before budbreak still presented at bloom significant level of earliness (P= 0.05) compared to other application dates. This effect was progressively curtailed over the berry growth season and final berry size as well as fruit maturity were not affected. HCN sprayed five and three weeks before expected budbreak did not affect the time and uniformity of bud development. The latest HCN treatment did not affect vegetative growth.
42881818|The olive cv. Leccino was found to be self-incompatible in many studies. During a clonal selection trial it was found that several clones show satisfactory fruit set also on isolated branches. Studies were carried out for 5 years in order to evaluate fruit set ability of the selected cv. Leccino clones as well as viability and germination of pollen in vitro and in vivo. Fluorescent microscope observations showed that, independently of the degree of fruit-set recorded under field conditions, the pollen tube was capable of reaching the ovary in 3 clones. In the other clones, as well as in the standard cv. Leccino, the pollen tube penetrated only a short distance into the style. Bagging trials showed that (in 3 out of 5 years) clones 3, 4, 6 and 9 were the ones with the most constant selffertility. The results obtained suggest that 'Leccino' clones may vary widely in self-compatibility according to the year.
42882455|Quality characteristics of fifteen chestnut varieties were studied in 2004. Chestnuts of five Mediterannean countries involved in the MANCHEST project were analyzed for sugars, starch, fatty acids, lipids, protein and organic acids content. Total polyphenols and the content of sodium and potassium were also determined. The fruits were harvested from: five areas in Greece, Pilion, Chania (Crete), Parnon, Karpenisi and Ossa; three areas in Italy, Catania, Florence and Cuneo (Marrone and Garrone Rosso varieties); two areas in France, Toulouse (Maraval, Marigoule and Marsol var.) and Cevennes area of Montpellier; one area in Spain, Salamanca (Parede van); and one area in Portugal, Villa Real (Longal var.). The moisture content of all varieties was found to be greater than 50%. The average compositional analysis of the samples ranged from 3.5 to 9.3% (on DM) for proteins, 4.64 to 11.98% (on DM) for lipids, 8.53 to 21.50% (on DM) for sucrose, 21.70 to 39.33% (on DM) for starch and 1271.9 to 2348.4 mg/kg (on DM) for polyphenols. The predominant fatty acid was linoleic followed by oleic, while the main saturated fatty acid was palmitic acid. The highest content of linoleic acid was found in French chestnuts of Toulouse. Generally, the amount of unsaturated and polyunsaturated acids represents about 84% of total fatty acids. There were significant differences among chestnut varieties in all parameters studied.
42882924|Walnut (Juglans regia L.) is one of the most important temperate nuts grown worldwide. In India, however, most of the produce comes from age-old trees of unknown origin. Apart from non-adoption of standard farm practices, certain inherent problems like dichogamy are the major factors of low productivity. The problem of dichogamy is further aggravated by short period of pollen shedding and stigma receptivity. Dichogamy in walnut prevents self-pollination and necessitates cross-pollination to set fruits. For optimum fruit set and consequent yield, an attempt was made with 20 cultivars/selections grafted on seedling walnuts for three consecutive years to determine the nature and degree of dichogamy. Observations were recorded on the time of male and female flowering, duration of pollen shedding and stigma receptivity, nature and degree of dichogamy. Results indicate that out of 20 cultivars/selections fourteen have protandrous nature, 'Gobind' in the first and third year, 'KX Giant' in second and third year and 'Plant No. 45' in the second year have homogamous nature and only 'Gobind' have protogynous nature in the second year. Degree of dichogamy varies from zero to 100 per cent among various cultivars/selections. Findings of the present study emphasized on the interplanting of protandrous and protogynous cultivars or homogamous cultivars to ensure adequate pollination to obtain higher nut yields in walnut.
42881326|The presence of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizal (VAM) infection and spores was assessed in different periods of the year in the roots of field-grown kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa [A. Chev.] Liang & Ferguson) in Piedmont (NW Italy). Four fungal species were found in the kiwifruit orchards. Spore numbers were higher in spring and decreased in Summer; root colonization was generally high throughout the year. Kiwifruit seedlings were inoculated in pots with the VAM endophyte Glomus monosporum Gerd. & Trappe, in soil receiving increasing P fertilization. Plant growth was increased by inoculation at the lowest P levels; root colonization was reduced by P addition to the soil.
42883367|This study aimed at obtaining information about the genetic background and relationships among 12 pistachio cultivars grown at a gene bank in southern Syria using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technology. Forty-one decamer primers were used and only two of them (OP-A04 and OP-N16) did not produce any polymorphism. The remaining 39 primers ranged in their amplification fragments between one (OP-N18) and twelve (OP-R17). The generated similarity matrix and the resulting dendogram divided the cultivars into two clusters and one cultivar as an outliner. Mantel Test Statistic showed a good fit among 20, 30 and the 39 random primers when employed on all tested cultivars. The use of ten random primers, however, produced polymorphism that was not sufficient to discriminate among the used cultivars. The minimum number of primers needed to discriminate among studied pistachio cultivars was either 20 random primers or using the ten most polymorphic fragments (seven or more) primers. The similarity data obtained in this study agree with classifications based on morphological and agronomical characteristics at least for the male cultivars. However, fruit bearing type and fruit weight appeared to be completely uncorrelated with the RAPD clustering.
42883549|Slovakia has two principal programmes aimed at the conservation of genetic resources: the National Programme for Conservation of Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture for 2005-2009 is based on Act 215/2001 and coordinated by the Slovak Agriculture Research Center in Piest'any; the National Programme for Conservation of Forest Genetic Resources for 2005-2009 is coordinated by the National Forestry Centre in Zvolen. The conservation is carried out in situ, ex situ, in vitro and on farm. Cryopreservation as a long-term storage technique has not been, until now, actively implied in the national programmes. Cryopreservation is a part of research activities undertaken at Safrik University, Kosice which aim towards the cryostorage of Hypericum perforatum and Orthosiphon stamineus. Among forest tree species, cryopreservation activities are mainly focused on the development of a method for the storage of embryognie cell masses of coniferous species: Pinus nigra Arn. (Institute of Plant Genetics and Biotechnology, Nitra), Abies alba Mill, and A. cephalonica Loud. (National Forestry Centre, Zvolen). The Slovak Republic cooperates actively with the Bioversity International (Rome), taking part in its two main programmes, the ECPGR and EUFORGEN.
42882625|The analytical traits of oils from three new olive genotypes, namely P5 93, P5 18 and P1 3, were studied in this work. They were chosen from a great number of new genotypes resulting from a broad program of olive crossbreeding developed at the University of Florence. The new oil types, most noticeably P5 93 and P5 18, present remarkable analytical features, such as good flavour and aroma, good stability and endurance to oxidation and potentially long shelf-life. They also exhibited significant levels of nutraceutical micro-components, such as biophenolics, o-diphenols, tocopherols, volatiles, carotenes and other carotenoids (noticeably lutein), as well as a good composition of the genuineness or fingerprint analytical fractions (phytosterol and aliphatic and triterpene alcohol fractions). Most of the other analytical parameters and indices assessed were not or were barely affected by the genetic store. Suitable chemometrics (both parametric and non-parametric) were applied to the analytical data for traceability, authentication and fingerprinting of the new products.
42882305|Effects of sucrose as well as certain biocides on the vase life of fronds of three types of ferns viz. Blechnum gibbum, Nephrolepis exaltata (Bostoniensis) and Nephrolepis exaltata (Golden Boston) were investigated. Fronds of Nephrolepis exaltata (Bostoniensis) had the maximum average vase life (18.68 days), followed by Nephrolepis exaltata (Golden Boston) (11.59 days) and Blechnum gibbum (1.24 days). Chemical treatments did not improve vase life of Blechnum gibbum. In Nephrolepis exaltata (Golden Boston) Al(SO)16HO (300 ppm), NaOCl (50 ppm chlorine) or AgNO (25 ppm in vase solution and 1000 ppm as pretreatment for 10 min) alone were not effective but when combined with sucrose (1.5%), they significantly improved vase life of fronds. In Nephrolepis exaltata (Bostoniensis), the most effective treatments, in order of their efficacy, were AgNO (1000 ppm as pretreatment for 10 min) alone and in combination with sucrose (1.5%).
42883182|Eggplant plantings are constantly attacked by a number of serious pests (e.g. the fruit and shoot borer, the Colorado potato beetle, soil-borne fungi). In spite of the heavy losses they may cause, breeding for resistance in this crop has been very limited because of lack of desirable traits in the eggplant genome or sexual incompatibility with resistant, wild related species. The present paper reviews the source of resistant genes available in both eggplant gene pool and wild Solanum relatives. Considering the genetic determinism of resistant traits, the possible strategies for eggplant breeding are discussed with emphasis on approaches based on the integration of classical breeding methods (crosses and selection) with biotechnological ones (anther culture, genetic transformation, protoplast fusion and marker-assisted selection).
42881922|Late-season grapefruits (Citrus paradisi Macf. cv. Marsh seedless) were dipped in water at 50C for 3 min with and without 200 ppm imazalil (IMZ) or 1000 ppm IMZ at 19C and were subsequently stored at 7C and 90-95% relative humidity (RH) for 11 weeks plus one week at 21C and approximately 75% RH to simulate a marketing period (SMP). Residue concentrations in fruit after treatment with 200 ppm IMZ at 50C were 3.46 ppm, about twice the level (1.80 ppm) found in fruit treated with 1000 ppm IMZ at 19C. Fungicide degradation rates during storage showed similar patterns resulting in an approximately 50% decrease. Both fungicide treatments significantly reduced decay and chilling injury (CI) during storage and SMP. Hot water reduced CI and decay but not as effectively as the IMZ treatments. Soluble solids concentrations were not affected by treatments. IMZ treatments resulted in significantly lower values of ti tra table acidity and higher concentrations of ethanol in the juice after SMP. Weight loss was significantly higher in fruit dipped in water at 50C after SMP. No visible damage occurred to the fruit as a result of any of the treatments.
42882049|In vitro cultures of the Japanese plum (Prunus salicina Lindi.) 'Shiro' were irradiated with different doses of gamma rays. Microcuttings were subjected to acute irradiation (530 Rad/min) for total doses of 0, 10, 20, 30 or 40 Gy. After gamma-ray irradiation, shoots were transferred to a proliferation medium. In the first subculture no mortality was recorded for unirradiated control shoots or for shoots treated with 10 Gy, while with 20, 30 and 40 Gy, mortality rates of 5%, 29% and 64%, respectively, were recorded. Proliferation rate of irradiated shoots differed from the unirradiated control only when treated with 30 or 40 Gy. Microcuttings originated from shoots irradiated with 30 and 40 Gy showed a reduced rooting capacity. The dose which gave the total reduction in growth closest to LD was 30 Gy, for which a 55% total growth reduction was recorded. Lower doses were not effective enough, while 40 Gy was too high, causing a total growth reduction of 81%. A survey orchard was established with self-rooted trees deriving from irradiated shoots. Some variants for vegetative and fruit traits were observed.
42883523|The aim of this study was to reveal the reproductive system and identify the main pollinators in Jordan of squash (Cucurbita pepo). The research was conducted in Jordan at two different locations, one located 150 m below sea level. Anita variety was planted in both locations. Seeds were obtained from local markets. Cucurbita flowers were subjected to different pollination conditions, open versus covered and self versus hand crosspollination. The seed set was measured and compared after these trials, and repeated in two years at the two study sites. Open pollination gave the best results (88%) while hand cross-pollination was less effective (86.1%). Geitonogamie reached similar results as hand cross-pollination with 84%. Honeybees were recorded in these flowers only.
24586785|This study investigates the systemic resistance induced by Pseudomonas putida strain BTP1 against phylloxera using an in vitro model in Ruggeri (Ru140) and B41 roostocks. Significant differences were found with regard to matured females, fecundity and oviposition period between untreated and bacteria-treated plants in both rootstocks. Treated Ru140 rootstocks were more resistant than treated B41 ones. BTP1 impacted negatively on the ability of phylloxera to develop, indicating an increase in grapevine resistance and tolerance toward this pest in bacteria-treated plants. This is the first known study of biocontrol of phylloxera in grapevine rootstocks by non-pathogenic P. putida strain BTP1 in vitro.
42882328|An experiment was carried out in natural field conditions to study the tolerance and phytoextraction capabilities of hemp with respect to heavy metals such as cadmium (Cd), lead (Pb) and thallium (Tl). Two varieties were used, one dioecious (Carmagnola) and the other monoecious (Ferimon), in combination with the following seven soil treatments: two doses of Cd (50 and 100 ppm), two doses of Pb (60 and 120 ppm), two doses of Tl (15 and 30 ppm) and one control (CTR). The trial was arranged in an experimental split-plot design with three repetitions and randomisation of treatments in the main plots and varieties in the sub-plots. There was a marked difference in hemp response according to the pollutant concerned. The plant was found to be extremely tolerant to Cd and Pb. Phytotoxicity to Tl was however noted, first with poor germination, yellowing and necrosis of the small leaves, then with slower growth with respect to the control, thus causing production of shoot-derived dry matter to drop by 16.8% and 30.9% for the two levels of heavy metal. None of the three pollutants had any influence on -THC plant content and values were always well under the EU threshold limit (0.2% of the total dry matter). Mean uptake capabilities of hemp with respect to Cd, Pb and Tl were 2.98, 8.34 and 95.59 g ha year, respectively. 'Carmagnola' was more tolerant to thallium than 'Ferimon': it produced more dry matter (+47.8%) and was more efficient in Cd and Tl translocation. The possibilities of growing hemp easily in different climates and using its biomass in multiple non-food uses can make heavy metal-contaminated soil productive, meaning an economic advantage with better quality of soil.
42883123|The effect of pulsing treatment and cold-storage schedule on longevity, increase in corolla diameter and variations in petal and leaf colour were investigated in the Rosa hybrida cv. Serena, a pink-flowered minirose. The treatment of 8-HQS at 200 ppm, 80 g/l sucrose solution and three days' cold-storage at 2 C in darkness provided the best vase-life (13.3 days) and flower-opening (18 mm avg. diam.) results. While leaf colour variations and treatment susceptibility were negligible, petal colour showed a marked change in relation to both storage time and treatment response; the deionized-water control evinced the most negative effects. The changes in colour parameters support the findings recorded by the longevity and corolla diameter tests, thereby reinforcing the efficacy of colorimetry techniques in senescence studies.
42881689|Rooting of Gypsophila paniculata 'Bristol Fairy' herbaceous cuttings was significantly improved by the use of 3-indolebutyric acid (IBA). Dipping the basal part of the cuttings, for ten seconds in 6000 mg/1 IBA gave 66% rooting during April, while the same concentration in July gave no rooting at all. Variable rooting percentages were seen during the year and after dipping in various IBA concentrations. It is recommended to take cuttings in early spring, late summer or early fall and dip the cuttings base in 6000 mg/1 IBA.
42881634|A three year study was carried out on three pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) cultivars infected with a Pepper mosaic virus (PepMV) strain. The effects of amino-acid-based nutritional biostimulant applications were evaluated in the early growth stages by means of physiological, virological and biochemical assessments. The biostimulant applications affected to varying extent all test parameters, especially in the two virus-resistant pepper varieties where virus multiplication was practically halved. The biostimulant treatment reduced the imbalance caused by PepMV, bringing all the measured parameters closer to the uninfected plants. An approach towards the understanding of the biostimulant's mode of action on the virus effects and resistance is discussed in relation to specific amino acid indexes. The a.a. ratio (GLU+GLN/ASP) is the most appropriate to indicate changes caused by PepMV.
42882280|The present study considers whether phyA, phyB1 and phyB2 play specific effects in the control of seed germination in tomato, using wild type (WT), phyA, phyB1, phyB2, phyAphyB1, phyAphyB2, phyB1phyB1 and phyAphyB1phyB2 mutants. The reduced dark germination of phyB1 and phyB2 (about 30%, whereas it is >90% in WT), and the negligible frequencies of germination of phyB1phyB2 and phyAphyB1phyB2 indicate that both phyB1 and phyB2 stored in seeds are crucial for tomato seed germination in the dark. The promoting role of phyB2 is expressed in two distinct ways: in the presence of phyA, as suggested by the reduced germination in the dark of phyB2 mutant; and manifested only when phyA is absent, as suggested by the high frequency of germination of phyA and phyAphyB1 mutant. The frequencies of germination displayed in the dark by phyA and phyAphyB1 were more than three-fold greater than those of phyB1, phyB2, phyAphyB2 and phyB1phyB2 indicating that phyA antagonizes the action of phyB2. The results show that inhibition of germination by continuous far red light is the result of both a reversal of a low fluence response of phtyochrome, involving phyB1, and of a high irradiance response, involving both phyA and phyB1. The ineffectiveness of a red pulse in phyB1, phyB1phyB2 and phyAphyB1phyB2 mutants indicates that phyB1 plays a indispensable role in low fluence response promotion of seed germination. phyA and phyB2 exert negative effects on phys other than phyB1 in continuous R-promoted tomato seed germination. At least four phytochromes appear to be involved in the control of tomato seed germination: phyA, phyB1, phyB2 and phyE and/or phyF. The results indicate that phyB2 acts antagonistically to phyA and phyB1, whereas phyA has a strong negative effect on phyB2 and other phytochromes.
42882918|This review examines recent advances regarding flower bud dormancy in apricot, focusing on biological, anatomical, and physiological processes which occur during the induction and depth of dormancy. In a scenario of global climate change, the relationship between endodormancy and winter climate influence is discussed. Dormancy regulation is a complex process necessary for plant survival and development. In fruit species, the knowledge of mechanisms controlling dormancy and establishing its release appears crucial for successful yields. Specific studies have suggested that, when the flower buds are apparently inactive, slow and gradual changes occur in the whorls: organognesis, such as microsporogenesis processes and vascular connections take place during the entire dormancy period. It has been indicated that an asynchronism between biological (i. e. endodormancy release, microsporogenesis evolution), anatomical (i. e. xylem vessel differentiation) and biochemical (i. e. changes in metabolic compounds and enzymes) events could represent further causes determining an inconstant rate of blooming. Temperature is the main factor involved in dormancy triggering and releasing. In the perspective of global warming, mild winter temperatures could greatly impact apricot ecological cropping systems. Phenological process-based models are considered to be the best tool to study the climatic changes and subsequent expected phenology variation (dormancy and flowering). A new model, calibrated and validated on apricot cultivars, is proposed to predict the dormancy release date in a future scenario.
42883542|Cryopreservation is the ultimate method to preserve large collections of vegetatively propagated plant species, like banana, for the long term. Two cryopreservation protocols, i. e. vitrification of proliferating meristem clumps (called "scalps") and vitrification of apical meristems were investigated. The protocols were successfully applied to 540 accessions belonging to 22 different banana groups. The regeneration rate after thawing strongly depends on the genomic group to which the accession belongs and the cryopreservation method that is used. For safe long-term storage, we opted for three independent successful experiments. An experiment is judged successful if at least one shoot from the stored material regenerates with more than 95% probability.
42881571|Net photosynthetic rate, starch content, and chloroplast ultrastructure were evaluated for leaves of field-grown sweet cherry trees (Prunus avium L. 'Windsor') following the removal of mature fruits to investigate a possible feedback regulation of net photosynthesis by starch accumulation. Defruiting decreased photosynthetic rate by 43% and it increased leaf starch content by 59% within 24 hours. Analysis of transmission electron micrographs showed that: a) considerable enlargement of starch grains occurred inside the chloroplasts, b) percent damaged chloroplasts increased from 2.3% to 5.4% within 24 hours after fruit removal, and c) chloroplast integrity was generally retained after fruit removal. It is concluded that chloroplast disruption and deformation of thylakoidal membranes played a minor role in the post-harvest inhibition of photosynthetic rate in sweet cherry.
42882404|Tuber yield, processing quality and changes in the processing and nutritional characteristics, such as dry matter, reducing sugars, sucrose, soluble protein, free amino acids and total phenols, were investigated in the tubers of five Indian potato varieties including two processing and three table varieties and five American processing cultivars. Samples were harvested at 10-day intervals commencing on 13 December, 60 days after planting, till 90 days. The 90-day-old-crop (mature) was then defoliated or dehaulmed and tuber samples were harvested after 20 days of tuber skin-curing in the soil under short day conditions (Min. 3.9-21.0C, Max. 10.6-31.7C, day length 11.5-9.75 hr). After harvest, changes were also determined in the tubers during pre-storage holding period and up to 90 days of storage in an evaporatively-cooled store at high temperature (Min. 14.5-24C, Max. 24-31C, RH 71-95%) and in the cold store (3-4C, RH 95-98%), followed by reconditioning of tubers stored in the cold store. Yield increased significantly up to the last date of harvest and the mature tubers displayed significantly higher dry matter, free amino acids and total phenols but lower levels of reducing sugars and sucrose and produced chips with better colour appearance. Skin curing of the mature tubers for 20 days in the soil, darkened the chip colour with increase in the mean reducing sugars, free amino acids and soluble protein and reduction in sucrose and total phenols with no significant change in dry matter content of tubers. Both the Indian processing cultivars viz. Kufri Chipsona-1 and Kufri Chipsona-2 and all the five exotic cultivars viz. Atlantic, FL 1291, FL 1533, FL 1584 and FL 1625, stored in the evaporatively cooled store at high temperature up to 90 days, produced chips of acceptable colour. Conversely, tubers of all the cultivars stored in the cold store even after 45 days, produced unacceptably dark coloured chips with tremendous increase in reducing sugars. Reconditioning the cold stored tubers after 45 and 90 days of storage for 3 weeks at 20C reduced the mean reducing sugar content by 30 and 41% respectively, but did not bring desirable change in chip colour. Cultivars processed after 90 days of storage in the evaporatively cooled store gave lower chip yields with higher oil contents as compared to initial storage. The results revealed that both Indian and exotic processing cultivars which contained average reducing sugars <0.15% on fresh tuber weight during pre-harvest stage generally produced chips of acceptable colour during different harvests as well as during storage up to 90 days in an evaporatively cooled store with total tuber weight losses between 8.5-12.5%.
42881910|As compared to callus, suspension cultures offer the advantages of reduced labour for maintaining cultures as well as faster growth in case of somatic embryogenesis in Cyclamen persicum 'Purple Flamed'. When transferred to bioreactors growth and differentiation can be controlled and automatization becomes possible. Both, a non-embryogenic and an embryogenie callus line derived from somatic tissue of unpollinated ovules of the same plant, were used as inocula for long-term suspension cultures showing stable growth for more than one year. Critical factors for the suspension establishment were the starting density, the growth phase of the embryogenic callus and the dilution and subculture scheme. Growth curves for embryogenic and nonembryogenic suspensions are presented. Both types of suspensions were successfully established in bioreactors in first trials. The regeneration of globular-shaped somatic embryos in high frequencies was observed after plating the fraction 200-500 m on hormone-free medium. However, the conversion to normal plantlets has to be optimised, since pronounced root growth was observed in somatic embryos derived from callus and suspension cultures. At the moment a yield of about 90.000 plantlets from 1 l suspension can be achieved representing only a small portion of the embryogenic potential of the cultures.
42882838|Pruning, including summer pruning, of apples can have a positive impact on disease management in two basic ways: through removal of dead tissue and inoculum, and through alteration of the canopy microclimate. Summer pruning can also increase diseases if it is done when disease risk is high. However summer pruning is used almost exclusively as a horticultural tool to improve fruit quantity and quality. As orchard planting and training systems have moved from semi-dwarf trees to high-density, fully-dwarf trees, very few summer pruning studies have looked at impacts related to disease, yet summer pruning in high-density systems may have important disease management effects. Growers should avoid summer pruning practices which will increase disease risks, and use those that offer both horticultural and disease management benefits. More research in this area is needed, as cultural components of apple disease management will become increasingly important in sustainable production systems. This review looks at important apple diseases, including apple scab, fire blight, sooty blotch and flyspeck, black rot, white rot, Nectria canker and powdery mildew, and uses dormant pruning studies plus knowledge of the epidemiology of the diseases to suggest ways that summer pruning would be expected to impact disease management.
42881327|Bud extracts of 35 apple cultivars were analyzed by starch gel electrophoresis for peroxidase isoenzymes (EC. 1.11.1.7). Sixteen different electrophoretic phenotypes were identified: 3 were distinctive for Golden Delicious, Red Delicious and Rome Beauty groups and 13 specific for the same number of cultivars. The electrophoretic patterns were constant throughout the year and were independent of the rootstocks employed.
42881730|Gibberellic acid (GA) was added either during multiplication (2.89 or 5.87M for 2,4 or 6 subcultures) or during the rooting treatment (0.1, 1 or 10 M for 2-day periods at different times during the first days of rooting). GA added during multiplication improved rooting ability slightly at the lowest concentration for 6 subcultures. It slightly inhibited rooting or had no effect in the other cases. When added to the rooting, medium, GA always inhibited rooting and enhanced peroxidase activity.
42883582|In 2011, the methods to perform phytosanitary tests to check for viruses in grapevine nurseries were reassessed and new regulations were defined (DM 13 December 2011). The mandatory tests require serological assays for the diagnosis of five viruses in grapevine mother plants transplanted in Tuscany in 2001 or before. The ahn of the present paper is to report the impact of certification programs applied before 2001 in Tuscany and the sustainability of older mother plants with relation to the new mandatory diagnostic tests. Among the cultivars, virus infection was reported in 192% of pool samples, whereas 2.4% of rootstock pool samples showed a compromised health status. GLRaV-3 is the most frequently found virus (10.4% and 1.3% of cultivar and rootstock pools, respectively), and it is also included hi the most frequent multiple infections. Multiple infections represent about 25% of infected cultivar pools and almost 50% of infected rootstock pools.
42883015|Carbon assimilation rate (A) of greenhouse-grown tomato 'Saladette' was measured following removal of flowers or mature fruit with an open gas exchange system. Fruiting plants exhibited higher A than deflorated ones beginning from about 38 days after the onset of flowering on the first truss (fruiting effect). Although fruiting plants of cultivars Saladette, VF 109, and S2 selection partitioned to fruits and flowers 38, 33, and 35% of total dry matter (TDM), respectively, deflorated plants of these 3 cultivars accumulated 25, 25, and 2% more TDM than fruiting ones. Removal of mature fruits (cv. Saladette) diminished A significantly within 39 hours of treatment. Assimilation rate of fruiting plants continuously illuminated with saturating light (> 750 mol m s) declined within 24 hours after initial exposure. Similar to the fruiting effect, inhibition of photosynthesis following fruit removal or continuous exposure to saturating light seemed to be caused by both stomatal and nonstomatal factors. Regulation of A by fruit activity is discussed in relation to the distinction between fruiting and fruit-removal effects.
42882535|In order to clarify the physiological mechanisms underlying the different sensitivity to UV-B shown by four South American bean genotypes (Arroz, Tortola, Orfeo, Pinto 114), we compared the responses of 11-day-old seedlings to UV-B-irradiation under white light that activates multiple photoreceptors and photolyase, or UV-B-irradiation in the presence of LPS yellow light that activates only stable phytochromes but not photolyase. The UV-B treatment (12 kJ m/day) lasted six days. Growth parameters, UV-absorbing compounds and anthocyanin accumulation, relative water content, electrolyte leakage and abscisic acid were determined. The exposure to UV radiation in the presence of different conditions of light affected morphological and biochemical characteristics of the four cultivars of beans differently, suggesting the involvement of multiple signalling pathways. It was shown that 'Arroz' is the genotype most prone to UV-B damage and that its sensitivity to UV radiation can be ascribed to damage of cell membranes.
42881484|Genetic variability and heritability were estimated for ascorbic acid and isothiocyanate content in thirty cultigens of radish. ANOVA indicated highly significant differences among genotypes for both the characters. Punjab Safed, Pusa Chetki, Pusa Himani and Sel. 4 were rich source of ascorbic acid. Lines Japanese White, Pusa Chetki, Summer Queen, No. 5, Hill Queen, 5-White, Sel. 5 and Sel. 6 can be used for reducing pungency (isothiocyanate content) in radish.
42883428|Apricot (Prunus armeniaca L.) is a fruit species showing several problems related to its floral biology with inconstant and extremely low yield attributed to the lack of climatic adaptation when unsatisfactory cropping cannot be traced to strictly genetic factors. This set of phenomena has been attributed to an unsatisfied chilling requirement and an incomplete overcoming of bud dormancy leading to the appearance of flower bud anomalies. The aims of this study were to characterize a large number of native Italian apricot cultivars through evaluation of their floral biology. In particular, chilling requirement, blooming aptitude and susceptibility to the floral anomalies were estimated. The forcing method was used to determine the chilling requirement of 23 Italian germplasm genotypes and classified them into three types: low (< 1000 CU), medium (1000-1200) and high (> 1200). The first two cultivar types have a shorter endodormancy phase, an earlier beginning of flowering and a good blooming entity. However, these cultivars showed high percentages of early anomalous buds. The third group is composed of cultivars that show a low flowering percentage and high levels of later bud drops. Numerous and diversified 'floral anomalies', such as necrosis and pistil abortion, during bud and flower development from endodormancy to bloom, not strictly related to the chilling requirement, were observed.
42881628|The findings of a climatological study designed to determine environmental potential in meeting the chilling and heat requirements of deciduous fruit trees in Sicily are reported and discussed. Three phenoclimatic models (chilling hour accumulation and the Utah and North Carolina models) were applied to three years of hourly thermograph records from eleven environments and evaluated. Data for the initial day of chilling accumulation and the date of rest completion, as well as the dynamics of chilling and heat accumulation, are included. Of the two methods employed for estimating hourly temperature from maximum and minimum readings (linear and sine-logarithmic interpolations) the latter showed the best fit. Principal component analysis (PCA) of the phenoclimatic variables resulted in at least two main types of environmental patterns that meet chilling and heat demands, albeit the analysis revealed a marked variation between years. While data analysis for subsequent years is continuing, this initial survey has proved to be valuable in defining complex land suitability models and local ecological limits to deciduous fruit tree cultivation.
42883571|Sucrose is the main carbohydrate translocated in grapevine and its transport may be restricted or inhibited by a number of factors such as the pollutant sulphur dioxide. The present study investigated, for the first time in grapevine, the effects of sulphite on membrane electrical response of sucrose transport in the mesophyll cells. Co-transport of sucrose across the membrane is linked to the free energy in a electrochemical proton gradient. Without the pollutant, electrophysiological traces displayed a metabolic-dependent sucrose electrical response in which an initial depolarization was followed by complete repolarization. In the presence of sulphite, instead, there were different trends depending on time of contact with the tissue of the pollutant. In the short-term, a slower repolarization was observed and in the long-term (after 6 and 12 h) the extent of depolarization ( mV) was also reduced. Transmembrane electrical potentials, measured in the presence of sulphite, became significantly (P < 0.01) more positive with increasing time of incubation of the tissue. On the whole, electrophysiological results highlight a direct or indirect effect of the pollutant on the activity of proton pump H*/ATP ase. Since carbohydrate translocation has a central role in the balance between source and sinks in the plant, the results of the research suggest that sulphite can modify the above balance with negative implications for the export of carbohydrate from the leaves.
42882822|The mechanisms responsible for reduced shoot growth due to restricted root growth is still not fully understood. Therefore, this investigation was planned to determine the morphological and physiological changes induced in response to root restriction conditions and to determine the time frame within which these changes occurred. In particular, this research aims to evaluate the effect of root restriction on growth, leaf gas exchange parameters, carbohydrate production and water relations in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.). Our results show that growth reduction by root restriction is mainly linked to a photosynthetic impairment, caused by a concurrent limited stomatal conductance (probably driven by stomatal factors and hormonal substances) together with a strong accumulation of starch in the tissues, which led to a feedback inhibition of the photosynthetic process.
42881732|A test system for rooting in apple was optimized. The regeneration response of roots and callus to auxin treatment was established in a test matrix with different auxin concentrations and treatment times. It is shown that short auxin-treatment times (3 hrs) in combination with high IBA concentrations (60 M) yield a maximal root regeneration in the virtual absence of callus. It is demonstrated that confocal microscopy in combination with the described system enables non-invasive kinetic analysis of root regeneration. For biochemical characterization, a method for protein extraction and subsequent two-dimensional electrophoresis was established. The implications of these results for the molecular study of root initiation are discussed.
42882193|Asexually propagated plants of the Citrus rootstocks Citrus aurantium (Sour orange), C. volkameriana (Volkamer lemon), G reticulata (Cleopatra mandarin) Poncirus trifoliate (Trifoliate orange), Swingle citrumelo (Citrus paradisi  Poncirus trifoliata) and Citrus limettioides (Sweet lime) were grown in a 1: 1 sand-perlite mixture, under greenhouse conditions and irrigated with 50% Hoagland nutrient solutions containing 0,20,40, 60,80 or 100 mM NaCl. The effect of salinity on P, K, Ca, Mg, Na and Cl concentrations and their partitioning to leaves and shoots (top and basal) and roots of the six rootstocks was studied. The data indicated that the rootstocks Cleopatra mandarin and Swingle citrumelo are the most salt tolerant, while Citrus aurantium, P. trifoliata and G volkameriana are the most salt sensitive. The results also revealed significant genotypic differences among the six rootstocks concerning the distribution and concentration of the elements P, K, Ca, Mg, Na and Cl. Among the studied rootstocks P. trifoliata, C. volkameriana and Swingle citrumelo had the greatest K concentration in the top leaves, while G aurantium had the lowest concentration. The most inhibitory effect of NaCl on Mg concentration was recorded in the roots of the rootstocks Sweet Ume and Cleopatra mandarin. Among the six rootstocks, Swingle citrumelo and Cleopatra mandarin had the lowest Na concentration, while G. aurantium, Sweet lime and P. trifoliata had the greatest The greatest Cl concentration was measured in Sweet Ume and G. aurantium leaves, while the lowest was recorded in Cleopatra mandarin and Swingle citrumelo leaves.
42881321|Solute leakage from bean leaf discs (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) was determined as a measure of membrane increased permeability following a stress experience. A relationship existed between leakage extent and water stress intensity. Rehydration of stressed leaves allowed a readjustment of membrane structure: after 30 min no difference from control was observed. CEPA treatment affected membrane permeability only at the beginning of the incubation period; HCl and HPO did not increase intracellular solute leakage. The leakage intensity of leaf discs stressed with 0.3 M and 0.5 M mannitol solution was higher than that of control only within 30 minutes. In the incubation solution a higher amount of polar and negatively charged aminoacid was found. The results confirmed the effect of different stresses on membrane structure alteration and pointed out that leakage could be used as a parameter to evaluate the modified permeability of plasma membrane.
42883075|To evaluate the performance of gerbera plants cv. Fame, grown in bags containing perlite, peat:perlite and pumice with two irrigation frequencies, plant growth, photosynthetic rate (Pn), stomatal conductance (gs), leaf transpiration (E), leaf water potential , evapotranspiration, and yield were measured over a 4-6 month period from planting. Peat:perlite had better gas exchange performance compared with other substrates, while the frequency of irrigation exerted no effect. Pn, gs and  were higher in all substrates compared to soil, indicating that the plants were always above the limits of stress. The actual evapotranspiration obtained its maximum value in pumice and remained in high irrigation frequencies. The plants grown in the mixture peat:perlite (1:1) showed the highest growth and yield, while pumice showed the lowest.
42881631|The effect of water amount and time of application on yield and water utilization efficiency of the oil variety Koroneiki olive were investigated in a moderately deep clay soil at Messara valley in Crete over the years 1984-88. The treatments were: A. Irrigation with 0.6 of class A evaporation throughout season, B. with 0.6 Epan up to May and 0.3 Epan for July and September, C. with 1.0 Epan up to May and 0.3 Epan for July only, D. with 1.0 Epan up to May, and E. no irrigation. In all treatments water was applied by drip irrigation. The average amount of water applied was 865, 353, 428 and 356 mm for the treatments A, B, C and D, respectively, and the average rainfall was 574 mm. Fruit yield per tree was significantly higher (P=0.05) in irrigated treatments, while no difference was noted among them. Irrigation increased fruit production by increasing, mainly, the number and, secondly, the size of the fruits. Fruit size in all treatments was affected by fruit load of the tree (r=-0.89). The oil content (% of fresh weight) was highest for non-irrigated trees, being 23.5% fresh weight, and decreased along with increasing irrigation water.
42882306|The effect of nitrogen interruption on in vitro tuberization and on conservation (in the dark and at 4C for 300 days) of microtubers obtained from potato (Solarium tuberosum L.) plants cv. Dsire was studied. The research was performed in a growing room (24C and 18C during day and night, respectively) on solid and liquid medium. Nitrogen was removed from the plantlets at 0,5,10 and 15 days starting from the 21st day when inductive conditions were imposed. Nitrogen nutrition was subsequently restored until the end of the trial (57th day). Growing and microtuber parameters were recorded. Total nitrogen of dry matter of plants (stems + leaves) and roots was determined. The interruption of nitrogen nutrition led both to an advance of tuberization and a decrease of its length. It also induced a higher number of microtubers although it did not affect microtuber storage duration.
42883139|Scales detached from bulbs of five different Lilium species and hybrids were separated into three groups according to their anatomical positions on the mother bulb. Outer, middle and inner scales were planted, during spring 1987 on the north-western coast in Sicily, in outdoor benches filled with 40% peat and 60% perlite (v/v), to assess their capacity. Irrespective of the species and hybrids tested, outer and middle scales performed better than inner scales. Lilium longiflorum cv. White American outer scales gave the highest bulblet number per scale (2.1), whereas 1.7 bulbfets originated from Lilium  'Enchantment' and Lilium  'Star Gazer' outer scales, respectively. Lilium speciosum cv. Uchida and Lilium regale inner scales showed the least regenerative capacity. These results suggest that, due to favourable climatic conditions, bulblets can be produced in Sicily from scales planted outdoors. However, careful consideration to scale position on the mother bulb must be given to achieve satisfactory results. Bulblets harvested in the fall could be immediately replanted to give small grade bulbs next year.
42883532|Large historical germplasm collections like the Pometum in Denmark are expensive to maintain and vulnerable to losses due to lack of security backup. With the aim of finding a simple, cost effective and safe method to backup the collection of apple, cryopreservation of dormant buds was tested. The standard protocol developed in North America for dormant apple buds proved to be applicable to cultivars grown in the Danish mild, maritime winter climate. Three-quarters of the 36 apple cultivars tested showed recovery rates above 30% with two-thirds above 70% or more. The bud dormancy level was tested for six cultivars by determining the change in water content after forcing terminal shoots. All showed a high chilling demand. Optimising the hardiness level by collection of scions after stable periods with frost may not be critical, as a deacclimating pre-treatment of 14 days at 5C showed little effect on survival. Flowering decreased significantly more than survival after liquid nitrogen treatment.
42881398|Pistil length, height of the highest anther, stigma/anther vertical distance and probability of stigma/anther contact were investigated, under field conditions, in fifteen self-fertile and fifteen self-sterile almonds, with regards to the cultivar reproductive biology. For peristigmatic and ipostigmatic cultivar, probability of stigma/anther contact appeared mainly related to the radial distance between the pistil axis and the anthers at the same height of the stigma. By principal component analysis, no component could discriminate self-fertile from self-sterile cultivar groups: floral morphometric traits were definitely found to have no relationship to the reproductive biology of almond.
42881815|'Pajaro' strawberries were held in air, or air enriched with 10%, 20%, or 30% CO for 5 days at 5C, followed by additional 4 days in air at the same temperature. Beneficial effects in terms of respiration rate, decay incidence, and external quality characteristics were observed at transfer from controlled atmospheres (CA) to air, and after the additional storage in air. Ethanol and acetaldehyde accumulation was very slight, although sensory evaluation of the fruits showed presence of off-flavour at transfer from CA, but not after the following storage in air.Internal quality attributes, such as titratable acidity and soluble solids content, were not significantly affected by the high-CO treatments.
42883060|The behaviour of 12 citrus and non-citrus species and cultivars towards mal secco toxins was investigated in order to evaluate correlation, between the resistance to the pathogen in vivo and to the fungal toxins in vitro. Three concentrations of toxins, which were partially purified from liquid culture of two fungal isolates with different virulence, were used on leaf protoplasts. Protoplast viability has been tested by FDA procedure. Electron microscopy showed ultrastructural changes in chloroplasts and cellular membranes. In both isolates the highest toxic concentration was the most effective in discriminating resistant genotypes. Split-plot analysis of the results revealed a greater resistance among the species or cultivars known as tolerant to fungus infections.
42881640|The wilting of florets in chrysanthemum was associated with a decline in the water potential of flowers and leaves. Stomates in the leaves tended to close when leaf diffusive resistance increased. Vascular occlusion in the stems occurred 3 days after harvest and the degree of vascular blockage increased with time. This was accompanied by a decline in stem conductance and an increase in xylem cavitation. The physical xylem blockage, however, remained concentrated in the basal region. The occluding material showed a positive reaction for pectinaceous substances, polysaccharides and proteins but was devoid of lignins and tannins.
42881485|In 1993 and 1994, fruit thinning, defoliation and shading were carried out on shoots and on tertiary, secondary and primary branches in olive trees, cv. Maurino. Fruit thinning increased shoot growth and the different sized branches showed a similar increase. Leaf removal and shading drastically reduced the vegetative growth without differences between the different sized units. In relation to vegetative activity, the shoot can be considered an independent unit. In conditions of high assimilate availability (fruit thinning), the fruit weight increased without differences between the different sized units. Whereas, leaf removal one month after fruit set reduced fruit growth in the shoot and greater reductions were noted as branch size increased. In conditions of reduced assimilate supply, the fruit attracted substances close to or at short distances from the crown parts. Fruit thinning on the shoots increased the number of inflorescences in the following season, with a further increase when thinning was applied to the tertiary branches, then it remained constant. Leaf removal on the shoots reduced flower formation by 50%; a continuous increased reduction was observed with increased treatment of the different sized units. This indicates that flower formation is influenced by the translocation of some substances. Shading reduced flower formation to the same extent on the shoot as in the larger branches. This indicates that some substances, the formation of which is light dependent, are not translocated. In general the treatments did not influence the reducing sugar and starch contents of shoot, leaves and stems. Leaf removal and shading of the main branch reduced the starch content in root tissues.
42881598|The results of two field trials carried out at sites in southern Italy on a seed-planted artichoke (cv. Talpiot) for processing are reported. The influence of sowing date (30 August 1985 - 16 October 1985 and 7 March 1986) and plant density (6.7 - 3.3 - 2.2 - 1.7 and 1.3 plants m) on yield was tested in 1985-86 at Polignano a Mare, and the influence of nitrogen fertilizer (0-150 and 300 kg ha) and plant density (2.5 - 1.7 and 1.25 plants m) was studied in 1986-87 at Policoro. Results showed that the best sowing time was summer, when the yield was about twice that in autumn. Spring sowing, on the other hand, produce no yield in the same year. Increased plant density decreased the number of heads per plant, while the yield per unit of area increased. More than 2.5 plants m reduced the number of productive plants, indicating that 2.5 plants m appeared to be the upper limit. At Policoro, with a soil rich in nitrogen, the application of 150 kg ha of N was enough to increase the yield by 3 t ha; no further increase was observed with 300 kg ha of N.
42881832|Stable salt tolerance lines have been selected from Citrus sinensis nucellar callus subjected to solid media containing 0.085 M NaCl for ten passages. Na, K, and Cl content in callus, embryos, plantlets and greenhouse-grown plants has been determined in selected lines and in an unselected control line. Salt tolerant line R4 had a much higher Cl, Na and K content in callus than the control. No embryos could be regenerated from R4. Regenerating lines R13 and R14 had a significantly lower Cl, and in some cases, lower Na content in callus than the control. Embryogenesis in these lines was enhanced by addition of glycerol and antigibberellins to the solid medium. A relatively lower Cl content was also maintained in embryos as well as roots and leaves of plantlets of R14. Shoot proliferation promoted by cytokinins enabled a comparison of plant response of selected line R14 with control. In greenhouse experiments irrigated with saline water (up to 2000-2500 mg Cl/l) R14 showed increased plant height and higher plant survival compared to the wild line.
42883043|To determine whether low winter temperatures influence bud break in Opuntia ficus-indica, budding was examined in potted terminal cladodes and in detached terminal cladodes placed in a nethouse and in a heated greenhouse. The potted cladodes were grown in the nethouse and were transferred to the greenhouse every four weeks from mid-November (the beginning of the cold season) to mid-February. February was the coldest month of the year with an average temperature of 12.5C. On the transfer dates, cladodes were also cut from the orchard and placed in the nethouse and in the greenhouse. Potted cladodes tended to produce both vegetative and floral buds. The longer they remained in the nethouse before being transferred to the greenhouse, the more buds emerged and the higher percentage of floral buds. Both detached cladodes and terminal cladodes in the orchard produced mainly floral buds (>90%). Bud emergence in the detached cladodes in the greenhouse was significantly earlier in those placed there in mid-January and mid-February than in those moved at earlier dates. Bud emergence occurred in parallel for detached cladodes in the nethouse and terminal cladodes in the orchard. The results of the studies indicated that chilling influences the spring bud break in Opuntia ficus-indica.
42883325|The olive research program at the University of Adelaide is focussed on the selection of improved olive cultivars. Superior selections have been obtained from populations of feral olives that have escaped from cultivation and now grow wild throughout the southern areas of Australia. Several trees have been deemed 'superior' based on oil yield and quality data obtained by Soxhlet extraction, gas chromatography and organoleptic assessment. Techniques developed for analysing new selections will also be used to provide quality assurance to the Australian olive industry. Cultivar identification of Australian and international accessions is now a routine practice using DNA fingerprinting by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis. A genetic marker linked to peacock spot disease resistance was identified using bulked segregant analysis and a linkage map for olive has been generated that will be used to locate further molecular markers linked to agronomic traits. These markers will be used on new selections to make predictions about their performance under longterm cultivation. We have also investigated the degree of cross-and self-incompatibility between the cultivars Frantoio, Manzanillo, Kalamata, Pendolino and Picual, using a 5  5 diallel cross.
42881819|The in vitro response of the peach cv. Redhaven and of the peach/almond hybrid rootstock 'GF677' to increasing concentrations of NaCl in the medium is reported and discussed. Shoots with a single axis (microcuttings) were conditioned for 15 days on B5 medium (Gamborg et al., 1968) supplemented with 4.44 mol 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and 0.1 mol sucrose, transferred to jars with the same medium containing 0 (control), 20, 100, 200 meq/l NaCl and placed in growth chamber at 25C and 16-hr photoperiod. Parameters of plant growth and mineral contents were recorded after 15 days. The trial was then replicated using 45 cc glass test tubes with cellulose plugs. The same parameters as in the previous trial along with chlorophyll a and b and, at trial's end, the mineral contents of the culture media were recorded. Shoot weight and growth decreased as saline concentration increased; the ratio of chlorophyll a to b in 'Redhaven' dropped notably as saline rate increased from 20 to 200 meq/l, and marked correlations of the Na/K ratio to salt concentration in medium were detected in the two cultivars as well as the expected sodium increase in plant tissues. A drop in the uptake of manganese and an increase of copper in the tissues along with the rising NaCl concentration was also recorded.
42881590|Investigations of the chemical and morphological alterations caused by Dacus oleae in olives showed a drop in the yield and a rise in the acidity of oil as well as a marked loss of glucose and fructose. Examination of both healthy and infested olives revealed a loss of pulp in, yet larger size of, the latter, while calculations based on the pulp-to-stone ratio made it possible to reconstruct the 'original' olives. The explanations inferred from these alterations are drawn in light of the phytopathological host (olive) - parasite (Dacus oleae) relationship.
42882748|Institute of Plant Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Rehovot the Volcani center, Israel Agricultural Research Organization, Bet-Dagan, Israel.
42882781|An on-farm experiment was conducted in a farmer's field in India to study the effect of different tillage and planting methods on cassava root yield, soil properties, nutrient uptake and root rot incidence. There were five treatments with three replicates per treatment and the experiment was conducted for three consecutive years in a Vertisol. Before starting the field experiment, and at the end of three years of field experimentation, soil samples were collected from 0-20,20-40 and 40-60 cm layers and analyzed for different parameters. The soils were alkaline in reaction with a pH of 7.8 and organic carbon content of 0.62% was found in the 0-20 cm surface layer. The results showed that mechanical manipulation of the plough layer and hard plough pan below it resulted in significant increase in the movement of soil organic carbon and total nitrogen to lower soil layers. A more uniform distribution of water in different soil layers where chisel ploughing was done was also observed. Mechanical manipulation of the plough pan layer by deep ripping resulted in relatively uniform distribution of available N and K to the lower soil layers up to 60 cm. Chisel ploughing together with ridge and furrow method of planting resulted in significantly higher tuber yield and a substantial reduction in root rot infection.
42881680|The effectiveness of postharvest dip treatments, with or without IMZ or TBZ fungicides applied at 20C or at 50C, on the storability of 'Oroblanco' grapefruit-type was investigated. Treatment at 50C with 1500 ppm TBZ suspension or 1500 ppm IMZ solution significantly reduced the incidence of chilling injury (CI) and decay during 16 weeks of cold-storage and after subsequent shelf-life as compared to other treatments tested. The efficacy of these fungicides when used at 20C was much lower. Dipping in hot water without fungicides was also beneficial in reducing CI and decay. Treatment with IMZ at 50C, however, showed phytotoxic effects by the end of the 4th week.
42882240|Retail packaging in heat-shrinkable plastic films, either perforated or not, prevented shriveling, delayed over-ripening and to a certain extent reduced decay incidence of 'Tommy Atkins' mangoes. Non-perforated films reduced fruit weight loss during three weeks of storage at 14C and one additional week at 17C by 70-90%, while the perforated ones saved 25 to 55% of the weight loss, depending on perforation level. Packaging in non-perforated films inhibited certain ripening-associated processes (peel degreening, acidity decline). Perforated films allowed fruit to reach full ripeness within the retail package. Addition of Ca(OH)-containing sachets (CO absorbers) into non-perforated packages enabled a combination of yellow peel color with minimal weight loss, but increased the decay incidence.
42883534|This work reports the possibilities of using lyophilisation and direct immersion in liquid nitrogen for long-term preservation of fern spores. In addition, modern techniques such as confocal image microscopy and fluorescence emission spectrum were tested to characterize spores of ferns.
42882324|This study aimed at evaluating the ability of 25 local and introduced cultivars of garlic (Allium sativum L.) to tolerate salinity in vitro. Five culture media (M1, M2, M3, M4, and M5) containing different concentrations of NaCl and CaCl (0 and 0,17 and 9, 34 and 18, 51 and 27, 68 and 36 mM, respectively) were used in the study. High concentrations of the two salts led to significant reduction in shoot length. The average length of shoots, in all cultivars, decreased from 5.4 cm in the control (Ml) to 0.89 cm in M5. Low concentrations of salts in the medium stimulated vegetative growth (shoot growth) in some cultivars. Average length of shoots in cv. Kisswany grown on M2 was 2.7 fold higher than that of the control plants, whereas no vegetative growth was observed in cv. JN/EG grown on M5. The cvs. Kisswany and Hungary were the most tolerant cultivars to salinity where the average shoot height of plants grown on M5 was more than 50% of the control. Studied cultivars varied in their ability to grow roots. Cultivar RENMER3 produced, on average, the highest number of roots (9) and cultivar M/N formed the lowest number (0.68). Number of roots decreased with the increase in salt concentrations from 3.8 in the control to 1.7 in M5. Some cultivars formed more roots when grown on M2, at low salt concentrations, than when grown on medium free of salts (control). This was evident in the cvs. M/N, DDR6811, and U087, where the number of roots in medium 2 was twice that of the control. On the other hand, number of roots was less at high salt concentrations. No roots were seen in cvs. DDR7113,14074, and M/N when M5 was used. Root length was less with the increase in salt concentrations and was more prominent with cvs. DDR6811 and U087. This experiment also demonstrated that garlic cultivars which produce small shoots under saline conditions either produce more roots or their roots are longer to compensate for the scarcity of roots.
42883407|Field experiments were conducted in two successive growing seasons (summer-autumn and springsummer) to determine the effects of fruit length, fruit type and plant density on the seed yield and seed germinability in cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.). A genetically mixed population was used in the autumn and four culinary fruit-type cultivars in the summer. In the autumn experiment neither the number of seeds per fruit nor the mean seed weight varied among wide ranges of fruit lengths and weights. In contrast, in the summer experiment there were significant differences in seed yield per fruit among the four cultivars: seed yield increased with increasing fruit weight. The results of the two experiments differed also in seed quality, as expressed by germinability. In the autumn there was a positive correlation of both fruit length and weight with the germination percentage at optimal or super-optimal temperatures; in the summer, even among cultivars that differed significantly in fruit length and weight, there was no such correlation. Seed dormancy did not play any important role, at least in the summer experiment, and there were only negligible differences in seed germination percentages at seed harvest and after four years of storage. Plant density had a strong effect on seed yield per unit area, mainly by affecting the fruit number per unit area. Increasing the plant density up to 8-16 plants/m significantly increased the fruit number and only slightly decreased the seed yield per fruit, resulting in seed yield increase per unit area. Seed number per fruit and mean seed weight were affected by growing season and the tendency to parthenocarpy, which may eliminate any effect of the fruit length or weight. However, the fruit number is the dominant component of seed yield and culture practices have to maximize it in order to achieve maximum seed productivity.
42883029|A study of Freesia sp. viruses in Italy was carried out in the Emilia-Romagna and Liguria regions, where this species represents a small but economically important crop. Bean yellow mosaic virus (BYMV) and freesia mosaic virus (FMV) were found for the first time in freesia plants in Italy; the presence of cucumber mosaic virus (CMV), as recently reported, was also confirmed. The association between the freesia symptoms (on leaves and flowers) and virus presence was studied. A disorder similar to severe leaf necrosis (SLN) was examined on freesia cv. Royal Blue infected by BYMV and by another filamentous virus (probably FMV). These viruses could not be eliminated from corms by heat treatment, although the symptoms disappeared in the first growth cycle. The results of this survey indicate that the virus infections are common in Italian freesia crops.
42881742|The cytological effects of acid pH were studied using root meristems of Allium cepa. Increasing levels of acidity in the growth medium resulted in a corresponding reduction in root length, mitotic index and chromosome aberrations. There is an increase of both chromosomal and mitotic abnormalities, such as sticky bridges, along with the increase in acidity up to pH 3.5, when mitotic activity is inhibited.
42883104|The effect of priming on seed germination of Icelandic poppy (Papaver nudicaule L.) at 10C was tested. Three treatment temperatures during priming (10, 15 and 20C) in combination with four osmotic agents (PEG, mannitol, NaCl and KNO + KPO combination in molar ratio 1:1) were assayed. Most treatments decreased means of days for germination significantly with no immediate effects on viability. The osmoticum containing inorganic N was the most effective in improving seed germination. The osmotic potential -0.55 MPa required fewer days to germination for the osmotica tested, over priming periods of 4 days.
42883062|The fruits of nine white-fleshed and three yellow-fleshed peaches, one white-fleshed nectarine and five apricot cultivars were compared as to chemical composition and sensory evaluation. Three acids (succinic, malic and citric) and eight sugars (xylitol, fructose, glucose, mannose, sorbitol, inositol, sucrose and maltose) were identified. The total amount (mg/100g FW) of acids ranged from 300 to 1,500 in peach and from 2,900 to 4,600 in apricot. The total amount of sugars ranged from 6,700 to 12,500 and from 7,400 to 10,800 for peach and apricot respectively. Total phenolics were very variable, ranging from an average of 30 mg/100g FW in the yellow-fleshed peaches to values two-seven fold higher in the white ones and from 27 to 91 in apricots. According to the sensory and chemical evaluations conducted in this study, acceptable or good flavor should match the following composition (mg/100g FW). Peach: 1,000-1,600 organic acids, 8,500-13,000 alcoholsoluble sugars, 7.8-8.5 acid-sugar ratio; less than 80-90 phenolics. Apricot: 3,500-4,500 organic acids, 10-12,000 sugars, 2-3.5 sugar/acid ratio, less than 60 phenolics. The present study also suggests that sugar and acid patterns of fruit flesh may be useful in cultivar characterization.
42883099|The development of high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) technique for the analysis of conjugate triene hydroperoxides (CTH) has overcome problems associated with interfering compounds and improved the sensitivity and selectivity of the method for predicting the onset of superficial scald (S) in stored apples. Of the 13 compounds isolated from fruit skin, a specific CTH compound appears to have the greatest correlation with the onset of S. Its chemical identity was assessed by ultraviolet, infrared and mass spectroscopy. A damage threshold determined for the disorder was estimated at around 7-8 n moles equivalent diphenylamine per cm of fruit skin surface.
42882671|Pre-and postharvest calcium applications have been used to delay aging or ripening, to reduce post harvest decay, and to control the development of many physiological disorders in fruits and vegetables. This study was performed to investigate whether increasing calcium concentration in the nutrient solution would increase calcium concentration in the leaves and extend the postharvest shelf life of minimally processed butterhead lettuce. Plants were grown in soilless culture with 0,3 and 6 meq l of calcium in the nutrient solution. During the growing season, every 15 days, plants of each treatment were harvested randomly to determine fresh and dry weight of shoot and root, number of leaves, leaf area and yield. At harvest, ion content and ascorbic acid were measured and finally lettuce heads were harvested. Wrapper leaves were trimmed off and the others were used. About 90 g of intact leaves were packed in bags, sealed and stored in chambers at 10.5C and 82C for 9 days. Every three days samples were taken to evaluate overall visual quality, gas concentration inside the bags (oxygen, carbon dioxide and ethylene), weight loss and ascorbic acid. During growth of butterhead lettuce significant differences in fresh and dry weight, number of leaves and leaf area, ion content and yield were detected among calcium treatments, however, postharvest behavior of butterhead lettuce was not affected by calcium level in the nutrient solution.
42882456|DNA analysis was used to characterize the chestnut germplasm grown or endangered in the region of Piedmont and to provide sure identification of individuals sampled for chemical and sensory analysis. The results of DNA-typing showed a substantial genetic identity of clones in most of the studied cultivars. Yet, nine genotypes were found in cultivar Marrone, one of which was prevailing. In order to assess the aptitude of the cultivars to different uses and evaluate their quality, the chestnuts were analysed for ash, protein, starch, sugars, total dietary fibre (TDF) and lipid content. Chestnuts from selected sets of cultivars and clones were candied, boiled or ground to flour after drying. A panel of trained tasters evaluated samples using a quantitative-descriptive test. The chemical analysis indicated starch and sugars as the most abundant compounds, followed by TDF; fat and protein were present in lower amounts. Sensory analysis allowed the selection of a group of cultivars and clones particularly appreciated for their taste and aroma. The present work confirmed the importance of traits such as size, ease of skin removal and absence of epysperm intrusions on product acceptance. The association of both sensory and chemical analysis greatly improves the efficacy of the characterization and evaluation of the chestnut cultivars, allowing selection of the clones with higher nut quality.
42882473|Effect of soil drought, air temperature, sunshine and relative humidity (RH) on flowering and fruit production was studied in cassava under field conditions for a period of 21 months. Adequate soil moisture promoted flowering and fruit production while soil drought suppressed them. High air temperatures (>30C) and low relative humidity appears to aggravate the adverse effect of soil drought on flower and fruit production. It is concluded from the present study that under tropical field conditions, soil moisture is the critical factor which influences flower and fruit production in cassava and high air temperature (>30C) and low RH aggravate the adverse effect of soil drought.
42881483|The effects of harvest maturity and 0C storage were evaluated on fruit harvested at three harvest dates and stored at 0C. Fruit firmness, soluble solids content (SSC), titratable acidity (TA), membrane permeability and the fatty acids composition were determined at harvest and after 2, 4 or 6 months of storage. The fruit from the first harvest were firmer at harvest, but softened by 21N within the first two months of storage, while the fruit of the second and third dates lost about 5 and 1 N of their firmness, respectively. SSC was 12.2% at the first harvest, and increased during fruit maturity and storage. TA decreased from 1.02 in the first harvest to 0.78% in the third harvest date. TA of fruit from the first harvest decreased slightly during storage. Membrane permeability increased with the development of fruit maturation and during storage. The total lipids decreased slightly during maturation and storage. Saturated fatty acids (palmitic and stearic acids) showed a significant decrease, while the unsaturated (palmitoleic, oleic, linoleic and linolenic acids) increased significantly during maturation and storage. The unsaturated/saturated fatty acids ratio was also increased.
42881907|The effect of different sucrose levels on the in vitro growth, morphogenesis and survival percentage of African violet (Saintpaulia ionantha Wendl) plantlets was studied. In vitro-grown African violet shoots of 0.5-1 cm height were planted on Murashige and Skoog (MS) salt media supplemented with either 0, 10, 20, 30 and 40 g/l sucrose. All media were supplied with 0.1 mg/l naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and 0.1 mg/l benzyladenine (BA). Higher shoot number, shoot height, leaf diameter and fresh weight were obtained with sucrose-treated media. A sucrose concentration between 20-30 g was optimum for maximum shoot heights, leaf diameter and fresh weight production. The chlorophyll content was reduced at high sucrose level. A high survival percentage (up to 70%) was obtained when the cultures were moved to greenhouse conditions.
42883324|Random amplified polymorphic DNA sequence (RAPDs) analysis has been used to characterize two historic olivetums in Wagga Wagga and Yanco in southern New South Wales. We have checked the authenticity of some of the cultivars against international standards and have used the collection as a whole to determine the degree of genetic heterogeneity within and between cultivars. Using six selected oligonucleotide primers, we analysed DNA from 92 olive trees of the Wagga Wagga orchard (comprised of 46 named cultivars, 4 selections, and 4 trees of unknown or dubious origin), and from 35 trees of the Yanco orchard (comprised of 4 cultivars). The level of heterogeneity that was found suggests that many, if not all, cultivars are composed of varietal populations with often a considerable genetic overlap between cultivars.
42883064|Liquid nitrogen (LN) storage (-196 C) of seed may present some disadvantages owing to factors that might limit the successful application of the technique, such as the cooling and rewarming rate and the seed water content. Little is known about the effect of numerous cycles of cooling and rewarming on the viability of stored seeds. In order to verify the possible damages caused by this kind of treatment, three seed samples of pepper and eggplant at three different water contents (about 4, 6 and 10%) were subjected to slow and fast cooling and rewarming rates. Seed viability was checked after 1, 3, 5, 10 and 25 complete cycles. The results show almost the same pattern both in pepper and eggplant: seed viability was not affected by slow or fast cooling and rewarming rates, and the germination percentage was slightly lowered by the increase of cycle number. Water content, which is known to affect seed ageing, showed an appreciable influence only on the percentage of germination in pepper, which was slightly reduced at the lowest water content.
42883100|Zucchini (Cucurbita pepo L.) trials in greenhouse and open field were carried out to evaluate five old local selections of cv. Lungo Fiorentino. Plant morphology, physiology and yield data showed the high intrinsic potentiality of these selections, which are characterized by medium green fruits of a cylindrical, slightly curved shape, light green ribs and very persistent corolla. During the open field trial the plants were affected by a severe virus infection; the viruses were determined with the indirect protein A sandwich ELISA method. At the beginning of the harvest period 84% and 2.5% of the samples with symptoms were shown to be infected by WMV-2 and ZYMV respectively; one month later WMV-2 and ZYMV were detected in 90.4% and 22.2% of the samples. In another experiment, several plant protection techniques against virus vectors (Aphids) were compared: nonwoven tunnel registered the best results, significantly reducing the number of virus infected plants and yield losses both as to number and weight of commercial fruits.
42883025|Verna lemon (Citrus limonum L.) trees were grown in the field under three irrigation treatments. The T-1 and T-2 treatments were flood-irrigated, T-1 received four irrigations per year (March, July, September and November) and T-2 one irrigation monthly. Treatment T-3 was daily drip irrigation. The amount of water applied per year was 340.0 mm for treatment T-1, 1020.0 mm for T-2, and 584.4 mm during 1985 and 617.3 mm during 1986 for T-3. The effects of the three treatments on certain aspects of the floral biology of the 'Verna' lemon trees were studied. The driest treatment seems to induce a more intense, earlier flowering although with a lower fruit set than that of the adequately watered lemon trees. The highest frequency of water application resulted in highest yields.
42882450|A systematic health control of the sweet chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) population in the Czech Republic was carried out from 2001 to 2004. More than 1,000 samples, collected from 282 localities, were checked. Presence of Cryphonectria parasitica (Murrill) M. E. Barr, the causal agent of the chestnut blight, was confirmed in three localities in Moravia. In two cases only individual chestnut trees were affected, in the third dozens of trees in an ornamental tree nursery were infected. Vegetative compatibility (vc) groups of C. parastica were determined: vc groups EU-1, EU-13 were found in the first two sites in a private garden while vc group EU-15 was detected in the third locality on dozens of trees in an ornamental tree nursery.
42883466|In the second half of the 19th century some gardens in Tuscany were transformed and new species were introduced. Persimmon species were also introduced at the end of the century and some specimens are still present in the gardens, beautifying them with their outstanding ornamental features. In addition, due to the double attitude of these species, they were also largely planted outside peasants' houses. In the last 30 years most of these houses have been restored into permanent residences, or "country houses", and some owners have chosen to revert the countryside back to how it was before the 20th century, that is, before the introduction of new types of gardens sometimes alien to this countryside. At present, though, the interest in persimmon species suited for ornamental, and landscape purposes is still not very widespread. Thus, the development of a successful Diospyros ornamental nursery industry would be greatly enhanced if it were possible to spread the use of genotypes showing peculiar and original features. Some varieties have, in fact, potential uses as ornamentals because of their thick and beautiful foliage as well as their plentiful fruit which remain on the trees until January, well after leaf fall.
42881702|The present study was designed to develop a method to control nutrient supply to rose plants grown in soilless culture systems and to avoid stress during growth. A model for fertigation management of soilless culture to maintain a given EC level in the root environment by modifying EC of the nutrient solution was tested. The calculation of EC of the nutrient solution to be used for one day is based on the EC of the leachate and climate variations during the two previous days.
42881682|The effect of soil application of Paclobutrazol (PB) on the vegetative growth and fruiting of cvs. Manzanillo, Muhasan and Barnea was studied. The response to GA was tested with cvs. Muhasan and Manzanillo. PB applied to fruiting mature olive trees had only unsignificant effect on the annual vegetative growth while GA promoted it at least in the spring. PB amd GA had a significant effect on the annual yield. While PB enhanced fruit production via increased fruit set, GA reduced fruiting by decreasing flower bud differentiation. GA was effective only during the year of application, while the response to PB was noticeable also in the year thereafter.
42881678|The effect of summer soil and foliar-spray applications of two rates of both N and K on some characteristics of olive fruit and their seasonal changes were studied in a young, drip-irrigated olive (Olea europaea L., cv. Manzanillo) orchard in Chania, Crete. Initial fruit elongation in early summer was followed by a period when the transverse diameter increased rapidly, resulting in a decline of the longitudinal/transverse diameter ratio. Dry weights of whole fruit and flesh, water content, ash and most other characteristics measured increased continuously until early October. The relative rates of change for fruit fresh weight (mg/g/day) were high during the period from 7 July-14 August and 14 August-5 October, but they dropped to values close to zero in October-November. The increase of flesh oil per fruit in early summer paralleled the increase of flesh weight. Between August and September, however, oil accumulation in the fruit was enhanced. In October, a more or less stable maximum flesh and oil weight per fruit was recorded. Both N and K inputs had a significant negative effect on dry weight of flesh per fruit, which in November for N-treated and K-treated trees fell to 89% and 93%, respectively, in comparison to unfertilised controls. Foliar application also caused a significant (10%) reduction in fruit flesh. Nitrogen sprays slightly depressed the percentage of flesh oil while soil nitrogen dressing had no such effect. Trees sprayed with KNO alone, however, had slightly more oil % dry flesh. Urea + KNO sprays depressed oil production most, and in November the average percentage of flesh oil in the sprayed trees was 88.39% that of controls, i.e. 52.58 and 54.49%, respectively.
42883467|The relationships of Diospyros kaki to 14 Diospyros species, including D. glandulosa which was assumed as a progenitor of D. kaki by Ng (Malaysian Forester 41: 43-50), were studied by a combined data set of the sequences for ITS region and matK gene. Maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and neighbor joining analyses revealed that D. oleifera, a species native to China, was much closer to D. kaki than D. glandulosa. However, both D. oleifera and D. glandulosa were more closely related to D. kaki, compared with other species analyzed, indicating that these two diploid species might be involved in the origin of D. kaki, most of which is hexaploid. In addition, as for D. kaki, 102 Japanese, 20 Korean, and 24 Chinese cultivars were studied for their genetic relationships by comparing 496 AFLP markers to investigate cultivar development of D. kaki in Asia. An unrooted cladogram constructed by neighbor joining analysis indicated independent cultivar development in China, Korea, and Japan. Furthermore, pollination constant non-astringent (PCNA) type cultivars of Japanese origin were clearly separated from non-PCNA type cultivars in the cladogram, also indicating independent development of PCNA cultivars in Japan. Cultivar development of D. kaki in Asia is discussed further in the work, with focus on the astringency trait.
42883383|The effect of inorganic salts, biocidal compounds and STS was investigated on the keeping quality of cut roses. Al(SO). 16HO and chlorine (prepared from bleaching powder i.e. CaOCl) in vase solution significantly decreased the bacterial count in vase water and improved keeping quality in seven commercial cultivars of rose. These chemicals are recommended at 300 ppm and 50 ppm, respectively. STS increased vase life only in three cultivars, viz. Grand Gala, Sangria and Kiss but failed to contain the bacterial count in vase water. Although 8-HQC and KSO exercised considerable control over bacterial growth, they failed to extend vase life. Citric acid, Ca(NO) and KHPO neither controlled bacterial growth nor enhanced vase life. Ca(NO) and KSO instead exhibited phytotoxic effects on the foliage. NaOCl as a chlorine source inhibited opening of buds, caused abscission of petals and shortened flower vase life, in addition to causing chlorosis of leaves.
42881388|Foliar treatments of Paclobutrazol were applied to young 'William' pear trees to determine its influence on vegetative growth, fruiting, carbohydrate levels and movement. A concentration of 1000 ppm (0,25 g. a.i. per tree), sprayed 20 days after petal fall, reduced shoot growth (20-30% less), increased flower bud differentation and promoted fruit set as a carryover effect the following year. Adverse effects were found at 2000 ppm. Another growth retardant, CCC (1500 ppm) combined with CEPA (400 ppm), had greater influence on flower induction than Paclobutrazol, but negatively affected fruit size and quality. Single-leaf applications of C-labelled glucose on Paclobutrazol-treated trees made it possible to monitor nutrient competition between shoots and fruits as well as the carbohydrate migration to vegetative sinks. Analyses of total radioactive carbohydrates and, separately, starch and soluble carbohydrates in lateral and terminal shoot and root apices evidenced the relationship between variations of the contents of such substances and the growth modifications of these organs. Sugar migrations to shoot apices in the treated trees was slow but not arrested, while starch accumulation occurred 3 weeks earlier than in untreated ones. In the latter, starch peaked later, on 20th June, at apical bud formation. When Paclobutrazol was applied to established 'Conference' pear trees on the same date but at different rates (from 0.75 to 3 g.a. i./tree), growth was controlled but adverse effects were registred even at the lowest rate, i.e. less fruit retention in the treatment year and a reduction of fruit set and yield as a carryover effect the next year.
42882626|In the frame of a breeding programme of olive, started in 1971 and carried out at the Department of Horticulture of the University of Florence (Italy), 134 advanced selections are under evaluation. Viability and germinability have been evaluated on pollen grains collected from trees (11 advanced selections and four cultivare, 'Carolea', 'Frantoio', 'Leccino' and 'Moraiolo') grown at Spoleto (province of Perugia). Pollen grains have been stored at different temperatures (-20C, +4C and +20C) and for 7,35 and 200 days from full bloom. Viability was assessed by means of fluorescence microscopy; in vitro germinability was evaluated on pollen grains cultivated in 10 different growing media. Pollen grains showed different rates of viability and germinability in relation to storage length, storage temperature, genotype and their interactions. Storage length had a statistically significant effect both on pollen grain viability and germination. No linear correlation has been found between viability and germination rates. Some advanced selections showed levels of pollen grain viability and germinability comparable to those of cultivars used also as pollinizers.
42881727|The influence of the leaves and apex on the successive rooting stages of Malus domestica Borkh. cv. Compact Spartan was investigated by removing them before or after auxin treatment. Leaves and apex contribute only to root elongation. Root growth stimulation is mainly controlled by the first subapical leaves and may be affected by shoot wounding.
42882859|Four main categories of propagative material in the European Union (EU) have been indentified for grapevine: the primary source, pre-basic, basic and certified material. Each type of material has to be periodically assayed for pathogens and each material stage is intrinsically characterized by increasing risks. Radiofrequency (RFID) can be considered an efficient and durable traceability system to provide retrieval of propagated material or check producer identity. RFID tagging of grapevines of different categories along the production line could establish a durable link between stakeholder and products. To evaluate this approach, histological observations and growth parameters of basic or certified RFIDtagged grapevine were performed, as well as requirement analysis for management of sanitary checks and for traceability of the wine production chain. Basic material can be safety tagged with RFID tags to establish mother plant vineyards; derived certified material can also safely be tagged. No detrimental performance in terms of vegetative growth and bud production were reported for mother plant vineyards from the first year of production life. Requirement analysis made it possible to individuate traceability objectives, materials and stakeholders involved, as well as the RFID-tagging steps and methods to collect sanitary and production data that are useful for traceability purposes.
42883299|The aim of this work is to improve understanding of the structure of the Tuscan wine production system through a better characterisation of business typologies along the supply chain. Structural ratios are calculated using financial data from business activity of 27 firms for the period from 1997 to 1999; a cluster analysis on ratios is then implemented to identify business typologies. Finally a comparative analysis of the main features of three typologies (agricultural holdings, wineries and wholesalers) is performed on cumulative financial statements for each business group. The discussion highlights how differences in financial indexes are mainly the result of structural factors.
42881340|The level of natural resistance of asparagus bean (Vigna sesquipedalis Fruhw.) to tobacco necrosis virus and the production of ethylene from primary leaves were altered by feeding cuttings with a 24 h pulse or a continuous treatment supply of metal ion solutions. With Mn, both treatments decreased resistance causing an accumulation of viral antigen without affecting ethylene production. Pulse treatment with Cu increased resistance by limiting the cell-to-cell spread of virus without affecting virus accumulation, and induced a transient stimulation of ethylene. Continuous supply of Cu induced an identical increase of resistance without ethylene stimulation. Pulse treatments with Co or Ni increased resistance by inhibiting both spread and accumulation of virus, and stimulated ethylene production. Continuous supply of Co hod no effect on resistance and inhibited ethylene production. Continuous supply of Ni inhibited both virus spread and accumulation, and stimulated production of ethylene. Application of l-aminocyclopropane-l-car boxy lie acid (the natural precursor of ethylene) to cuttings gave the expected ethylene stimulation but did not increase resistance to virus. Trace elements may therefore affect predisposition of plant to viral disease. Their mode of action is unknown and a possible effect on ethylene biosynthesis does not appear necessarily involved.
42881630|The effect of CO supplement (CO) and or high-pressure mist (HPM) on 'Sonia' rose plants grown on rockwool in inflated roof plastic greenhouses was studied during the summer and fall of 1990. Climate and fertigation were controlled by greenhouse computers, and care was taken to maintain ample water supply to the roots in all conditions. The method of investigation was based on water status measurements performed on young mature leaves. The HPM treatment created a substantial increase in leaf water potential ( leaf) and relative water content (RWC) compared to control, as measured at mid-day. Yet this increase had little effect on stem elongation: stem lengths were not improved and flower bud diameters were only slightly increased during summer. The higher osmotic potential II. in the HPM greenhouse than in control suggests that improved water status was not enough to improve quality: the presence of fog actually reduced light and the photosynthesis rate in the HPM greenhouse, while osmoregulation is believed to take place in the plants of the control greenhouse to compensate for their lower  leaf. On the other hand, the HPM + CO treatment contributed at the same time of  leaf, to increase RWC, dry matter content and turgor while reducing II. As a result, improved shoot elongation rates were obtained, together with increased stem lengths and flower bud diameters. These observations confirm that photosynthesis is, indeed, a key factor for rose quality. The consequence is that HPM alone should be used with care, even in summer, so long as there is no water deficit in the substrate, but it can be useful to reduce air temperatures when injecting CO, the main contributor to the quality of flowers.
42883543|At the moment, cryopreservation techniques have not yet been put into practice in Turkey, but in 2005 studies were initiated at the Gebze Institute of Technology in order to develop effective procedures for the conservation at -196C of seeds and embryonic axes from valuable germplasm. Important results have already been obtained for Pistacia spp. and Arachis hypogaea. Hulled seeds (embryos plus cotyledons) from three Pistacia species (P. vera, P. terebinthus and P. lentiscus) showed the capacity to be stored in liquid nitrogen after the application of an appropriate dehydration/one-step freezing protocol. A maximum of 90% germinability was obtained when P. vera seeds underwent 8 hr of dehydration over silica gel prior to their direct immersion in liquid nitrogen. In P. terebinthus and P. lentiscus, shorter periods of dehydration (1 hr and 15 min, respectively) were sufficient to achieve the best germination percentages (16% and 47%, respectively). In the case of Arachis hypogaea, effective one-step freezing procedures, based on vitrification or dehydration of embryonic axes, were developed for the cv. Virginia. The best protocol (100% germination) involved a 2.5-hr pre-dehydration of embryonic axes in sterile air flow. The optimized protocols were then applied to three Turkish cultivars, resulting in high recovery percentages.
42882284|Asexual propagation of Bauhinia variegata L. by shoot cuttings is reported for the first time, and compared with propagation by seed. Cuttings were taken from the apex, centre and base of shoots of the current year's growth on mature trees in Attiki during autumn (November) and summer (July) of two years (1998, 1999). Cuttings were dipped in solutions of 2000-6000 ppm indole butyric acid (IBA) and planted under mist in a peatperlite (1:1 v/v) substrate. After four months, the rooting of summer cuttings was 20% or lower, whereas that of autumn cuttings was as high as 60%. Rooting was most successful when cuttings were taken from the basal region of shoots and treated with 2000 ppm IBA. Seeds were collected from the same trees five months after flowering, placed in Petri dishes and incubated at 10-35C. Germination was highest at 25-30C (84-85%) and the rate of germination was fastest at the same temperatures (T = 5.5-6.0 days). Germinated seeds were transferred to plastic pots and plant survival was 100% after five months. Although published data on other Bauhinia species indicate poor seed germination and a low survival rate for cuttings, the present results show that B. variegata can be satisfactorily propagated by cuttings taken from the basal region of shoots in autumn, but the success rate is lower than for seed.
42881354|Two genetically slightly different types of apple proliferation (AP) phytoplasmas were experimentally transmitted in vivo to Pyronia veitchii, a woody indicator of fruit tree viruses and pear decline phytoplasmas. In vitro shoot cultures were obtained from healthy and diseased Pyronia veitchii in 1985. The presence of phytoplasmas in this micropropagated non-natural host was routinely tested by DAPI staining. Only recently, PCR amplification of a chromosomal DNA fragment of AP phytoplasmas confirmed their presence in the micropropagated plants. Eight years after culture initiation, growth parameters, symptom expression and phytoplasma concentration were analyzed at different subculture intervals to study the in vitro behaviour of the two AP phytoplasma isolates after long-term maintenance in a non-natural host. No symptom expression and no significant differences in growth parameters, between healthy and diseased P. veitchii-plants, could be observed although phytoplasmas were present in all diseased plantlets tested.
42882143|Semi-hardwood cuttings of 'Frantoio' (high rooting ability) and 'Gentile di Larino' (low rooting ability) cultivars were obtained from one-year-old olive shoots sampled in mid-August. Semi-hardwood cuttings were dipped in HO (0% control and 3.5% w/v) and IBA (2000 and 4000 ppm) solutions before rooting in greenhouse equipped with an automatic mist system. After 35 days, 50% of semi-hardwood cuttings rooted in 'Frantoio', while in 'Gentile di Larino' the rooting percentage did not exceed 20%; not significant differences between rooting treatments were observed in 'Frantoio', while in 'Gentile di Larino' the rooting effects were different between treatments. The rooting process was well established by the 57th day in 'Frantoio' and at the end of experiments (88th day) significant differences were observed between HO-treated and untreated semi-hardwood cuttings in both cultivars.
42882083|The aim of this work was to investigate if gerbera plants show significant differences in growth and flower production when grown in two different soilless growing systems, with and without nutrient solution recycling. Several parameters were measured and calculated: dry matter production and allocation, flower yield, quality and mineral nutrition. Growth indices did not show significant differences between the two systems. Nutrient concentration inside the substrate was lower in the closed system, possibly due to recycling of nutrient solution. Analysing mineral contents in dry matter luxury consumption of Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium was found in the open growing system, but it did not have an effect on production and quality of flowers. Total flower production was 12.5 per plant, while diameter and stem length were, respectively, 10-12 and 40 cm in both systems. Moreover, the amount of nutrient lost per year was calculated measuring the nutrient concentrations in the drainage solution. Results showed that about 93 N, 6.8 P, 165 K and 107 Ca Kgha per year are released into the environment.
42882753|The productivity of traditional olive orchards (80 to 100 trees/ha) is relatively low and crop costs are very high (harvesting, pruning, etc.). Since the 1970s, several authors have recommended using higher densities (intensive system) of about 200-500 trees/ha, designed for harvesting with trunk shakers, for higher yields and low-medium production costs. In the beginning of the 1990s, a new type of olive orchard (super-high density hedgerow) appeared in Catalonia (NE of Spain), with densities ranging between 1,500 and 2,500 trees/ha. Later this type of orchard was introduced into other Spanish regions and other countries. This system facilitated the use of continuous straddle mechanical harvesters and the achievement of higher yields within a few years after planting. To improve the efficiency of the harvester, vigour must be managed to limit tree size while maintaining high productivity. There are few cultivars adapted to this system and currently 'Arbequina IRTA-i.8' , 'Arbosana i43' and 'Koroneiki i38' are the most used for this type of very high density orchard. In recent years some research programs have begun to improve the viability of these orchards, through breeding programs, rootstocks selection, and crop management. This review discusses the agronomic advantages and problems for this system, comparing them with results obtained in intensive orchards.
42882560|One-year-old Actinidia deliciosa cv. Hayward were grown at normal and elevated CO concentrations to determine the effect of high CO on some morphological and ecophysiological traits of the plantlets. Plantlets exposed to elevated CO showed lower total fresh matter accumulation than control plants, had shorter shoots and fewer and smaller leaves than plantlets grown with normal ambient CO; and had higher total percentage dry matter weight, specific leaf weight and higher levels of carotenoids and chlorophyll b. Correlation of the leaf area with the central vein length yielded an equation with which the leaf area could be calculated without the need of an area meter. The ecophysiological data on the leaves at different stages of growth revealed that kiwifruit did not derive any advantage from high CO Plantlets exposed to elevated CO had leaves with lower transpiration and stomatal conductance. The water use efficiency was higher in CO-exposed leaves than in control leaves.
42882991|Between 1979 and 1984 the following aspects of the pollination of Bianco di Spagna, the most widespread cultivar in Italy, of Phaseolus coccineus L. were studied: A) the composition and behaviour of spontaneous entomofauna related with pollination; B) the role of honeybees in the pollination of plants kept under cages; C) the frequency of natural cross pollination in crops grown in the open field. A) The research was carried out at Figino (province of Alessandria) in 1979 and 1980 and at Schierano (province of Asti) in 1980. The number of individuals of the various kinds of pollinators, that visited the flowers on sample areas of ordinary crops at different times of the day and in successive periods of the flowering season, were counted and their behaviour was observed. The results for the various sites of observation were quite homogeneous; most frequently observed was Apis millifera(50-64% of the presences recorded), which gathered only nectar, Bombus pascuorum, B. terrestris and B. lapidarius, which gathered especially in the morning hours and also collected pollen. B. terrestris also visited the flowers without entering them, by simply biting a hole at the base of the corolla. B) The effect of the bees on seed yield from plants grown under net cages was checked in Figino, in 1979, and in Schierano, in 1980 and 1981. In any case the seed production in the plants to which bees had no access to was very low. Comparison between the plants caged with bees and those grown in the open field gave results that differed over the years, presumably because natural pollinators, prevalently bees, intervened to differing extents. C) The frequency of cross pollination was observed in plants of Bianco di Spagna grown in alternate rows, 1-2-3-4 m apart with plants of Valloriate, an ecotype with dark seed and reddish brown stem, at Schierano in the three-year period 1982-1984. The results show that cross pollination frequencies between the two genotypes varied from 2 to 10%, the lower percentages being found where the distance between the rows was greater.
42881390|The determinations of water potential and its component, water status with pressure chamber, psychrometer thermocouple and cryoscopic osmometer techniques are compared in kiwi plants (cv. Hay ward).
42882771|Field experiments were conducted during the dry seasons of 2003/2004 and 2004/2005 at the Irrigation Research Station, Kadawa of the Institute for Agricultural Research, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Nigeria. The treatments consisted of three furrow irrigation intervals (6,12 and 18 days) and five crop arrangements (1:1, 2:1, 1:2 alternate rows of okra/pepper respectively) and sole stands of both crops (okra and pepper). Irrigation interval and crop arrangement were main and sub-treatments, respectively, in the experiment which was laid out in a split plot design replicated six times. Long (12 and 18 days) irrigation intervals significantly (P<0.05) decreased insect pest incidence on both crops. There was significantly higher population of Ootheca spp., Dysdercus spp. and Podagrica spp. on frequently irrigated (6 days) plots, relative to those irrigated either at 12- or 18-day intervals. Similarly, crops irrigated at 6-day intervals had the highest incidence of white fly Bemisia tabaci. There was, however, no significant difference in pest incidence between plots irrigated at 12- and 18-day intervals. A significant difference in insect population due to the different crop arrangements was observed. The plot sown with okra alone had a significantly higher population of Ootheca spp., Dysdercus spp. and Podagrica spp. The incidence of B. tabaci was highest on sole pepper plots, while there was no significant difference between sole pepper and 2:1 okra/pepper. Irrigating both crops at 18-day intervals resulted in the lowest fruit damage, while the highest fruit weight per plant (for both crops) was observed on plots irrigated at 6-day intervals. Intercropping okra and pepper at either 1:1 or 2:1 alternate rows respectively, coupled with irrigation at 6-day intervals, resulted in a higher yield of both crops than intercropping at 1:2 okra/pepper alternate rows at the same irrigation interval.
42883449|Seventy-nine genotypes of tomato (15 lines, four testers and their 60 F hybrids produced in line  tester fashion) were evaluated under February (E) and March planting (E) conditions at the Department of Vegetable Crops, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab, India, to determine the nature of gene action controlling yield, quality and shelf Life characteristics and to identify a few good general combiners, if any, which may be used in further breeding programmes to extend the fruit availability period of tomato in the North Indian plains. The lines were significantly different from testers for most of the characters thereby justifying the choice of testers. Additive gene action was predominant for fruit shape index and lycopene content in both the environments, whereas nonadditive genetic variance predominated in controlling days to ripening, total yield per plant, marketable yield per plant, number of fruits per plant, average fruit weight, firmness index, number of locules, pericarp thickness, alcohol insoluble solids (AIS), dry matter, total soluble solids (TSS), titratable acidity, TSS: Acid ratio, pH, ascorbic acid and shelf life in both the environments. The best general combining ability (gca) effects, among females, with regard to yield per plant were shown by LT-43 in Ej and by IPA-3 in E. Among the testers, the best gca values in both the environments were possessed by nor-KM-1 for total yield per plant, marketable yield per plant, number of fruits per plant, TSS and TSS: Acid ratio; by nw-RM-2 for firmness index, pericarp thickness and AIS; by alc-IIHR-2050 for number of locules; by alc-IIHR-2052 for days to ripening and lycopene content. The gca of ripening mutants had good consonance with their performance per se for most of the characters indicating that additive gene action was operative in these mutants for a majority of the traits. Heterosis breeding is recommended for the overall genetic improvement of tomato with respect to yield, quality and shelf Life attributes under late planting conditions.
42882672|Plants of Actinidia grown in open field have been analysed to assess the shape and chemical composition of oxalates and their deposition pattern in leaves. Oxalate crystals are present as raphides and styloids. The leaves of Actinidia initially showed idioblasts with raphides near the midveins, later on secondary veins and subsequently on trichomes on epidermic cells. Raphides are aligned parallel to the main axis of the idioblasts, which develop longitudinally in the leaves. The number of idioblasts and of raphides within each idioblast increases during the growing season. The idioblasts with styloids were located only in the mesophyll. The number of idioblasts with styloids showed no increase, while styloids showed a visible size increase over time. Idioblasts contain many raphides and generally one styloid. Microanalysis showed that crystals are chemically constituted by calcium oxalate near midveins, whereas in the other parts of the leaf they are constituted by calcium oxalate associated with potassium, magnesium, phosphorus, sulphur and chlorine.
42883032|The investigation of isozymes peroxidases of the genus Corylus L. was performed by disk electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gel. The results showed that filbert peroxydase system was highly polymorphic, and that peroxidase zymograms were different. The highest number of peroxidase bands was found in eultivars originated from Corylus avellana L. and the lowest number from Corylus colurna L. seedlings.
42881856|Noninfectious bud-failure (BF) in commercial almond cultivars seriously reduces crop yield and tree longevity. The bud-failure phenotype was determined in 'Nonpareil' trees and correlated to seasonal changes in free amino acids of leaves, vegetative buds and shoots. BF symptoms and total soluble N increased together. Amino acid N flux in the soluble N pool became asynchronous compared to healthy tissues. Expression of the BF phenotype was dominated by misadjustments in the glutamate family of amino acids viz. ornithine, citrulline, arginine and proline. A block in the ornithine cycle diverted metabolic flow towards greater proline. Concentrations of misadjusted metabolites in the BF syndrome became unstable and nonlinear. Results suggest a heatsensitive locus in mitochondria as triggering apoptosis and necrotic lesions in BF.
42881719|Microcuttings of apple rootstock 'Jork 9' were rooted by a 'quick dip' in IAA (IAA = indole acetic acid). For histological studies, sampling was done every 4 hours. A precise description of the main stages is, however, only possible between 20 and 140 hours after the auxin treatment. The three chosen biochemical markers evolved as follows: there were two peaks of total peroxidasic activity (day 2 and 7), the level of free IAA increased during the first day and gradually decreased until day 8, and the specific phenolic compound (tR 26.95)(tR = retention time) peaked twice (day 2 and 5) each time free IAA decreased.
42883017|The meristem-tip culture technique was applied to 25 Freesia cultivars grown in Italy to produce virus-free freesia plants. The tips were grown on MS medium supplemented with 0.1 mg/1 of BAP; no proliferation was observed in spite of the different media used for this purpose. Rooting and re-establishment were obtained for 9 freesia cultivars. At the end of each of the two growing cycles, a control, using immunoelectronmicroscopy (IEM) and test plants, was carried out to detect the presence of freesia mosaic virus (FMV), bean yellow mosaic virus (BYMV) and cucumber mosaic virus (CMV). Elimination of these viruses was 100% for BYMV and CMV, and 70% for FMV.
42883326|Organic olive growing has increasingly expanded in Italy in the last decade. This phenomenon is explained in part by the health-protecting properties of extra virgin olive oil, which allow remunerative prices for high quality product. In part, this sector of the industry has developed thanks to the suitability of the species to organic management systems. Although organic olive farming may mean lower productions and/or higher costs, the differences with conventional olive farming get increasingly less conspicuous, and the perspective is of further reducing the gap, thanks to scientific research being carried out in Italy in all regions. The paper reports on the state of the art of the industry with particular stress on the most delicate sector, pest control.
42881676|Increasing amounts of sulfur, potassium and phosphorous were tested to determine their influence on the yield and quality of processing tomato grown in alkaline soil (pH 8.5). Sulfur had a positive effect, concentrating the ripening period and significantly reducing unripe product at harvest. It also interacted positively with K and P, increasing yield, fruit soluble solids and, consequently, the total soluble solids per unit of area. Potassium gave contrasting results, although at the highest rate it significantly increased yield and ripening concentration. Phosphorous had a linear, significant influence on yield characters and total soluble solids. The most appropriate rates under these test conditions were 450, 400 and 250 Kg/ha for sulfur, KO and PO, respectively.
42881667|Rhizoctonia solani Khn was found to be pathogenic to string bean roots in Emilia Romagna, Italy. Trichoderma harzianum Rifai and Trichoderma viride Pers. ex Fr. used as seed treatment against R. solani were more effective than the other antagonistic fungi tested in one of the greenhouse experiments. In the second greenhouse experiment as well as in the field, the two species of Trichoderma also controlled the root rot disease, but tolclofosmethyl appeared to be more active. T. viride produced more effective non-volatile compounds than T. harzianum when grown on cellophane membrane. T. harzianum observed by SEM showed coils, hook-pincer shaped structures and penetration sites on R. solani hyphae as well as fibrillar material. T. viride exhibited a similar behaviour but to a lesser extent.
42882628|A large number of varieties of Olea europaea L. are present in the Mediterranean basin, which gives rise to difficulties in characterization, management and preservation of germplasms. Nine simple-sequencerepeat (SSR) primer pairs were utilized to characterize 44 olive accessions, corresponding to the majority of the autochthonous germplasm of the Abruzzo and Molise regions. All microsatellites were polymorphic, showing from two to seven aleles per locus (average 4.3 alleles per locus). The expected heterozygosity ranged from 0.34 to 0.76 and the discrimination power varied from 0.50 to 0.87. The set of microsatellite discriminated all varieties investigated and a subset of six SSR primer pairs could also identify all cultivars. Moreover, two distinct clusters of olive varieties were clearly recognizable. Thus, microsatellite markers are useful for fingerprinting olive varieties and can be used to generate a database for future identification.
42883321|The olive (Olea europaea L.), imported into Australia and subsequently cultivated for economic purposes, has spread into native vegetation in several regions of southern temperate Australia. The impacts of olives going 'feral' have only recently been quantified. It is reported that native plant species diversity and canopy cover was 50% and 80% lower, respectively, in a native eucalypt woodland heavily invaded with feral olives. Consequently, feral olives are considered an environmental weed as well as being proclaimed a Pest Plant in South Australia. The 1990s has seen a resurgence in the olive industry. In response to the risk that new olive orchards will be foci for invasion into natural ecosystems currently free from feral olives, risk assessment and management guidelines were developed by the Animal and Plant Control Commission in conjunction with an Olives Advisory Group. Local governments and prospective growers can use the guidelines when assessing the suitability of a proposed olive orchard. However, if olives have escaped from orchards into native vegetation, then their removal is paramount. Unfortunately, feral olive control is a very costly and time consuming exercise, and requires careful planning before doing so. In severe cases of olive infestations, the removal of olives may lead to other problems in fragile ecosystems. It can cost up to A$15,000 per hectare to remove a dense infestation of feral olives, such as the one described in this paper.
42882447|A study was carried out on the chestnut fruit insect pests on Mount Etna (Italy) and on the possibility of controlling them by means of entomopathogenic nematodes belonging to the genera Steinernema and Heterorhabditis. The field research was conducted in two small, uncultivated chestnut groves on Etna; the most abundant insect parasite was Panimene fasciarla, but a few specimens of balaninus (Curculio elephas and C. glandium) were also found. The percentage of damaged nuts was rather high, reaching in some cases 67% of the crop. A survey of autochthonous entomopathogenic nematode species, more suitable to be used in the treatments, was conducted in many chestnut groves of Etna and various populations of nematodes, mainly belonging to Steinernema, were found. Laboratory tests were made on insect larvae infestation ability by several entomopathogenic nematode species and stocks: most entomopathogenic nematode species showed to be effective against most insect larvae extracted from the nuts. In particular, H. bacteriophora showed a great efficacy both against the tortricids and balaninus. Soil insemination with different entomopathogenic nematode species was made to test their persistence ability in the soil. The most persistent species was H. bacteriophora, which was found in the soil for many months after soil insemination, i.e. for a sufficiently long period of time to permit these nematodes to find and kill the insect larvae in the soil.
42882409|Tomato fruit yield and quality are considerably impaired under both low and high temperature conditions. Though efforts have been made to improve yield by improving fruit setting ability of the genotypes, information is still lacking concerning the genetic control of fruit quality attributes under low temperature conditions. The present investigation was therefore undertaken at the Vegetable Research Farm and Biochemistry Laboratory of the Department of Vegetable Crops, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, India to study inheritance of fruit pH, total soluble solids (TSS%) and lycopene content under sub-optimal temperature conditions. Generations mean analysis that provides a valid estimate of gene effects and an unambiguous test for presence or absence of epistasis was used for genetic analysis of the characters. Parents L-3841 possessing the cold setting ability and PNR-7 and San Pedro lacking the cold setting ability were involved in crosses to generate two sets of P, P, F, F, BC and BC generations. Estimates of scales A, B and C and c test indicated that the additive-dominance model was inadequate to account for total genetic variability exhibited by all the three characters in both the crosses. Estimates of gene effects based on the best-fit digenic interaction model indicated the importance of both additive and dominance gene effects in both the crosses for all the three characters. However, the dominance effects were negative for pH in Cross-I and for lycopene content in both the crosses. Additive  additive interaction effects were important only for pH and TSS% in Cross-II. Dominance  Dominance digenic interaction effects were significant and positive for pH and lycopene in Cross-I but negative and significant for pH and TSS% in Cross-II. Based upon the magnitude and direction of gene effects and considering self-pollinated nature of the crop, pure line breeding is recommended for genetic improvement of tomato with respect to the three quality attributes studied.
42881557|Different translocation of calcium to apple fruit during development weakly affected growth (expressed both as fresh weight and size) but changed the increase in the level of proteins during fruit development and the postharvest incidence of bitter pit. The correlation among calcium level, protein levels in the fruit and bitter pit incidence is discussed on the basis of the possible role of calcium in cell division and cell distension.
42881555|The main phases of microsporogenesis were observed during a three year study of seven walnut cultivars having different blooming times. Catkins were collected periodically from the end of July when they first appeared up to the end of April of the following year (anther dehiscence). The anthers, with 4 pollen locules containing sporogenous tissue, were first evident in July. Anther development slowed during autumn and winter. The catkins began rapid growth in February. Meiosis occurred in a very short period, 20-30 days before anthesis, and during this process cytoplasmic bridges between cells in diakinesis were observed. In vitro germinability and viability tests were performed with pollen either freshly collected or stored at 4C and at -20C. In vitro germinability was completely lost after 1 month of storage; nevertheless this pollen was still viable, as confirmed by an in vivo germination test on stigmas.
42882283|Quality stability of three main commercial sweet bell pepper cultivars grown in Israel, that differ in colour (Parker [red], Nibla [yellow] and Lyon [orange]), was evaluated during the harvest season by analyzing selected quality traits after three weeks storage and marketing simulation. After prolonged storage and marketing simulation, 'Parker' generally maintained the best quality throughout the harvest season (four months), compared to 'Nibla' and 'Lyon', as shown by most of the quality traits evalauted. 'Lyon' had the poorest quality attributes. Weight loss, firmness and decay incidence were the major factors that reduced general appearance in bell pepper after prolonged storage and shelf Ufe, particularly in cv. Lyon. 'Parker', with a relatively high amount of cuticular wax remained firmer than 'Nibla' and 'Lyon', and had relatively low decay incidence. Cultivar type and harvest date significantly influenced general fruit appearance, weight loss, firmness and decay incidence. There were significant interactions between harvest time and cultivar type in general appearance, decay incidence and fruit firmness. No interactions were found between harvest season and cultivar type with skin wax content, total soluble solids and dry matter contents. Very high correlations (p< 0.001) were found between weight loss and fruit firmness and skin wax. Strong correlations (p< 0.01) were found between general appearance and weight loss and firmness, and between fruit firmness and the skin wax content. The external and internal quality traits evaluated in the present study could be used as tools for the development of high quality sweet pepper with a long and stable storage and marketing period during harvest season.
42883462|Italian persimmon cultivation dates to the beginning of the XXth century, when the first orchards were established in the Campania region (southern Italy). Around 1946 the yearly production reached 250,0001, but it decreased to about 50,0001 in later years. Italian cultivation is based mostly on ' Kaki Tipo 9 and, recently, also on 'Rojo Brillante', both astringent cultivare usually grafted on D. lotus. Centre leader and vase, in southern regions, and palmette, in Emilia-Romagna, are the main training systems. Persimmon is considered a hardy species in Italy, but it is heavily damaged by the Mediterranean fly and very often also by the black currant clearwing. 'Kaki Tipo' is harvested in October and fruits are marketed as hard fruits (with seeds) in southern Italy or as softened fruits (parthenocarpic) after ethylene treatment during post-harvest. Italian yields (almost 19 t/ha) are higher than in other countries; very specialized orchards can reach 45 t/ha of marketable fruits. The price to the producer was about 0.49 Euros/kg in 2005.
42883382|Addition to the soil of substances causing an exothermic reaction in order to make disinfection by means of steam more efficient may have effects on crops due to the resulting changes of soil chemical characteristics. The present paper describes effects on lettuce and strawberry of soil disinfection by means of steam combined with increasing doses of KOH or CaO (0,1000, 2000, 4000 and 8000 kg ha) performed for two consecutive years in the same soil. The results indicate that KOH and CaO can be used in association with steam for soil disinfection in vegetable crops without production risks, provided that the applied dose does not exceed 4000 kg ha, with regard to soils comparable to that used in the trials (sandy loam texture, alkaline pH, sufficient amount of organic matter and nutrients). In fact, relevant reductions of yield were observed only with the 8000 kg ha dose, that caused more evident increases in soil pH and electric conductivity. In order to exclude problems due to repeated applications and to reduce the cost of the treatment, doses of 1000-2000 kg ha are recommended.
42883122|The different responses to the partially purified toxin produced by Phoma tracheiphila of citrus leaf and callus protoplasts provide a sensitive bioassay to evaluate the tolerance or the susceptibility of tested varieties to the mal secco disease. Based on these findings, a toxin-tolerant cell line 'Femminello-S' was selected by exposing the susceptible nucellar callus of 'Femminello' lemon to sublethal toxin concentration (1 M) added to the culture medium. The selected callus was maintained on basal medium with no growth substances or toxin added. Plants from the selected callus were regenerated and transferred to greenhouse. Leaf protoplast assay was performed in 50 of those plants, resulting in a wide range of segregation with a notable proportion of tolerant plants.
42882910|Transplant production is an important part of the vegetable production process. Therefore, improving transplant quality and resistance to adverse environmental conditions is important. Effects of sucrose solutions (0, 5, 10, 15, 20 and 25%), applied to the foliage of tomato (Solatium lycopersicum L.) cultivars Calj-N3 and Rio-Grande were studied. Treatments were applied to developing seedlings at every other irrigation for six weeks. Application of 25% sucrose increased fresh and dry weights of shoots, fresh weight of roots, and shoot and root dry weight percentages. Application of 25% sucrose led to a 13 and 18% higher survival to chilling temperature in 'Calj-N3' and 'Rio-Grande' tomato seedlings, respectively. The highest transplant survival percentages in darkness were found at 10% sucrose and higher. Seedlings sprayed with 15% sucrose solution had the highest transplant establishment in the field and flowering was approximately four to five days earlier. A 15% sucrose treatment is thus preferred.
42883431|Self-sterile varieties prevail in the Argentine almond orchards; they are unable to pollinate/fecundate themselves, hence the presence of pollinators within the orchard are required to ensure the fertilization of flowers and fruit set and production. Phenological observations on the bloom of almond trees belonging to the collection of the Experimental Agricultural Station INTA Junn (Province of Mendoza, Argentina) were carried out from 1998 to 2004. Based on these observations, a flowering calendar has been elaborated and blooming dates were analysed taking into account winter chilling. Almond cultivars were classified in seven groups, considering the dates of full flowering time, in reference to 'Non Pareil'. The collected cultivars were tested for selfcompatibility and their potential productivity was assessed by means of open pollination and controlled pollination between different cultivars.
42882406|Two field experiments were conducted at Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi Teaching and Research Farm and Bauchi State Agricultural Development Programme Research Farm Gwallameji, Bauchi (1017' N, 949' E; 690.2 m a.s.l.) situated in the Northern Guinea Savanna ecological zone of Nigeria, during the 1998 wet season. The research was aimed at studying the interrelationships and contributions of different developmental characters to total green pod yield. Results indicated that plant height and pod length were the major contributing characters to total green pod yield in vegetable cowpeas, as they had a high, significant positive correlation and also contributed much, both directly and indirectly, to the total green pod yield. These characters therefore serve as a basis of selection for a meaningful crop improvement program.
42882448|Isolates of Cryphonectria parasitica, the causal agent of chestnut blight, were sampled from four locations in Calabria (southern Italy), with the aim of analysing the diversity of vegetative compatibility (vc) and mating types. Four vc-types (EU1, EU2, EU10 and EU12) were found. EU2 was the dominant vc-type in all four populations but one, in which EU12 prevailed. All four vc-types comprised both isolates with typical orange colony morphology (normal phenotype) and isolates with white colonies (hypovirulent phenotype). In one location, isolates with white colonies were represented in all vc-types and their overall frequency was about 43%. By contrast, in the other three locations, the frequency of isolates with white colonies was relatively low, suggesting that hypovirulence is spreading at a low rate. Both MAT-1 and MAT-2 mating types were found in all four populations. Mating type was in a balanced (close to 1:1) ratio in two subpopulations, suggesting that sexual reproduction occurs frequently, but significantly deviated from 1:1 in the other two subpopulations. In light of these results, the possible effects of reproductive biology of C. parastica on the spread of hypovirulence in the fungus populations are discussed.
42882444|In the mountainous region of the South of Salamanca Province (Spain), the sweet chestnut (Castanea sativa Mill.) is an important multipurpose tree used for both nut and wood production, and it has been planted as monocrop or intermixed with the climax species Quercus pyrenaica. Three permanent no-till and unfertilised plots were chosen for study: in a Castanea satva Mill, paraclimax coppice (CO), in a chestnut orchard (CO) and third in a Quercus pyrenaica Wild, climax forest (OAK), adjacent to the CO plot. Available P, soil respiration and phosphatase activity (APA), culturable total and phosphate solubilizing soil bacteria, and the diversity of culturable phyllosphere bacteria were determined. In general, the CC site ranked highest for the majority of the studied parameters with the exception of P soil content. The values obtained in the OAK site were, in general, similar to those obtained in the CO site, for most of the variables studies, with the exception of the soil P content and APA, which tended to be, respectively, lower and higher in the OAK site than in the CO site. Linear regression analysis showed that there was a significant and negative correlation between APA and the available soil phosphorus content, and a positive correlation between bacterial abundance and APA, but there was no statistically significant correlation between APA and phosphate-solubilizing bacteria counts. A principal components analysis (PCA) showed that the first principal component (PCI), which explained 42% of the total variance, was highly defined by the APA and total bacteria counts and in opposite tendency to available soil P content, indicating the size and activity of the bacterial community and the dependence of APA on soil P content. On the other hand, seven different bacterial genera were identified as being associated to the phyllosphere. There were different colonization patterns over the sampling period. The highest phenotypic diversity was obtained in June, when all the considered bacterial phenotypes appeared. The data obtained in this study show differences between plots under different exploitation regimes and locations, highlighting the importance of the forestry management systems for the ecosystems functioning, which is important for designing schemes of sustainable development.
42882372|PR 204/84 rootstock (peach  almond) is a promising rootstock for peach trees, as an alternative to GF 677. Shoots preserved from previous in vitro cultures were grown in MS media. Three auxins were added to the culture medium: indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), and -napthaleneacetic acid (NAA), each one at five concentrations (0,2.5,5,10,15 M). Percent of rooting was recorded after 12 and 24 days of culturing shoots in the media. The mean root length, mean number of roots per shoot, fresh and dry mass of roots were measured after 24 days in culture. By increasing the concentration from 0 (control) to 10 M in the medium, the percentage of rooting and the number of roots formed increased for all types of auxins. However, inclusion of 15 M of each auxin type in the medium reduced the percentage of rooting and root number. Shoots cultured on media with IBA or NAA produced more uniform roots in length, compared to media with IAA. The optimal concentrations for high rooting percentage and shoot growth of PR 204/84 were 5 M IBA, 10 M IAA and 2.5 M NAA in the medium.
42881521|Occurrence of tobacco rattle virus (TRV) in Lilium longiflorum together with lily symptomless virus (LSV) and cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) is presented. Infected plants showed chlorotic or necrotic fleck, downward curling of leaves and remarkable stunting.
42882786|Stevia rebaudiana is a traditional crop of Latin America, now rising to international interest thanks to its specific glycosides that are very sweet and still poor of calories making its potential interesting for dietary recommendations. Its short growing cycle makes this species possible as an annual crop also in non tropical areas, including the Mediterranean Basin and parts of Italy, where rainfall or irrigation is available during late spring and summer. One of the main concerns is the quantity of water necessary for the crop and the ideal number of plants per hectare in order to maximize water use efficiency. The present research was carried out in central Italy to compare yields and water consumption in plots with three plant densities (50, 25, 16 plants per square metre). The results show that the most dense plots can give the best results in the area of the trial.
42881559|Of 40 Sparaxis bulbs of mixed cultivars imported from the Netherlands, 10 failed to grow and the 30 surviving plants tested were infected with bean yellow mosaic virus (BYMV). Most of the host plants inoculated with the virus showed local or systemic symptoms. The virus was identified by the reaction of the host plants, serology and electron microscopy. From the serological results it appears that the virus isolated from Sparaxis could be an isolate of BYMV serologically related to clover yellow vein virus (C1YVV). This is the first report of BYMV in Sparaxis.
42883255|De-etiolated hypocotyl segments of tomato, obtained from apical, middle and basal positions on seedlings and cultured in a medium devoid of growth regulators, produced shoots, roots and callus. All the morphogenetic expiants displayed a classical polar regeneration, with shoots exhibited at the morphological apical end and roots and/or callus at the morphological basal end of each segment of hypocotyl. Regeneration of shoots occurred only if the expiants were cultured in the presence of light. Prolonged irradiation of up to five weeks was the most effective and more than 50% of the cultures responded positively producing three to five adventitious shoots per expiant. Histological studies revealed that shoot primordia originated from vascular parenchyma cells of the hypocotyl without an intermediate callus phase. The white light-dependent morphogenic ability of the de-etiolated hypocotyls was not influenced by their original position on the seedlings.
42882369|Strawberry cultivation has only recently received a great impetus in India with large business houses setting up a number of agro-based establishments primarily aimed at large scale production of strawberry fruits. It has occupied a premier position in urban areas. Being a shallow rooted fruit crop, it can also be grown easily in kitchen garden, roof garden, pots etc. It is regarded as a valuable food in the diet of millions of people around the globe and is in special demand by the fruit processing industries. A number of large fruited, high yielding varieties viz., 'Chandler', 'Pajaro', 'Etna', 'Sweet Charlie', 'Selva', 'Douglas', 'Confictura', 'Dana', 'Belrubi', 'Gorella' and 'Addie' have been introduced into the country from Europe and North America. Some of the day-neutral cultivars viz. Selva, Majestic, Phenomenal, Brighton, Etna, Fern, Sweet Charlie are very promising. Farmers in the vicinity of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, a sub-tropical area, have been profitably cultivating strawberries during the winter months obtaining their planting materials from the hills of Himachal Pradesh, Uttaranchal. Besides the income from strawberry fruits, growers in the hills thus can also earn by producing planting material for winter plantings in the plains. It is a highly commercialized fruit crop being sold at a premium price of Rs 200 ($ 4.00) to Rs 300 ($ 6.00) per kg as an early crop and Rs 80 ($ 1.60) to Rs 100 ($ 2.00) as a late crop. Subject to prevailing weather conditions and following the recommended package of practices, the net profit from one bigha (one fifth of an acre, 0.08 ha) area may vary from Rs 4.19 lakhs ($ 8370) per annum in the hills to Rs 8.48 lakhs ($ 16950) per season in the plains at the end of six years. The use of polyethylene in commercial cultivation of strawberry can play a pivotal role in minimizing winter injury, plant mortality and increasing productivity.
42883270|The effects of pre-planting low temperature storage of seed cloves on the bulbing process of two garlic accessions were studied during a two-year experiment (1993-95) in a typical Mediterranean area (40 40' N; 16 34' E). Three different storage periods of increasing length were tested each year. The bulbing process was examined performing an analysis of covariance for the sampling dates, fitting polynomial curves on "log" transformed bulb and neck diameter as well as on the neck/bulb ratio. In both years the prolongation of the storage period caused an acceleration of growth (bulb and neck diameter changes) but did not affect the garlic relative growth rate. With the exception of the initial value of the curves, no significant effect was detected in the other polynomial terms, thus demonstrating that low temperature storage promoted early bulb growth but had no direct influence on its growth over time. Approaching maturity and at the harvest time, no significant differences among pre-planting treatments were observed. The bulbing pattern was significantly modified according to the accession and the experimental year.
42882389|The determination of the water retention relationship for substrates in small pots is not common especially when preparing a mixture of peat with sand or perlite in different proportion. On the other hand, it is not easy to interpolate between primary materials for different mixing ratios. A theoretical development is presented considering a truncated cone pot (or a cylindrical one as a limit) and assuming a linear relationship for water retention. Applications to mixtures of peat and sand or peat and perlite with different ratios show strong differences of these two series due both to changes of mean porosity and changes in the slope of the water characteristics. Consequences on air content and due to different pot shape are outlined.
42882999|Leaves of Pittosporum tobira exposed to sea-spray with and without surfactants were examined for morphological and anatomical changes. The plants in the study were directly and continuously subjected to sea-spray in the environment. P. tobira tolerance to surfactants was found to depend mostly on the cuticular characteristics of the foliar epidermis. When surfactants were present, anomalies in the chloroplasts, damaged cell nuclei and altered epicuticular layers were observed. The damage is discussed and related to the possible function of the glandular hairs on the leaves.
42882084|Inheritance of quantitative traits in complex hybrid combinations of seeded and seedless grapevine cultivars was established by a breeding-and-genetic analysis in F progeny. It was proved that the bunch length, width and weight were inherited by incomplete dominance of the parent having smaller bunches, while its shape was inherited by overdominance of the cultivar with cylindrical ones. The high genotype determination and the coefficient of variation offered a good possibility for selection, irrespective of the absence of heterosis effect. This type of cross should not be expected to give a high number of seedlings with larger bunches than those of either of the parents. The tendency to millerandage was inherited by incomplete dominance of the cultivar with a higher value of the trait. To develop new seedless grape cultivars with equally sized cluster berries, the seeded parent cultivar in the hybrid combination should have a slight geneticallydetermined tendency towards millerandage, and the seedless one towards a short berry formation.
42882411|Date palm is one of the most important fruit trees throughout the world for its valuable benefits. Embryogenic calli from in vilro-grown plantlets were cultured on hormone-free medium supplemented with various concentrations (0.0, 0.10, 0.18, 0.26, 0.35 or 0.44 M) of sucrose, or (0.0, 0.16, 0.33, 0.49, 0.66 or 0.82 M) mannitol or sorbitol. Other embryognie calli were cultured on a hormone-free solid MS medium supplemented with 0.1 M sucrose and incubated at 4, 10, 24 or 28C in the dark. Preservation of calli on a medium containing 0.1 or 0.18 M sucrose or 0.16 M mannitol or sorbitol under 16 hr of light was able to decrease the growth and maintain expiant quality for 12 weeks.
42883010|Table grape cultivars of varying leaf stomata density and size were selected to study the relations between these parameters and canopy temperature measured by the infrared thermometer, a potential tool for large-scale screening in the seedling stage of a breeding program for drought resistance in grapes (Vitis vinifera L.). The canopy temperature, even though it allows rapid screening, is not a suitable technique since significant differences were detected between the two treatments (water stress and non-stress) but not among cultivars.
42882803|Chromosomal aberrations in phylloxera females induced by different doses of gamma irradiation were detected. The results showed that the chromosomes of all tested embryos of irradiated phylloxera had aberrations, regardless of dose. When phylloxera nymphs were irradiated, the chromosomal number on the metaphase plate of some embryos' cells was increased. The result indicated that the chromosomal aberrations influenced the mortality, longevity and reproduction of phylloxera. Eight autosomal chromosomes were identified according to their length. Additionally, the karyotype of irradiated and unirradiated populations of local phylloxera strain was defined.
42881330|Seasonal changes in N,P,K,Ca and Mg were determined in almond tree leaves under drip-irrigated and non-irrigated conditions. Ca and Mg levels (amounts per leaf) increased from an initial level, although in the non-irrigated treatment both macronutrients decreased with foliar senescence. The imbalance between NPK absorption by the leaves and consumption by other plant organs occurred later in the drip-irrigated treatment, thus demonstrating the influence of soil moisture on nutrient absorption. It is recommended, in determining mineral element status, that leaves be sampled between 151 and 170 days after full bloom.
42883452|In vitro propagation of Cynara scolymus L. cv. Grato 1, a 'Romanesco' clone recently introduced in central Italy, was carried out using modified MS media: a full strength (M) and half strength (M) of the original mineral components (NHNO and KNO) both with a low content of BA and GA (0.03 mg l and 0.05 mg l respectively). Curves describing the artichoke proliferation process over time on different media confirmed M as the more suitable medium to improve quality of the axillary shoots. A rooting phase, after auxin treatment by soaking expiants for 48 hr, was performed transferring the expiants onto the M and the M media without growth regulators. At the same time, to investigate the influence of the culture environment on artichoke rooting in vitro 9 explants were placed in Magenta vessels covered with vented or un vented caps. Data showed that the less aerated environment improved the root number per expiant in both M and M media; vented vessels enhanced root length. Moreover, the physical environment and the culture media of the rooting phase affected the acclimatization phase.
42883303|Present strategies have the aim of optimising the distribution of plant protection products and reducing dispersion into the environment; in this context the present study tests the efficiency, in terms of chemicals deposited, of a conventional sprayer (GEO) and a recently developed one (OKTOPUS). As an aid to defining the distribution profiles, a test bench with patternator lamellae was used, making it possible to measure the quantity of product applied in the different vertical sections. The machines calibrated for this method were then tested in the field using a randomised block diagram, measuring the deposits on the leaves. For both periods considered the results show a greater single deposition after using the anti-drift nozzles of the Oktopus sprayer, both compared with the other nozzles and with the other machine. For the latter, the best test was the one using projection within the section, that estimates the transverse path of the droplets in the canopy.
42883314|After a field survey of 1985 freeze damage in central Italy, a cross of a high quality cv. Ascolana tenera, with a resistant pollinator, 'Lecdno', was evaluated. Phenolic substance release in the ortet was correlated with resistance and was found variable to a degree that renders questionable its use in screening. Only an arbitrary regressive analysis was able to estimate the increase of resistance in the cross population. On twig samples, treatment with mannitol 15 mM increased freezing avoidance and calcium chelation completely removed this effect. Possibly calcium chelation and return sap composition are found euristically as determinants of freezing avoidance. Cultural practices might be relevant variables in context
42882787|Ex vitro and in vitro apple (Malus domestica Borkh., cvs. Fiorina, Idared, Rebra, Goldrush, Romus3, Romus4 and the rootstocks M9 and M26) plants were selected to assess donal fidelity by RAPD markers. In vitro cultures were grown on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with Lee and De Fossard (1977) vitamins, 1.2 mg l N-benzyladenine (BA), 0.004 mg l -naftil-acetic acid (NAA), 30 g l dextrose and 7 g l agar. The plants were grown at 24C under a 16 hr light photoperiod with a light intensity of 40 mmol m s photosynthetic active radiation (PAR). Subcultures were performed every four weeks. Genomic DNA isolated from the mentioned cultivars and rootstocks was amplified using four different unspecific primers (OPB 04, OPB 07, OPB 17, OPF 04) ranging between 9 and 10 nucleotides. No significant variations among micropropagated plants on the basis of RAPD markers in comparison with the genetic profile of the corresponding ex vitro donor plants were detected.
42883210|Encapsulation in nutrient-enriched alginate capsules of buds excised from in vitro proliferated shoots can be considered an important contribution to micropropagation, for germplasm preservation and/or for the synthetic seed technology. Four experiments were carried out to evaluate the aptitude of nodal and apical buds of olive (Olea europea L., cv. Moraiolo) toward encapsulation in sodium alginate and to study the effect of some root induction treatments and of growth regulators in the capsule or in the sowing medium. In all cases, after 45 days from sowing in agar medium, the encapsulated apical buds showed higher viability and regrowth ability (sprouting rate, shoot length and basal callus formation) than the nodal ones. Moreover, the encapsulated buds can be conveniently stored at 4C, but not for longer than 45 days; a different behaviour between apical and nodal microcuttings was monitored also after storage. Root induction treatments before encapsulation of the buds resulted in low percentages of plantlet regeneration, which was, in any case, obtained only from apical microcuttings. Modifying the indol-butyric acid concentration in the rooting induction phase and/or the composition of the nutrient-enriched capsule and/or the sowing medium usually increased plantlet regeneration rates up to a maximum of 30%.
42881924|The essential oils from peel, leaves and flowers of an interspecific allotetraploid somatic hybrid of Citrus - the 'Valencia' sweet orange (Citrus sinensis L. Osbeck) + 'Femminello' lemon (C. limon L. Burm f.) - were extracted and analyzed by gas chromatography. Total yield and constituents were determined and compared for quantitative and qualitative characteristics, with essential oils extracted and analyzed from the diploid parents 'Femminello' lemon and 'Valencia' sweet orange. Moreover, the morphological characters of leaves, flowers and fruits were examined and oil gland density in leaves of the three plants was determined to identify differences in the genotypes examined. The aim of the work was to evaluate whether superior traits and improved performance can be observed in a new genotype obtained by protoplast fusion. Essential oils from the allotetraploid somatic hybrid 'Valencia + Femminello' show different and, in some cases, superior characteristics with respect to the parents.
42882195|Gynogenic ability, the effect of cold treatment at 17C applied to flowers in culture, and the effect of a new medium containing glucose instead of sucrose were evaluated in six Iranian and two Italian onions. The results gave evidence of an inhibitory effect of cold on haploid formation and of the induction of a high frequency of diploid ovule-derived plants in one factorial combination. Concerning the production of haploid plants, the analysis of variance of the data showed significant differences (P < 0.05) between the two media used and a high interaction (P < 0.05) between media and cultivars. The most responsive Iranian onion was 'Gholigheseh-e-Zanjan' (0.56% of gynogenic embryos), the least responsive was 'Sefid-e-Kamare-e-Khomain' (0.07%). 'Borettana' and 'KLR', Italian onions used as controls, gave, respectively, 0.09 and 1.56%. The induction of diploid ovule-derived plants at high frequency, never before obtained in onion gynogenesis, was achieved in 'Ghermez-e-Azarshahr' when flowers were cultured in the new medium mentioned above and incubated at 17C during the first 40 days of culture. The diploid/haploid ratio found hi this factorial combination was 36/1 while that usually observed in a process of onion gynogenesis ranges between 1/8 and 1/9. The RAPD profiles obtained with four polymorphic primers from the DNA analysis of 23 R0 plants, chosen at random among the 73 diploids obtained, showed that 22 of them were homomorphic. Within the donor plant population, the RAPD profiles were found to be polymorphic. These results support the hypothesis of the occurrence of apomictic-like events at the base of the induction of these diploid plants since all the embryos were of ovule origin.
42882635|In 2005-2006 we tested pre-planting treatments applied using a self-propelled soil steaming machine designed for the release of steam after incorporation in the soil of a substance that causes an exothermic reaction able to heat it to a mild but effective temperature x time product. Experiments were conducted in open-field conditions by assessing the effectiveness of steam and potassium hydroxide (KOH) against Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. lycopersici and Sclerotum rolfsii on tomato plants. The combination of steam and exothermic reaction chemicals reduced the incidence o Fusarium wilt (93.4-94.8%) better than steam only (77.8-81.2%); control of Sclerotum rolfsii was likewise better with KOH (86.7-87.7%) than with steam only (65.0-71.0%). The effects of treatments on microbial density, plant growth and weed control were evaluated. Treatments caused significant reductions in the number o Fusarium oxysporum colonies compared to the untreated control, an increase in Trichoderma spp. and no significant effects on total fungus and actinomycete density. Significant reduction in weeds (above 82.5%) and drastic increase in plant growth was recorded with the use of steam/exothermic reaction. With a milder steam application, the exothermic reaction acts for a slight increase in Tmax and, most of all, on time in temperature x time product, obtaining a disease control similar to drastic steam treatments.
42883101|The aim of the research was to find the best way to determine the vigour of the seed lots: for this purpose the results of various laboratory tests were correlated to seed germination and emergence at sub-optimal temperatures. Seed samples from 15 various lots were utilized; they differed in cultivar, provenance and year of production. The greatest variability being in physiological characteristics. The following laboratory tests were run: 1) 1000 seed weight; 2) standard germination; 3) germination on agar; 4) topographical tetrazolium; 5) electrical conductivity; 6) accelerated ageing; 7) emergence in growth chamber at sub-optimal temperatures (18C, light and 15C, dark). The results were correlated to vigour determined as percentage of emergence at sub-optimal temperatures. The standard germination showed best correlation to emergence at sub-optimal temperatures; the other tests required less time but seemed to be less accurate for vigour estimation.
42881763|'Hass' avocado trees affected by root rot disease were injected with prepared injection capsules of 225-ml potassium phosphite solution. Injected trees significantly increased shoot length and leaf size in the second year after injection. Recovery of trees from symptoms of the disease also occurred in the second year. Only one injection per year was efficacious to recover avocado trees affected by root rot. This method of injection offers a more efficient alternative for injecting trees because reduces labor cost and number of applications compared with other existing methods.
42883538|The effect of phytohormone composition of nutrient medium on growth and regeneration of shoot tips in two Osvald's hop clones differing in sensitivity to indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) was studied. One clone, No. 72, was IBA non-sensitive (IBA) and the other, No. 31, was IBA sensitive (IBA). The effect of 6-benzylaminopurine (BAP), gibberellic acid (GA), indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and their combinations was evaluated by shoot growth and callus development during plant regeneration. A key parameter for successful plant regeneration was production of at least two nodes together with limited callus production. A difference in plant regeneration was found between the clones. Shoot growth on media containing IBA was higher in the IBA clone in comparison with the IBA clone. The BAP medium stimulated shoot growth only in the IBA clone. The presence of BAP in media was connected with strong initial growth but usually with strong callus production. The most appropriate medium composition for regeneration of both genotypes was that having all phytohormones tested (BAP, GA, and IBA) but at a ten-times lower concentration than the routinely used concentration.
42883337|Computer aided bioeconomic modelling was used to identify olive oil prices at which olive production may form a profitable component of contemporary dryland agricultural systems in Western Australia. The existing Model of an Integrated Dryland Agricultural System was used to evaluate the potential economic benefits of olive production relative to existing cropping and pastoral systems. Environmental benefits of olive production were integrated into the model as both windbreak benefits and reduced subsoil drainage. The enhanced model was then used to analyse the optimal (profit maximising) solution's sensitivity to changes in olive oil prices, tree yields, drainage restrictions and financial constraints. Olive production was selected in the model's optimal solution at minimum farm gate olive oil prices between A$ 4/L and A$ 7/L depending on various financial and biological assumptions.
42881989|Three lemon (Citrus Limon [L.] Burm. F.) cultivars Eureka, Santa Tereza and Maglini each grafted on sour orange rootstock (Citrus aurantium L.) were grown in a sand-perlite mixture (1:1) under glasshouse conditions and irrigated with Hoagland nutrient solutions containing in addition 0,15, 30,45 and 80 mM NaCl. Growth, leaf ion content and gas exchange response to salt treatments, plus salt-induced changes in leaf anatomy were investigated. Shoot length of all tested cultivars decreased substantially above 15 mM NaCl. 'Santa Tereza' showed the greatest reduction. Chloride accumulation in leaves increased with increasing NaCl concentration in the nutrient solution, while sodium accumulation increased markedly at 45 and 80 mM NaCl in 'Eureka' but only at 80 mM NaCl in 'Santa Tereza' and 'Maglini'. The foliar symptoms of salt toxicity recorded were marginal necrosis with subsequent necrosis of older leaves. Photosynthetic rate (Pn) showed significant reduction at both 45 and 80 mM NaCl in all cultivars. Stomatal conductance (gs) decreased in all cultivars at 80 mM NaCl and also in 'Maglini' at 45 mM NaCl. Salinity induced thickening of the leaf blade due to an increase of the number and volume of the mesophyll cells, while volume of intercellular spaces decreased.
42881675|An analysis of twelve genetic traits of 1,235 apricot seedlings bred from 25 open-pollinated progenies and controlled crosses of Hellin  Harcot provided evidence on the type of inheritance involved. Both the bloom and ripening dates of the progenies were a week or two later than those of the average parents. The cultivare, "Blenril", "Cardinale", "Rival", "Rossolella" and "Buttianese" were late blooming parents, and "Buttianese", "Sundrop" and "San Cstrese" were early ripening parents. In general, early blooming led to early ripening. Although the parents were very productive, their progenies exhibited much lower average yields and widely varying yield distribution. The progenies plant vigour was slightly less than that of their parents. Semi-dwarf and dwarf seedlings could be expected in the "Hatif Colomer", "Prete" and "Buttianese" progenies. The fruit produced by the progenies tended to be smaller in size except those of the varieties "Ivonne Liverani", "Prete" and "Sundrop", which produced large fruit. Round and elliptic fruit occurred most frequently in these populations. The shape of the fruit was inherited quantitatively. The orange skin colour of the fruit was recessive for red and yellow. Quantitative inheritance was involved in the transmission of yellow, red and orange colouring. Yellow flesh colour was dominant over orange and white; white flesh fruit could be obtained from reddish flesh parents. The progenies' fruit flavour was poorer than that of the parents, and the average flavour value of controlled crosses was higher than for open-pollinated crosses. The progenies' mean value of fruit firmness was lower than their parents'. The distribution of firmness in progeny from open-pollinated crosses was more than from controlled crosses. The free-stone character was dominant over clingstone (semi-cling), with a 3: 1 segregation. The juvenility of progeny was normally three to six years.
42881563|Non-destructive methods of measurement were used in tomato growth studies to reduce experimental designs. In determinate tomato seedlings grown in soil-filled pots in greenhouse, very close relationships were found between shoot dry matter weight (SDMW) or leaf area (LA) per plant and variables calculated from simple linear measurements. Each relationship involved plants from a single experiment measured once between time of emergence and early flowering. Measurements concerned either plant dimensions [length (L), width (1), height (H)], and leaf or truss length. Very high correlations were found between LA and the product of LI or the sum of the leaf length squares, and between SDMW and either the product of L-l-H, or the sum of the leaf length squares truss lengths. For small plants without any truss the equation used was y=x+; for plants with trusses, the equation used was y=t-x. It was not possible to estimate LA or SDMW in one experiment using equations calculated from other experiments. However, at any growth stage before flowering, replacing LA or SDMW by the best-correlated variables proved interesting for growth study within one experiment.
42882606|Heat treatments are known to have some effects on delaying fruit ripening, browning and loss of frmness. In this study fresh-cut peach slices were immersed in water at three different temperatures (20,40, and 60 C) for 2 min, the same treatments were repeated in solution with 2% Ascorbic Acid + 1% Calcium Lactate. Metabolic activity (respiration rate and ethylene production), color, frmness, soluble solids content, titratable acidity, and antioxidant activity were determined. Results indicated an effect of both dipping solution and high temperature on tissue metabolism since both resulted effective in the reduction of ethylene biosynthesis. Respiration also appeared to be reduced with increasing treatment temperature. The influence of temperature on physiological aspects did not however result in a visible effect on quality attributes, such as color and frmness, while antioxidant solution was effective in maintaining a better appearance of peach slices. Both factors had a significant effect on improving antioxidant activity.
42883272|The exposure of mature-green tomato fruits (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. cv. Bombay) to ethanol vapour at 0, 2.5, 5, 10, 20 or 25 ml/2.5 kg fruit/5 liter volume of jar delayed the ripening of fruits. The delay was found to be concentration dependent. The most effective concentration of ethanol was found to be 20 ml/2.5 kg fruit in delaying ripening. Ethanol reduced respiration rate, ethylene production and delayed the climacteric peak. The regulation of tomato fruit ripening was attributed to delay in fruit softening caused by reduced activities of enzymes like polygalacturonase (PG) and pectin methyl esterase (PME). The possible role of PG and PME activity in delaying ripening and maintaining fruit softness is also discussed.
42883463|The history of the Japanese persimmon (Diospyros kaki Thunb.) industry in China is reviewed based on ancient literatures. Persimmon (Diospyros L.) and its distribution in China are surveyed according to specimens and their collecting sites, which were preserved in Herbarium affiliated with the Chinese Academy of Sciences. The cultivar evolution of Japanese persimmon and the characteristics of main commercial cultivars in China are described in brief. In addition, traditional utilizations of genetic resources of persimmon in China, including fresh fruits, dried persimmon, timber, pharmacy and ornamental plants are summarized. Cultural activity related to persimmon is introduced in this paper.
42881580|Shoots of five pear cultivars and two clones of quince (EM A and BA 29) were grown under aseptic conditions in solid media. In 35 days all shoots reached an average height of 4.0 cm. Shoot growth, however, of the same cvs. was inhibited when shoots were cultured in media where callus of 'EM A' or 'BA 29' had been previously grown for 20 days. Metabolites secreted by callus of 'BA 29' for a period of 10 days resulted in maximum shoot growth inhibition of 'B.C. Williams' but a period of 20 days of secretion was necessary for a similar effect on shoots of B. Hardy. Amygdalin, a cyanogenic glycoside, added to the media at a concentration as high as 50 ppm CN did not affect shoot growth of pear cvs. as long as temperature was kept below 25 C. However, damage on shoot cultures of 'B. Hardy' and 'BA 29' was noticed, even at lower amygdalin concentration (20 ppm CN), when the temperature was 27 C or higher. Shoots of 'B.C. Williams' were less affected by amygdalin than those of 'B. Hardy' and 'BA 29'.
42882407|The use of molecular markers linked to resistance genes can highly improve the breeding schemes aimed to both deploying and pyramiding resistance genes. The aim of the present work was to confirm that molecular marker technology could be easily integrated in breeding programs in order to transfer and combine resistances to various pathogens into superior tomato lines. In order to pyramid several resistance genes in the same variety, two near-isogenic lines, each possessing at least three resistant genes, were intercrossed and then selfed for many generations. Selection for resistance was performed using molecular markers linked to the genes in order to fx them at the homozygous level in the same genotype. These were mainly CAPS markers, which are easy to be detected by simple laboratory analyses. After the F generation, it was possible to obtain various genotypes, which carried all resistance genes at homozygous condition. This objective was achieved through the early molecular screening for resistance, a very efficient tool in reducing time and space necessary for selection.
42881686|Preharvest drop of apples is still a major problem in some cultivars mainly in warm and dry growing zones, despite long study and experience. Phenoxy auxins such as Fenoprop have often reduced fruit drop better than NAA, but stable residues in the fruit rule out their use. Therefore, trials to improve the performance of NAA were carried out, as well as tests of other auxin preparations. The effect of NAA can be strengthend by increased dosage, by repeated application or by mild acidic buffers ('BB5', 'UP50'). Other auxin products of the same group, such as NAAm or NoAA have also provided useful reduction in the preharvest drop, comparable with 2,4,5, -TP.
42881391|The mild mutant M-l obtained from a P-- strain was used to protect pepper crops of the cv. Melody hybrid, heterozygous L L against PepMV spontaneous infection. PepMV 9 was used as a severe strain: 20% of the plants in greenhouse were inoculated with this strain thus acting as a source of inoculum for the other plants; the remainder were inoculated with M-l (40%), or with buffer (40%). Two observations were made. Half of the control plants were symptomless, whereas those showing severe mosaic increased with time. Most of the M-l inoculated plants showed mild symptoms although a small number was severely infected. All the plants inoculated with PepMV 9 showed severe symptoms. The yield of the plants inoculated with M-l was 76.3% of control plants whereas that of PepMV 9 inoculated plants was 48.8%. The high yield loss caused by inoculation with the mutant is probably due to the fact that the control became infected late in the growing season and therefore the effect of the severe strain on yield was not so evident. The lack of protection awarded by mutant could be due to a reversion towards a severe form or a failure of the protecting mechanisms, probably caused by an incomplete diffusion of the virus in the host. M-l seems to give better results when used to protect susceptible varieties.
42881757|Rooting and survival after transplanting of Prunus persica (L.) Batsch cv. Fertilia I were studied in a four-month (September-January) trial. Some correlations of rooting, survival and carbohydrate content of the stock plants were found. A relationship between rhizogenesis and survival rate was registered in other cultivare of the same species. Rooting and survival were best with material collected at the beginning of autumn (October), when the leaves start to fall.
42882624|This work is to be included among an agronomical and technological evaluation of olive selections obtained by breeding since 1971 by Bellini of the Department of Horticulture of the University of Florence. The major phenolic compounds in olive are oleuropein, tyrosol, hydroxy-tyrosol and cinnamic acids such as coumaric and caffeic acids. An increasing interest in these compounds is due to their antioxidant and health enhancing properties. For this study, the phenolic fractions were analysed in 2005-2006 on some of the advanced selections previously evaluated agronomically and morphologically and grown in Umbria, Basilicata and Calabria. An HPLC analysis of the extracts of olives from these selections allowed division of them in three different groups based on the oleuropein/cinnamic acid ratio. The total amount of phenolic compounds was also evaluated with a Folin-Ciocalteu colorimetrie method. A high variability of concentration of the various phenolic fractions was found. Such variability is relevant for fruit destination as functional food, and/or for the sensory expression of the corresponding oil.
42882410|The germination of melon seeds has received considerable attention from seed physiologists, as it relates to external and internal factors that ensure the best-germinating seeds. The failure of melon seeds to germinate may at times have no relation to seed quality but may be due to the lack of specific requirements. Appropriate temperature is probably the most important factor, but oxygen, hormones and water potential are also involved in controlling germination. Experience has shown that high-quality seed is essential for the production of a satisfactory crop of melons, and seed quality can be affected by the maternal environment, seed maturity at harvest, extraction procedure, and storage conditions. Priming treatments can improve germination, especially when applied to poor-quality seeds, under stressful environments. Genetic variation can account for differences in sensitivity to these factors.
42882286|The resistance to Verticillium wilt of 14 eggplant accessions maintained at the Greek gene bank was assessed in 2001 and 2002 in trials established at the farm of the Agricultural Research Centre of Macedonia and Thrace. Cultivars Langada (resitant) and Tsakoniki (susceptible) and the resistant wild species S. torvum and S. sisymbriifolium were used as controls. The roots of seedlings at the stage of two to three true leaves of the above germplasm were dipped into a water suspension containing microconidia (10 spores/ml) of the fungus V. dahliae for 1 hr, while the controls were dipped into distilled water for the same time. Subsequently, they were transplanted into plastic trays containing peat-moss and perlite at a ratio of 70:30%, v/v. A complete randomized block design was used with three replications and 15 plants/replication. In total, over the two years, 90 seedlings were evaluated for 10 accessions and 45 seedlings for the accessions tested only the first year. For each plant, the leaf symptom index (LSI) was estimated on a scale of 1-6 (1= healthy plant, 6= severely diseased plant), and for every accession the average LSI value was calculated. For each plant, plant height, stem diameter, and fresh biomass (aerial, root and total) were also recorded. On the basis of the results obtained, accessions 'GGB 10/83', 'GGB 11/83%', 'GGB 12/83' with average LSI values (over two years) of 2.70, 2.93 and 2.81, respectively, could be considered as resistant, while accessions 'GGB 43a/83' and cv. Wasemarunasu, with average LSI values (over two years) of 3.90 and 4.05, respectively, as susceptible.
42882676|Effective one-step freezing procedures, based on either vitrification or dehydration of embryonic axes, were optimized for the cryopreservation of Arachis hypogaea subsp. hypogaea L., cv. Virginia, and then tested with three Turkish cultivars belonging to the same subspecies. The best vitrification protocol included preloading of embryonic axes with 2 M glycerol and 0.4 M sucrose for 30 min, followed by treatment with PVS2 for 2 hr at 25C and by direct immersion in liquid nitrogen. The best dehydration protocol involved a 2.5-hr desiccation in the sterile air current of a laminar flow cabinet, which reduced the initial moisture content of 'Virginia' embryonic axes from 25% to 8.5%, prior to ultra-rapid freezing. With these procedures, maximums of 80% and 100% germinability of 'Virginia' embryonic axes were achieved, respectively. Considerable callus proliferation and poor root development were observed at the base of germinating embryos treated with PVS2. Following cryopreservation, a growth regulator-free MS medium was shown to be the most effective in stimulating embryonic axes germination and seedling development. Both the protocols optimized for the cv. Virginia were excellent also when applied to the cryopreservation of Turkish germplasm, resulting in germination percentages of 53-87% (vitrification procedure), and 75-92% (dehydration procedure). The dehydration/one-step freezing procedure confirmed its superiority in terms of quality of the developing seedlings.
42881335|The effect of various parameters such as specific placement methods, timing of nitrogen application and the form of nitrogen on citrus crop yield and nitrogen fertilizer utilization was studied in three field experiments with the use of N enriched fertilizers. In the first study, evaluating methods of urea application, broadcast as well as banded urea had no effect on orange yield while foliar urea affected adversely fruit production and caused severe toxicity symptoms. Nevertheless the data on % nitrogen derived, within one year from the time of application, from fertilizer, clearly indicated that foliar application of urea was by far more effective than soil application, for supplementing N to leaves, fruit and small (1-5 years old) branches. In a second study which combined methods and timing of urea application, grapefruit production was increased 13-37% by nitrogen fertilization. The data on percent nitrogen derived from fertilizer (% Ndff) indicated that nitrogen accumulated gradually from soil applied urea in leaves, fruit and 1-year old wood, while foliar urea enriched these parts rapidly. The data on the utilization coefficient of the applied fertilizer clearly indicated again that foliar urea was utilized more efficiently than soil urea. Comparing tissues foliar urea was utilized specifically by the fruit even more than by the leaves. In the third study, evaluating soil application of various N forms in mid-May, the data on grapefruit yield indicated a tendency for positive response to all nitrogen sources. Utilization coefficient of ammonium nitrate tended to be higher than that of urea and sulfate. A plant sampling conducted 17 months after fertilizer application revealed that a considerable portion of the applied fertilizer (8.5-11.5%) accumulated in the trunk and the old branches of the trees.
42881978|The results of experiments are presented in which a comparison between UV treatments on Salvia splendens plants performed during the day and during the night was made. Experimental results provide evidence that UV treatment performed at night may control S. splendens growth in greenhouse at least as effectively as daily treatments. However S. splendens plants treated at night were more susceptible to damage from UV radiation. It appears, therefore, that in the case of night-time treatments the range of UV dose that induced reduction of growth without evident damage was narrower than during the day. The season-dependent responsiveness of S. splendens plants to UV radiation is still present during the night. UV treatments can be used during the night to control S. splendens growth in commercial greenhouses without any risk for the growers.
42883110|Peach propagation by cuttings isn't used very often because of a sort of collapse that causes the death of the rooted cuttings. In consideration that the production of self-rooted cultivars could be very useful in agriculture, a research to clarify the relating aspects of the  collapse  phenomenon was carried out. The research was carried out on the behaviour of the cuttings taken in different periods and rooted with different techniques. Gas-cromatographical analyses were done for claryfing a possible correlation between the concentration of soluble sugars and prunasin in the different parts of the cuttings during rooting, and the death of the rooted cuttings. The appearance of the  collapse  seems to be indipendent from the multiplication techniques and the various treatments. This is probably caused by prunasin, a cyanogenic glycoside abundant in peach. The level of this glycoside decreases during rooting in the basal part of the cuttings only in the cuttings treated with IBA, which form roots.
42882804|Vegetables grown in a floating system may encounter problems of hypoxia at root level, especially in the summer when temperature is high. Depending on the species, oxygen deficiency may cause a lower yield due to a reduction in water and mineral uptake by the plants. On the other hand, plants under oxygen stress may reduce nitrate accumulation, thus ameliorating produce quality. In the present work spinach was grown in summer and autumn in a floating system in different volumes (252, 126 and 60 l per m of cultivated area) of aerated or non aerated nutrient solution. Aeration kept oxygen concentration at 7-8 mg l while in the non aerated solution oxygen decreased gradually reaching at harvest, on average, values of 1.92 mg l and 2.83 mg l in summer and autumn respectively. Such levels of hypoxia did not affect yield and did not reduce nitrate accumulation either. On the contrary, in the summer cycle leaf nitrate content was significantly lower when the nutrient solution was aerated. Reduction of the volume of the solution to 60 l m of cultivated area induced a decrease in nitrate accumulation without negative effect on yield. No significant aeration  volume interaction was observed.
42883233|Thirteen sweet cherry cultivars were bud-inoculated with European stone fruit yellows (ESFY) phytoplasmas and observed for symptom expression under field conditions. Only one out of 375 inoculated trees developed ESFY-typical symptoms of early bud break. All other trees showed no evident symptoms. The symptomatic tree, cv. Bing, was positive with DAPI staining and pathogen-specific PCR. In a complementary experiment ESFY-phytoplasmas were separately bud-inoculated on cv. Bing and on the highly susceptible Prunus persica L. cv. Higama. After four years buds from these trees were used to retroinoculate indicator plants of cv. Higama and Prunus armeniaca L. cv. Luizet. All of the retroinoculations from cv. Higama were successful but none of the retroinoculations from cv. Bing as confirmed by PCR analysis. To study the resistance mechanism cv. Bing was double grafted together with the indicator cv. Higama onto a compatible rootstock. After ESFY phytoplasma-inoculation on cv. Higama, all of the 38 Higama scions became infected but only three of the double grafted Bing scions. After inoculation on cv. Bing, 100% of the corresponding Higama scions became infected but only one of the seven transmitting Bing scions remained diseased 5 years after inoculation. Thus, it is the multiplication of ESFY phytoplasmas rather than the translocation, which seems to be limited in Prunus avium L. According to our results sweet cherry is highly resistant to ESFY phytoplasmas.
42883522|This study has shown that rain induced cracking in sweet cherries occurs in two broad categories induced by different modes of water entry into the fruit. A rapid influx of water into the fruit via the vascular system was observed following natural rainfall. In field trials over three seasons application of excess (above routine irrigation) water to the root-zone, without wetting the canopy, induced large, deep cracks in the side of the fruit. Application of water at a similar rate to the canopy, but excluded from the roots by plastic mulch, resulted in a significant increase in small circular or semi-circular cuticular cracks localised around the stem and apex of the fruit, but did not increase the incidence of large side cracks. In a separate trial removing leaves prior to a natural rainfall event resulted in a significant decrease in side cracks and a significant increase in cuticular cracks around the apex compared with an untreated control. Retaining the leaves, but tying them back to expose fruit resulted in significantly lower levels of side cracks, and higher levels of cuticular cracks. The results from these trials suggest different water uptake mechanisms for the development of side cracks and cuticular cracks.
42883196|A comparative study on susceptibility to chilling injury (CI) was performed over three year seasons on 'Marsh Seedless', 'Red Blush', 'Star Ruby' grapefruits and 'Oroblanco' grapefruit hybrids, harvested from January to June and stored at 4 C for five weeks and an additional week at 20 C to simulate a marketing period (SMP). Susceptibility to CI was significantly affected by cultivar and picking date. 'Marsh Seedless' grapefruits showed greater susceptibility to CI over the harvesting season. Conversely, the grapefruit hybrid, 'Oroblanco', was found to be more resistant, while 'Red Blush' and 'Star Ruby' showed an intermediate susceptibility. All cultivars exhibited a similar pattern of changes in CI susceptibility in relation to picking date. In fact, all samples showed a progressive decrease in the average values of CI index from January (early season) to April (midseason), followed by an increase in May (late-season) and a slight decrease in June, when fruit was overripe. Physiologic response of fruit, evaluated by respiration rate and endogenous ethylene concentration, was not related to harvest date or CI susceptibility. No ethanol was detected in the juice of 'Oroblanco' grapefruit at harvest and concentrations were negligible even after SMP. Conversely, in 'Marsh seedless', 'Red Blush' and 'Star Ruby' grapefruits ethanol was detected at various levels, depending on cultivar and picking date. Ethanol concentrations gradually increased with maturity stage and were greatly promoted by storage conditions. Soluble solids concentration (SSC) and titratable acidity decreased in all cultivars during the season but were not significantly affected by storage conditions. Electrolyte leakage declined progressively though the season in all cultivars but 'Star Ruby' which showed an increase in June. SMP did not significantly affect electrolyte efflux from the flavedo tissue, as compared to freshly harvested fruit.
42882669|Research was carried out in 2002 and 2003 in the province of Salerno on muskmelon (Cucumis melo L. var. reticulatus) grown organically with the aim of identifying the most effective environment for yield and quality. Six treatments, obtained by factorial combination of three cover types (polytunnels covered only with COPEVA film, as the control, or equipped, in addition, with 25% or 35% white shading nets) and two training methods (traditional or vertical) were compared. A split-plot design with three replicates was arranged and the subplots, in which training methods were placed, covered a 48.0 m (4.0  12.0 m) surface area on which 48 plants were spaced 1.0  1.0 m (1.0 plant per m). The cover type did not have significant effects on mean yield components. The traditional training method was more effective than the vertical one, giving higher values of both the number of fruits per plant and their mean weight. In comparison with the fruits obtained from the 35% shaded environment, those harvested from the control tunnels displayed higher values of the residues (dry and optical) and the analysed organic substances, as well as the cation concentrations and a more intense colour; similarly, most quality characteristics showed higher values when the vertical training was adopted. Instead, vitamin C, among organic compounds, did not vary in relation to the factors tested, while nitrates reached the maximum accumulation in the most shaded conditions and with the traditional training method, but at very low levels.
42881801|The duration of flowering and the sexual behaviour (male and female stage duration and overlap) of the flowers of avocado were studied in the area of Crete. The cultivars studied were classified as very early, early, late, and very late. Flowering in the very early cultivars started in January and lasted for 9-12 weeks while in the very late ones it lasted for 4-6 weeks and ended at the beginning of June. Season had a considerable effect on the timing of and the duration of flower opening. During March-April, in the type "B" cv. Fuerte, the variation in flower opening and closure pattern was great; it was, therefore, possible to find male and female flowers simultaneously on the same tree. During May, however, in the type "B" cvs. Fuerte and Nabal there was no overlap of male and female stages at all while in 'Bacon' a partial overlapping occurred for about one hour. During the same period in the type "A" cvs. Hass, Anahelm and Reed the length of time when both male and female flowers were observed on the same trees varied between 1 and 3 hours while in Rincon there was no overlap.
42883038|Graft transmission of grapevine enation disease was investigated in Emilia Romagna (Northern Italy) in the cv. Trebbiano Romagnolo. During the winter of 1990, single-bud scions of a virus-free clone were grafted onto stock cuttings taken from several donor vines. Donor vines corresponded to groups of different categories. Positive transmission was obtained with wood from all the donor plants which revealed enation symptoms in some of the years of the 1988-93 observation period. No transmission was obtained with stock cuttings from constantly asymptomatic plants. After grafting, the average transmission rate of the disease was 3.2% in the first year (1990) and 4% in the second (1991). Subsequently (1992-94) no enation symptoms were observed. The significance of these results is discussed.
42882142|The effectiveness of a short prestorage hot water rinsing and brushing (HWRB) on resistance to decay development and chilling injury (CI) was studied on pink tomato fruit that were kept for 15 days at 5 or 12C plus three days at 22C. HWRB-52C for 15 s, or dipping the fruit at 52C for 1 min (Hot water dip=HWD), significantly reduced decay development and completely inhibited CI symptoms after storage and marketing simulation. The HWRB-52C treatment enhanced fruit resistance against artificially inoculated Botrytis cinerea when fruit were inoculated 24 hr after treatment. Resistance was less pronounced when the fruit were inoculated 6 hr after treatment, and disappeared completely in fruit inoculated 48 hr after HWRB treatment. On a commercial scale, treatments with hot water dips may be difficult to accomplish since 60 s is considered a long treatment time. Therefore, the alternative method of a very short (15 s) HWRB-52C treatment would be desirable for treating fresh-harvested tomatoes. This treatment extends storability well over three weeks at 5C by minimizing CI and enhancing resistance against pathogens during storage.
42881974|Growth, yield, fruit quality and water use of 'Bonanza' orange trees (Citrus sinensis) grown under different soil water potentials were studied under field conditions from 1985 to 1994. Trees, grown in well-drained sandy-clay-loam soil in western Crete, were drip irrigated when soil water potential (s) reached -0.01, -0.05 and -1.5 MPa. Trees at -0.05 and -1.5 MPa treatments received 36% and 60% less irrigation water respectively, than the -0.01 MPa treatment for the years 1990-94. Canopy diameter, plant height and trunk diameter were significantly reduced at -1.5 MPa level, while rootstock trunk diameter was not affected by soil water status Photosynthetic rate (Pn) and stomatal conductance (Cs), on the day before irrigation resumption, were significantly reduced (by 60-65%) at soil water potential (SWP) of -1.5 MPa relative to -0.01 and -0.05 MPa treatments, while no difference was noticed between these two latter treatments. Yield was reduced by 36% at water stress treatment (-1.5 MPa) mainly due to lower number of fruits produced. Fruit weight, peel thickness, juice content and vitamin C were not affected by the soil water regime, while the stress treatment had slightly higher sugar and acid content.
42881416|'Palermitana' loquat fruits (Eriobotrya japonica Lindl.) were either coated with an edible coating or wrapped with an extensible PVC film. A third lot of fruits was used as control. Fruits were then cold stored at 2,4 and 8C for 15 and 30 days plus 1 week of merchandising conditions at 20C following each storage period. Upon removal, fruits were monitored for percent weight loss, overall appearance, chemical and physiological parameters (CO and CH production) as well as rot incidence, flavour alterations and in-package concentrations of oxygen, carbon dioxide and ethylene. Wrapped loquats did not shrivel as packaging achieved a drastic reduction of weight loss, mainly in fruit stored at 2C. Wrap was also beneficial in maintaining both the external appearance and the original flavour in both control and coated fruits. Coated fruits showed the highest weight loss and the worst appearance and taste. Chemical parameters and respiration rate were mainly affected by temperature. Carbon dioxide concentration within the package ranged from 0.3 to 1.2% and oxygen was about 20%, both in cold storage and in shelf-life periods. Our results show that film packaging could be a suitable tool for prolonging the storage life of loquat fruit.
42883509|Weed control effectiveness of five mulching materials was determined in three container-grown ornamental crops (Photinia  frasen 'Red Robin', Prunus laurocerasus 'Rotundifolia' and Thuja plicata 'Atrovirens'). Mulches tested were: AW-Disk (a by-product of coconut); Basotop (made of almond drupe shells without glue); two other materials made of vegetal and synthetic fibers; an experimental textile made of both polyester and synthetic absorbent fibers. Two chemicals -Gallery T-DG (trifluralin + isoxaben) and Ronstar (oxadiazon) -were also evaluated in comparison to hand weeding. Weeds were counted and removed from pots twice during the growing season. Where differences in weed number were observed among treatments, mulches tended to provide more effectiveness than chemical products. Moreover, moisture loss was reduced in mulched containers. Mulches did not affect plant growth (dry biomass and height increase during growing season).
42881597|The gene Mi for resistance was introduced by backcrossing into a variety of processing tomato (UC 82) suitable for mechanical harvesting and widely grown in Italy. Three derived BC lines were compared with the recurrent parent in two field tests carried out in a soil infested with M. incognita and in an unifested soil respectively. In the infested field the resistant lines showed on the average a yield 37.3% greater than the susceptible parent, with a maximum increase of 51.3% for one line (ISCI 5N). In the absence of the nematode, by contrast, there were no yield differences between UC 82 and the derived lines, which were very similar to the recurrent parent in almost all characters examined, except for their greater plant growth. In the second stage of the research, these lines together with many others were tested as pollen parents in combination with various testers in non-infested soil. In the first set of experiments conducted in four environments, ISCI 5N showed the highest combining ability (c. a.) for marketable yield with the three testers used and average c. a. values for soluble solids. In a second set of experiments carried out in two environments, both ISCI 5N and ISCI 6-4N were among the best for c. a. as to marketable yield when crossed with a tester limited plant growth and showed acceptable qualitative characteristics.
42881518|The weed-control capability that has been attributed to solarization in other environments was tested with seed onion, cv. Aegyptian, over two trial years in Italy's Sele river lowlands. It was found that the treatment notably increased ground temperature, but that it inhibited weed growth only in the period immediately after its application. Resurgent weed encroachment the following spring significantly affected the yield results of the autumn-planted crop.
42883433|This survey is a succinct summary of the relevant literature along with original results of experiments and observations made over several decades aimed at exploring the causal background of bloom and fruit set in sour cherry trees. Sour cherry blooms somewhat later than most stone fruits, consequently, at higher temperatures, the blooming period becomes shorter; therefore, an adequate fruit set on sour cherries has always been a problem. Uncertainties around pollination and fertilisations are equally accused. Honeybees do not visit sour cherry flowers eagerly enough; therefore auto-incompatible varieties tend to be abandoned by growers. In the future their role will diminish, continuously. Self-fertility is judged to be sufficient, if the flowers set fruit at a rate more than 10%, although dependable yields (15-20 tons/hectare) need more than that. The desirable, 20-30% fruit set could be secured by a combination of self-fertilisation and cross pollination, moreover, an efficient insect pollination is impaired by the phytosanitary treatment.
42883301|With the aim of ascertaining the effects of some management techniques on the grape drying process, research was carried out in the "Moscatello di Montalcino" production area. The following grape drying techniques were tested: a) cutting the shoot below the first cluster; b) "squeezing" the cluster pedicel with metal tweezers; c) hanging the cluster on a metal grid-frame in a covered environment; d) control (untreated vines). The results show that the treatments always reduced the time and affected the trend of the grape drying process, above all as regards the total soluble solids (Brix) and titratable acidity, while pH values were less affected. Cutting the shoot below the first cluster promoted faster sugar concentration. Berry weight was always lower in the treated vines due to the dehydration phenomena which also affected the must percentage in the berries. This was much lower in the "shoot cutting" and "pedicel squeezing" treated vines in which the grape drying period was particularly quick and intense. In the following year bud break was delayed and shoot length was significantly lower in the treatment requiring cutting of the shoot, while no effects on bud fertility were found. An important role seems to be exerted by the climatic trend during the over-ripening period. In fact, even though the "Moscatello di Montalcino" production area can be considered quite suitable for carrying out the "late harvest", adverse climate trends can negatively interact with the drying process of the berries.
42881490|A tobamovirus was isolated with difficulty from olive cv. Leccino in Tuscany (central Italy). The naturally field-infected olive tree displayed severe decline symptoms, while the leaves exhibited a conspicuous vein-banding. Mechanical transmission and (DAS)-ELISA detection of this virus was facilitated or obtained, respectively, after partial purification of leaf extracts. The virus shared several properties with the type-strain of tobacco mosaic virus; dissimilarities were excluded as regards host range, electrophoretic analyses and (DAS)-ELISA tests. Based on these findings we conclude that the tobamovirus isolate from olive is a strain of tobacco mosaic virus. This seems to be the first record of a tobamovirus associated to O. europaea; our results bring to 9 the total number of viruses isolated from olive in Italy.
42881836|Cultivar, rootstock choice and twig segment sampled all influenced the survival of peach twig tissues subjected to periodic controlled freezing stress over two years. The portion of the dormant period when sampled greatly influenced cold hardiness among cultivars, twig segments within cultivars, and between scion tissues grafted to two different rootstocks. During acclimation, hardiness was favored for the apical twig segment, the 'Redhaven' cultivar and scions grafted to 'Siberian C' rootstock. During the maximum hardiness period of midwinter, hardiness was favored for the basal twig segment, the 'Redhaven' cultivar and scions grafted to 'Siberian C'. During deacclimation, hardiness was favored for the basal twig segment, the 'Redskin' cultivar and scions grafted to 'Halford' rootstock. The data suggest that cultivar ranking, rootstock influence and within-twig tissue hardiness vary in a consistent manner. These data suggest that caution be exercised in the interpretation of hardiness information from 'test winters', provide some explanation for widely diverging hardiness data in the extant literature, and suggest that thorough assessment of genotypic, physiological or cultural factors on cold hardiness of perennial fruit tissue hardiness should include evaluations in at least three portions of the dormant period, the transitions of acclimation and deacclimation, and an assessment at maximum hardiness in midwinter.
42882412|An initial electrophysiological study was earned out on PM redox systems in leaf cells of Olea europaea L. Perfusion of leaf segments with two membrane nonpermeating electron acceptors, ferricyanide [KFe(CN)] and the ferric chelate Fe(III)NaEDTA, led to membrane depolarization of about 8 mV in the light. Dark and DCMU markedly reduced the depolarization effect of the electron acceptors. Intact leaves could not be used in the trials since the epidermis was impermeable to both the electron acceptors. The obtained results suggest that in olive leaves there are two different PM redox systems at work ("standard" and "turbo") or two states of the same redox system ("turbo").
42882637|A pot experiment and a bioassay test were conducted at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Bauchi, Nigeria. The former, which was to determine the effect of nitrogen (0,20,40,60,80 and 100 kg N/ha) on the productivity of Aloe vera, was laid out in a completely randomized design with four replications; the latter was to determine the inhibition rate of the mycelia of Trichophyton rubrum when subjected to Aloe vera gel sampled from different nitrogen levels as indicated in the pot experiment. Results from the pot experiments showed that productivity characters were significantly (P< 0.01) influenced by nitrogen application. The trend of the response followed a linear pattern from 0 to 80 kg N/ha, after which there was a retrogressive response with further increases in nitrogen application. Therefore, 80 kg N/ha can be recommended as the optimum nitrogen application in sandy loam soils with at least 1.07 g/kg total nitrogen level. On the other hand, Aloe vera gel cultivated under 100 kg N/ha gave the most appreciable inhibitory effect on the mycelia of Trichophyton rubrum in the bioassay test. For anti-fungal assay, it is recommended that samples be obtained from Aloe vera grown on soil with not less that 100 kg N/ha.
42883333|Olive oil consumption in Australia has increased dramatically in recent years with the volume of imports increasing from 13,500 tonnes in 1990/91 to 30,000 tonnes in 2000/01. More than 20,000 hectares of olives have been established in Australia and New Zealand since the mid 1990s and some of these are now beginning to bear commercial yields of fruit for oil production from a diverse range of environments. This study has been carried out to determine the range in quality of Australian and New Zealand olive oils and if the quality meets the International Olive Oil Council standards. The results illustrate that the oils selected cover a wide range for each of the quality characteristics tested. Most of the oils were within the IOOC standards for extra virgin olive oil. The fatty acid profiles showed a considerable range with palmitic acid (saturated) levels from 9 to 16% and oleic acid (monounsaturated) from 57 to 84%. Peroxide values were all below 20 meq O/kg although some were higher than 15 meq O/kg. Free fatty acids were also generally less than 1.0%. Chlorophyll, polyphenol content, UV absorption and induction time were also tested. These results indicate that Australian processing and storage methods, and olive oil quality, are of a high standard.
42881404|The life-cycle of the dipteran cecidomyiid Monarthropalpus buxi dangerous to Buxus sempervirens was studied in Medici Villa's gardens in the outskirts of Florence. The box is a plant of primary importance in the settlement of hedges in formal gardens; the midge causes leaf galls and also defoliation. The box leaf mining midge has one generation a year and overwinters in the third larval instar. Adult emergence and ovipositing were recorded in April and May. The gall making larvae complete their development through three instars and pupate in March. The morphological development of the gall produced on boxwood leaves was followed by observing the larva's development and consequent histology of the leaf tissues in six separate samplings. The most involved cells are those of the spongy mesophyll. The intercellular spaces are reduced and the cells surrounding the larval chamber become hypertrophie. Only the cells immediately around the larval chamber are destroyed.
42882385|Leaf yellowing may compromise the commercial value of several cut flowers. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of cytokinins on delaying leaf yellowing in two cultivars of cut chrysanthemum, one sensitive (cv. Regan bianco) and one insensitive (cv. Regan giallo) to leaf yellowing. Cytokinins such as benzyladenine (BA) 50 or 100 M and thidiazuron (TDZ) 5 or 10 M were applied as pulse treatment for 24 hr to cut flowers. Insensitive cut chrysanthemum flowers were also treated with 50 or 100 M TDZ. Results showed that both cytokinins were able to delay leaf yellowing in the sensitive cultivars. However, the effect of TDZ was stronger and significantly increased total leaf chlorophyll content by 35% measured at the end of the experimental period (40 days) compared to the initial value. Treatments with TDZ in the insensitive cultivars prevented the weight losses and improved the hydraulic conductance along the stem.
42881740|Electrophoretic analysis of 7 isozyme loci was used to distinguish nucellar from zygotic seedlings in 15 open pollinated citrus rootstock populations. The populations varied in percentage of zygotic plants, but no cultivar showed more than 30% zygotic seedlings. Isozyme analysis confirms its usefulness in distinguishing zygotic plants in seedling rootstock populations of polyembryonic citrus plants.
42881638|The main crop of the common type fig cv. 'Rampelina' exhibited a three-stage growth cycle: two periods of rapid development interrupted by a slow growth phase; the climacteric and the increase in ethylene occurred in the latter rapid stage. The compositional and physiological changes marking fruit development were recorded in fruits divided by weight into six groups. Figs in the highest weight group harvested at cell distension showed an increase in ethylene production commensurate with the onset of ripening. Respiration always increased at mid-August, though in figs under 30g without changes associated with ripening. Examination of morphological changes in flowers evinced various development stages.
42882832|This review paper highlights physiological and vine performance effects of widely adopted summer pruning operations such as leaf removal, shoot trimming and positioning and cluster thinning. Leaf removal is addressed either under its traditional configuration, i.e. removing in dense canopies some or all leaves around clusters usually pre-veraison to improve fruit microclimate and facilitate spraying and early (pre-flowering) defoliation primarily aimed at inducing looser clusters via a concurrent reduction of fruit-set and berry size. Time consuming and still non mechanisable cluster thinning is evaluated primarily in terms of response variability vs. season and intensity with emphasis on lack of significant reduction of final yield per vine in thinned treatments when large crop compensation occurs. Variability of expected final grape composition improvements in thinned vines is also discussed based on the actual vine balance when the operation is performed. Although fully mechanisable, shoot trimming is still a debated choice in terms of timing and severity. While severe (i.e. fewer than six or seven main leaves retained) and late (i.e. several weeks after bloom) cuts should possibly be avoided, the effects of shoot trimming on final grape composition is discussed as a function of seasonal changes in leaf area development, demography, fraction of lateral leaves from the total and leaf to fruit ratio. It is indicated that, for vertically shoot-positioned trellises, if the support trellising is correctly designed and vine vigour is balanced, timing and severity of trimming are dictated by the vine "itself" rather than by grower choices. Overall, this review underscores the importance of leading the vineyard to a "natural" control of vegetative growth, which would minimise the need for an extensive use of summer pruning. In other words, such vineyard operations should be viewed not just as something the growers "have to do", instead as specific tools used to achieve targeted final grape composition.
42881691|Seed transmission of plum pox virus (Sharka) was investigated in apricot cvs. Val Venosta and Monaco. Our results show that PPV antigens may be recovered in the apricot seeds at different stages of their development: viral antigen was found in immature seeds of the cv. Val Venosta and in immature and fully ripe seeds of the cv. Monaco. In the latter case the PPV antigen was no longer detectable after 15 days of the pre-chilling treatment of the seeds. Neither cultivar showed evidence of seed transmission was obtained. These results seem to suggest that the exclusion mechanism of PPV seed transmission may be an expression of the varietal diversity which does not include the resistance of immature seed to virus infection.
42881569|The aim of this study was to elucidate some aspects of the floral biology of the feijoa cvs. Mammoth and Triumph: pollen viability and germinability, period of stigmatic receptivity, speed of pollen tube growth through styles in crossed and self-pollinated flowers, self-fertility. It was found that pollen is viable and germinable; pollen tubes never took more than 96 hours to reach the base of the styles both in crossed-and self-pollinated flowers. Nevertheless, no fruit was obtained from self-pollinated flowers of cv. Triumph. This cultivar is perhaps an example of self-sterility at fertilization or postfertilization: the flower is protogynous, the stigma being receptive 24 hr orior to pollen shedding.
42881687|Lavandin, a sterile hybrid of Lavandula vera and Lavandula spicata, requires vegetative propagation. Herbaceous cuttings are known to root better than semi-hardwood cuttings. The present study compared two types of herbaceous cuttings for plants grown in soil-less media. Plant architecture was affected by the type of cutting. The plants produced from apical cuttings developed secondary axes as important as the principal axis, whereas axillary cuttings favored the principal axis. Plants grown from apical cuttings produced more flowers, leading to a larger production of essential oil. Plant development and oil quality were not affected by the type of cutting used, implying that growth in soil-less media did not modify plant metabolism.
42882068|The concentration of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) was measured in seed and pericarp of almond (Prunus amygdalus Batsch cv. Truoito) during fruit development. Free, ester and amide-linked IAA concentrations greatly fluctuated in seed and pericarp. In seed, one maximum in concentration for free IAA on a dry weight (DW) basis 44 days after full bloom (AFB) was observed, while two maxima for ester-linked IAA 44 and 89 days AFB and one maximum for amide-linked IAA 89 days AFB were respectively observed. The maximum values were 860,2300 and 39000 ng g dry weight for free, ester-and amide-linked IAA, respectively. When concentration was expressed on a fresh weight (FW) basis, two maxima were found for free IAA at 44 and 111 days AFB. The three forms of IAA were localized mainly in seed coats, endosperm and nucellus; their concentrations in the embryo were much lower. In pericarp tissues two peaks in free IAA concentration were observed at 44 and 131 days AFB (66 and 96 ng g dry weight, respectively). The ester-linked IAA peak coincided with the second peak of free IAA while the amide-linked IAA peak was observed at the end of the growing period. The fluctuation of diffusible IAA from fruit was almost synchronous with that of extractable ester-linked IAA in seed. High levels of free IAA were associated with the rapid growth in fresh weight of seed and pericarp during stage FWI, but no correlation was found during stage FWII of arrested growth.
42883329|The research is based on the increasing problem of preservation of high value areas. Traditional olive growing systems have in fact a fundamental role in the landscape and environmental safety. A special Olive Picking Module has been developed with picking equipment: the "rotating comb" driven by a common digger. Harvest productivity reached an average time of 14-17 min/plant, that is almost 50% of that obtained with similar combing equipment. Results have been referred to specific "Olive Tree Indexes" to better compare productivity in plants of different dimensions.
42883074|The growth curves of pear fruits were investigated during three growing seasons (1991/92, 1992/93 and 1993/94) in order to fit them with a mathematical model. A mature crop of Pyrus communis L. cv. Bartlett was studied at the Experimental Farm of the Comahue National University, Rio Negro, Argentina. Cultural practices were performed according to the local standard programme. Trees were selected at random and fruits were collected at weekly intervals. The range of sampling dates was 21 and 42 days after full bloom (DFB). Fresh fruit mass (FM) and fruit diameter (FD) were measured. Regression equations were developed using SYSTAT procedure. The following function provided the most satisfactory fit to the combined data: FM (g) = 2.77 10 DFB2.27, r=0.95. The testing on an independent crop showed that predictions were accurate, suggesting that it may be possible to use a robust general model. A table for estimating final harvest size of 'Bartlett' pears was prepared. FM was converted to FD in order to compare fruit growth with data from Oregon, U.S.A.; similar seasonal patterns were obtained.
42882476|An efficient protocol for the micropropagation of pistachio (Pistacia vera L.) is reported. Various concentrations and combinations of 6-benzyladenine (BA), kinetin (KIN), gibberellic acid (GA) and naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) were tested in order to optimize axillary bud development and multiple shoot formation from uni-nodal explants, excised from in vftro-grown seedlings. The best shoot proliferation was obtained on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 8.0 M BA and 1.0 M GA. Elongated shoots were rooted in MS medium, containing 12.0 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and successfully acclimatated in greenhouse conditions. Microshoots, which underwent at least ten cycles of in vitro subculturing, were used in random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis in order to assess the maintenance of genetic fidelity to the donor plant. A total of 624 amplified reproducible bands were produced from 10 random decamer primers out of 16; 76 were found to be polymorphic (producing polymorphisms ranging between 5.3 and 48.5%), and the average number of bands produced per primer was 6.2. The similarity matrix established through analysis of the band patterns ranged from 0.83 to 0.99 between the donor and micropropagated plants, and from 0.79 to 0.96 among cloned plantlets. The study suggests that somaclonal variations may be present in microshoots of pistachio which came from many cycles of axillary bud proliferation.
42882674|The nature and magnitude of genetic variability and correlation studies was assessed in 20 seedling trees of walnut for kernel and nut characters. The phenotypic and genotypic coefficients of variation were almost identical in expression for these characters. Likewise, the high heritability and high genetic advance were also reported for nut yield/plant and shelling percentage. However, genotypic and phenotypic correlations for important component traits were also significant with each other. Direct and indirect contribution of independent variables on dependent variable is also reported for the crop.
42881355|The investigations were designed to test the sensitivity of different organs of Phaseolus vulgaris L. to chilling. Water relations parameters, leaf diffusion resistance and abscisic acid accumulation in roots and leaves were monitored during 72 hrs of chilling treatments, in primary and trifoliate seedling stage. During the first 20-30 hrs of chilling, bean seedlings suffered a marked water stress, subsequently plants were rehydrated and regained turgor. In primary seedling stage the water unbalance lasted for a longer period, compared with trifoliate seedling stage. ABA levels in trifoliate leaves started to rise earlier than in primary leaves and reached higher values. In trifoliate seedling stage, root ABA content was 3-5 times higher than in the primary ones. In both stages considered, root ABA levels increased during chilling but the rise in root ABA did not precede either stomatal closure or ABA accumulation in the leaves. ABA involvement in ameliorating chilling-induced water stress is discussed.
42882996|This study was carried out from 1985 to 1987 on 'Maycrest' peach plants, grafted on Prunus rootstocks 'GF43' and 'Damas 1869' and onto a peach seedling. The plants were grown near Caserta (Southern Italy) in a field with an artificial inclined winter water table for testing shallow depths. In July of each year, leaf samples were collected from plants of the Prunus rootstocks, which are resistant to waterlogging and were grown at different water-table depths and analyzed for macro, meso and microelements. A significant influence of year and rootstock on the content of all the elements except of sodium and iron was detected, while for phosphorus only the influence of the rootstock was significant. Water table influence was limited to calcium and manganese, and in contrast with previously reported data, no significant effect was observed on the content of nitrogen, potassium and boron. Correlations between the levels of potassium, calcium and iron and yield were also found.
42883551|This review describes the current status of development of methods for cryopreservation (at -196C) of plants germplasm in Argentina. Arachis pintoi, a forage legume, has been maintained as seeds using vitrification method. Additionally, apical meristems, shoot tips, and somatic embryos have been cryopreserved using encapsulation-dehydration. Zygotic embryos, encapsulated and dehydrated, have permitted the cryopreservation of seven species of the genus Ilex. Various expiants (apical meristems, uninodal segments, buds and somatic embryos) of Melia azedarach have been cryopreserved using the encapsulation-dehydration method. Protocols based in encapsulation-dehydration have also been developed for shoot tips of Citrus sinensis, seeds and protocorms of Oncidum bifolium and anthers of Oryza sativa. Vitrification protocols have been developed for cryopreservation of shoot tips of Solarium tuberosum and seeds of Toona ciliata.
42883012|The lemon cv. Verna (Citrus limonum L.) was field grown under three irrigation regimes: two flood treatments, of 340 mm and 1020 mm of water per season respectively, and one drip trial of 603.5 mm in 1984/85 and 593 mm in 1985/86. Soil and plant water potential, fruit growth, yields and fruit physical characteristics were recorded. The irrigation regime affected fruit diameter during stages I, II and III: the biggest increase coming in stage II. The drip treatment resulted in more rapid fruit growth and larger size.
42882911|C grasses are best adapted to the transition, warm-arid, and warm-humid climatic zones and have the ability to acquire thermotolerance by exposure to acute heat stress. Exposure to sub-lethal temperatures results in changes in physiological, biochemical, metabolic, and molecular processes. The response of two warm-season grasses to prolonged heat stress was investigated. Plants of hybrid bermudagrass (Cynodon dactylon  C. transvaalensis 'Tifway') and Japanese lawn grass (Zoysia japonica Steud. 'Meyer') were exposed for 168 h to supraoptimal temperature conditions (47C) in controlled-environment chamber. Compared with zoysiagrass, bermudagrass showed greater damage. Metabolite profiles were affected by prolonged heat exposure, with significant differences between these species. Consistent differences were found in total soluble sugars accumulation over the study period and severity of plant organ senescence. Bermudagrass roots were more affected, as compared to leaves. Leaf proteins expression determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed an early degradation in zoysiagrass, as thermal exposure proceeded. A significant net decline in protein content was observed after 48 h of exposure, while in bermudagrass an analogous decline was not detected until 96 h of treatment. Although heat stress is not considered a detrimental factor to C grass species, the two species showed significant differences in their physiological response to continuous high temperatures.
42881707|Eight clones, six derived by induced mutagenesis and two via local isolation, of the cv. Annurca apple, a variety commonly grown in southern Italy's Campania Region, were tested against the standard cultivar for their agronomic, nutritional and texture traits at harvest and after six months' storage over two cropping years. The two local clones generally evinced the lowest yield-parameter values, the most vigorous growth habit and the largest fruit size. Storage enhanced overall fruit sweetness in all clones by increasing total sugars and decreasing malic acid; fructose (about 50% of the total) was the main sugar in all the tested clones. Fracturability, as an indicator of texture, declined in all clones over storage, as confirmed by the 20% reduction of pectin; the clones FCM 69 and 0/44 mantained the highest level of flesh fracturability over storage.
42882224|Studies of morphology, viability and quality of reserves of pollen grains are essential in understanding fruit set problems, and the achieved results can be an important tool for choosing breeding strategies. Low fruit production is often associated to microsporogenesis disorders due to genetic causes. The objective of the present work was to study such characteristics in the peach cultivars Maria Aurelia, Maria Emilia, Maria Bianca, Maria Delizia and Maria Serena grown in different areas of Argentina. Measurements of pollen grains depended on humidity content. In swollen pollen, 'Maria Emilia' was larger than 'Maria Aurelia', 'Maria Delizia' and 'Maria Serena'. While on dry grains, 'Maria Delizia' showed a larger diameter with respect to 'Maria Aurelia', 'Maria Emilia' and 'Maria Bianca'. Under the same conditions, the shortest lengths were observed in 'Maria Delizia' and 'Maria Serena' grains. The lowest length/diameter ratio was found in 'Maria Delizia', with a wide percentage of round grains. Nevertheless, Prunus pollen grains are tricolporated. Striated exine ornamentation was observed for all cultivars, apart from 'Maria Emilia' which showed a globular exine structure. Viability on the five studied cultivars was very high, with less than 10% of unviable grains. 'Maria Emilia' and 'Maria Delizia' showed the lowest percentages of viability. Protein and lipids were the main components of reserves.
42881420|The consequence of Java black rot is a dry rot of sweet potato tubers in storage and the causal agent is Botryodiplodia theobromae Pat. The optimum temperature which favoured growth of B. theobromae on Czapek-dox-medium was between 28-30C while temperature around 30C accelerated the disease development in tubers. Likewise, the optimum pH which favoured the growth of the fungus in culture was in the range of pH 5.2-6.0. There are many synonyms of B. theobromae depending on the host range. B. theobromae may be readily distinguished from all other accepted species either by the larger conidia or by the conspicuous longitudinally striate conidial surface.
42881632|Plasmodial organisms from scales can originate extensive disruption in flower bud primordia during rest. A study of organism attachment, main sites of penetration and progression in the host tissues was carried out using light and electron microscopy. Spore-like structures emerging in clusters from the plasmodia were observed on several internal flower organs. Identical forms, located in the rhytidome of the shoots after bud drop, may have an important role in apricot tree decline.
42881690|Trials were carried out to study the effect of solar radiation deprivai on some growth parameters in fruits of the 'Stark Redgold' nectarine variety. Individual fruits were covered with aluminum foil to create them dark conditions during growth. The most conspicuous variations were recorded in fruits at the 3rd growth stage: the exclusion of solar radiation in this period increased fresh weight and water content of the fruits but reduced flesh firmness and modified diameter ratios; moreover, anthocyanin synthesis was prevented, while in fruits previously covered and then exposed to sunlight if even for only the last 13 days before harvest anthocyanin level was similar to that of the always exposed fruits.
42883569|The aim of this work was to evaluate the effects of mulching with compost on growth and leaf gas exchange of two widely-used ornamental trees in comparison to local nursery management standards. In addition, effects on soil respiration, soil temperature and water evaporation from soil were determined. An equal number (180 each) of uniform hedge maple (Acer campestre L.) and 180 hornbeam (Carpinus betulus L.) were planted in an experimental plot located in Pistoia. Treatments compared were: 1) chemical weeding by herbicides; 2) natural grass cover, mowed twice per year; 3) harrowing once a year; and 4) mulching with mixed compost (50% green+50% from household waste, 5 to 10 cm thick). Over a two-year period, stem diameter, shoot extension and leaf gas exchange were measured. In the second year leaf chlorophyll content, chlorophyll fluorescence, soil respiration, soil evaporation content and soil temperature were also recorded. Mulching with compost influenced shoot extension and stem diameter growth of field maple and white hornbeam. Plants grown with natural grass cover had, generally, smaller stem diameters and shoot growth than the other treatments. Leaf gas exchange, chlorophyll content and chlorophyll fluorescence were influenced by the different treatments. Soil respiration was unaffected by the different treatments while soil temperature was significantly lower in mulched plots.
42883453|This study aimed at investigating the genotypes of Pyrus syriaca Boiss growing in Syria, their genetic relationships, and the environmental conditions and their relationships with these genotypes. Fifty-nine samples were selected from different geographical regions in Syria to analyze DNA by employing the PCR-based Randomly Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technique. Results showed that P. syriaca is widely distributed, and thus grows under all prevalent climatic conditions of Syria and on all soil types. No correlation was found between morphological differences in leaves or fruits and geographical distribution. Moreover, the morphological differences were not reflected in the molecular variation revealed. However, in the dendrogram constructed using RAPD data, samples were grouped into two main clusters, the majority of samples in cluster I belong to humid and semi-humid climates, whereas the majority of cluster II samples belong to arid and semiarid climates.
42883458|Under semi-arid climate, olive tree growth and fruiting vary remarkably from year to year depending on environmental changing conditions, making it difficult to set a typical growing calendar. In order to quantitatively characterize the development of this species, growth of young irrigated olive trees was investigated during the first six years of cultivation in relation to annual changes. Experimentation was carried out in Mornag, northern Tunisia from 1998 to 2003 on four commercial varieties Chtoui, Meski, Manzanille and Picholine. Growth measurements of tree height, terminal shoot length (apex) and trunk diameter were performed regularly, whereas canopy circumference was measured on September and during pruning. Obtained growth patterns are presented in this paper. Over the six years of experimentation, average increase of tree height, terminal shoot, canopy and trunk diameters show different growth rates, but they were highly correlated. Tree elongation results from terminal shoot growth but also from trunk and branch elongation which represented in average 61% of the annual tree height and may reach 77% of the total increase. Maximum rates were observed on 2001 for tree height, terminal shoot and trunk diameter and on 2002 for canopy diameter. The latter increased following an S shaped curve with large differences between varieties and years in response to environmental changes. Water shortage, high temperature, pruning and fruit load seem to be the main factors that affect growth rates of 'Chtoui', 'Meski', 'Manzanille' and Ticholine' which behave differently although they were similarly treated. Picholine variety had by the end of 2003 the highest tree height, canopy diameter and cumulated yield. It is however highly affected by severe pruning and warm conditions which prevailed from 1999 to 2002. 'Chtoui' seems to be less sensitive to environmental changes whereas its production was affected by alternate bearing. Meski variety produced slightly due to its self-incompatibility problem.
42882607|Water resources are becoming more limited worldwide and there is an urgent need to explore efficient irrigation technologies. The present paper investigates the feasibility of partial rootzone drying (PRD) for 'Pacific Rose' apple grown in a humid climate. The treatments were commercial irrigation (CI) as control and PRD. Only one side of tree row was irrigated in the PRD treatment with the other side left to dry to a volumetric soil water content of 0.18 to 0.22 m m before being irrigated subsequently. In general, diurnal leaf water potential was the same for CI and PRD treatments. Stomatal conductance and photosynthetic rate appeared unaffected. Yield, mean fresh weight of fruit, trunk cross-sectional area (TCSA), yield efficiency (yield/TCSA), and shoot growth were the same between CI and PRD. Water use efficiency was improved in PRD trees. Fruit quality at harvest, in terms of internal ethylene concentration, starch pattern index, flesh firmness, total soluble solids concentration, and fruit skin background colour, was the same between CI and PRD. Dry matter concentration of fruit was lower in PRD fruit than in CI fruit. In summary, PRD did not adversely affect yield and fruit quality and improved water use efficiency by 120%, saving 0.14 mega litres of water per hectare.
42882776|Salinity is a significant problem in many regions in the world. It is estimated that the productivity of approximately 20-30 million irrigated hectares has been significantly decreased by salinity, and that salinization results in the annual loss of an additional 0.25-0.5 million hectares globally. The salts often originate from the earth's crust and from weathering, when irrigation is the main source for salts in soil. High sodicity may affect soil structure by decreasing soil aeration, leaching, and infiltration rate, and increasing runoff and soil erosion. The present paper reviews the effects of salinity and sodicity on soil structure and hydraulic properties in arid and semiarid regions.
42883102|The effect of foliar spray of triacontanol (TC) at concentrations ranging from 0.5-3.0 mg.l was studied on growth, growth parameters (RGR, CGR, LAI), water uptake and yield of capsicum (cvs. Arka Basant and California Wonder). Triacontanol treatment showed enhanced seedling growth and water uptake over the untreated plants and 0.5 mg.l TC-treatment showed more growth enhancement than treatment with 1-3.0 mg.l TC. In the field experiment, plants treated with TC (0.5-1.0 mg.l) exhibited higher accumulation of dry matter and leaf area than the untreated plants. Likewise, growth parameters like relative growth rates (RGR), crop growth rates (CGR) and leaf area index (LAI) were higher in TC-treated plants than the control. Above all, TC (0.5-1.0 mg.l) treated plants gave better yield than the untreated plants.
42882872|'Verdello', 'Verdicchio' and 'Verduschia' are registered in the official Italian Catalogue as three distinct grapevine varieties. Twenty-five accessions of these cultivare, encompassing known or presumed synonyms, coming from CRA repositories and from vineyards where they are traditionally cultivated, have been genotyped with eleven SSR markers. For morphological comparison, one accession for each variety has been described with 57 characters of OIV 2009 list; phenological and yield traits have also been recorded. In addition, the phenotypic comparison has been extended to the literature descriptions. The same DNA profile has been obtained for all 25 accessions; moreover, present and historical ampelographic data showed a very high similarity. All this information leads to the conclusion that these three varieties are, in fact, the same cultivar.
42883145|Black jack (Bidenspilosa L.) is a weed plant, the leaves of which are consumed as a pot-herb or relish. In an effort to grow it as a leafy crop, experiments were conducted to study its response to topping, spacing, cutting height and harvesting frequency. The results showed that early initial topping increased both total shoot (i.e., edible) yields, and leaf/stem ratio. Maximum total marketable and total edible yields were obtained from a spacing of 45  10 cm. Initial cutting height of 20 cm produced more total number of shoots per plant, a higher total marketable yield and a higher leaf/stem ratio than the 10 cm and 15 cm cutting heights. Total edible yield was, however, not influenced by the initial cutting height. Harvesting every 2 weeks produced higher total edible yields, higher leaf/stem and leaf/shoot ratios and more nutritive leaves than the 3-week harvesting interval. The tendency of plants of the 3-week harvesting frequency treatment to develop flower buds was observed. This is apparently the first known published horticultural work on Black jack.
42882227|During May 2000, unbranched year-old apple [Malus sylvestris subsp. mitis (Wallr.) Mansf.] shoots of the cultivars Royal Gala, Braeburn, Cripps' Pink and Granny Smith were harvested from bearing orchards in the Koue Bokkeveld, Ceres and Elgin regions of the Western Cape, South Africa, and cold stored at 4-7C. Every two weeks two replicate bundles were removed and forced at 25C until budburst had occurred on at least 25% of the shoots per bundle. The change in the rate of budburst over time was calculated for each orchard, and to this response either a linear or a quadratic function was fitted. Non-correlated arbitrarily chosen variables were selected from the functions. Using these variables, the orchards were separated into cluster groupings representing a dormancy pattern. First low and high chill requirement cultivars separated, followed by separation within these groups for region of origin. During dormancy in 2001, terminal buds from the same cultivars were harvested from the same orchards every two weeks and the water potential and water content was measured. A definite chilling influence was observed; water potential and content of buds from the colder Koue Bokkeveld was initially lower and increased with chilling whereas buds from the warmer Elgin showed less change in water potential or content.
42883426|Pollen tube growth after self-and cross-pollination was studied in 35 advanced almond selections to ascertain their self-compatibility as this trait is the main objective of most breeding programmes. The dynamics of pollen tube growth and the number of pollen tubes at the style base showed significant differences between genotypes, independently of the pollen source, pointing to morphological and biochemical differences between them. The number of pollen tubes at the style base was also pollination-type dependent. Some genotypes with a common ancestor showed a lower number of pollen tubes at the style base after self-pollination than after crosspollination, suggesting a genetic component probably due to inbreeding. As a consequence, the level of self-compatibility expression must be carefully evaluated in almond breeding programmes to avoid problems of low productivity, which may be due to a masked self-compatibility.
42882609|The optimum cationic proportions to maximize crop performance can be determined by fitting statistical models to experimental data. We evaluated and compared Systematic Variations (SV), and Mixture theory (MT) models describing the plant biomass, total yield, and total soluble solids (TSS) of tomatoes (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) using six nutrient solutions having different proportions of macrocations (K, Ca, and Mg) during the 2006 growing season. The highest total plant biomass and yield was observed in the nutrient solution containing a high proportion of Ca (TCa) and KCa (TKCa). An opposite trend to the total biomass and yield was observed for the TSS contents with the highest values recorded for the TK treatment. Both the SV and MT models fitted to plant biomass, total yield, and TSS contents of greenhouse tomato explained a high fraction of variation, R, ranging from 0.96 to 0.98. Based on regression parameters, it was concluded that both the SV and MT models can be used to predict plant biomass, total yield, and TSS contents of greenhouse tomatoes where the growing conditions are similar. However, the use of the SV approach to calibrate models for describing the variation of a plant parameter (e.g. biomass, total yield) to nutrient proportions may be preferred because it requires half the treatments compared to the MT model.
42883161|Thiazopyr, a pre-emergence herbicide of the pyridine family, generally gives good results in olive groves but did not show the same behaviour with all cultivars tested: it had better selectivity for cv. Picual than for 'Manzanilla' and 'Hojiblanca'. One-year-old nursery trees measured at 30 days after leaf spray treatment had shorter shoots. At 60 days, 'Picual' shoots were equal in length to the controls; growth recovery however did not occur in 'Manzanilla' or 'Hojiblanca'. Dry weights of roots and aerial parts of all trees of all cultivars treated with the herbicide showed no significant differences from those of the controls. The least growth of cv. Picual at 60 days after treatment occurred in trees whose leaves had been abraded, probably due to the multiple microtrauma of the leaf surface rather than by the phytotoxicity of the herbicide. Shoots of trees with abraded leaves that did not receive herbicide treatment also showed decreased growth.
42883232|Cut narcissus flowers (Narcissus tazetta cv. Kashmir Local) held in sucrose (0.15 M) and GA  (0.05 mM) showed an improvement in flower quality and vase life and an increase in fresh weight and water content. The treatments also resulted in a slowing down of the age -related increase in membrane permeability as measured by ion leakage from perianth tissue disks. Treated flowers also maintained a higher soluble sugar content in the perianth tissue compared to untreated flowers held in distilled water. It is concluded that these treatments appear to modify membrane properties in addition to maintaining a respirable pool of sugars in the perianth tissue of flowers.
42881577|Two training systems (free spindle, at 2,222, 1,480 and 1,111 trees/ha, and free palmetta, at 888 and 740 trees/ha) and three rootstocks ('P.S.A5', 'P.S.B2' and 'GF 655/2') were compared for shoot growth. Total shoot length per tree (from 1984 to 1989) was measured before and after winter pruning and distinctions were made between different shoot types. As tree age increased, laterals on free spindle trees decreased more than in free palmetta. Winter pruning reduced total twig length to about one third. The percentage of the twig types per plant between the two training systems did not show differences. Free spindle accounts for an earlier and higher yield potential than free palmetta. As planting distances increased in both training systems the formation of longer twigs was enhanced. Laterals were gradually reduced but this reduction occured later in free palmetta, and would indicate a slower maturity process in these trees. Total shoot length was decreased by rootstocks in the following order: 'P.S.B2'>'P.S.A5'> 'GF 655/2' both before and after pruning. No significant variations due to rootstocks in shoot type were observed.
24586786|Priming enhances germination, establishment and yields in a range of crops in many diverse environments. This experiment evaluated the effects of soaking strawberry seeds in different concentrations (0, 3.5, 5.5, 7.5 and 9.5 percentage) of nano anatase on germination parameters (germination percentage, germination rate index, radicle and plumule length, fresh weight of seedlings and vigor index) using a factorial design with eight replications. Results showed that an increase in the concentration of nano anatase led to significant differences in the percentage of germination, germination rate index, root and shoot length, fresh weight and vigor index of seedlings. The best nano anatase concentration was found to be 7.5%.
42882452|In Italy, the chestnut silviculture is nowadays profitable but several problems still exist. First the uniformity of coppice system does not allow an adequate valorization of the economic potential of the species, as well the lack of silvicultural practices in the abandoned stands causes a decrease of functionality and stability. In order to increase and qualify the timber production and to improve or recovery stand functionality it is necessary the definition of new silvicultural criteria and guidelines able to link the economic and ecological aspects of chestnut cultivation. The purpose of this contribution is to give a picture of the possible alternative ways to manage chestnut stands aimed at timber production. The results come from 15 years of observations and researches in permanent experimental plots, aged differently and under different silvicultural systems. On the basis of our experimental data, two guidelines are suggested as a function of both management objectives and stand status: i) productive silviculture, articulated in early and frequent thinnings where site index, stand structure and kind of owner allow to manage actively the stands; ii) silviculture of recovery, applied to abandoned or degraded chestnut stands in order to improve the efficiency and stability of the stands as well as to contribute to economic revival in rural and marginal mountain areas. The application field of each silvicultural choice is analyzed and some inputs on the ecological, silvicultural, economical and political implications are provided.
42882225|The prevention of the symplastic entry of metabolites into bud cells may be indicative of dormancy status. Intracellular measurement allows, at least in part, quantification of the "sink strength" for nutrients of different studied tissues. The aim of this research was to study the changes in intracellular pH (pHi) in vegetative and flower buds of apricot. The pHi measurement, based on DMO (5,5 dimethyloxazolidine 2,4 dione) radioactive probe accumulation, was carried out periodically from December to February on buds collected from mixed twigs of San Cstrese cultivar. The vegetative and flower buds and underlying parenchymatic tissues were located on the same node but in different combinations. The flower buds presented significant pHi changes in relation to the end of endo-dormancy and the evolution of phenological stages. In particular, when flower buds were still in deep dormancy, it was possible to record an increase of pHi in the flower primordia tissues just before the first sign of growth reactivation.
42881417|Response of young mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plants of olive tree (Olea europaea L.) was investigated under saline conditions (25, 50, 75,100 mM of NaCl) at short-and long-term stages, and with or without supplemental calcium. In the initial phase (short-term effects), electrophysiological aspects at root level [cell transmembrane electropotential (cell PD) and trans-root electropotential (TRP)] were taken into consideration. The depolarization caused by salt at cellular level (cell PD) was less in the mycorrhizal roots than in the non-mycorrhizal ones. The opposite was found at the level of the whole root system (TRP). Supplemental calcium in the saline treatments showed a protective effect on membrane integrity cancelling or reducing the differences in depolarization (cell PD and TRP, respectively) between mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plants. Various hypotheses are formulated to explain these phenomena. In the final phase (after three months) (longterm effects) both mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plants subjected to saline conditions grew less with respect to the control. However, mycorrhizal plants, when compared to non-mycorrhizal ones, demonstrated greater growth in shoots and leaves. In addition, infected roots accumulated greater quantities of sodium, phosphorus and calcium and exhibited a lower K/Na ratio. While in leaves, mycorrhizal plants had a greater K/Na ratio. The results obtained suggest the existence of a sodium exclusion mechanism at root level which is particularly efficient in mycorrhizal plants.
42883526|Freshly-harvested fronds of A. setaceus exhibited maximum vase life (17.00 days) whereas minimum vase life was observed in A. densiflorus (10.40 days). Vase life showed a decline with an increase in the storage duration. The decrease was steady up to nine days of storage but was rapid thereafter. After 12 days of storage, the fronds of A. setaceus demonstrated a vase life of 10.80 days; those of A. meyeri and A. densiflorus lasted for 4.60 and 3.00 days, respectively. Among the three species of Asparagus tested, the fronds of A. setaceus were found most suitable for wet refrigerated storage.
42881834|The action of several concentrations of an anionic synthetic surfactant, alkylbenzenesulphonate (ABS), and a non-ionic surfactant, arylalkylpolyglycolether (Citowett), were studied using as test different in vitro culture systems (Pittosporum tobira Ait. and Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. BEL W3). These are two ornamental plants, the former characterized by a non-morphogenetic callus, the latter a shoot regenerating species. Three parameters were analyzed: i) callus or total biomass increase (P. tobira and N. tabacum, respectively); ii) shoot regeneration frequency (N.tabacum); iii) cell damage. General phytotoxic effects occurred for ABS and Citowett in both species, especially at higher concentrations. Some differences however were observed between the two types of surfactants. A clear callus growth stimulation was found in P. tobira cultured in presence of ABS at lower doses, whereas Citowett at high concentration increased, in N. tabacum, the total number of regenerated shoots in comparison to the control. The effects of these surfactants on cytoplasm and nuclei were determined. The use of in vitro culture as a monitoring system is discussed.
42881679|We studied the interaction between root temperature and phosphorus concentration in the nutrient solution during the fall and spring seasons. Climate and hydromineral nutrition were controlled through out the experiment to maintain adequate growing conditions for muskmelon. The present study, carried out on hydroponic culture, bears on the direct effects of root temperature and of phosphorus supplied in the first stages of growth. These two trials show that the influence of root temperature entirely masks the effect of raising the phosphorus concentration when the root temperature is below 15C that maximum muskmelon growth is attained for a range of phosphorus concentration between 0.1 and 1.0 meq. and the percentage of phosphorus in the plant does not constitute an adequate criterion for the evaluation of plant growth.
42883425|Comparative observations regarding the floral biology of more than 300 accessions have been carried for more than seven years in a collection and varietal comparison field for Italian olive germplasm. Observations have included amount of flower differentiation of buds, flowering phenograms, percent of ovary abortion and fruit set percentages for free and self-pollination. Results obtained and validated for 150 cultivars are reported in the present work. In addition to a comparative and homogeneous characterization, the study highlights the notable variability of the analyzed characters which, given the environmental and cultural homogeneity of the growing conditions, can be attributed to genetic causes; that the fruit set percentages are strongly conditioned by the various types of sterility; and that pollinating plants be carefully selected for all the examined varieties due to low self-fertility indices.
42882697|The nursery raising of tropical cauliflower faces major set backs during hot and rainy months under north Indian conditions. In order to identify suitable shade nets to protect nurseries against adversities of weather and suitable nursery growing media in plug-trays, an experiment was conducted with split plot design. Among the three shade treatments, agro shade net (green colour, 6 mesh size, 25% reduction of sunlight), monofilament insect net (white colour, 26 mesh size, 10% reduction of sunlight) and open field, the monofilament insect net showed the best results for germination, seedling length, number of true leaves, dry matter, field establishment of transplant, plant height, days to harvesting and yield. Among 17 nursery growing media combinations in plug trays, decomposed cow dung, press mud and rice husk charcoal mixed in 1:1:1 (v/v) ratio gave the best results for nursery and plant growth parameters.
42883113|CO assimilation rate (A) of single-shoot potted  Sangiovese  grapevines was measured at intervals during the season on each leaf along the stem. Leaf age versus A relationship was studied by considering both overall analysis, regardless of sampling times, and regression of A against the leaf age gradient on each date. The results showed maximum A at about full leaf expansion (35-40 days of age) and a decline thereafter, but leaves older than four months maintained 70% of their maximum assimilatipn rate. Regression of A versus leaf position on three sampling dates (May 23, June 22 and September 19) indicated the median leaves as the most functional. However, the end-of-season A rates for each leaf along the stem differed only slightly and, when A was given on a whole-leaf basis, the basal, bigger-sized leaves resulted the most efficient. The total net assimilation per vine (Total A) remained rather constant after completion of vine growth throughout a two-month period.
42881741|Effects of solar radiation deprivai on 'Stark Redgold' nectarine fruits were investigated. Covering individual fruits with aluminum foil at different times during stages II and III, for different periods, influenced fruit development process, particularly during the last two weeks before harvest: fruit size and fresh weight increased in comparison to controls always exposed, while anthocyanin synthesis was prevented and soluble solids content decreased. Compared to controls always exposed, fruits previously covered and then exposed to sunlight the last two weeks before harvest, had greater anthocyanin synthesis and smaller size.
42881338|Three summer annuals, Aster, Calendula and Portulaca were grown in the field and sprayed with various concentrations of Paclobutrazol four weeks after transplanting. The results indicated that Paclobutrazol significantly reduced plant height and delayed flowering in Aster and Calendula but not in Portulaca. In addition, the length of the peduncles was reduced in the three annuals. The life of the flower stems was not extended in Aster and Calendula by any of the Paclobutrazol concentrations, and was shortened in Portulaca. On the other hand, the flower diameter in Aster and Calendula was not influenced by Paclobutrazol. However, in Portulaca, Paclobutrazol at 500 ppm reduced flower diameter and tended to do so at other concentrations.
42882750|Increasing the planting density of olive trees generally cannot be recommended if consideration has not been given to the limits above which an increase becomes more detrimental than beneficial. Farmers always appear willing to increase the number of plants per hectare to provide an earlier return on their invested capital, sometimes forgetting that the investment is justified when the difference between costs and returns remains positive to the end of a planting's projected duration. With the possibility of using intensive or over-intensive models for cultivation of olive trees, it is necessary, therefore, to evaluate the level of capital to be invested for this improved use of the land and the need to achieve the greatest possible productivity over a sufficiently long time, while controlling the competition for light between plants positioned closer together. The choice of plant density is known to be influenced mainly by the capacity and mode of growth of any particular variety, and then also by the geographic position (latitude and altitude), the environmental conditions (climate and terrain) and the cultivation techniques that are to be used.
42882562|Field experiments were conducted during the autumn of 2004-05 and 2005-06 on an alkaline loam deep alluvial soil (Ustochrept) of Jalandhar (Punjab) with ten potato cultivars and four rates of potassium (0, 40, 80 and 160 kg/ha KO) to identify potassium-efficient genotypes of potato in green manured and unmanured soil through an analysis of their response to potassium. Application of potassium significantly increased number and yield of tubers of all the cultivars. Results showed wide variation in the potassium efficiency of different potato cultivars. Cv. Kufri Pukhraj was the most K efficient followed by 'Kufri Sutlej', 'Kufri Badshah', 'Kufri Bahar', 'Kufri Sindhuri', 'Kufri Ashoka', 'Kufri Jawahar', 'Kufri Jyoti', 'Kufri Lalima' and 'Kufri Chandramukhi' based on tuber yield without potassium application and with potassium fertilizer required to produce maximum achievable fixed yield. The potassium-efficient cultivars gave higher tuber yield with lower doses of K fertilizer than less efficient cultivars. The most K efficient cv. K. Pukhraj produced a yield of 364 q/ha without K whereas 'K. Badshah' and 'K. Sutlej' needed 80 kg/ha KO to produce 361 and 370 q/ha, respectively in the same field. In the absence of K fertilizer, cv. Kufri Sindhuri gave the highest and 'Kufri Chandramukhi' and 'Kufri Lalima' gave the lowest response to green manuring. The cvs. Kufri Chandramukhi, Kufri Jyoti and Kufri Lalima were poor users of K (41 to 50 kg/ha) from green manure whereas cv. Kufri Sindhuri was a super user of K (175 kg/ha) from green manure. The variation in potassium efficiency of different potato cultivars was due to both their capability to utilize absorbed K to produce potato tubers and their capacity to take up more K per unit soil. Green manuring was beneficial and a must in maintaining non-exchangeable K and increasing exchangeable K reserves in soil.
42882627|The purpose of this review is to focus upon contemporary information on biotechnological advances made in olive. In fact biotechnology can improve conventional breeding and facilitate the olive improvement programmes. Studies involving in vitro culture and selection, micropropagation, genetic transformation, DNA fingerprinting and studies on genetic diversity, etc. are underway in different centres worldwide. Micropropagation and somatic embryogenesis of several different genotypes have been achieved. The development of various molecular marker techniques, including biochemical and DNA markers, and their application in genetic diversity studies has allowed an improved discrimination among or within several olive cultivars. The estimation of genetic diversity among cultivars and/or with the olive wild forms has also provided interesting insights into the origins of cultivated olives. The rapid unequivocal identification of cultivars is one of the main goals for olive and for the efficient and effective utilization of its genetic resources. Genetic transformation using Agrobacterium tumefaciens has been reported. Genes encoding enzymes in fatty acid biosynthesis, modification, triacylglycerol synthesis and storage have been isolated.
42883118|The amount of epicuticular wax extracted from the fruit of three fig cultivare varied significantly during development; no significant differences were found between cultivars. The greatest accumulation of wax occurred at the beginning of the second stage of rapid growth. In senescent fruit there was a decrease or at least stability, in the amount of surface wax. SEM examination revealed a superficial structure characterized by a cellular-like network and a clearly organized fine structure of overlapping lamellae. Some differences in structure were found between cultivars but were not sufficient for characterization. Changes in wax fine structure during development indicated a progressive breaking down which intensified in senescence. The morphology of stornata and trichomes is described.
42881626|The suspected identiy of Fragu Virg: and Fragum aliud, depicted in two color plates of Aldrovandi's Iconographia Plantarum, Tomi Decem, as Fragaria virginiana Duch., a species native to eastern North America, is discussed by comparing chronological references of the latter's introduction into Europe against Aldrovandi's scientific activity. The plates, which were made towards the end of the sixteenth century, can reasonably be considered as the first illustration of the Strawberry of Virginia.
42882050|The effects of growth regulator, light, explant, sugar, agar, pH and leaf age on adventitious shoot formation were tested using leaf explants of endemic wild pear (Pyrus syriaca). Shoots regenerated from whole leaf and leaf sections when either adaxial or abaxial leaf surfaces were in contact with the media. Explants placed in darkness for two or three weeks yielded regeneration frequencies of 76% and 11.8 regenerants/leaf were obtained on thiadiazuron (TDZ at 2.0 M) supplemented medium. When zeatin and benzyleadenine (BA) were substituted as the cytokinin source, frequencies of regeneration and shoot productivity were lower than when TDZ was used. Increasing sucrose concentration to 0.15 M resulted in increased regeneration compared to the use of fructose and glucose. Maximum regeneration percentage (88%) and number of regenerants/leaf (13.2) were obtained on medium containing 0.15 M sucrose and 2.0 M TDZ. MS and WPM medium produced higher regeneration frequencies and number of regenerants/leaf than did TK, LP, NN, or B5 medium. Medium with 7 to 8 g/l agar and myo-inositol at 50 to 100 mg/l were optimal for regeneration. Leaves of intermediate age possessed better regeneration ability than did young and old leaves. Cells from callus and suspension cultures did not exhibit regeneration in any of the media that supported organogenesis from leaves. Regenerants were successfully micropropagated on MS medium containing 6.6 M BA and 0.5 M naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Microshoots were rooted on medium containing 17.1 M indoleacetic acid (IAA) and rooted microshoots had a 95% survival rate under ex vitro acclimatization. Plantlets produced developed in the greenhouse and did not show phenotypic variation.
42881526|The close ties linking horticulture and the visual arts in Tuscany between 1500-1750 are evinced and discussed. Archival manuscript, iconographie and printed sources dealing with agronomy, botany and gardening, and a close analysis of the corpora of nature illustrations as well as of still-life paintings of fruits and flowers, clearly underscore the important role played by the visual arts in the birth and development of horticulture as a science.
42883162|Storage behaviour of 'Hay ward' kiwifruit was evaluated during and after storage for 58,133 and 200 days in 0.5 % 02, 1% 02, 1% 02 + 1% CO2 and air at 0C. Flesh firmness, soluble solids content, acetaldehyde content, ethanol content, flesh colour and flavour index were measured. Flesh firmness of kiwifruit decreased during storage. Fruit stored in 1% 02 + 1% CO2 retained a satisfactory level of firmness (21.5N) and were firmer than fruit of the other treatments. Soluble solids content increased in all treatments. Upon removal, fruit treated with low oxygen showed considerable amounts of acetaldehyde and ethanol, whereas the control fruit showed small amounts. Acetaldehyde and ethanol content of fruit stored in 0.5 % 02 was higher than other treatments. After a 7 day shelf life of fruit (at 20C) ethanol content decreased but not entirely. Flesh colour changes of fruit stored in 1 % 02 + 1 % CO2 were less pronounced than other treatments. The flavour index of fruit stored in 0.5 % 02 was lower than that of fruit stored in other atmosphere compositions.
42881693|The purpose of this study was to evaluate the possibility of designing low-cost, versatile amorphous and crystalline silicon sensors with an extensive sensitive surface, to be used for measurement of PPFD in a woody plant community. Achieving cutoff of solar radiation at wavelengths above 700 nm created no problem for amorphous silicon photocells, since this material is virtually insensitive at such wavelengths. In crystalline silicon photocells the same objective was reached fairly simply by placing a 30% copper sulfate filter on top of the sensor. Performance was tested above all in amorphous silicon sensors, under varying light conditions and in comparison with a reference sensor. Response reliability was shown to be satisfactory.
42883548|The aim of the present study was to update the guidelines for certified production in Finland, taking into consideration modern practices of disease elimination, testing, maintenance and propagation and cutting down expenses by improving cost efficiency and excluding unnecessary procedures without increasing the risk of recontamination of material. The priority was plant protection; cryopreservation was applied in certified plant production. A certified nuclear stock can be used in certified production without time limits as long as it is maintained by cryopreservation. The cryopreserved nuclear stock material of a cultivar can be transferred to a gene bank merely on paper without any extra costs. Therefore it is rational to combine long-term preservation of horticultural plant germplasm and certified plant production.
42881568|Factors determining anthocyanin synthesis in cell layers formed from suspension cultures of a cherry rootstock were examined nondestructively by tristimulus reflectance colorimetry. Anthocyanin production was assayed before and after the transfer of cells from an MS-based medium in darkness to an M2 basal medium (no nitrates or PGRs) in light. Results indicate that several factors predetermine the ability of cell layers to synthesize anthocyanins in light. These are: synthetic plant growth regulators used in the callus maintenance medium, expiant position (petiole vs root) in the tree, and absolute requirements for sucrose in the culture medium. Moreover, a specific interaction between levels of nitrate and reduced nitrogen (urea) inhibited anthocyanin production in M2 medium. Nitrate and urea also elicited different sensitivities for light-dependent anthocyanin synthesis. The inhibitory effect of nitrate nitrogen was related to sugar supply, i.e. sucrose no longer served as an energy and carbon source for anthocyanin production. A complex interactive mechanism involving phytochrome, nitrate reduction and anthocyanin recovery is indicated.
42883472|The pest control of integrated and organic culture has been studied in fruit crops for several decades, but not very widely in persimmon. Together with growing healthy trees and maintaining quality soils, providing habitat for beneficial organisms is an essential ingredient of organic culture. Various techniques are discussed for persimmon to prevent pest outbreaks and enhance biodiversity, as well as sustainable control. Success of insect pest management in an integrated and organic system requires understanding of the orchard agroecosystem to reduce cost input while increasing advantages.
42883547|In order to guarantee safe, long-term conservation of the National Institute of Horticulture Pelargonium collection, apex cryopreservation studies have been undertaken since 1999. The first results were obtained on apices of P. xpeltatum 'Balcon Lilas', using an encapsulation-dehydration process. Various steps of this process (preculture, dehydration, rewarming) were studied in order to simplify and optimize this protocol. A newly determined protocol was tested on 20 genotypes representative of the diversity of our collection. Apex survival was obtained for 19 of them, and variability in cryopreservation tolerance was observed with survival rates between 28% and 84%. Plants for various genotypes were obtained after cryopreservation however some difficulties slowed down the establishment of an efficient and reliable cryogenic protocol. In 2005, studies were undertaken in order to adapt the droplet-vitrification procedure to Pelargonium. A reproducible process was obtained optimizing the duration in the loading solution and in plant vitrification solution 2. This success permitted us to continue studies on the quality of the regenerated plants with regard to their conformity and sanitary status.
42883302|Morphological, anatomical and physiological features of in vitro plantlets are affected by the environmental conditions experienced. The high water content inside in vitro-formed tissues makes difficult to maintain the original characteristics of samples from in vitro plantlets during the preparation procedures for morphological and anatomical studies. In this paper, micropropagated Vitis vinifera L. cv. Nebbiolo plantlets were cryofixed and observed in a frozen-hydrated state by Low Temperature Scanning Electron Microscopy. This system enables to analyse biological structures in their natural hydrated state. The morphological and anatomical data obtained with this method were presented and discussed.
42882566|A field study was conducted during the 2005 growing season in two different locations (Ebbin village, 32 22' N, 35 49' E; Ras Munif, 32 22' N, 35 45' E) in northern Jordan, an area characterized by Mediterranean conditions. The study aimed at identifying the insect flower visitors and their importance in pollination of Rhus coriaria. Results showed that flowers of Rhus coriaria are attractive to honey bees as well as to a diversity of wild native bees. These results also indicated that insects and wind play an important role in the success of pollination since the open pollinated treatment resulted in high fruit production compared with the control. Supplementary hand pollination with cross pollen did not improve seed set in R. coriaria: both treatments of open and supplemented pollination resulted in similar fruit set and yield value, which was mainly attributed to competition among ovaries of the same inflorescence for a limited source of nutrients and to intrinsic limitations on the reproductive success of flowers in different positions within the inflorescence. R. coriaria fruit set is not affected by pollen limitation factor.
42881343|A simple and rapid method for determination of the oil content in olive mesocarp based on a quantitative reduction of the refraction index (RI) of 1-chloronaphthalene (1-CL-N) by oil, was developed. For each determination 5g of fresh mesocarp is dried at 80 C, followed by homogenization and extraction with 10 ml 1-CL-N for 30 min. The RI is determined with a table refractometer at a constant temperature of 25  C. Results are deducted from a calibration curve prepared with olive oil. The method was compared with the standard Soxhlet oil extraction method. Results are highly reproducible and were shown to be unaffected by growing conditions, soil type, stage of fruit development, maturation, or cultivar. Between 100 and 150 dried samples can be extracted and analyzed by one technician per day.
42883077|In a laboratory trial, the effects of seed osmoconditioning on germination characteristics of the tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. cv. Rio fuego) at various temperatures (6,8,10,12,14,16,18,20 and 25C) were studied. Seeds were primed in aerated solutions at equivalent potentials (-0.9 MPa) of polyethylene glycol (PEG) 6000 or KNO+KHPO, in a dark room at 201C for 6 or 8 days. The osmoconditioning treatments improved germination rate at optimal or sub-optimal germination temperatures. Regardless of germination temperature, in fact, mean time of germination, which was 9.3 days in unprimed seeds, was significantly reduced by 15 and 36% in seeds primed with PEG for 6 or 8 days, respectively, and by 34 and 44% in seeds primed with KNO+KHPO for 6 or 8 days, respectively. Osmoconditioning, except that with PEG for 6 days, improved final germination percentage only at the germination temperatures of 6,8 and 10C. In particular, at 8C, germination percentage, which was 5% in the control, ranged between 26% (seeds primed for 8 days in PEG solution) and 39% (seeds primed for 8 days in KNO+KHPO solution).
42883042|Random Ampliefied Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) fingerprinting is shown to be a useful system for identifying varieties of Italian grape varieties. Replicate accessions give the same fingerprints, indicating that contaminants on leaf surfaces do not lead to errors. Three 10 base random primers Operon A-03, A-05, and A-07 were particularly useful and each was usually capable of identifying all varieties sampled.
42882766|The life table of local strain of grape phylloxera was determined to evaluate the relationship between indole acetic acid (IAA) and phylloxera on our local variety Helwani. The study was carried out by applying in vitro dual culture system. The results showed that there was a great variation in mean developmental time, female longevity, number of laid eggs and egg distribution between all IAA concentrations and plant ages. Based on the tested biological parameters of phylloxera, 'Helwani' would be unsuitable host for such destructive insect as it became older and when 2 mg/l of IAA was applied to in vitro culture media.
42881641|Field experiments were carried out for 3 years (1988-89 to 1990-91) to test the performance of different herbicides in cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata L.). Preplant incorporation of fluchloralin at 1.2 kg a.i.ha, preplant sprays of pendimethalin at 0.75 kg a.i.ha and oxyfluorfern at 0.15 kg a.i.ha recorded good weed control, reduced the dry matter accumulation by weeds and gave yield on a par with hand weeded control. Fluchloralins at 0.8 kg a.i.ha, pendimethalin at 0.56 kg a.i.ha and oxyfluorfen at 0.10 kg a.i.ha needed a supplementary hand weeding in order to give yield equal to control. Fluochloralin was also effective in reducing significantly the intensity of Alternaria blight on heads.
42881798|Two field experiments were conducted in 1992 and 1993 to determine the critical period of weed interference in snap bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L. 'Strike'). In both experiments, beans were kept weed-free for various periods after emergence or weeds were allowed to grow with beans for different periods before being removed. Final yield was significantly reduced when the naturally occuring annual weeds were allowed to infest bean for 14 and 21 days after emergence in 1992 and 1993, respectively. Further delay in weed removal treatments caused considerable yield losses. Bean plants kept weed-free for 14 days in 1992 or 28 days in 1993 significantly increased yields compared with bean plants weed-infested for the whole season. Yield was not significantly changed for various weed-free periods longer than 21 days after bean emergence in 1992 and 28 days in 1993. Based upon average yield of the two years, the critical period of weed interference was between 14 and 21 days after bean emergence. The growers must control weeds at this period to avoid any significant yield losses.
42883572|The mechanism behind the reduced growth occurring in plants subjected to root restriction is still not fully understood. Therefore, this investigation was planned to determine the morphological and physiological changes induced in response to root volume reduction and to determine the time frame within which these changes occurred. In particular, this research focused on the effect of root restriction on growth, leaf gas exchange parameters, carbohydrate production and water relations in pepper (Capsicum annuum L.). Our results show that the reduced growth is mainly linked to a feedback inhibition of the photosynthesis, caused by a concurrent limited stomatal conductance (probably driven by both stomatal factors and hormonal substances) together with a strong accumulation of starch in the leaves.
42883041|An indole oxidase from leaves of Vitis vinifera L. was isolated and purified to homogeneity. The purified enzyme (Mw 65,000) catalysed the conversion of indole into anthranilic acid, with 5-methylindole, 5-bromoindole and 5-hydroxyindole, also being used as substrates. Km value for the indole was 0.125 mM. The optimum pH for the reaction was 5.0. The utilization of indole by the enzyme did not require L-serine or pyridoxal phosphate, and did not result in net tryptophan synthesis. The activity was inhibited by both sulfhydryl reagents and sulfhydryl compounds, by specific chelators of copper and non-heme iron (Fe), dithionite and atebrin. Atebrin inhibition could be prevented by FAD. Dialysis resulted in complete loss of enzyme activity, and the dialyzed inactive enzyme could be reactivated by the simultaneous addition of Cu, Fe and FAD. The data suggest that this indole oxidase is an ironcuproflavoprotein.
42881591|Three Trichoderma spp (T. harzianum, T. koningii and T. aureoviride) were isolated and identified from tomato fields naturally infected with Fusarium spp and Sclerotium rolfsii in the horticultural area of La Plata. Their antagonistic behaviour were studied under laboratory and greenhouse conditions. Tomato seed were treated with Tricoderma spp and the latter's biological control activity was found to vary according to the pathogens used and to the conditions of the assay. In greenhouse, the three species of Trichoderma effectively protected seeds and seedlings by significantly reducing the percentage of disease incidence caused by Fusarium spp and Sclerotium rolfsii, with respect to control, although the control of Fusarium spp was less effective than under lab conditions. Besides the marked efficacy of Trichoderma in the control of disease, the assay in vitro showed that in comparison to control T. harzianum increased seed germination whereas T. koningii and T. aureoviride delayed it during the first stages of germination. These results, though promising, should be considered a first approach and supplemented by field tests under varied climatic and edaphic conditions and by studies on the interactions with soil fungal microflora.
42883482|The effect of five irrigation regimes (20%, 40%, 60%, 80%, and 100% of "Class A" pan evaporation rate) were studied under field conditions in the main fruit growth phase of two apples genotypes, 'Red Ace Golden Delicious' and 'Red Edna', grafted on MM106 rootstock. The crop was harvested on 15 September 2008 and fruit size and weight were determined. Biochemical (chlorophylls a and b, proline) and physiological [net photosynthesis (A), stomatal resistance (Rs), transpiration rate (E) and intercellular CO concentration (Ci)] parameters already known as stress indicators in apple trees were measured in leaves of trees subjected to different irrigation regimes. Fruit number and yield per tree were determined in the field; fruit flesh firmness, total soluble solids (TSS), and titratable acidity were measured subsequently. Transpiration rate did not differ significantly among the treatments at all sampling dates for both cultivars. Photosynthesis reduction and stability of intercellular CO concentration (C.), as water stress developed in all treatments, suggested that CO availability in the mesophyll was not the principal cause of the decrease of A. The instantaneous water use efficiency (A/E) of the plant contrasted with E: E increased as the A/E decreased. Chlorophyll concentrations varied among the treatments and the cultivars, however the differences were not statistically significant. Leaf proline content increased for both genotypes under drought conditions. Proline concentration in the 20% irrigation treatment was around three to two times (0.2467 and 0.1503 mg kg) more than the proline concentration in the 100% irrigation treatment (0.0733 and 0.1110 mg kg). Fruit acidity and TSS decreased with increasing irrigation water for both genotypes. Fruit acidity and TSS were 5.16% and 8.79% in 20% irrigation treatment rate and decreased to 3.99% and 6.497% in 100% irrigation rate for Edna genotype.
42883275|Fungal endophytes were isolated from healthy beet leaves of plants cultivated in Argentina. The plants were sampled three times during the growing season to verify possible quali-quantitative changes in their endophytic population. Alternaria alternata, Stemphylium sp., Pleospora herbarum and Epicoccum nigrum were the most frequently isolated fungi. The frequency of Alternaria alternata and Pleospora herbarum significantly increased in time, whereas there were no relevant quantitative changes in the frequency of colonization by other species. The diversity of isolated fungi species decreased from the first to the last sampling. Hyphae were the principal structures observed in cleared and stained parenchymatous tissues. This is the first report about endophytic fungi on beet leaves.
42883351|Functional relationships between physical variables and harvest time and fruit quality have been identified for a 'Golden delicious' apple cultivar. A spatial interpolation of maximum and minimum temperature and of solar radiation was necessary for fitting physical data to physico-chemical surveys on apples. Daily data from 14 meteorological stations were input into a Geographical Information System (GIS) for the period 1994-1998, aiming at a definition of the horizontal and vertical variability of temperature. A simple inverse squared distance spatial interpolation method yielded acceptable mean errors (about 1C) for daily temperatures, after a homogenisation of values to a standard level of 0 m performed by a second degree equation. Measured solar radiation was considered in order to obtain gridded estimates on an inclined plane with several aspects. Apple quality and ripeness parameters were computed from 434 physico-chemical analyses carried out between 1995 and 1998. Several multilinear regression functions were identified from analyses of 1997-1998 data, linking apple ripeness and quality parameters to meteorological and geomorphological parameters. Among these, two - Streif index and starch content, both ripeness indices - showed acceptable values of predictability and errors.
42881347|In vitro tuberization was induced in nodal explants taken from regenerated plantlets of diploid (Solanum phureja Juz. et Buk.) and tetraploid (Solanum tuberosum L., cv. Dsire) potatoes. The effect of sucrose concentration on tuber initiation, rate of tuberization and tuber fresh weight was evaluated. Moreover, the findings reported offer evidence that the different techniques used for plant regeneration can influence the subsequent tuber production. In both species the high level of 6-benzyladenine (BA) and gibberellic acid (GA) in regeneration medium and the addition of kinetin in tuber induction medium had inhibitory effects on tuberization.
42883323|Trunk diameter, tree heights and fruiting were measured among sixty olive varieties planted at Buaraba, near Gatton in south-east Queensland in 1999. The five best fruiting varieties, viz 'Arbequina', 'Oblonga', 'Special Koroneiki', 'Big Spanish' and 'Tiny Kalamata', also had a satisfactory level of tree growth during the 26 months following transplanting. Fifteen varieties set no fruit during the season.
42883537|Ramets of selected elite trees of Betula pendula and Betula pubescens were produced by micropropagation and planted in donai feld trials. The aim of this study was to establish a cryopreservation protocol for in vitro shoot tips of these birch clones in order to store the material for the duration of the feld testing and have superior clones available for commercial micropropagation as soon as the field trials are evaluated. A PVS2-vitrification protocol used in our lab for the cryopreservation of in vitro shoot tips of Fraxinus was to be adapted to the requirements of birch by modifying the time of cold hardening of shoot cultures and the time of preculture of dissected shoot tips prior to PVS2 application and freezing in liquid nitrogen. The highest shoot formation rates after freezing in LN were 60% for the tested Betula pndula clone and 75% for the Betula pubescens clone after three weeks of cold hardening and three days of preculture on Woody Plant Medium with 0.8 M glycerol.
42882453|The main characteristics of the chestnut orchards and chestnut stands in France and the related nut and wood chains were drawn from bibliographic research. Their links with farming activities and the interest of dual purpose management strategy were investigated through a survey in three nut production zones (Ardche, Dordogne and Hautes-Pyrnes). The nut chain is short, dynamic and in mutation, and is organised into local committies following regional interests divided between conservation and revitalisation of old orchards in the south east, and an orientation towards modern orchards in the south west. The chestnut wood chain is localized but facing an attractive market. The French resource of chestnut wood is important but underexploited. Dual purpose management strategy is not considered of interest except in conflicting conditions of nut and timber markets as a way of diversifying incomes from modern orchards. Chestnut orchards are not clearly considered in agricultural policies for funding even though they bring environmental benefits, employment and complementary incomes to rural areas. Chestnut groves are mostly patrimonial in nature, representing a significant part of French farm forestry. They are typically multifunctional because of their numerous outputs, not only fruits and wood, but also other externalities.
42883579|Studies on selection indices for activating seedling growth in mangosteen were conducted in the central orchard at the main campus of Kerala Agricultural University. The present investigation was undertaken with the main aim of identifying some of the basic reasons for slow growth in mangosteen, and to address this problem by developing and identifying criteria to select the age of the mother plant, fruit, seed and seedling characters or direct selection indices at all four stages with respect to seedling growth. Mother plants of four distinct age groups were used in the study. Variables were generated using all fruit, seed and seedling characters such as fruit index, seed index and seedling index by principal component analysis (PCA). Using PCA and multiple regression analysis, prediction models was fitted for the three indices. Major fruit, seed and seedling characters were identified by stepwise regression. Hierarchial analysis was performed based on Euclidean distance to find the similarities between the four age groups. Discriminant function analysis was performed and six discriminant functions were fitted with corresponding D values to discriminate the six pairs involving the four age groups of the mother plants. For practical purposes, selection indices and best age group of mother plants are described hi the work.
42882824|The study was carried out to have a comprehensive view of the root system behavior of young olive trees cultivated under field conditions. The experiment involved irrigated trees (Olea europaea L., cv., Chtoui) cultivated at 66 m spacing in Mornag (36.5N, 10.2E), northern Tunisia. The way in which roots explore the soil volume during the first years after planting was explored through 'in situ' root system drawings and estimation of root densities. The relationship between canopy and root growth parameters was also investigated. The last section of this paper proposes a methodological approach for determining irrigation requirements of young olive trees and how water supply could be linked to the development of canopy and root system during the first years of cultivation when ground cover and the root system are not completely developed. Some agronomic applications were then deduced concerning water and fertilizers for such orchards. Results show that the main development of the olive root system occurs during the two to four first years of cultivation confining most roots (70%) to the top soil layers (20-40 cm). Maximum root densities were observed at this depth at a distance of 0.4 m from trunks. For young trees, water and fertilizers should be supplied at these depths and distances from trunk to allow easy and efficient root absorption. Obtained results also show a significant relationship between canopy and root areas which can be approximated by a linear model (r = 0.94). The root-canopy ratio estimated from their areas decreased rapidly beginning from the second year after planting, resulting from the establishment of competition between vegetative growth and fruiting. The optimum ratio root length/leaf canopy area of 2.3 km m was found for the six-year-old tree indicating good equilibrium between the above and underground parts. The mathematical model developed on the basis of canopy cover and root extension allows precise estimation of water needs taking into account the actual root surface. However, while the canopy cover measurement was relatively easy to carry out, it was much more difficult to determine the surface covered by the root system. Results obtained in the present work also show an over-estimation of water needs when the FAO method is adopted to estimate the evapotranspiration of young trees.
42882689|Twenty-seven European carrot genotypes were grown in single-row plots in a randomised block design. The data recorded on eleven characters were subjected to analysis of variance. By multivariate analysis (Mahalanobis D technique), the genetic divergence among the genotypes were quantitatively measured. The genotypes were grouped into six clusters by this technique and the greatest number of genotypes were grouped into cluster VI. There was no relationship between clustering pattern and eco-geographical distribution. The effect of genetic divergence on the choice of clusters accommodating the parental stock for further breeding programmes is also discussed.
42881723|Experiments were carried out to transfer the rol genes from Agrobacterium rhizogenes T-DNA to several elite genotypes of woody plants, important in forestry and landscape improvement, selected and cultivated in Finland. Preliminary data show that abundant rooting can be induced in some species by using the Agrobacterium rhizogenes strain 1855. Engineered Agrobacterium tumefaciens strains containing rol B were less effective in inducing root morphogenesis. Experimental results on kanamycin concentration to select putative transformants in all the species studied are also reported.
42881586|The relationship between initial population densities (Pi) of race 1 of Meloidogyne incognita and growth of artichoke plants was investigated in a pot experiment. Pots were artificially inoculated whit finely chopped nematode-infested tomato roots to give initial population densities (Pi) of 0, 0.0625, 0.125, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, and 512 eggs and juveniles/cm. Artichoke plant response to the Pi fitted the model y = m + (1 - m)z P - T. The tolerance limit of artichoke seedlings to M. incognita was 1.1 eggs and juveniles/cm soil and the minimum relative yield was 0 and occurred at Pi  64 eggs and juveniles/cm soil. The maximum rate of nematode reproduction on artichoke, about 71-fold, occurred at the lowest Pi of the nematode.
42882634|This review aims to offer the reader a comprehensive picture of how various mechanisms of response to excess soil salinity highly integrate in Olea europaea plants. We focus our attention on the relationships between (the effectiveness of) salt-exclusion mechanism and both carbon acquisition and whole-plant growth, reconsidering traits to be used to estimate salt-tolerance in this species; on the multiple functions of soluble carbohydrates (particularly mannitol) as osmo-protectants, antioxidant compounds and sensing molecules of environmental changes capable of shifting assimilated carbon to secondary metabolite biosynthesis; on the ecological and ecophysiological significance of Ca-Na interactions in response to high salinity, as Olea europaea mostly inhabits areas with rich-Ca soils; and on the urgent need for future experiments to analyze the responses of plants when faced with multiple stressful agents, e.g. the concomitant action of excess soil salinity concentration and high solar irradiance, as usually occurs during the warm summer season in Mediterranean-type ecosystems.
42881681|Major differences during microsporogenesis between a male sterile cultivar Hayward and a fertile cultivar Maina of Kiwifruit occur upon formation of the intine wall: the cytoplasm degenerates in pollen of the sterile cultivar whereas the pollen matures in the fertile cultivar. The tapetum development in both cultivare is normal.
42882326|Gundelia tournefortii L. is a perennial spiny herb, and a neglected plant, found in the Mediterranean regions. The young heads are consumed as fresh or cooked artichoke-like vegetable. Land cultivation and overgrazing are two major threats to the presence of Gundelia, and efforts are needed to save it from loss and to have it available for consumption. This study investigated the in vitro multiplication of G. tournefortii with emphasis on the chemical factors of the media and ex vitro acclimatization. An experiment was conducted for in vitro germination of seeds in relation to medium mineral composition, light or plant growth regulators. The best media for seed germination were agar-water and V 4 MS with 5.9  Gibberellic acid (GA) in the dark (95 and 87% germination, respectively). Proliferation of shoots was investigated at different levels of zeatin, Benzyladenine (BA), and kinetin. Using high concentrations of zeatin (13.7 M) or BA (8.9 M) resulted in the highest growth parameters (number of shoots, shoot height, number of leaves, callus diameter). The effect of different levels of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), indole-3-butyric acid (IBA), and 1-naphtalene acetic acid (NAA) on rooting ability of microshoots was experimented. The best result in terms of root number and length was achieved at 2.7 M NAA, 9.8 M IBA, or 5.7 M IAA. Rooting qualities were enhanced when 1.0 g activated charcoal was used in the rooting medium containing 2.7 M NAA. Rooted plantlets were successfully acclimatized ex vitro with 80% survival. Acclimatized plants were successfully grown in the greenhouse and did not show phenotypic variations.
42882146|Sweet potato plants were grown under different irrigation regimes ranging from IW/CPE ratio 1.5, 1.2, 0.9, 0.6, 0.3 as well as rainfed control. At lower irrigation level, mechanical resistance of soil restricted tuber bulking as well as significantly reduced tuber yield (r= -0.8712*). Irrigation increased uptake of both N and K compared to rainfed control. While at lower irrigation more soil resistance restricted growth and tuber development, at higher irrigation more labile N as well as K favored more vegetative growth reducing tuber dry matter production and tuber yield. However, the higher uptake of both N and K was observed at IW/CPE ratio 0.9, which also showed highest yield. The significant association of both dry matter production rate (r= 0.9586**) and total biomass (0,9820**) and non-significant association of harvest index (r= 0.6956) with tuber yield suggested more importance of dry-matter production than partitioning of dry matter in determining tuber yield in sweet potato under different moisture regime.
42882492|Two experiments were conducted during the 2001-2002 and 2003-2004 dry seasons at the Irrigation Research Station of the Institute for Agricultural Research, Kadawa (1139'N and 0802'E') situated in the Sudan Savanna ecological zone of Nigeria to test the effect of inter-and intra-row spacing on the yield and yield components of garlic. The treatments were composed of three inter-row spacings (5,10 and 15 cm) factorially combined with four intra row spacings (5,10,15 and 20 cm). Results have shown that inter-and intra-row spacings significantly affected bulb diameter, number of cloves per bulb, clove weight, and fresh and cured bulb weight both for the individual bulb and the projected yield per hectare in all the years. The 10 and 15 cm inter-row spacings produced statistically similar but significantly higher bulb diameter, number of cloves/bulb, fresh and cured bulb weights, as well as fresh and cured bulb yields than 5 cm inter-row spacing in all seasons. However, the 10 cm intra-row spacing produced comparable bulb diameter, number of cloves/bulb, fresh and cured bulb weights and bulb yield to either 15 or 20 cm, respectively. Interaction effect between inter-and intra-row spacings was significant only for bulb diameter and fresh bulb yield in 2001-2002 only.
42883044|This work shows that radicchio has a quantitative cold requirement. This plant can be induced to flower even when exposed to long day without previous cold treatment, but low temperature (5C) causes earlier and more intensive bolting and flowering. The longer the cold treatment (up to 30 days), the more effective it is. The vernalizing effect of low temperature can be greatly reduced by fairly high temperatures (20-25C) given either before or after cold treatment. The latter are more effective in reducing bolting, the former in delaying it. Heat given after cold treatment can reduce bolting, even when compared with non-vernalized control. Heat treatment must follow immediately after cold treatment, since an intervening period at a neutral temperature (15-18C) stabilizes the effect of the preceding cold treatment. This work also describes some of the anatomical and histological changes occurring during the transition of the apical meristem from vegetative to floral stage.
42882472|The effect of three insecticides [Dimethoate (Dimate), Deltamethrine (Decis) and Oleoparathion (Oleokriss)] and a bio-insecticide (Bactospeine) at variable concentrations on pollen germination and tube growth rates were investigated using in vitro culture of pollen collected from three olive varieties ('Gerboui', 'Cora tina', and 'Meski'). The results from the in vitro control media indicated that pollen germination rates were significantly different among cultivars: after 24 hr incubation, a higher germination rate was noted for 'Gerboui' (64.2%) as compared to 'Coratina' (59%) and 'Meski' (29.16%) but 'Coratina' presented the longest tube (523.2 m) while 'Meski' and 'Gerboui' exhibited the shortest tube length (205 and 222 m, respectively). Increased germination percentages of 'Coratina' and 'Meski' pollen were obtained when Bactospeine at 100, 10 and 1% recommended field rate was added to the media; pollen germination from 'Gerboui' was not affected by Bactospeine concentration levels. In vitro enhanced tube elongation was obtained for all varieties. Germination and tube length were reduced when Dimethoate, Deltamethrine and Oleoparathion were applied to 'Coratina' pollen germination media at 100% recommended field rate. Oleoparathion at 100 and 10% recommended field rate inhibited both pollen germination and tube growth for 'Coratina'. In contrast, at 1% RFR Oleoparathion was less inhibitory. Deltamethrine at 100% recommended field rate inhibited pollen germination and tube growth. An intermediate inhibitory effect on pollen germination (80%) and tube elongation (81%) were observed when Dimethoate was used at 100% recommended field rate.
42882809|Amorphophallus paeoniifolius (Dennst. Nicolson), syn. A. campanulatus (Roxb.) BL. exDence (also elephant foot yam) is largely cultivated in the Philippines, Java, Indonesia, Sumatra, Malaysia, Bangladesh, India and China. In India, it is cultivated in the states of Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Jarkhand. Sree Padma, Gajendra, Sree Athira (a hybrid), Bidhan Kusum and NDA-9 are some of the high yielding Amorphophallus varieties released for cultivation. The corm production potential of this crop is 50-801 ha and net economic return is about 2000 -3000 US$ per ha. Plant growth and corm yield is influenced by the size of planting material (corms/cormels/corm pieces), plant spacing, nutrient management and water availability. Nevertheless, the production aspect of this crop is less understood as scanty research has been conducted in this crop. The available literature on growth and productivity of elephant foot yam is briefly described in this article.
42881554|The effect of complementary irrigation with 70 year old olive trees of cv. Souri was studied for five consecutive years. The addition of one irrigation of 750 m/ha given on Oct. 1 caused a dubling of the fruit and oil production. One or two additional earlier irrigations had no further effect on the fruit or oil yield. The relative oil content in the pericarp dropped by 6-8% due to the irrigation. Addition of water to these old cv. Souri olive trees had only a minute non significant effect on fruit and stone size. The increased fruit and oil yield was apparently due to a reduction of fruit drop during the late season on the trees irrigated after pit hardening.
42883348|To reduce the size of seed hemp plants, the effects of different delayed sowing dates (30 April, 31 May and 30 June) were investigated in 1999 and 2000 combined with chemical (Cycocel and Ethrel) and mechanical (polling) treatments. The trials were carried out at Anzola Emilia (Bologna) using the variety 'Carmagnola'. Each chemical treatment was repeated three times at two-week intervals starting from the appearance of the 6th true leaf. Polling was performed by manually removing 60 cm from the top of plants, once a height of 150 cm was reached. Late sowing was found to be very effective in reducing the size of the plant, however the latest date (30 June) is not recommended due to its negative effect on seed production (-32%). Ethrel, unlike Cycocel, produced shorter plants and also, unfortunately, fewer seeds. Polling was slightly less effective than Ethrel in reducing plant height, although it tended to produce more seeds than the control.
42883125|The findings of performance tests carried out on eleven new processing tomato lines resistant to Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato, which were developed in a backcross program employing cv. UC 82 as the recurrent parent and the accession 'Ontario 7710' as the donor of the Pto resistance gene, are reported and discussed. The trials were carried out in 1989 and 1991 in conditions of both high (ensured by 'spreader' plants in field) and natural inoculation. 'UC 82' confirmed its high susceptibility to 'bacterial speck' whereas the backcrossed lines exhibited a resistance similar to the donor parent of the Pto gene and significantly higher than the recurrent parent's. Several lines achieved satisfactory field results, exhibiting marketable yields similar to or superior than those of cv. UC 82.
42881993|Japanese persimmon (Diospyros kaki L.f.), cv. Kaki tipo, was tested for callus induction from exicised shoot tips, shoot regeneration and rooting. Callus portions from the cv. Kaki tipo were then used as targets for transient GUS gene expression, after microprojectile bombardment with the Particle Inflow Gun device, and compared with callus targets from the cv. Jiro. After 60 days in the dark on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium (modified with half-strength NH NO and KNO and containing 1 M IAA), callus was induced from 100% of the cultured shoot tips, independently of the level of zeatin concentration in the medium (5 or 10 M). However, callus growth was considerably higher in expiants cultured on the medium containing the higher concentration of zeatin. Best percentage of adventitious shoot formation (60%) was obtained when calli from the high-concentration zeatin medium were transferred into the light on MS medium, containing 10 M zeatin and 0.1 M IAA. Rooting was easily achieved after shoots were quick-dipped in 1.23 mM IBA and plated on hormone-free half-strength MS medium. GUS gene was easily detected on calli from both the tested cultivars, following bombardment with the pCGUS0 plasmid and using the -glucuronidase histological assay. Highest levels of expression were observed when calli from the cv. Jiro were bombarded with gold particles at a gas pressure of 810kPa.
42881594|Seed and pollen transmission of plum pox virus (PPV) was investigated in Piedmont (NW Italy) in the apricot cultivars Tonda di Costigliele and Bulida, both highly susceptible to PPV. Pollen collected from infected flowers (positive by ELISA on the petals) had high germinability but did not carry PPV antigen and was not able to transmit PPV to seeds and leaves of cross-pollinated plants. A high percentage of mature seeds with typical PPV symptoms on the stone tested positive by ELISA and a lower percentage were positive using immunosorbent electron microscopy plus decoration (ISEM-D). Viral antigen was detected only in the seed coat of these seeds, and ISEM-D showed it to be present as short particle fragments, whereas in immature seeds intact virus particles were detected. During germination, further degradation occurred, and in the germinated seeds the virus was undetectable by ELISA. Seedlings grown from infected seeds consistently tested negative by ELISA over the following three years and showed no PPV symptoms on the leaves.
42881583|Leaves of cultivars and wild populations of Castanea sativa growing in the same environment were inspected by SEM at various stages of expansion and maturation for genetically based surface features that might be used as taxonomic characters to separate the various groups. Several of the resulting features have taxonomic value if they can be shown to persist in other environments.
42881387|The effects of irrigation regimes, water status, genetic background, plant sex and nutritional status on the breaking of flower bud dormancy was studied in jojoba plants. Jojoba plants failed to flower in times of severe drought, and plants with a low water potential did not flower in spring. Plants descended from the same mother plant had similar flowering patterns. Jojoba plant populations could be divided into early- and late-flowering types. Flowering in male plants tended to lag behind that in female plants. The addition of fertilizers enhanced the breaking of flower bud dormancy. The various environmental and genetic factors affect the flowering pattern in an additive manner. The implications of 'earliness' or 'lateness' and the use of fertilizer for agricultural practices in different climatic areas are discussed.
42882923|Eleven minerals (K, Ca, Ti, Cr, Mn, Fe, Ni, Cu, Zn, Rb, and Sr) in 31 honey samples, including 24 Syrian, three imported and four honeys produced from bees fed with sugar were quantified using a dry ashing method for X-ray fluorescence analysis. The search for natural groups in the honey samples was carried out by cluster analysis, using complete linkage and Euclidean distance. The Syrian and imported samples clustered into three honey groups: 1) poor in element concentrations (citrus honey); 2) rich in minor and trace element concentrations (wild plants and jujube honeys); and 3) moderate mineral concentrations (multiflora, eucalyptus, crataegus, and sunflower honeys). Results are discussed in terms of the mineral concentrations in Syrian honeys and in comparison with international values.
42882806|The root distribution pattern of 17-year-old pineapple orange trees budded on Rough lemon, Cleopatra and Troyer citrange rootstocks were studied by root excavation method at four radial distances, 0-75, 75-150, 150-225 and 225-300 cm from tree trunk, and at three depths, 0-15, 15-30 and 30-60 cm. Fibrous root length density (FRLD) and fbrous root length percentage differed significantly at various depths and radial distances among rootstocks. FRLD was closer to tree trunk on both horizontal and vertical planes. Root density decreased from 0.183 to 0.084, 1.051 to 0.238 and 0.238 to 0.095 cm.cm from 0-15 cm to 30-60 cm depth within 0-75 cm radial distances from tree trunk in trees on Rough lemon, Cleopatra and Troyer citrange, respectively. Cleopatra contains the highest 0.231 cm.cm FRLD as compared to 0.051 cm.cm in Rough lemon and Troyer citrange. Troyer citrange has intensive lateral root development with 84% fbrous roots (FR) within 75 cm radial distance, whereas Rough lemon and Troyer has an appreciable amount up to 225 cm distance (extensive lateral). Cleopatra contained 57% FR in upper soil layer (0-15 cm) (intensive vertical). In Rough lemon and Troyer 54% FR are confned to lower depth 15-60 cm (extensive vertical root development). Troyer and Rough lemon had the same vertical, whereas Rough lemon and Cleopatra showed the same horizontal rooting pattern under arid irrigated ecosystem. Thus, irrigation depth and fertilizer placement should be critically rootstock specific.
42882985|Because of the increasing importance of the kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa) as a commercial crop in Italy, and the risk that plants are exposed to when intensively grown in a new region, we tested actinidias for reaction to some common viruses in Italy and screened some plantations for possible virus diseases in Piedmont (North-West Italy). Out of 17 viruses inoculated in young Actinidia plants, tobacco necrosis and tobacco rattle viruses produced continuously growing lesions on inoculated leaves, while cucumber mosaic virus caused systemic leaf chlorosis and stunting. Over 100 samples from filed-grown Actinidia were inoculated to test plants, but no virus could be isolated. It is suggested that Actinidia, in common with other members of the order Guttiferales, may possess some resistance to virus infection.
42883328|The recent demand for quality foods and the necessity to develop low-input, environmentally-friendly agronomic techniques has encouraged the use of cover cropping in vineyards, olive groves, and tree plantations for both fruit and timber. Research has indicated both positive and negative effects of cover crops when used with tree cultivation. Several cover crop species have been recognized as suitable for varying climates, soils and usage. Sward management was conducted in different climates and agronomic conditions with subsequent contrasting results. These results will help to identify the most suitable cover crop for the various environments and tree species.
42881592|In vitro germination of freshly collected pollen of Rosa hybrida L. was examined at different environmental temperatures and relative humidities (RH). Higher temperatures (23 and 30C) improved pollen germination and increased pollen tube growth as compared to lower temperatures (13 and 17C). RH of 63% produced the longest pollen tubes. The importance of this latter criterion (pollen tube length) in assessing the potential fertilizing quality of pollen is briefly discussed.
42881405|RAPDs-fngerprinting was used to differentiate 9 olive genotypes from central Italy (Tuscany and Liguria). OPA-09 and OPA-13 both generated a high degree of polymorphism in all samples. DNA markers were evidentiated by agarose-gel electrophoresis and ethidiumbromide staining. In parallel DNA was extracted from monovarietal oil sediments, subjected to RAPD-PCR amplification and subsequently compared to the leaf fingerprint belonging to the same cultivar. DNA markers profiles of amplified samples of oil and leaf extracts, obtained with primer OPA-90 from genotype Grossolana showed a high degree of similarity.
42883236|Some factors affecting the in vitro conservation of bitter almond (Amygdalus communis L.) microshoots were studied. Increasing sucrose (0.09 to 0.35 M), sorbitol, mannitol (0.1 to 0.4 M) or abscisic acid (ABA) (0.0 to 11.4 M) reduced growth significantly and extended the subculture interval to four months when cultures were kept at room temperature. Cultures grew slowly when transferred to fresh medium after being grown on high concentrations of osmotic agents or ABA. Shoots started to proliferate after two subcultures on fresh medium containing 1.8 M 6-benzyladenine (BA) and 0.5 M 1-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA). Microshoots were rooted on medium containing 11.4 M indoleacetic acid (IAA), and rooted microshoots gave 90% survival when acclimatized ex vitro under intermittent mist.
42883072|Kinnow fruits (Citrus nobilis Lour.  C. deliciosa Ten.) were packed in sealed polyethylene (PE) bags and stored in evaporative cool chambers, constructed from low-cost material available locally, and under ambient conditions. Varying numbers of fruits were packed in 150-gauge-thick PE bags after giving them a postharvest dip in 0.1% Bavistin solution. Fruits for all treatments were divided into two lots to be stored under the two conditions separately. The combination of Bavistin dips and PE packing reduced weight loss during storage. Such fruits also exhibited more gradual increase in TSS and sugar contents and decrease in titratable acidity and ascorbic acid contents, especially under cool chamber storage. Spoilage due to fungal decay was higher in the fruits stored under ambient conditions. Fruits stored in the cool chamber were more acceptable as they had better appearance, texture, taste and flavour.
42883574|A two-year experiment (2004-2005) was conducted at Tal Amara Research Station in the Bekaa Valley of Lebanon to evaluate the influence of progressive application of K rates and application timing on yield, yield components and tuber quality of potato (Solatium tuberosum L. cv. Agria). Four levels of potassium (0 (K), 75 (K), 150 (K), and 225 (K) kg KO ha) and two application timings (tuber initiation and tuber bulking stages) were used in a split-plot design. The progressive application of potassium fertilizer from 0 to 225 kg KO ha significantly affected the yield and yield components of potato. In both years, small grade tubers and aggregate tuber yield increased quadratically with increasing K application rates up to 150 kg KO ha, reaching a plateau thereafter, showing luxury consumption of the nutrient at 225 kg KO ha. In 2004 when averaged over K application rates, large and medium grade tubers and aggregated tuber yield were 120%, 22%, and 12% greater, respectively, with K application at tuber bulking than at tuber initiation. A similar trend was also observed in 2005, when the small grade tubers and aggregate tuber yield were 20% and 12% higher, respectively, with K application at tuber bulking than at tuber initiation stage. Finally, no significant difference among treatments was observed for tuber dry matter (avg. 19.8%) and specific gravity (1.08 g cm).
42881908|5-40 M abscisic acid (ABA) triggered further development of somatic proembryos of Norway spruce (Picea abies) grown both in liquid and on solidified media. In the absence of exogenous ABA, embryo yield was negligible. Somatic embryos grown on solidified media were successfully converted into ex vitro plants with conversion efficiency 24%, whereas only a minority of embryos formed roots in suspension. Endogenous levels of several plant growth hormones were analysed during the process of somatic embryo development and maturation in suspension. After the administration of ABA, endogenous ABA quickly rose up from a very low level and the increase was dependent on exogenous ABA concentration. Endogenous level of ABA slowly decreased even before omission of 5 M ABA from the media, however considerable endogenous ABA level still remained two weeks after exogenous ABA removal. Indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) decreased in the period of embryo development and increased again in late maturation stage. Similar patterns were also recorded for endogenous levels of cytokinins (isopentenyladenine, isopentenyladenosine, zeatin and zeatin riboside. Embryogenic tissue produced more than 40 times lower amount of ethylene compared with the non-embryogenic one.
42882995|Asparagus plumosus (Baker) is an important cut foliage that does not keep well in vase because of falling cladodes and the change of colour to yellow or brown. Since no information is available on postharvest life of A. plumosus, four experiments were carried out. The best keeping solution is composed of a mixture of 8-HQS 7710 molesl, AOA 110 molesl and 3, 4, 5 - T 110 molesl and gives a duration to stems of about 30 days in comparison to only 15 days in distilled water. It is also possible to store dry A. plumosus for a maximum of 30 days at 4C. After storage, vase life in the keeping solution is still about 9-12 days. The weight of fallen cladodes was also evaluated.
42881977|Transformed olive calli produced from cv. Dolce Agogia leaf petioles were obtained using Agrobacterium tumefaciens LBA4404 carrying the plasmid pBIN19 containing rol A, B, C (ORFs 10, 11, 12) from Agrobacterium rhizogenes T-DNA. The presence of the DNA insert in the callus genome was shown by its resistance to kanamycin, by its positivity to the neomycin phosphotransferase II (NPT II) enzyme activity assay and by Southern hybridization. Transgenic callus was able to regenerate roots in low auxinic medium. The results, a first for the species, indicate the possibility of transforming olive and of using the rol genes to improve the rooting ability of some olive cultivars.
42882867|A three-year study (2007-2009) was carried out on green asparagus under tunnel in Campania (southern Italy) with the purpose of verifying both the possibility to practise organic management and annual double harvest in order to extend the eco-compatible production period and to avoid expensive imports. Comparisons among eight experimental treatments were made. Treatments were obtained by factorial combination of two crop methods (conventional and organic) and four spring and summer harvest periods of 90-day total duration (75 days in spring plus 15 in summer; 60 days in spring plus 30 in summer; 45 days in spring plus 45 in summer; as a control, 90 days in spring), arranging a split plot design with three replicates. The conventional management led to the highest yield, as a consequence of the higher spear number per plant, while the organic management resulted in both spear calibre and mean weight increase. Organic spears showed a higher level of residues and sugars but a lower content of nitrate and fibre. The treatment with 75-day harvest in spring and 15 in summer proved the best double harvest combination, leading to the highest comprehensive yield (11.5 tha), not different from the control harvested only in spring for 90 days. Summer spears showed higher values of optical residue, glucose, fructose, vitamin C and some mineral nutrients; instead, spring spears attained lower nitrate and average fibre content. Asparagus annual double harvest revealed economically interesting results, but the profits are strictly related to the prices of summer spears, which were evidently higher in summer than in spring in the three years of research.
42881513|Influence of furrow, drip, over-tree and under-tree sprinkler methods on nutrient uptake of lemon trees is evaluated. The work was carried out in an orchard with 'Kutdiken' lemon in Lower Seyhan Plain of Turkey's Mediterranean region. Soil samples taken from 30 cm incremental sections of 120 cm deep soil profile in each treatment were analyzed for total salt accumulation and plant nutrient status of soil. Every year, at the end of irrigation season, leaf samples were collected and analyzed for both macro and micro nutrients to examine their association with soil nutrient status. Results showed that a very close association exists between soil N, P and K status within the first 30 cm-soil layer and their concentrations in the fruit-tre leaves. Soil N was highest (P < 0.05) in the furrow irrigation method. Leaf Zn and Cu concentrations were influenced significantly (P < 0.05) by the method of irrigation, however, their respective soil concentrations were not significantly different among the treatments. Effect of irrigation systems on leaf nutrient status manifests itself in fruit yield and juice content. With furrow and under-tree sprinkler systems as opposed to drip and over-tree sprinkler treatments higher soil  level resulted in both higher fruit yield and juice content. Total salt accumulation under drip irrigation was the highest within the soil layer from 60 to 90 cm; however, the extent of the overall salinity level was not such as to hinder the viability of this specific method of irrigation under existing soil and climatic conditions of Mediterranean characteristics.
42881422|In full sunlight (1400 pmol m s), net photosynthesis of field-grown 'Merlot' grapevines was maximum in 20-40-day-old leaves. At lower light intensity (150 mol m s) photosynthesis decreased, and 50-60-day-old leaves had higher photosynthetic rates. Stomatal conductance followed a similar pattern. The concentration of substomatal CO was consistently lower in leaves with higher photosynthesis, at both high and low light intensities. This suggests that leafage limited photosynthesis by non-stomatal factors. Chlorophyll and protein contents per unit leaf area were higher in leaves of intermediate age.
42883471|Persimmon fruit is prone to various deformations and blemishes that develop in the orchard and affect the quality and appearance of the fruit at harvest. Environmental factors that probably affect their development are climate-and/or soil-related, but very little is actually understood about their formation. Climatic effects cannot be easily dealt with, but the effects of soil-related factors, such as irrigation and nutrient supply, which are much less obvious, have received almost no attention with regard to persimmon cultivation, in spite of their well-known effects for many other fruit crops. The occurrence of two fruit disorders in 'Triumph' orchards in Israel that incur economic losses has prompted the investigation of the effects of irrigation and nutrition on persimmon fruit quality in general, with specific emphasis on disorder development. One disorder is the development of fruit deformation, which is already apparent in the fruit bud. The second is an early softening of the blossom-end, accompanied by a premature softening of this region of the fruit, which we have termed 'soft blossom end' (SBE). This presentation will describe how in our attempts to understand the effects of irrigation and nutrition on the development of SBE, such factors might affect general fruit quality.
42882088|Yield and quality of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill.) in Ghana are reduced by wilt diseases in the feld. A study was conducted to determine the effect of transplanting seedlings from compost on yield, quality and wilt disease incidence. Transplanting seedlings from compost at 50% flower bud initiation reduced the incidence of wilt diseases. Plants transplanted together with compost were more vigorous and had an extended harvest period. Mean number of fruits/plant, mean fruit weight and yield in tonnes/ha were significantly increased when seedlings were transplanted together with compost at 50% flower bud initiation, and the treatment slightly increased total soluble solids content but did not affect shelf-life and pH. Fusarium oxysporum and Sclerotium rolfsii were identified as the predominant organisms associated with wilt disease in the field by a pathogenicity test in the greenhouse.
42881349|The rain trees or fountain trees which collect fog or mist water with their leaves have been a constant feature on Hierro, since the discovery of the Canarian archipelago at the beginning of the 15th century. The most famous tree was the Garo, an endemic laurel (Ocoteafoetens) of the subtropical cloud forest, which was uprooted in 1610. This permanent historical feature has given rise to many tales, e.g. the magic "rain tree" of the Canary Islands, which are more or less legendary and are deeply anchored in popular traditions. The tales will be unravelled to underline the original aspect of the water supply of the plants. This scientific phenomenon, the collection of droplets by the foliage, is still hidden by the unknown. Centuries after the Garo was uprooted, a new fountain tree was planted in the old fountain tree's place by Zsimo Hernndez in 1945. It now collects fog water.
42881923|The study was conducted on a hydroponic greenhouse crop to analyse the influence of thermal shock to young melon roots on growth and phosphorus uptake. The results showed that root level thermal shock sharply reduces growth and phosphorus uptake. The farther the root temperature is from the optimal growth threshold of 18C, and the longer the treatment period is, the stronger the effect on growth is. Phosphorus concentration in the blades dropped sharply when root temperature was maintained at 10C for at least five days, with negligible melon plant growth when the 10C temperature is maintained for 10 days. No correlation appeared between the total or inorganic phosphorus content in blade and plant growth.
42881587|Lilium is currently grown as a cut-flower and can be adapted to pot cultivation by applying growth retardants. Of these, paclobutrazol has shown its effectiveness. Fourteen lily cultivars (ten Mid-Century hybrids, three L. speciosum Thunb. and one L. longiflorum Thunb.) were treated with paclobutrazol as preplant bulb-dip (3090 mg a.i./liter for 30 minutes), as soil drench (6 mg a.i./pot) and as foliar spray (400 mg a.i./liter). Paclobutrazol significantly controlled plant height in all applications, and the effectiveness of the method was found to be linked to the cultivar. Some cultivars were not result marketable after the treatment because of excessive height reduction and/or lower leaf damage.
42883454|Peat is extensively used in olive nurseries as a primary componen in commercial soilless potting media. The increased use of peat as an organic amendment with superior water holding capacity is challenged by economic and environmental pressures. To stay competitive and satisfy environmental concerns, potential alternatives to peat need to be investigated. In the present investigation, commercially available peat-based soilless mixes were amended with 25%, 50%, 75% or 100% organic green compost generated from biosolids. Results suggest that compost can be a viable partial alternative to peat as a substrate for containerized olive nursery production. Media amended with 25 and 50% compost provided plants with a better growth and appearance compared to unamended media. On the other hand, a higher compost content (75 or 100%), even though not affecting plant growth, improved plant susceptibility to water shortage. Green compost did not also improve heavy metal content in plant tissues. Concluding, peat-based media partially amended with green compost may have positive agronomic and economic consequences for commercial olive nursery production.
42883183|Greenhouse and plastic house vegetable production has major importance in Turkish agriculture and 88.8% of the area covered by these techniques is in the Mediterranean region. In this study, the effect of predator Deraeocoris pallens against whitefly Bemisia tabaci was investigated during 1994-1995. D. pallens was reared on eggplant under laboratory conditions and two to three adults per one meter of lines were released three times at seven day intervals when the whitefly density reached two to three larvae and pupae/leaf. D. pallens was found to be effective on B. tabaci on eggplant under greenhouse conditions.
42882854|Pineapple roots need adequate oxygen to function, sustaining growth and yield. The crop is susceptible to soil saturation caused by natural rainfall or irrigation, or even with drip irrigation that creates sustained wetting fronts. Drip and subsurface drip irrigation can develop sustained wetting fronts, particularly in low permeability soils, predisposing plant roots to a low oxygen environment. We evaluated the use of aerated irrigation water "oxygation", employing Mazzei air injectors which mix air with irrigation (12% air by volume of water) in-line, increasing oxygen concentration in the irrigation water stream. The effect of this treatment was evident in growth, development, and leaf gas exchange parameters. Total fruit yield increased by 44 and 26% whereas industry yield increased by 11 and 6% due to oxygation compared to the control and no irrigation, respectively. High yield was associated with an increase in fruit size and not the number of fruits produced. Phytophthora infestation in the oxygation (3% of plants) was significantly reduced compared to the control (4.9%), and without irrigation treatment (10.5%) suggesting that reasonable management of Phytophthora, which is one of the major pathological problems for pineapple production in Australia and elsewhere, can be addressed through aerated water irrigation. Oxygation responses were mediated through root and soil processes involving greater root biomass, root respiration, increased microbial diversity and enhanced soil aeration status.
42883316|Trials of the European olive (Olea europaea) were undertaken to assess growth performance and commercial potential in an arid climate with saline ground water. Eighty-eight trees of five different cultivars were planted on a clay soil at the first trial site. A total of ninety-eight trees comprising eleven different cultivars were planted in sandy soil at the second site. A significantly higher mortality irate occurred at first site. A significant quantity of fruit was produced by some cultivars at the second site. Ripening of fruit occurred earlier then at other olive growth areas. The Erropean olive has potential as a possible future commercial crop in arid environments in Australia. A future randomised block tril is planned, to assess growth perfomance in contrasting soil profils.
42882403|Healthy, mature stems of about 1.2-1.5 m length of three cassava cultivars ('Sree Prakash', 'Sree Jaya' and 'H-165') were stored for five months under hot, dry weather conditions under seven treatments: T-stems stored vertically under tree shade; T-stems stored vertically under tree shade and watered at 15 - day intervals; T-stems stored vertically under tree shade with bottom portion (2-3 cm) buried in sand bed and watered at 15 - day intervals; T-stems stored horizontally under tree shade; T-stems stored vertically in the open; T-stems stored vertically in the open and watered at 15 - day intervals; and T-stems stored vertically in the open with bottom portion (2-3 cm) buried in sand bed and watered at 15 - day intervals. Insecticide chlorpyrifos (active ingredient (a.i.) 20%) was applied to all stems to protect them from termite (Odontotermus sp.) and soft scale (Aonidomytilus albus) infestation. Fungicide carbendazim (a.i. 50%) was applied to stems stored in treatments T, T, T, T, T and T, whereas mancozeb (a.i. 75%) was applied to stems stored in treatment T to protect them from any fungal infection. Stems of the three cassava cultivars in treatments T and T retained greater moisture content (68.8-71.0%), greater percentage of fresh stem (90.0-91.7%), had greater starch content (256.3-269.9 mg/gram dry stem), and showed greater percentage of sprouting (90.7-95.3%). Plants from these stems showed a lower reduction in storage root yield (2.6-3.6 t/ha) as compared to storage root yield of plants from fresh stems. It is recommended that cassava stems be stored vertically with bottom portion (2-3 cm) buried in sand bed and watered at 15-day intervals under open conditions with appropriate plant protection measures over a period of five months under hot, dry weather conditions.
42881665|Axillary-bud explants of Prunus laurocerasus L. cv. Otto Luyken were established and cultured in vitro on Murashige and Skoog salt medium. A high proliferation rate was achieved by placing shoots horizontally on medium supplemented with 88 mM sucrose, 2.2 M BA and 0.054 M NAA. The use of sorbitol as an alternative carbon source to sucrose reduced shoot length. Shoots rooted easily in vitro on MS medium with NAA and IBA or without hormones after bottom dipping in IBA-solution. Rooting was not influenced by the addition of phloroglucinol or activated charcoal to the medium. Plantlet survival at weaning in compost-sand or peat-compost-sand mixtures reached 80%. After weaning, leaf spray with a low concentration of GA (145 M) and fertirrigation with nitrogen appeared useful in enhancing initial outdoor growth.
42881397|Tomato stem cross sections of four-week-old seedlings (NS 268 cultivar) artificially inoculated with Agrobacterium tumefaciens showed meristematic cell transformation in the internal phloem tissues four days after inoculation. This cell division was accompanied by cell arrangement into compacted parallel rows to heal the slit caused by artificial inoculation. Cell division and dedifferentiation increased and reached the cortex tissues causing enlargement and initiation of bacterial gall. Maximum cell division and enlargement occurred eight days after inoculation at an average temperature of 29.5C. Root primordia started to form six days after inoculation. Phloem and xylem tissues expanded largely along with cell deterioration and malformation at site of initiation forty-five days after inoculation in both stem and root cross sections.
42883126|Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (DAS-ELISA) was used to test shoot tip cultures of Mr.S. 2/5 Plum rootstock for PNRSV and PPV. Micropropagated shoot tips subjected to intensive subculturing showed a higher rate of infection and were more reliable than screenhouse grown plants as source material in testing for the presence of both viruses. All the plantlets derived from in vitro propagation retained the virus infection, showing that PNRSV and PPV in Mr.S. 2/5 plum rootstock cannot be eradicated simply by intensive in vitro subcultures of shoot tips. The use of in vitro propagated material for indexing can bring some advantages to programmes for the certification of the fruit trees.
42882443|In 1991 a project of census and mapping of macromycetes in forest ecosystems of Sicily was proposed. To date, more than 1,500 taxa have been recorded in the Sicilian territory, 13.5% of which (i.e. 204 taxa) belongs to chestnut woods. The presence of saprobes and mycorrhizal species, as well as pathogens, is strongly influenced by forest management. The percentage of mycorrhizal fungi exceeds the 50% mark and is apparently not very prejudiced by anthropic pressure. The benefits of such a high number of mycorrhizal species for the state of health of the trees are partially nullified by the presence of some pathogens. A group of mycorrhizal species are valuable products as food and they are sold in the local markets and restaurants. Furthemore, the chestnut woods of Sicily host some interesting, infrequent and rare fungi.
42881400|The relationship between ethylene evolution and flower bud abscission has been investigated in two Lilium cultivars, Connecticut King and Enchantment, characterized by different flower bud abscission. Ethylene levels were modulated by treatments with specific inhibitors of ethylene biosynthesis: aminoethoxyvinylglycine and cobalt chloride. The two cultivars behaved differently in their response to treatments. Flower abscission was almost absent when the peak of maximum ethylene evolution from flower buds of the cv. Enchantment was eliminated by appropriate aminoethoxyvinylglycine and cobalt chloride treatments. Conversely, the same treatments reduced the levels of ethylene but did not affect the percentage of abscission in the cv. Connecticut King. The experimental results show a quantitative relationship between the levels of ethylene evolution and the extent of abscission phenomenon.
42883271|Olive (Olea europaea L.) fruits do not distribute regularly in the canopy. In this species most of the fruits are formed at the periphery of the tree, while very few fruits develop in the interior. Determining limiting processes and their variation between genotypes is one first step to improve productivity in less favored zones of the olive tree. In this investigation, causes underlying differential fruit distribution and oil production in two oil cultivars differing in growth habit were studied: evenly open ('Picual') and closed canopied ('Arbequina'). Results indicate that multiple sequential processes (sprouting, flowering, and fruit set, growth and oil accumulation in the fruits) account for differences in productivity among canopy zones of both cultivars. Olives from twigs developed at the top of the tree produced more than triple the amount of oil produced from olives from the shaded interior. Analyses of variance and covariance showed that shoot growth, intensity of flowering, and fruit set (for 'Arbequina'), or fruit size (for 'Picual'), were the main factors involved, while flower fertility and oil accumulation were less important in causing those losses of productivity. Some differences were observed between cultivars in flowering and fruiting patterns: 'Arbequina' developed more fertile flowers and fruits per twig but of smaller size, and fruit set rather than fruit size accounted for differential productivity among canopy areas, while the opposite was true for 'Picual'.
42881701|Potted plants of Vicia faba L. cv. Gigante d'Ingegnoli were exposed to non-visible injury by inducing concentrations of sulphur dioxide (SO) (up to 123 ppb in vol.) in fumigation chambers for three weeks, and growth parameters were assessed on a group of plants; the other plants were then exposed to water stress for six days. No significant effect on biomass production, leaf diffusive resistance and chlorophyll content was observed in response to the gas exposure, even if the sulphur content of leaves and stems rose sharply in the SO treated plants. Leaf diffusion resistance in water stressed plants increased more in SO pre-exposed plants. No differences were detected in water consumption. After rewatering, the recovery in stomatal conductance was faster in SO pre-exposed plants than in control.
42881582|In two yellow peach cultivars Redhaven and Flavorcrest and in the white cultivars Triestina and Redhaven Bianca, (a spot of 'Redhaven'), the rate of ethylene evolution and the changes in carbohydrates and organic acid contents were determined during final fruit development. A ten-fold increase in ethylene evolution was detected in late stage III; the exception being the white flesh cultivar Triestina which showed a 30-fold increase. Glucose and fructose were the predominant sugars of all cultivars at the end of stone-hardening. Sucrose became the major sugar in subsequent weeks and accumulated to levels six times higher than glucose or fructose at the softripe maturing stage. Malic and citric were the predominant organic acids. The white-flesh cultivar 'Triestina' had the highest content of sucrose, fructose and malic acid.
42883457|Four South-American bean genotypes ('Arroz tuscola 9 , Orfeo', 'Pintoll4' and 'Tortola'), exhibiting contrasting responses to abiotic stress conditions in the field, have been subjected to both water and chilling stress in order to evaluate their relative tolerance to injury. Our experiment showed that 4 Pintoll4' seemed to be the most sensitive to leaf dehydration, but was also able to rapidly synthesize large amounts of ABA, indicating a reduced sensitivity to the hormone which could explain this discrepancy. 'Pinto114' was also able to maintain positive turgor values even in the presence of evident leaf dehydration. Orfeo and Tortola genotypes were found to be very good ABA producers under stress conditions, which is related to the ability to maintain leaf hydration. On the contrary, Arroz tuscola genotype seems to be very sensitive to drought stress since its turgor rapidly declines until zero value, in spite of a good hydration of leaf tissues.
42881704|Explants of Mr.S 2/5,a clone selected from seedlings of Prunus cerasifera, under in vitro conditions were exposed to 70%, 80%, 90% and 100% relative humidity (RH) during shoot proliferation and rooting. The RH decrease during shoot proliferation caused a progressive reduction in shoot cluster fresh and dry weight and in shoot number, while chlorophyll content and the values of several anatomic leaf traits increased. The rooting process and growth of rooted shoots also showed a significant decrease, whilst a progressively increasing survival rate during acclimation was recorded in plantlets rooted at decreasing RH.
42881820|The aim of this work was to study the effects of different sowing dates on growth, bolting and yield of chicory radicchio type 'Rosso di Chioggia'. The trial was carried out in open field in Mendoza, Argentina. Six sowing dates were tested: October 20, November 10, November 30, December 20, January 10 and January 30. Yields obtained were: 20.8 b; 26.9 a; 26.1 ab; 25.6 ab; 14.5 c; 8.1 d t ha respectively. The greatest plant weight, head weight, head diameter, dry root weight, dry leaves weight and dry head weight were obtained on the second sowing date. Early sowing (first and second dates) also produced the highest bolting (more than 30%). Low temperatures during juvenile stages (nursery and post-transplanting) could be responsible for bolting on these dates. Subsequent sowings reduced all mentioned parameters. To obtain good size and large heads chicory would require a relatively high temperature during the head development stage. To optimize marketable yields early sowings should avoid relatively low temperatures during nursery and post-transplanting periods.
42882053|Long-term maintained, homogeneous in vitro shoot cultures of Pyrus communis infected with pear decline (PD) phytoplasmas and Malus pumila infected with apple proliferation (AP) phytoplasmas were used to inoculate by in vitro grafting the non-natural plant hosts Pyronia veitchii and Prunus marianna. Healthy intergeneric heterografts and autografts with phytoplasma-infected graft tips were performed as controls. The transmission rate, as revealed by PCR detection of the respective phytoplasma, was 35% for the transmission of PD phytoplasmas from Pyrus to Pyronia compared to 75% for the Pyrus/Pyrus-autograft control, and 52% for the transmission of AP phytoplasmas from Malus to Pyronia compared to 90% for the Malus/Malus-autograft control. Only one AP-inoculated Pyronia plantlet exhibited AP-typical symptoms. No transmission of PD or AP phytoplasmas to Prunus could be achieved.
42883037|Cool Chamber (CC) storage significantly slowed down the rate of increase in physiological loss in weight and decrease in firmness of banana fruits as compared to rapid changes in the fruits stored in ambient conditions (AC). The rate of increase in titratable acidity and total sugars and decrease in starch were slow in fruits stored in CC as compared to those stored in AC. Irrespective of the storage conditions, the physiological, biochemical and ripening changes were slow in 3/4th-mature fruits compared to those in full-mature fruits. The CC storage extended the storage life of 3/4th-mature and full-mature fruits by 8 and 3 days, respectively, over that of the fruits in AC, without deterioration in sensory or edible qualities.
42881488|Growing gerbera flower buds were treated twice with 6 ppm ethephon (3 ppm ethylene) at 10 cm and 15 cm length. Flowers were harvested, assessed for quality, stored until senescence (at 20C, 70% RH, 1500 lux for 12 hrs) and then analysed for lignin and content. Control and ethephon-sprayed flower scapes had similar growth rate, however ethephon-treated flowers reached harvest maturity three days earlier and resulted in a 21.3% reduction in the scape length. Ethephon treatment to gerberas resulted in earlier (by 3 days) and higher bending (44%) compared to the control. Similarly, ethephon anticipated full maturity of healthy flowers (by 6 days). Ethephon-treated flower scape parts had a lower acid detergent fiber and higher acid detergent lignin content, compared to the control.
42883251|Schefflera arboricola is an important house plant which is greatly affected by low light levels typical in many houses. Acclimatization of Schefflera to low light levels during production is an important step to get good quality plants. This study was conducted to investigate the effect of acclimatization on subsequent performance of Schefflera plants in simulated interior environment. Schefflera plants were exposed to zero, 40, 60 or 80% light exclusion for zero, 4, 8 or 12 weeks, then held for 12 weeks in simulated interior environment. Chlorophyll content, as well as chlorophyll A and B and A:B ratio were increased with increasing shade levels and duration, with 80% shading for 12 weeks as the highest. Leaf weight and thickness were reduced when shade level and duration increased. Schefflera plants that did not receive light conditioning showed deterioration in grade and total chlorophyll content and an increasing rate of leaf drop under simulated interior environment. There was an increase in grade and total chlorophyll content with increasing shade levels from 40 to 80% light exclusion, whereas 8 weeks of acclimatization was as good as 12 weeks. It is recommended to acclimatize plants for 8-12 weeks under 60-80% shade.
42882281|Citrus species are important not only as fruit crop species but also as ornamentals; therefore a study on Citrus regeneration capacity was conducted to evaluate the possibility to apply modern in vitro biotechnology to improve and preserve Citrus. Explants from three Citrus species - Citrus limonimedica Lush., satsuma mandarin (Citrus unshiu Marc.) and Citrus sinensis Osb. cv. Valencia - were cultured in vitro. Cultures of ovules with nucelli from Citrus limonimedica Lush., fully developed nucellar embryos from satsuma mandarin (Citrus unshiu Marc.) and immature seeds from Citrus sinensis Osb. cv. Valencia were in vitro initiated. Citrus limonimedica Lush. fruits were obtained from the ornamental citrus germplasm collection of Villa Reale at Castello, Florence, Italy. Fully developed plants were obtained from embryos regenerated from primary explants. Although somatic embryos regenerated abundantly from explants of Citrus sinensis Osb. cv. Valencia, very low regeneration was obtained from callus originated from nucelli of Citrus limonimedica Lush. Fully developed nucellar embryos from satsuma mandarin (Citrus unshiu Marc.) grew rapidly into plantlets without callus formation and secondary embryogenesis.
42882810|Production of tomato is limited by harsh climate and a short growing season in the trans-Himalayan Ladakh region of India. The performance of five tomato genotypes was compared under polyhouse and open feld conditions. The study revealed that the performance of all tested tomato genotypes is far superior in the polyhouse, as compared to open feld conditions, for all the considered characters. 'Shivalik' performed best with respect to yield characters followed by 'Pusa Rohini' under polyhouse conditions. However, in the open feld, 'Pusa Rohini' showed the highest values, followed by 'Shivalik'. Cultivation of tomato under the polyhouse produced 136.12% more yield per ha and 188.93% more fruits per plant compared to open feld cultivation. Therefore, tomato cultivation under protected conditions is advised for Ladakh growing conditions, employing specific polyhouse-responsive varieties.
42881573|Opaque rowcovers were used to study the effects of artificial short day treatments on the growth and yield of field-grown 'Sparkle' strawberry plants (Fragaria x ananassa Duchesn.). A short day treatment (11 hours of light) during the previous mid-summer increased fruit members, but suppressed fruit size and runner development. To obtain a second crop in the fall from a June-bearing cultivar, the 11-hour short day treatment that appeared to be most effective was applied after the majority of the spring crop was harvested.
42882640|The susceptibility to chilling injury (CI) was evaluated for peach, nectarine, and plum cultivars from different breeding sources. Cultivars were segregated into three categories (A, B, and C) according to their susceptibility to CI symptoms when exposed to 0C or 5C storage temperatures up to 5 weeks. Cultivars in Category A did not develop any symptoms of CI after 5 weeks of storage at either temperature. Cultivars in Category B developed symptoms only when stored at 5C within 5 weeks of storage. Cultivars were classified as Category C when fruit developed CI symptoms at both storage temperatures within 5 weeks of storage. Approximately 60% of the peach, 50% of the nectarine, and 40% of the plum cultivars tested developed CI symptoms when stored at 5C (Category B and C). However, these percentages were reduced to 35% for peach, 30% for nectarine, and 14% for plum cultivars when stored to 0C during postharvest handling. Thus, the importance of proper temperature management, and the application of preconditioning or other reliable treatments to extend market life during postharvest handling is well demonstrated. This information provides guidance for shippers and handlers in selecting cultivars for long distance marketing.
42881514|This pollen viability study of 9 apricot varieties native to the Murcia region used acetic carmine staining and showed values for normal grains ranging from 87.4% for 'Valenciano-1' to 'Bulida'. The androsterility of 'Colorao' and 'Arrogante 9 was demonstrated. Germination potential (at 20 C) on a saccharose-agar medium (15% and 1.2% respectively) showed considerable variations, ranging from 4.1% grain germination after 2 hours to 34% after 6 hours. 'Pacorro' pollen was unable to germinate after 6 hours at 20C. Free, self - and cross - pollination in the orchard showed high setting percentages in all cases tested, varying from 12.8% to 55.6%, except when 'Pacorro' pollen intervened and in the case of the free pollination of 'Colorao' when the results were 7.5% and 3.3% respectively. These two results can be explained by the slowness to germinate of ' Pacorro 9 pollen and the androsterility of 'Colorao'. When the same combinations were made in the laboratory, microscopic observation with fluorescent light of the pollen tube growth in the pistils flxed with FAA confirmed the orchard results. Observation 12 hours after pollination showed that the pollen tubes did not reach the base of the pistil in any of the combinations tested, while observation after 48 hours showed that there were numerous pollen tubes reaching the base of the pistil in all combinations except in the case of 'Pacorro' pollen. The self compatibility of 'Valenciano 1' and 'Bulida-1' was confirmed as was the intercompatibility of the combinations tested.
42881987|Forty-eight carnation cultivars were tested in field trials for resistance to rust disease, Uromyces caryophyllinus, with artificial inoculations. After two trials, five cultivars were selected, two of which were highly susceptible and three which were resistant. These five cultivars were further tested for the following components of partial resistance to the disease: latent period (LP 50), infectious period (IP), infection frequency (IF), mean pustule area (AS) and leaf area injury (LAI). Stomatal density (DS) was also evaluated since fungal penetration seems to occur through the stornata. No differences in cultivar responses were found for LP 50 and IP, whereas remarkable differences were observed for all the other components of resistance with similar values in the two susceptible and in the three resistant cultivars. Linear correlations between components were never very high. Despite noticeable differences in cultivar response, any one parameter of all components may not suffice alone to explain plant behaviour towards the disease. However, IF and DS can be considered valuable indexes of partial resistance in an initial selection for resistant cultivars. These indexes could be used in association with adequate growing techniques, as part of an integrated control of the disease.
42883202|The aim of the present paper was to evaluate the physiological response of field grown gladiolus well-irrigated once (i1) or twice a week (i2) with the addition (C), or without (N), of CO-enriched water. Gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence measurements were performed on the highest fully-expanded leaf exposed to sunlight. Research was carried out in a hilly area of southern Italy (Benevento), at the experimental farm of the National Research Council Irrigation Institute. While no increase in the efficiency of photosystem II activity was noted among the combination of the treatments (interaction C  N), which were all characterized by a good potential electron transport (Fv/Fm), significant differences in gas exchange rates, water use efficiency and stomatal conductance were detected from the means of the whole measuring period. Carbonated i1 showed the highest gas exchange rates, while non-carbonated i2 the lowest. Transpiration of plots irrigated twice weekly (i2) was greater than those irrigated once weekly (i1), and water use efficiency of carbonated plots (both i1 and i2) was greater than that of the control (N). On many days during the crop cycle photosynthesis decreased significantly during the day from 10:00 hr to 14:00 hr, being negatively correlated with temperature, while no differences were noted for stomatal conductance. Physiological mechanisms (photorespiration losses and reduced regeneration of Rubisco) are discussed as possible mechanisms of reduced photosynthesis, since increased electron transport with daily time, supported by high values of Fv/Fm, were measured.
42881858|A lysimeter experiment was performed to study the influence of three permanent water table depths (0.45 m, 0.85 m and 1.20 m below the soil surface, WT, WT and WT) and a variable one (ranging between 0.40 m to 1.30 m, WTvar) on photosynthesis, yield, tuber quality, WUE and NUE. Treatments were compared with a well-watered top-irrigated control. The control was drip irrigated restoring the entire ET every time 40 mm of soil water had been depleted, while in the other treatments water was supplied by underground irrigation. In the WTvar the soil was saturated at the beginning of the experiment (the water table was at 0.40 m) and then the lysimeter was no longer irrigated. The control showed the highest CO assimilation, during both flowering and tuber maturation, and thus the highest shoot DM production and tuber yield. Plants under WT conditions were stressed, since soil moisture exceeded field capacity even in the top layer (0.15 m), and suffered reductions in photosynthesis, total biomass and yield. These soil moisture conditions proved to be detrimental especially during the first period of tuber formation. DM yield in WT and WTvar did not signiflcantly differ from that in WT, although water consumption was reduced. The lowest water table depth (1.20 m) was the most damaging for DM production. Tuber FW reductions of 15%, 19%, 46% and 33%, compared with the control, were observed for WT, WT, WT and WTvar, respectively. The tuber yield reductions were either due to number of tubers for WT and WTvar, or tuber weight for WT, or to both for WT. Tuber size grading was not affected by the treatments and minor changes in the qualitative traits were detected. A good recovery and efficiency of the N supplied by fertilization both in the control and in WT were observed.
42883319|The phenological behaviour of seven olive cultivare from south and central Italy was studied in the environment of inland Tuscany. The potential use of artificial neural networks (ANN) in olive phenology modelling was investigated. A backpropagation neural network was trained and tested for predicting the date of occurrence of defined olive phenophases in inland Tuscany. The network was fitted using meteorological data by ten-day periods as inputs and phenological event dates as outputs. The model tested was also used to predict the responses of olive phenology to future hypothetical climate change by simulating alterations in temperature and light conditions.
42883505|This study was carried out in a strawberry (Fragaria  ananassa Duch.) field located in Ribatejo, Portugal, and aims to describe the qualitative component of the visits for three strawberry floral visitors, attaining the best results in a previous work. The main objectives were: (1) to assess the pollination rate (PR) resulting from a single visit o Apis mellifera L., Syrphidae and native bees, and (2) to characterize the foraging behaviour of each of these categories in order to select the potential pollinators of strawberry crops under open field conditions in the Ribatejo. AU analysed categories were shown to be potentially useful pollinators, since there were no significant differences among them in the pollination rates, after a single visit. The observed distinct foraging behaviour among them did not result in significantly different pollination rates. Growers are recommended to take advantage of the several pollinators, either the honey bee or the native pollinators (Syrphidae and native bees). The importance of diversifying pollination sources, avoiding the dependence on a single specific group is stressed. This study also suggests measures which envisage the conservation, establishment and increase of native pollinators' populations in the typical agro-ecosystem of the Ribatejo region.
42881531|High temperatures and drought cause substantial reductions in crop productivity in several climatic zones. Projections concerning climates in the next century indicate that carbon dioxide concentrations will increase, periods of hot weather may be more frequent and more extreme, and that water limitations may become more severe in some regions. Approaches are discussed that provide a physiological basis for breeding horticultural plants with improved adaptation to hot, dry environments, and the conditions of the next century. Emphasis on selection for greater sink strength, i.e. through selecting for higher harvest index, and greater heat tolerance during flowering are recommended and opportunities for selecting to change the water-use efficiency of C3 plants using heavy carbon isotope composition are discussed.
42881581|Rhabdovirus particles were found in Evonymus japonica showing chlorotic leaf spots in Italy. The particles were localized in the cytoplasm around chloroplasts, mithocondria and in the vescicles of the endoplasmic reticulum, but never in the nucleus and perinuclear space. The particle size were: 244nm  64nm. The large aggregates reached 2400nm in length and an internal channel was always present in the virions.
42882457|The most important objective in forest tree gene conservation is to safeguard the potential for adaptation. It is important to include existing variation in adaptedness in the gene resource population, which advantageously should be split into several subpopulations. This concept of forest tree gene conservation has been coined as MPBS: Multiple Population Breeding System. The need for additive variance in each subpopulation for traits of adaptive significance is stressed. The dynamics of natural populations caused by the complex interaction among evolutionary factors, natural selection, genetic drift, gene flow, and mutation, are briefly discussed. Such an interaction in natural populations means that we will never find individuals, which are perfect in all of their fitness traits. The effective population size of each gene resource subpopulations should be at least 50 to avoid random loss of genetic variation. The gene resource subpopulations should ideally be identified based on traits of adaptive significance. Markers usually have low discrimination power and thus rendering them less suitable for identification of existing variation in adaptedness. Separate gene conservation is suggested for high forest and fruit orchards. For in situ gene resource subpopulations it is important to take measures to promote their regeneration.
42882531|The time of olive harvest of both oil and table cultivars can have a profound influence on the yield, oil quality, and the relations between different smell and taste components. However, there are very few clear guidelines that producers can use to determine the optimum harvest period. In this study the fruit growth pattern of olive cv. Kadesh, Souri, and Barnea were characterized followed by determination of the changes in oil quantity, color and detachment force, in order to optimize harvest time. Our study has shown that the pattern of fruit growth in olive is similar to other stone fruits. After the stone hardening stage, both the fruit weight and the oil content increase dramatically. It then slows as full ripeness approaches and declines slightly as fruit becomes over ripe. Fruit color changes from 'lime green' to pale 'straw' green as fruit matures, and subsequently changes color to purple and then black as it becomes fully ripe. Fruit detachment force declines steadily as fruit develops. Fruit detachment force drops sharply when fruit reaches full ripeness and fruit drop increases. The possibilities of using these findings for developing indices which can help producers to determine the optimum harvest period are discussed.
42882769|The effects of growth regulators, expiants and their interactions were investigated on direct and indirect shoot regeneration from leaf and internode expiants in Dianthus caryophyllus cv. Tempo. The highest callus induction was achieved on Murashige and Skoog (MS) medium supplemented with 2 mg/l 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) in both expiants. The hormone-free MS medium was not effective in inducing shoots. A significant increase in the percent calli producing shoots was observed when 2 mg/l zeatin (Zn) was used in combination with 1 mg/l indoleacetic acid (IAA). 2 mg/l TDZ in combination with 1 mg/l IAA produced the maximum number of shoots per callus. The highest direct adventitious shoot bud induction and regeneration was achieved with 1 mg/l TDZ and 1 mg/l -naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) in both expiants. More shoots were produced through callus phase as compared to direct adventitious shoots. The number of shoots per expiant was higher in leaf than in internode expiants. Shoots elongated and multiplied on MS medium supplemented with 1 mg/l benzyladenine (BA) and solidified with 10 g/l agar. In vitro-raised shoots were rooted in  strength MS medium supplemented with 2 mg/l indolebutyric acid (IBA) and 2 g/l activated charcoal and hardened successfully.
42883371|Wild Syrian marjoram (Origanum syriacum L.) was in vitro established from seeds. Proliferation was experimented with different levels (0.0, 0.4, 0.8, 1.2, 1.6, or 2.0 mg/1) of kinetin, 6-benzyladenine (BA) or thidiazuron (TDZ). Highest shoot proliferation (5.0, and 4.6 or 4.2 microshoots, respectively) was obtained when kinetin (0.4 mg/1) and BA (0.8 or 1.2 mg/l) were used. TDZ failed to promote shoot proliferation and induced calli. Rooting was experimented at different levels (0.0, 0.1, 0.4, 0.8, 1.2, 1.6 or 2.0 mg/1) of 1-Naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA), indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) or indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). The highest root number (11.4) was attained in media containing 0.8 mg/11AA. Rooted plantlets were ex vitro acclimatized (90% survival), transferred to soil and successfully grown to maturity in the greenhouse.
42882986|Grapevine seedlings were stem-treated with C-padobutrazol during the growing season. Groups of 5 plants were then harvested from 6 hours to 16 days after treatment and prepared for autoradiography. The films were processed and the radioactivity in different parts of the plants was measured by scintillation counting. The results indicated that paclobutrazol was rapidly translocated upward into the adult leaf petioles and veins; after a few days the radioactivity moved from leaf veins to the whole leaf lamina and then accumulated in peripheral leaf edge. By contrast, very low activity was recovered from below the treated point of the stem (lower aerial portion and roots). Other seedlings, treated in a single leaf, showed no translocation outside of the lamina. These findings confirm that paclobutrazol movement in grapevine occurs mainly apoplastically via the xylem, and thus may contribute to the effective use of this growth retardant in vineyaed management.
42882773|In an attempt to identify the best pollinizer for apple and the effect of different pollinizers on fruit quality, sixteen cultivars were considered. The mean performance of 'Spartan' as pollinizer proved to be the best in terms of fruit set, followed by 'Gala'. Fruit retention reached a maximum level in the cross 'Jonadel'  'Gala', followed by 'Fuji'  'Ruspippin', 'Sinta'  'Red Fuji', 'Jonadel'  'Spartan', 'Summered'  'Fuji' and 'Ruspippin'  'Royal Gala'. Fruit length was the greatest in 'Sinta'  'Gala', followed by 'Summered'  'Spartan' and 'Neomi'  'Ruspippin'; maximum fruit diameter was found in 'Sinta'  'Gala', followed by 'Summered'  'Spartan' and 'Spijon'  'Royal Gala'; greatest fruit weight in 'Summered'  'Spartan', followed by 'Neomi'  'Gala', 'Spijon'  'Royal Gala', 'Jonadel'  'Fuji', 'Quinte'  'Red Fuji' and 'Sinta'  'Ruspippin'. The most seeds were recorded in the cross 'Fuji'  'Spartan' while the minimum number was obtained from the 'Quinte' x 'Spartan' cross. The maximum total soluble solids were found in 'Jonadel'  'Royal Gala'; the minimum in 'Quinte' x 'Royal Gala'.
42883009|Free and bound ABA were measured in the terminal and lateral buds of 'Nabali' olive at the onset of dormancy and at flower and vegetative bud development. The free ABA in the terminals was greater than in the laterals at the beginning and during dormancy. Throughout dormancy the gradual reduction of free ABA in terminals and in laterals was not associated with an increase in the bound ABA, indicating loss or destruction of free ABA rather than conjugation. Free ABA in the terminals (vegetative buds) increased sharply then decreased during the period of flower bud differentiation and development while in the laterals (flower buds) free ABA increased slightly followed by a sharp increase indicating a possible role of ABA in flowering. Levels of bound and free ABA in terminals and laterals during that period were parallel, suggesting that conjugation is irreversible.
42883520|Characterization of plant germplasm using molecular techniques is playing an increasingly important role in the management of plant genetic resources. Genetic diversity and relationships between local cultivars from two important Italian olive growing regions, Sicily and Calabria, were studied by means of ISSR markers. As ISSR technique allows the analysis of intra-cultivar diversity, geographical accessions of the Calabrian cultivar Carolea were analyzed. The observed patterns of genetic variation revealed the independent clustering of Calabrian cultivars with respect to those from Sicily. The analysis supported the synonymy between the Sicilian cultivars Giarraffa and Nocellara Del Belice, while 'Moresca' and 'Biancolilla', considered synonymous, clustered in separate branches of the phylogenetic tree. Interesting results were obtained for the cultivar Carolea: the same pattern was only detected in two accessions. The current diversity found in 'Carolea' may be due to its wide geographical spread and differentiation of local accessions. These findings give insights into genetic resources of the regions, demonstrating that local cultivars represent potential sources of variability useful for breeding programs. ISSR can be considered a useful tool to clarify the relationships among cultivars from a common geographical area.
42882751|In 2007 tests were carried out to determine the meristems which give rise to the different types of shoots and the basic factors affecting the evolution of the apical meristem and their lateral buds. The tests were conducted on potted plants in fertigation in two extremely different environmental conditions for light intensity (with shading to 50% and with addition of artificial light). In May, one-year-old self-rooted plants of cvs. Arbequina IRTA-i18, Koroneiki and Frantoio were introduced in fertigation and at the end of June were selected for uniformity of growth, distributed in the two zones and subjected to treatments: intact plants reared upright; plant topped at the first internode distinguishable with stem reared erect; plant cut at the base on the oldest wood. Four plants were used per treatment and cultivars distributed by blocks for each area. Similarly, fouryear-old 'Coratina' plants (three plants per treatment), raised on a single stem and acting on individual shoots (intact or topped) throughout the canopy, were utilized. The remarks focus on the origin of the shoots from the different meristems and the growth and behavior of their lateral buds in the following season/Observations led to identification in the same bud complex of a vertical succession of two different types of buds: the "principal" bud and, in upper position, the "accessory" bud, the former with a reproductive role, the latter specialized in environmental exploitation (vegetative role). Starting from the primordia of an accessory bud, the apical meristem became "mature" growing in the time with important differences between the cultivars, acquiring only in the second year of growth for 'Arbequina' and 'Koroneiki' (early bearing cultivars) the capability to produce principal lateral buds able to develop in the inflorescences: with 'Frantoio' the "aging" of two years is not enough to move the principal buds to develop inflorescences. In the "mature" shoots the principal lateral buds can develop only as panicles, and the production of new bearing vegetation is limited to the central leader; all branches coming from accessory buds are dedicated to burst new vegetation.
42883137|Table olive 'Kalamon' is usually propagated by conventional means which are inefficient, expensive and with limited success. Therefore, development or improvement of micropropagation techniques, for this cultivar, has merit. Shoot tips (15-20 mm long) collected in winter from field and container grown plants, were sterilized and placed into test tubes with 10 ml woody plant medium (WPM). Seventeen combinations of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA), indolebutyric acid (IBA), and gibberellic acid (GA) were used to find the optimum conditions for shoot proliferation. The best results were obtained with 1 mg 1 BA + 1 mg 1 IBA + 0.1 mg 1 GA. After 28 days 93% expiant sprouted giving 4.1 shoots per expiant with a shoot mean length of 10.4 mm. The expiants were recultured twice and the number of shoots was increased to 9.6 shoots per expiant in the 2nd subculture. Best rooting was achieved by transferring the expiants from the 2nd subculture for 1 week to WPM, containing 2 mg 1 IBA, and subsequently planting them in 1: 1 peat-perlite medium. Expiants with juvenile characteristics from container grown trees rooted considerably better.
42883197|Shoot tips taken from growing kiwi shoots, lateral buds excised from shoot cuttings, and shoot tips obtained from shoots arising from root cuttings, were used as explant source material for in vitro propagation of kiwi (Actinidia deliciosa Planch.). Shoot tip explants from root segments produced greater proliferation (number of axillary shoots) and rooting (number of roots, root length, fresh and dry weight) abilities compared to shoot tip or lateral bud explants.
42882373|Packaging of unrooted cuttings of Plecteranthus, Heliotropium, Lantana, and Euphorbia in commercial cardboard or polystyrene containers was studied with regard to quality. The insulating properties of polystyrene and insulated cardboard containers were examined under fluctuating ambient temperatures ranging from-16C to 22-25C. Rates of temperature change inside polystyrene and insulated cardboard boxes were very similar to each other, even when containers were exposed to freezing temperatures. Upon transfer of boxes from 5 to 22-24C, the temperature inside the boxes reached the ambient temperature within 4-6 hr. The presence of ice packs inside the cardboard or polystyrene containers maintained temperatures only 5 or 7-8C below ambient, respectively. The quality of cuttings was examined after simulated shipment at ambient temperatures fluctuating between 5 to 22-24 C, selected to resemble adverse shipping conditions. Lantana and Plectranthus cuttings retained similar quality after simulated transport in all containers, but the quality o Heliotropium and Euphorbia cv. Purple Reign cuttings was lower in those transported in polystyrene than in cardboard containers. Placing ice packs in the polystyrene containers overcame the deleterious effects of these containers. Results show that insulated cardboard containers are not inferior to polystyrene containers for transporting cuttings, and are sometimes even better.
42881419|The regeneration of adventitious shoots on leaf segments taken from in vitro shoots of the apple rootstock 'Jork 9' was examined. Among the macroelements and organics tested (MS, LS or N), MS was the most effective. The best combination of naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and benzyladenine (BA) was 2.7 M nd 17.8 M, respectively, resulting in 70% expiants with adventitious shoots. The combination of 2.7 M naphthaleneacetic acid and 0.1 M thidiazuron (TDZ) also resulted in a high percentage of regeneration but almost all shoots were hyperhydric. Only the expiants with the adaxial surface in contact with the medium showed regeneration. Basal expiants within a leaf had a higher percentage regeneration than distal expiants. Cell divisions, localized near the vascular bundles, were observed after three days of culture. The first vegetative buds regenerated directly from leaf tissue, whereas buds that appeared later on regenerated from callus.
42881990|Microcuttings of pear cv. Conference were rooted in vitro on a medium containing 1.5 M indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) and half-strength MS salts, except for nitrogen that varied from the MS formulation (60 mM) to one-fourth-MS (15 mM). Calcium and potassium concentrations varied depending on the nitrogen salt used. The reduction of nitrogen did not affect rooting, but decreased the nitrogen concentration of rooted plantlets. The change of nitrate/ammonium ratio from 2:1 to 1:1, tested at 15 mM nitrogen, enhanced root differentiation from 3.6 to 6.2 roots per microcutting. With 60 mM of nitrogen, the addition of calcium and the corresponding reduction of potassium increased shoot fresh weight.
42882069|The degradation of two dicarboximide fungicides, procymidone and vinclozolin, was studied on 'Autumn Bliss' raspberry cultivated under greenhouse and harvested between December and January at the light-red stage. Using a single spray application, procymidone was applied at the rate of 50 g a. i/100 l of water while vinclozolin was applied at the rate 33 ml a. i./100 l of water. Procymidone concentration in raspberries harvested 2, 3, 6, 9 and 12 days after spraying was 6.65, 4.64, 3.93, 3.05 and 1.42 mg/kg, while vinclozolin concentration in raspberries harvested 4,7,10,13 and 16 days after spraying was 2.46,2.40,1.95,1.30 and 1.54 mg/kg, each respectively.
42883252|In vitro preservation at low temperature and cryopreservation using encapsulation-dehydration and vitrification in wild pear (Pyrus syriaca) were studied. In vftro-grown microshoots (1.0 cm) of wild pear were preserved at 4, 8 or 24C in darkness for 12 weeks. As the storage temperature decreased, growth decreased and expiant quality declined (leaf color changed and percentage of tip browning increased). Survival and regrowth were adversely affected when microshoots were preserved at low temperature (4C). However, in vitro preservation at 8C was able to decrease growth and to maintain expiant health. Survival and regrowth percentages obtained by cultures preserved at 8C were high. Increasing sucrose concentration in the pretreatment media to 0.75 M, along with five hours dehydration, improved survival (40%) and regrowth (50%) of the encapsulation-dehydrated shoot tips (3.0 mm) after cryopreservation. Cold hardening of the mother stock for three weeks at 4C under dark conditions followed by vitrification treatment improved survival and regrowth of cryopreserved shoot tips.
42883230|The material comprising 12 parents and their 66 F1 hybrids produced in a diallel fashion, were used to generate information on the inheritance of fruit weight, marketable yield and total yield. Combining ability, components of variation and graphical analyses revealed the importance of both additive and non-additive gene effects with the magnitude of the former being greater. Based upon the results obtained, it is concluded that considerable scope to improve tomato yield is possible through both pure line and heterosis breeding.
42882755|Today even countries with centuries-old olive growing traditions have to look at the latest, most dynamic, non labor-intensive olive growing systems to abate production costs (notably, harvesting operations) and remain competitive in a globalized market. In particular, the olive growing innovation process is based on a model referred to as "super intensive", whose main advantage lies in highly-efficient mechanized harvesting operations performed uninterruptedly by means of grape harvesters modified to handle olives. This paper reports the results of experimental mechanical harvesting tests in a super-intensive olive cultivation.
42882611|In an olive genebank near the Ionian Sea in Calabria (southern Italy) a comparative study on the TAGs composition of 188 Italian cultivars was carried out from 2001 to 2005. To be considered in the study, data for the cultivar had to be present from at least two of the five study years. Samples (around 15 kg) of fruits at ripening stage were harvested to produce the investigated oils by utilising a laboratory oil mill, which were then analysed according to the official analysis methods, Reg. C. E. E. 2568/91 and E. U. modifications. Extreme variability characterized the percentages of each FA, making each cultivar "peculiar" in its TAG composition. In the same year (e. g. 2003), the percentage of oleic acid increased from a minimum of 49.8% (cv. Orbetana) to 78.2% (cv. Simona) and the percentage of linoleic acid ranged from 3.9% (cv. Simona) to 23.9% (cv. Racioppella), a variation of more than 500%. The year effect is evident, despite the large number of samples in each year: oleic acid varied from 67.5% in 2003 to 73.4% in 2005 and important differences can also be noted for palmitic and linoleic acid averages. Temperature from stone hardening until the beginning of turning colour is probably the primary contributing factor with regard to these variations. A linear regression between the thermal sums accumulated in this period and the levels of oleic acid shows a decrease in the percentage of this FA with an increase in the GDD. The ternary plot system presents a different distribution of the data from the 69 cultivars in 2003 (warmest year) and 2005 (coolest year) relative to three groups of FAs (SFAs, MFAs and PFAs). The lowering of the percentage of MFA groups and the prevalent tendency to increase the SFAs is evident, with important movement also in the zone of increasing PFA group. Grouping the possible tendencies of different cultivars is evaluated by a "fuzzy" clustering analysis, dividing the population into three "groups": in two of them the MFA amounts decrease, substituted mainly by SFAs (the first and most conspicuous cluster) or by PFAs (second cluster); an inconspicuous but notable cluster constituted by three cultivars only, characterized by a practically constant level of MFAs, with the effect of the warm year on lowering PFAs, is also highlighted.
42882925|Field experiments were conducted during the 2006/2007 and 2007/2008 dry seasons at Sudan Savanna Nigeria to study the effects of herbicides on weeds and growth of irrigated onion (Allium cepa L.). The field was laid out in a randomized complete block design (RCBD) and the treatments included four rates (with and without supplementary hoe weeding -SHW) of oxadiazon 25 EC, butachlor 50 EC, pendimenthalin 50 EC, bullet 700 SC (atrazine + acetochlor + terbuthylazine), eight rates (with or without SHW) of oxyfluorfen 41 FW, hoe weeded at 3 and 6 weeks after transplanting (WAT) and untreated control. The treatments were replicated three times. The results indicated that application of oxadiazon 25 EC at 41/ha and oxyfluorfen 41FW at 61/ha both followed by SHW gave low weed dry weight, larger bulb diameter, higher mean bulb weight and bulb yield per hectare compared to the hoe-weeded control.
42883002|Tomato seedlings were subjected to chilling (3C for 50 hours in the dark) at low and high relative humidity (RH) as well as to water deprivation. Chilling at low RH and water deprivation induced an increase in ABA levels and a decrease in relative water content (RWC). By contrast when cold treatment was performed at high RH, no changes in ABA levels and RWC were observed. Results indicate that ABA accumulation in chilled plants is due to cold-induced water deficit and not to low temperature per se.
42883546|Cryopreservation using winter vegetative buds was successfully applied to the Malus collection maintained at the Institute of Fruit Breeding in Dresden-Pillnitz, Germany. In the first experimental year, three different apple cultivare (Malus x domestica Borkh.) and various accessions of the European crab apple Malus sylvestris were studied. The dehydration time at -5C to reach about 30% of moisture content for the winter buds varied between two and 10 days. Following a two-step freezing (prefreezing at 1C/hr to -30C and maintenance at -30C for 24 hr) and cryopreservation for five months, chip-budding was performed after a 15-day rehydration period at 4C. Up to 77% of buds of the cultivar Idared survived and 27% of Golden Delicious. The cultivar Lord Lambourne and Malus sylvestris showed a very low percentage or no bud recovery. In the second experimental year, five apple cultivars and five accessions of different Malus species originating from different continents were tested using the -5C cold dehydration or a salt dehydration with NaCl or alternatively KNO and different time for scions sampling during December to February. Successful recovery was only observed for scion pieces collected in January using a cold dehydration.
42883274|The effect of GA on concentration of psoralens and the phytoalexin columbianetin involved in celery (Apium graveolens) resistance to pathogens during storage was reported. After one month of storage at 1C, incidence of celery decay increased from zero (before storage) to 35%, and the concentration of columbianetin decreased from 46 to 6 g g FW. Concentration of psoralens during that time increased from 10 to 62 g g FW. When celery was treated with GA prior to storage, incidence of decay increased only to 4%. Concentrations of columbianetin decreased to 23 g g FW and of psoralens increased only to 28 g g FW.
42881560|Anatomical studies were made to investigate whether any parallels exist between the degenerative phenomena associated with the  collapse  of rooted cuttings and that of mechanically prepared grafts in peach. The responses of hardwood and leafy cuttings, as well as of machine-prepared self-grafted seedlings and of girdled seedlings were examined. In the cuttings alternations in the newly formed xylem were associated with the early appearance of root primordia and the formation of lysigenous cavities, as reported by other authors. In the grafts similar changes were restricted to scion tissue, and in the seedlings to the tissue distal to the girdle. These findings suggest that these effects are stress-induced, progressing by a self catalytic mechanism, but cannot provide conclusive explanations. There is a need for further, especially biochemical, investigations.
42882534|Organogenic callus cultures from young leaf explants of Ananas comosus (L.) Merr. var. Smooth Cayenne cv. Serrana were obtained on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium using eight different protocols with regard to the growth regulator types and/or combinations and doses tested (dicamba and benzyladenine, picloram or 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid and benzyladenine, dicamba and kinetin). In some cases, "shoot inducing medium" containing BA or kinetin alone, after a "callus inducing medium", were also used. The various media tested did not influence the number of explants forming callus (practically 100%) and the growth of the calluses, as well as the type of organogenic process (shoot regeneration) and its frequency, except for the medium containing 2,4-D. This compound at 2.5 mg l doubled the total final callus mass, in comparison to the other media, and induced shoots or shoots and roots, whereas at 4.0 mg l it stimulated only root formation. Also the transfer of callus to a shoot-inducing medium did not significantly influence shoot regeneration rate. Light and electron microscope analysis showed similar patterns of callus formation in all the explants, where callus initiation occurred from parenchyma cells surrounding the vascular bundles. During callus growth meristematic centers appeared at its periphery. Thereafter, they developed into shoots (or roots). Roots were never associated directly with shoots. Plant regeneration was always by indirect organogenesis and never the result of somatic embryogenesis. The meristematic and organogenic activity were found to be related to abundant starch and protein accumulation in the parenchyma cells located under or near the meristems, with vascular connections with the callus itself, and with a strong thickening of the walls around the meristematic zones.
42881976|To investigate whether plants show normal growth or depression in wood fiber substrates, tomato transplants were cultivated in the greenhouse and in phytotrons. The influence of three substrates and three N application rates on plant growth and N content of the plants were examined. Tomato transplants cultivated in specially impregnated wood fiber substrates performed significantly better than in unimpregnated ones. It was shown that tomato transplants grow normally in wood fiber substrates, which received an impregnation and additional N fertilization during cultivation. However, it is difficult to give a general fertilization recommendation due to the high variability in mineral N content among substrate lots. Increased N application levels were reflected by higher N content of the plants.
42883583|Effects of chicken manure tea (CMT) and vermicompost tea (VCT) as soil drench on vegetative growth, herb yield, essential oil content, total phenolics, total flavonoids and antioxidant activity of lemon basil (Ocimum  citriodorum Vis.) was evaluated in a two-year field experiment. The greatest plant height, number of leaves and flowers, shoot fresh and dry weight and leaf chlorophyll content were obtained using CMT at either 1: 5 or 1: 10 dilutions with no significant differences. The highest number of lateral branches and flavonoid content were obtained when CMT at 1: 5 dilution was applied. Essential oil content was at its highest level (0.618%) when CMT or VCT were used at 1: 10 dilution, while the greatest total phenolic content and total antioxidant activity were obtained at 1: 5 dilution of VCT. The results emphasize the possibility of using organic-based compost teas for enhancing herbal yield and important secondary metabolites in aromatic medicinal plants.
42881572|Shoot-tip culture was used on 22 cultivars of Dutch iris (Iris hollandica) infected by IMMV (Iris mild mosaic virus) plus NLV (Narcissus latent virus) and, in some cases, by BYMV (Bean yellow mosaic virus) and ISMV (Iris severe mosaic virus), to determine its effectiveness in obtaining virus-free material. Eight media were tested for the growth of explants: positive results were only obtained with three of them (F,G,H) and only with some cultivars (7 on 22). The same three media were then used for shoot proliferation: a low proliferation rate was recorded for a few cultivars. The rooting experiments with a specific medium produced roots and small bulbs. After restablished in soil, these bul blets produced plantlets that were virus-indexed before plant withering. The indexing tests, carried out by IEM (immuno-electronmicroscopy), revealed that 85% of the plantlets were virus-free and that the only virus present in the remaining 15% was IMMV.
42882563|Field experiments were conducted in 2002/2003 and 2003/2004 dry seasons at the Irrigation Research Station of the Institute for Agricultural Research, Kadawa (11 39' N, 38 02' E, 500 m above sea level) in the Sudan Savanna Ecological Zone, Nigeria to study the effects of weed control, date of planting and intra-row spacing on weeds and bulb yield of garlic (Allium sativum L.). A split plot design was adopted for the study in which weed control (three rates of oxadiazon, 1.0, 1.5 and 2.0 kg a.i./ha, hoe-weeded control and unweeded check) and date of planting (late October, early and late November) constituted the main plot while the intra-row spacing (5, 7.5 and 10 cm) formed the subplot. A uniform inter-row spacing of 15 cm was maintained in the two seasons. The results obtained show that the hoe-weeded control and application of oxadiazon at 1.5 and 2.0 kg a.i./ha resulted in comparable but significantly lower weed cover, weed dry weight and higher bulb yield than oxadiazon at 1.0 kg a.i./ha and unweeded check. Weed cover and weed dry weight were significantly lower with late November planting but bulb yield was higher at early November planting. Planting garlic at 5 cm intra-row spacing resulted in lower weed cover, weed dry weight but higher bulb yield in both seasons. The combination of 1.5 kg a.i./ha and early November planting gave better weed control, the least weed dry weight and higher bulb yield. Spacing garlic at 5 cm intra-row with 1.5 kg a.i./ha oxadiazon significantly reduced weed dry weight and increased bulb yield. Uncontrolled weed growth throughout the crop growth period resulted in 67.0 and 56.8% reduction in garlic bulb yield compared to herbicide treated plots in both seasons.
42881674|'Tobacco Mosaic virus' (TMV) was mechanically transmitted from many pear and apple trees to Nicotiana occidentalis 37 B. A strain inducing Aucuba type mosaic symptoms in the Nicotiana tabacum cv. Samsun was purified from the pear cv. Abb Fetel  665. TMV was detected by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in most trees and in irrigation water. Infection of young trees by contaminated water or soil could play an important role in the epidemiology of TMV in orchards.
42883484|A three-year field study was undertaken at the Department of Crop Science, University of Ghana, Legon, to ascertain the effects of disbudding on the growth and yield of Ceiosia cristata var. carmine. The results, in general, showed that disbudding reduced the number and weight (size) of undesirable side (or auxiliary) shoots on the flower stem and thus resulted in increased plant height, flower stem length and flower head weight (size). Disbudding also induced early harvesting and a more concentrated harvest period. A closer spacing of 15x9 cm proved better for the production of cut flowers of marketable stem length and head size than the conventional spacing of 1512 cm. For good quality cut flowers, ceiosia plants should be disbudded at least once.
42881386|The effect of seed disinfection (Benomyl 2.5% in acetone) and soil disinfection (Prochloraz, Thiabendazole, Dazomet and Metham sodium) on Fusarium oxysporum population in soil and on morphological and sanitary characteristics of the crowns produced in four typical asparagus-growing areas of the Veneto Region, was studied. Results indicated that location of the nursery, soil disinfection with Metham sodium and repeated seed disinfections with Benomyl in acetone were effective in producing crowns with good morphological features even though they did not show a close correlation with presence of Fusaria in roots or F. oxysporum population in soil.
42883013|The experiment was conducted on cultivars of Lactuca sativa, Cichorium endivia and Cichorium intybus. Three temperatures (0C, 5C, 10C) and two ethylene concentrations (50 and 100 ppm) were tested over a storage period of up to 60 days. of the cultivars tested 'Romana' lettuce showed the symptoms of russet spotting at 0C and 5C from the eighth day at 100 ppm of ethylene; 'Trocadero' lettuce was less sensitive, being found to suffer from exposure to 100 ppm of ethylene only at 5C. Red chicory, broad leaf lettuce and 'Pan di Zucchero' chicory proved to be resistant.
42883320|The diversity of olive (Olea europaea L.) germplasm is under significant threat in its traditional area of cultivation. Clonal field collections are the usual means of preserving olive germplasm. Cryopreservation, the preservation of tissues and organs in liquid nitrogen at -196C, offers a potential complementary approach that overcomes some of the problems associated with field collections. Here, recent advances in the application of cryogenic techniques to olive germplasm are discussed. For cryopreservation, shoot tips (i. e. the apical meristems, surrounded by leaf primordia and excised from in vitro shoot cultures) are the best expiants to assure genetic fidelity to the donor plant. Olive shoot tips have been cryopreserved using PVS2 vitrification or osmoprotection/dehydration approaches. Although up to 30% of post-thaw survival has been reported, shoot tip regrowth into plantlets was always problematic. Unlike shoot tips, cryopreservation of embryogenie tissue and somatic embryos of olive have been successful using a variety of controlled rate and vitrification approaches. Although less suited to germplasm conservation as compared with shoot tips, the ability to cryopreserve olive embryognie cultures has important implications for bioengineering, e. g. avoiding the loss of embryogenie potential due to repeated subculturing or allowing the storage of transgenic material while field trials are ongoing. Potential approaches towards the improvement of olive cryostorage, which will hopefully allow the future development of germplasm cryo-banks, are discussed in terms of current developments in woody plant cryopreservation.
42882144|The study was carried out to determine the optimum levels of poultry manure, inorganic fertilizer and their combined effect on yield of shallots grown on sandy Anloga soils in Ghana. Treatments comprised a 43 factorial combination of poultry manure at 0, 10, 20 and 40 tons/ha and three levels of NPK 15-15-15 fertilizer at 0, 300 and 600 kg ha in a randomised complete block design with four replications. A combination of 40 tons/ha of poultry manure with 300 kg/ha and 6000 kg/ha of NPK 15-15-15 fertilizer increased plant height, number of leaves per plant and number of plantlets per plant. Although application of inorganic fertilizer alone or in combination with poultry manure significantly increased bulb yield, there was a decrease in dry matter content. Sole application of 40 tons/ha gave the highest bulb yield. Our results demonstrate that farmers in the Anloga district of Ghana can rely on organic matter alone applied at 40 tons/ha for shallot production.
42882823|The present study was undertaken to induce mutations in Dendranthema grandiflora cv. Snow Ball through in vitro mutagenesis by exposing the in vitro shoots to 5,10,20 and 30 Gy gamma radiation. RAPD analysis was used to detect genetic polymorphism among the variants and the control. Morphological variations were not observed with the 5 Gy gamma dose during the first season. Shoot regeneration, rooting and survival of shoots were affected by gamma ray doses. 10 Gy of gamma irradiation was the most effective in inducing mutations in flower colour through direct in vitro mutagenesis. The shoots irradiated with 20 and 30 Gy gamma radiation did not root and died. Twenty RAPD primers were used to amplify DNA segments from the genomic DNA of the control and its 10 variants, and the genetic similarity among them ranged from 0.06 to 0.79 revealing high genetic diversity.
42881392|Trials were conducted in 1984 and 1985 on eggplant to assess its yield performance and evaluate its seasonal price range as a catch crop, a practice that is becoming increasingly widespread in Campania where farmers grow it for market in autumn at more profitable prices. It was found that an eggplant catch crop involves a substantial shortening of the growing season and mediocre yield results that are not adequately offset by the higher autumn prices.
42881519|The relationship between initial densities (Pi) of Meloidogyne incognita race 1 and growth of kiwi plants was studied in a glasshouse experiment. Pi used were 0, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256 or 512 eggs and second-stage juveniles/cm soil. Kiwi plant response to the Pi was fitted to the model y = m + (1 -m)zP-T. Tolerance limit of kiwi seedlings to M. incognita was 0.43 eggs and juveniles/cm soil. Maximum growth suppression was 55% and occurred at Pi  32 eggs and juveniles/cm soil. Maximum rate of nematode population increase on kiwi, about 60-fold, occurred at Pi  0.25 eggs and juveniles/cm soil. Cross sections of M. incognita infested roots showed 3-8 multinudeate giant cells arranged around the nematode head and adjacent to xylem elements. Vascular and cortical tissues surrounding the nematode were hypertrophie and hyperplastic.
42882779|The seeds of coreopsis were stored under three storage conditions [cold storage (0-4 C and 90  2.7% RH), incubator (20-22C and 75  1.5% RH) and ambient conditions] and packed in five different packagings (cloth bag in desiccator, cloth bag, aluminium foil, plastic bin, polyethylene bag - 600 gauze) for a period of 18 months. The highest germination (54.94%) was recorded in cold store as compared with ambient storage (35.83%) and incubator (28.35%) after 18 months. Among the packaging, seeds kept in a desiccator gave the maximum germination (42.51%) at the end of storage period. The seeds maintained more than 73.00% germination during the initial four months but a significant decline was noticed in the following months, being 56.78% after six months and 42.69% after nine months. The maximum seed viability (61.20%) was recorded in cold store followed by incubator (43.51%) after 18 months of storage. After six months of storage, seeds kept in desiccator under cold store gave 78.67% viability, which was equivalent to aluminium foil (78.33%). The desiccator maintained the maximum viability (49.60%) which was on par with polyethylene bag (48.07%) after 18 months of storage.
42883292|Two-year-old potted grapevines, cv. Chardonnay/SO4, maintained for the entire growing season at 35% and 90% of field capacity were used to study the production of dry matter and its allocation among vine organs, water use efficiency (WUE), relative growth rate (RGR) and some morpho-anatomical and physiological characteristics of the leaves associated with adaptation to water deprivation. Continuous water stress reduced vine growth and more dry matter accumulated in the roots. Carbon molar density also increased in stressed vines [11.6 mol C m leaf area in well-watered vines (WV) vs. 17.7 mol C m leaf area in water-stressed vines (SV)]. Soil water deficiency induced adaptive features in leaves, e.g. high amount of epicuticular wax, increased prostrate hair density, small stornata and low average leaf area, preferential allocation of dry matter to the roots and few leaves on the lateral shoots. These changes contribute to optimising the use of the assimilates and increased root/leaf area ratio (+93%) and WUE (+31%). Changes in the mean leaf inclination resulting in a more upright leaf position, and the decrease in total leaf area, stomatal conductance and cuticular transpiration observed under water-deficiency, indicate an efficient water-saving strategy which optimises water use.
42881988|In Apulia (Southern Italy), Prunus mahaleb L., a widely used rootstock for sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.), is heavily infected by Prune dwarf virus (PDV) which is transmitted through its seeds. Trials were carried out for optimizing a protocol for P. mahaleb micropropagation in view of the use of sanitation treatments by in vitro culture combined with heat therapy. For in vitro expiant establishment, the best results were obtained starting from green material, collected at the end of January from screenhouse-grown mother plants and placed in Driver and Kuniyuki (1984) medium supplemented with 1.0 mg 1-16-benzylaminopurine (BA). This medium secured also the best conditions for shoot proliferation. The best rooting was obtained by growing explants in half-strength macro-and microelements Driver and Kuniyuki (1984) medium with 0.05 mg 1-1 actived charcoal and 1.5 mg 1-13-indolbutyric acid, and subsequent transferring to jiffy pots or to pots with sterile soil mix. Two P. mahaleb accessions infected with two different PDV isolates were used for sanitation trials in which in vivo and in vitro heat therapy were compared with meristem tip culture.
42882749|Because of the impossibility of effective interventions to modernize the traditional olive growing designs, we suggested, in a past work, the adoption of the super high density model as innovative therapy to allow the Italian olive oil production to continue to be present on the national and international markets. In the present work the results obtained at Valenzano, near Bari (southern Italy) with regard to both vegetative and productive aspects throughout the first three years of a large varietal population are presented. Data concerning the performance of 13 varieties, obtained by rooted cutting and/or by micro propagation are discussed. 'Arbequina', 'Arbosana' and 'Urano', by cutting, confirmed their naturally controlled growth habit, dense and regular foliage, early and consistent cropping capacity. Promising results were given by micro propagated 'Koroneiki' and 'Urano'. On average, in the third year 'Arbequina', 'Arbosana', 'Koroneiki' and 'Urano' bore a crop of 5.71 ha of fruits and of 1.01 ha of extra virgin oil. The performance of 'Urano' by cutting is particularly worthy of attention: it bore a crop of 5.5 kg tree 1 (i.e. 9.131 ha) of fruits in the third year after plantation. On the basis of 16.5% oil output, the oil production of 'Urano' at the third year was 154 t ha. The remaining varieties showed severe limitations in terms of vegetative and/or productive parameters.
42883338|The Australian olive industry is attaining a state of maturity viability that will lead it to become a significant force in the domestic market, but as yet only a niche player, internationally. This paper outlines the changes that have occurred in the recent decade and which have lead to this transformation and points to issues that should be addressed to maintain success. First for the drivers for the growth of the domestic industry was cultural change which occurred as result of European migration post World War II and the changes in diet and cuisine brought by the immigrants and their descendants. Secondly the rise in olive oil consumption to the point where Aus$ 160million oils and related products are imported was recognised as an opportunity. These two factors were then coupled to the suitability of southern Australia for cultivation especially for industrial scale plantations, the rise in the economy and Australian horticulture and agricultural expertise, as exemplified by the international success of the Australian wine industry. Sustained growth will depend on advances in efficiency and market development in an environment of globalisation in which Australia will produce about 1 % only of world olive products. Limited expertise in sensory analysis is being overcome through international linkages and training programs but such activities need to continue to be advanced, as does education of the Australian community which presently consumes lower grade products than the high quality products that are anticipated will be the primary outputs of this 'new industry'.
42881337|Respiration rates and diffusive conductance were measured on apple leaves in the field using a portable open gasexchange system. Respiration rates were higher for young leaves near the shoot tip than for mature leaves. These younger leaves had lower leaf conductances. Respiration rates were slightly lower for leaves on droughted trees than conductance influenced respiration rate, with respiration actually decreasing with increased conductance.
42882983|Since fruit trees and grapevines can be trained to hedgerows of similar shape and size, an appropriate multirow model may be used to evaluate PFR availability at different wall levels as influenced by Hedgerow Heigth-Row Spacing ratio (HH/RS), and Row Orientation (RO). Measurements were taken at Bologna (44.5 N lat.) on solid models 1:10 scale, recording hourly PFR (8 a.m. to 5 p.m.) at the end of June, July and August. The results made it possible to establish different hourly classes of PFR along the walls of arbitrary thickness as related to HH/RS and RO. Since the fruiting area and the functional leaves in some species can be distributed all over the canopy while in others they are concentrated in the upper portions of it, the data indicate the theoretical HH/RS which may be used in both cases with N-S or E-W row orientation to provide sufficient PFR during the growing season.
42882148|A modification of the technique of etiolation and blanching, using Velcro adhesive strips as blanching material, was used as a pretreatment to improve rooting percentage of some Quercus species. Softwood cuttings from stock plants of different age, grown both indoor and outdoor and stem cuttings from seedlings of different origin, were taken to determine the relative benefit of each treatment. Part of the cuttings was treated with an inoculum of Agrobacterium rhizogenes. An additional trial was conducted on stoolbeds applying girdling, banding and IBA on young suckers of two different species of oak. Rooting ranged from almost 0% in the outdoor trial on adult plants to 98.8% in Q. mongolica stem cuttings from seedlings. Rooting strongly decreased with the age of the mother plants and was also species- and ecotype-dependant. The effect of the initial stock plant treatments did not show significant influence on rooting percentage while the number and length of the new roots were, in general, positively increased.
42882327|In order to study the genetic variation of Pyrenophora graminea, the causal agent of barley leaf stripe disease, protein profiles of 27 isolates were generated by sodium-dodecyl-sulphate polyacrylamide-gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). These isolates are part of 93 isolates collected from different regions of Syria and selected for their differential reaction on specific genotypes during a preliminary study. Results show a high level of diversity of SDS-PAGE markers in P. graminea population in Syria. A total of 129 scorable protein bands were obtained; 95 of these (73.6%) were polymorphic. Genetic distances among all isolates ranged from 0.05 to 0.94 with a mean of 0.67. On the basis of genetic distance Nei's coefficients, cluster analysis was performed using the UPGMA method. The isolates were distributed into three clusters. The groups of isolates had no relation to their geographical distribution. In addition, no significant correlations were obtained between number of protein subunits and virulence levels of isolates. The high degree of polymorphisms and repeatability of SDS-PAGE markers provide a rapid and efficient tool in assessing the genetic diversity of P. gramnea isolates. The finding that genetic differences can occur in Syrian P. gramnea isolates will be an important consideration in resistance studies and in choosing breeding strategies to develop durable leaf stripe resistance.
42883141|'Fortune' mandarins were harvested in the middle of March and stored 2 months in cold rooms. Control fruits were kept at constant temperature (6 C), and the others were exposed to cycles of low and high temperatures (5 and 2 days respectively). The effectiveness of three intermittent sequences were evaluated: 0/12 C, 2/10 C, and 4/8 C. A 95% relative humidity (RH) was used. As additional shelf-life period, at monthly intervals, fruits were kept at 20 C and 75% RH during 10 days. Intermittent warming at 0/12 C and 2/10 C greatly reduced chilling injury (CI). Weight loss (WL) was slightly higher in fruits exposed to intermittent warming than in the reference, and mould decay was very low in all cases. Loss of quality was observed in fruits subjected to intermittent warming at 4/8 C, while fruits held at 0/12 C showed high quality and good appearance during the storage period. The quality of mandarins stored at 2/10 C was good during the 1st month of storage, but decreased afterwards.
42883276|The present investigations were carried out during 1997-99 in four walnut growing districts of Himachal Pradesh. Based upon preliminary information, out of a total population of 2,050 seedlings, 229 seedling trees were evaluated for various desired tree, foliage, floral, nut and kernel traits. Based upon 25 desirable characteristics, 38 seedling trees (five in Kullu, four in Mandi, four in Sirmaur and 25 in Chamba) were found to be promising which can be used as cultivars in future after further testing under various agroclimatic conditions to strengthen the varietal status of walnut in Himachal Pradesh. 'Tree No. 46', 'Tree No. 49', and 'Tree No. 50' from Chamba possessed 23 out of 25 desirable traits.
42883587|The codling moth Cydia pomonella L. is a primary pest of apple and various studies have been performed to assess the possibility of applying sterile insect technique as a control method against this pest. In support of this technique, the present work aims to examine the effects of adult age and weight on mating ability, number of matings, fecundity and fertility in C. pomonella. The relationship between number of matings, fecundity, and fertility of females was also studied. Female and male weights were found to have an effect on the number of times individuals mate, but male weight only influenced mating success. Unlike male weight, female weight affected fecundity and fertility. Negative correlations were found between mating success, fecundity and fertility and adult age. Multiply-mated females and those which did not accept a second mating showed higher fecundity and fertility than their counterparts that were not given the opportunity to remate. Our results provide essential information necessary to increase the effectiveness of sterile insect technique as a control method against C. pomonella.
42882782|The effect of beta-pinene polymer based Vapor Guard surround-type film antitranspirants on plant gas exchange (stomatal behavior, carbon assimilation and transpiration) and biochemical parameters (chlorophyll and proline) of orange (Citrus sinensis L.) cultivars, namely 'Washington Navel', 'Red Blood' and 'Shamouti', under progressive water deficit were studied. The plants were subjected to three progressive droughts by allowing 25,50 and 75% of available water (AW25%, AW50%, and AW75%) to be depleted in order to identify genotypic differences of the three orange cultivars to water deficit in absence or presence of antitranspirants by evaluating the effect of water stress and antitranspirants (ATs) on gas exchange and biochemical parameters. The results showed a decline in orange tolerance when grown under severe water deficit that corresponded with a reduction in the gas exchange parameters measured and the analyses of chlorophyll and proline concentration. Considerable genotypic variation in drought tolerance was observed. It appears that the antitranspirant compounds did not show any effective results on stomatal conductance and leaf water relationships. Also, antitranspirant compounds inhibited the capacity to improve the physiological status of the plants.
42881926|RAPD analysis was performed to characterize and identify the genetic origin of the 'Monachelle' and 'Interdonato' lemon [C. limon (L.) Burm. f.] cultivars. Their tolerance towards Phoma tracheiphila (Petri) Kane, and Ghik. induced the authors to attempt to clarify their genetic origin in order to understand the genetic mechanisms involved in the tolerance to this pathogen. The study used a strategy based on the identification of segregating polymorphisms detected in a self progeny of the 'Femminelle Siracusano' lemon. Fifteen of the forty primers assayed allowed identification of thirty segregating polymorphisms which were compared with those in 'Monachetto' and 'Interdonato' lemons. Non detection of band absence with respect to self progeny suggests that 'Monachetto' lemon does not originate from a fecundating process. Previous reports indicate that the 'Interdonato' lemon originates from a fecundating process, however the present study did not reveal polymorphisms demonstrating that it originates from parents different from those of the true lemon.
42883527|Electronic barcodes based on radiofrequency identification (RFID) technology can be used in plant pathology to keep track of the sample identification. Moreover, phenotypic, environmental and genomical data could be added to RFID tags associated with the assayed plant. This aspect can be very useful for clonal selection in grapevine considering the long periods of time during which plants are monitored. RFID technology has been successfully used to identify plants during ampelographic, genetics and sanitary checks during the selection of grapevines in Montalcino (Italy), with no losses in retrieving information from plants. The electronic sheets created for registering results of clonal selection were successfully associated to each RFID-tagged plant and used for the preparation of the final dossier. The database in which sheets were stored was used for sharing information between researchers, allowing multiple access to data.
42883365|The response of olive trees (Olea europaea L.) to a kaolin-based particle film formulation was evaluated in the warm sub-humid Mediterranean environment of northwest Syria for its effect on fruit yield, oil content and quality. Kaolin-sprayed olive trees significantly outperformed their unsprayed counterparts in terms of fruit yield and size, percentages of dry matter and oil content. Oil samples obtained from kaolinsprayed trees contained less peroxides after 70 days of storage compared with that extracted from untreated control trees. Consistent with previous findings on apple and grapefruit trees, the kaolin particle film proved to be an efficient growth enhancer for olive trees in the sub-humid Mediterranean area.
42882071|The influence of four rootstocks on susceptibility to Botrytis cinerea of Vtis vinifera cv. Falanghina was studied. A leakage electrolyte assay (LEA) was performed in vitro on leaves of vines grafted on different rootstocks and their resistance to grey mould was investigated. Yield and quality parameters were also evaluated. The results pointed out that SO4 induces late resistance compared with the other considered rootstocks.
42881670|Chronicles dating to the sixteenth century report a "raining" tree discovered on Hierro, one of the Canary Islands. This wonder of nature, described as a tree that causes "rain" to fall from its canopy, is examined in the light of modern physiology and meteorology and explained scientifically as the result of guttation or dewfall.
42882491|An in vitro grafting protocol was established with micropropagated shoots of the apricot cultivars Caldesi and Alb 3 (apricot selection from 'Cricot'  'NJA53' cross) and the P. spinosa seedling 'PS123' (open pollination from a wild tree). Compatible combinations (homografts) were ascertained by considering vascular continuity between scion and stock, as determined by fast toluidine blue staining procedure, and by restoration of phloem connections as determined by application of 5(6)-carboxyfluorescein (CF) to the scion. Fifteen days after graft establishment, the differentiation of new xylematic tissue resulting in unification of the vascular elements between stock and scion was observed in all the genotypes which, moreover, showed restoration of active phloem. High correlation between the differentiation of new xylem and the differentiation of new phloem at the graft point was found. Graft-take, however, did not correlate with the scion-stock compatibility, in that heterograft-take was high but did not reflect xylematic continuity or phloematic transport, which were not established in any of the tested scion-stock combinations. The use of rooted shoots as rootstock resulted in unsuccessful graft technique.
42882198|This study was conducted to investigate the relationships between fruit Ca, K, and Mg concentrations and browning of blossom end part (BBEP) of the 'Fuyu' persimmon during modified atmosphere (MA) storage. Calcium concentration of the soils and stem bark were significantly lower in an orchard where the browning of persimmon fruit occurred than in an orchard producing normal fruit. However,  and Mg concentration of the soils and stem bark were not different between the two orchards. Calcium concentration of the flesh and peel was lowest in the blossom end part of the fruit (BEP) where the browning symptoms were most severe. The severity of BBEP of the fruit appeared to be directly related to the Ca concentration of peel and flesh. The Ca/K+ Mg ratio of fruit also had a relationship to the BBEP. There were negative correlations between Ca/K, Ca/Mg, and Ca/K+ Mg in fruit peel and flesh. Accordingly, low Ca concentration in the fruit appeared to be a major factor inducing the browning symptoms in the BEP of the ' Fuyu' persimmon during MA storage at low O and high CO.
42881487|Two levels of fertilization (medium and high), using mineral fertilizer (MF) alone, farmyard manure (FyM) alone, or a combination of MF and FyM, together with non-fertilized controls, were tested in northeastern Italy in three different soils (clay, peaty-clay and sandy). The clay and peaty-clay soils demonstrated to be the most suitable for the quality of both lettuce and kohlrabi, showing high incidence of heavier heads and larger-sized stems, respectively, for the two crops, low dry matter and high raw protein content. In lettuce, a higher nitrate content was observed when plants were grown in peaty-clay soil (spring- and autumn-grown lettuce) and in clay soil (autumn-grown lettuce). Fertilization showed different effectiveness on crop quality in relation to soil type. For spring-grown lettuce in sandy soil, the distribution of 200, 100 and 280 kg ha of N, PO and KO as mixed fertilization gave qualitative performance (head weight, uniformity, shape, dry matter and raw protein content) similar to those of more fertile soils. Fertilization also improved quality in clay and peatyclay soils, but the effects were less evident than in sandy soil. Autumn-grown lettuce benefited by the residual effect of fertilization. Kohlrabi gave the best stem size and homogeneity in peaty-clay soil, with 100, 50 and 140 kg ha of N, PO and KO as mineral fertilizer. Clay soil also proved to be suitable for this crop, especially when mixed fertilization was used. In sandy soil, the quality of the product was lower even when large amounts of nutrients were applied. In both lettuce and kohlrabi, the nitrate content of the edible product was only slightly influenced by fertilization.
42882696|The rooting of Vitis (rootstock 140 Ruggeri) woody cuttings, collected in field from mother plants over a five-month period (October 1999-February 2000), was recorded from 0 to 60 days of basal heating. The material was collected directly in field and/or submitted to different treatments: a) cold treatment of the shoots at 2C in cold chamber from October; b) dipping in water at the bottom end of the cuttings. Both treatments were able to modify rooting time and amount. During basal heating, at 0, 20, 40 and 60 days, rooting percentage was recorded; concomitantly, from the basal end of cuttings, free-poly amines were extracted to evaluate their endogenous levels. Results show that positive variations in rooting, induced by the treatments, are related to increases in free-polyamine levels, suggesting that an increase in the endogenous putrescine could be correlated with primordia formation time. The pattern of spermine variations appears to be similar to that of putrescine, while spermidine does not appear to be correlated to the rooting process. Both spermine and spermidine amounts are present at far lower levels than putrescine.
42882490|In the present study we compared the effects on primary school children's capacity of attention of a garden dominated by green vegetation with those of a classroom lacking natural elements. Eighty pupils, eight and 10 years of age of similar education and intellectual faculties, were chosen to solve the so-called "Trail making test". Results showed that garden exposure significantly improved the attention of children. Implications of this finding are discussed in terms of guiding school policy and design.
42883254|The effect of stalk length and enclosure in polyethylene on the storage of artichokes (Cynara scolymus L.) at 2 and 10C was studied. Storage life was extended from seven days in air at 2 or 10C to 28 days by enclosure in polyethylene. However, shelf-life following the transfer of the artichokes (enclosed in polyethylene) from 2 or 10C to 15 or 20C was short (<3 days). The presence of the flower stalk caused a reduction in weight loss but did not affect the change in colour associated with quality deterioration. Hence, the current commercial practice of stalk retention after harvest increases transport and handling costs without significantly improving quality.
42882629|The vegetative, productive and fruit characteristics of 52 new genotypes of olives from a cross-breeding programme were compared to those of their parents 'Ascolana tenera', 'Carboncella', 'Dritta', 'Gentile di Chieti', 'Intosso' and 'Leccino', which are autochthonous and/or widespread cultivars in the Marches and Abruzzi, two regions of central Italy. All genotypes and parents were grafted on donai rootstock (cv. Frantoio). An overall evaluation index for the agronomic parameters (fruit weight, pulp/stone ratio, oil content, pulp consistency, pigmentation index, yield and yield efficiency) was developed to compare the new genotypes among each other and to their parents. Nine genotypes had a score higher or equal to that of the best parent. Oil quality analyses were carried out for the best genotypes and all parents in 2006. An index for oil qualitative parameters was developed: two genotypes had a score higher or equal to that of the best parent. Some genotypes had more precocious and higher yields than any of the parents while maintaining or surpassing the parents' oil quality. Other genotypes might be suitable for high density planting due to their low vigour. Fruit characteristics (average fruit weight, pulp/stone ratio, pigmentation index, pulp consistency, and oil content) of the six parents grafted onto 'Frantoio' rootstocks did not differ from those of fruits from adjacent self-rooted adult trees of the same varieties. Further research is needed to confirm these results in other growing environments, with self-rooted plants and with more extensive data on oil quality parameters over multiple years. Additionally, it will be necessary to evaluate the genotypes' susceptibility or resistance to widespread pest and diseases.
42883355|This study examines the effect of Hydrogen Peroxide Plus (HPP) and curing procedure on decay of onion (Allium cepa L.) caused by the fungus Aspergillus niger during storage. Results indicate that rates of spoilage after five months of storage at 22C and 60% RH for Rio Redondo, Rio Roho, and Hazera 7 cultivars, following combined treatments of curing and HPP, were 7%, 5% and 3% compared to 41%, 29% and 11% in the non-treated control, respectively. Treatments with either curing or HPP, applied singly, had a smaller effect on decay.
42882388|In this paper, a simplified model of a generic Phoenix canariensis structure with regard to its resistance to external forces is proposed. The model allows estimation of the maximum admissible wind load on the palm structure, on the basis of tissue resistance, the presence of decay areas, and the particular geometry and stiffness of the stem and the upper crown, which causes a significant reduction of the resistant area when wind speed is increased. The model is applied to a P. canariensis palm, on which physical and mechanical tests were carried out. In particular, on the basis of the experimental tests on some trunk specimens, the modulus of rupture (MOR) and the modulus of elasticity (MOE) of the palm stem under test are calculated, taking into account the variations in mechanical properties along the stem height. In view of both the complex behaviour of palms under wind loads and the uncertainties in the stem MOR calculation, the figures provided in this paper should only be regarded as preliminary, while more in-depth research and experimental analysis are needed. Nevertheless, the findings in this paper could provide useful guidance to practitioners.
42883016|Potted trees of apple, cv. Staymared, and pear, cv. William, were treated from the beginning of the growing season till the end of July with acidified water (pH 4 and pH 3), with deionized water containing the salt components of acid rain or with simulated acid rain (acid + salt components). After 12 treatments (5 mm of solution each) at the rate of one a week, the following variables were assessed: 1) shoot elongation and 2) morphological and biochemical changes in the leaves: a) necrotic leaf area, b) total leaf area, c) amounts of chlorophyll and carotenoids and specific weight, d) stomatal density and e) any other alterations visible by SEM. In apple, all acid solutions tested inhibited shoot elongation; in pear, only simulated acid rain did so. Both apple and pear leaves displayed lesions, alterations of the stornata, increases in stomatal density and reductions in the foliar area and in the amount of chlorophyll and the carotenoids. Treated apple leaves also had lower specific leaf weight.
42883567|In Jordan, pollination is one of the problems faced by plants under plastic houses, in open fields and in offseason planting. Therefore this study was conducted in Jordan to investigate the role of pollinators and to investigate the systems of pollination in Nigella sativa species grown at two different altitudes, 150 m under sea level and 200 m above sea level. Up to now little attention has been paid to the events associated with pollination such as seed set, and to address this deficit, we examined six pollination treatments of the selected plant species. Field work was conducted, repeated and recorded from 2005 to 2007 in Jordan. Controlled pollinations were carried out in selected individual's plant at the time of maximum stigma receptivity and anthesis. N. sativa flowers had anthesis intervals which last for five days, then followed by stigmatic receptivity which last for few hours. Plants are pollinated trough outcrossing and complete selfing to insure the reproductive assurance. However, self-pollination was occurred due to style movement. The observations confirmed that a mixing mating including a combination of out-crossing and selfing is a better strategy than selfing alone.
42881762|Six snapmelon (Cucumis melo var. momordica) types were evaluated against downy mildew using various disease parameters, viz. leaf death score (LDS), mean disease score, number of lesions per unit area, area under disease progress curve (AUDPC), development on the east and west sides of the raised beds. The LDS was minimum in the genotypes SP (2.25) and KP (2.50), both being statistically at par. This tallied with the mean disease index of the genotypes. The genotypes SP and KP had 2.28 and 2.73 lesions in a leaf area of 3 cm. The lesion density was 19.51 (higher on the western than on the eastern side of the raised beds). The apparent infection rate (r) of disease development did not register significant differences in 1991, though the disease reaction of the various genotypes varied significantly when recorded on different dates. The lowest mean disease severity was recorded in KP and SP. The better performance of SP and KP with respect to the disease parameters might be exploited in the development of improved melon varieties.
42882819|Avocados possess high nutritional value with proven effectiveness in preventing cardiovascular diseases, attributed primarily to their unsaturated fatty acids content. This fruit is also rich in carotenoids and vitamins, particularly vitamin E. This work evaluates the antioxidant capacity and total phenolic content of hydrothermally-treated Fuerte avocado. Fruits were selected and hydrothermally treated at 45C for 5,10,15 and 20 min. They were then stored in a refrigerator (10  1C and 905% relative humidity) and evaluated over a 15-day period. The total phenolic content increased up to the sixth day of storage, and decreased thereafter, without differences between the treatments. The percentage of antioxidant capacity of the control and the hydrothermally-treated samples for 5 and 10 min increased during storage. Untreated fruits showed the highest percentage of antioxidant capacity. However, the antioxidant capacity of avocado fruits subjected to these treatments declined starting on the twelfth day of storage, possibly due to the fruits' senescence. Hydrothermal treatments for 15 and 20 min delayed fruit senescence while the antioxidant capacity continued to increase up to the fifteenth day of storage. No significant correlation was found between antioxidant capacity and total phenolic content. The antioxidant capacity of ripe Fuerte avocado was higher than that of unripe or overripe avocado.
42881530|Control of flowering is of utmost importance in most horticultural crops. In ornamental plants, flowering control enables timing to specific periods of peak demand. For edible crops, flowering is the first step toward fruit production. Environmental control of flowering by temperature and photoperiod has been practiced mainly in flower crops. Recently, methods have been developed to manipulate flowering of certain fruit crops, such as peaches, by artificial cooling of the plants. Two of the phytohormones are especially important in manipulating flowering: gibberellins and ethylene. GA is used to enhance flowering of many crops requiring long photoperiods and/or cold periods for flowering. In many woody plants, GA inhibits flower formation. In these cases, growth retardants, which inhibit GA bioynthesis, are used to promote flowering. In conifers, various gibberellins are widely used to promote flowering. Recently it was found that even in fruit trees, certain gibberellins are involved in the promotion of some stages of flower formation, while other GAs enhance vegetative growth. Ethylene has been mainly associated with interference with normal flowering by promoting flower abortion and abscission. Inhibitors of ethylene biosynthesis and action (especially STS) are now widely used to counteract these deleterious effects of ethylene in many ornamental crops. In some other crops, however, ethylene is a potent promotor of flower initiation, and will enhance flowering of edible (pineapple) and ornamental bromeliads, certain bulbous plants (e.g., iris, tazetta narcissus, brodiaea, freesia) as well as in mango and endive. Basic recent studies in the physiology and molecular biology of flowering have not yet yielded practical techniques for manipulating flowering, but may open new vistas for such methods in the future.
42883293|The region of Campania, one of the first areas to see the arrival of the Vitis vinifera subspecies vinifera in Italy, is particularly rich in autocthonous vine varieties which are spread over rather limited areas. Many of these are difficult to classify, are not listed in the National Registry of Varieties and are rarely found on the list of recommended and/or authorised varieties, even though they often have interesting production and oenological characteristics. Casavecchia, a black-berried variety used exclusively for vinification and spread over a limited area in the province of Caserta, is one of these. An accurate ampelographic, agronomic and oenologie characterisation was undertaken with the aim of verifying the identity of the vine variety, evaluating it and clearing up the confusion due to the use of synonyms. Analysis of the data points to the potential of the variety, which is well adapted to its environment of cultivation and has a cycle characterised by scarce vigour, low productivity and complete maturation of the berries. Many of the analysed parameters (low fertility, vigour and productivity, optimal oenological values), when compared with the successfully cultivated Merlot vine variety in the same region, highlight the positive characteristics of Casavecchia.
42882756|The new Australian olive industry has been expanding at a steady pace during the past ten years and relies almost entirely in the total mechanisation of the grove management for its competitiveness. Modern straddle harvesters have been developed for olive picking during the past ten years but there is insufficient information about their performance. The performance of a large straddle harvester in comparison with a shaker has been evaluated. Furthermore, complete information about the operation of the straddle harvester throughout a harvesting season has been analysed. The parameters that have been evaluated are speed of operation, efficiency of fruit removal, canopy damage, trunk damage, net harvesting times and cost of operation. Large over-therow harvesters like Colossus and side-by-side shakers are competitive alternatives for harvesting full canopy size trees with both advantages and disadvantages. While shakers are viable options for small scale operations or a complementary tool for large operations in light cropping or late harvest situations, straddle harvesters are more competitive for large scale modern intensive groves with high levels of production. The high levels of efficiency obtained early in the season would allow straddle harvesters to carry out a timely harvest minimising the negative impact that a late harvest has on olive oil quality and on next season's production.
42882454|To elucidate the preservative effect of modified atmospheres on chestnut quality, nuts were packaged in the following materials: (a) rigid plastic containers (punnets) covered with PET/PE (12 m/40 m) pealable microperforated film and PET/PE (12 m/40 m) pealable macroperforated film, (b) BOPP/LDPE (20 m/35 m) and PET/LDPE (12 m/75 m) plastic pouches. Packages were stored at 0 and 8C for up to 110 days. Fungal infection, composition of package atmosphere, weight loss, sugar, starch and ascorbic acid content were monitored during storage. The composition of O at equilibrium was 10.5/10.9 and 8.3/12% for microperforated PET/PE film at 0 and 8C, respectively. Fungal infection amounted to 26 and 49% after 110 days at 0 and 8C, respectively. Weight loss was less than 1% regardless of storage temperature. No atmosphere modification was attained in PET/PE macroperforated film, in which fungal infection level was high, rendering the product unmarketable. Carbon dioxide concentration in BOPP/LDPE and PET/LDPE films were 11/13 and 20/25% at 0 and 8C, respectively. However, oxygen concentration dropped below 2%, resulting in the development of off-odours in the packages and discontinuation of this experimental batch after 35 days. No fungal growth was observed in any of these packages. Sucrose content increased during the first 40 days in PET/PE micro-and macro-perforated films, presenting slight changes thereafter. Starch and ascorbic acid content decreased during storage. Their concentrations were directly related to storage temperature, retained better at 0 than 8C.
42882228|The study reports the results of a breeding program to transfer resistance to Pyrenochaeta lycopersici to new processing tomato lines. This program involved the Californian variety 'UC 82', as recurrent parent susceptible to the fungal pathogen, and the fresh market tomato cultivars Victorio, Nikita and Rezano, as donors of partial resistance, repeatedly observed in these varieties under field conditions in southern Italy. The materials were selected with three self-fertilisation cycles following three backcrosses, on the basis of greenhouse fungal partial resistance in early growth stages and field evaluation of agronomic and quality features. The greenhouse selection examined i) taproot discoloration; ii) plant growth on infected soil as compared to control; iii) production of adventitious roots following taproot discoloration; iv) presence/absence of necrosis on adventitious roots. At the end of the breeding program, five selected lines had a significantly higher growth performance than 'UC 82' on standard and highly infected soil. The resistance of improved lines was due to several traits; high adventitious root production following taproot discoloration and improved root tissue resistance to discoloration were the most evident.
42882387|The response of five Mediterranean ornamental shrubs (Arbutus unedo L., Myrtus communis L., Pistacia lentiscus L., Pittosporum tenuifolium "Variegatum" Gaertn., Sarcococca confusa Sealy) to water stress conditions was studied by evaluating morphological (number of shoots, height, total dry weight, growth indices) and ecophysiological parameters (leaf water potential, leaf gas exchange). Experiments were carried out on five ornamental shrubs species: Arbutus unedo L., Myrtus communis L., Pistacia lentiscus L., Pittosporum tenuifolium Gaertn. 'Variegatum', and Sarcococca confusa Sealy. Plants were subjected to two different water regimes: an optimal regime (control) and a reduced regime (stress). Pittosporum showed the best tolerance to water stress, as it can maintain a slow but constant growth even in water limiting situations. Arbutus strongly reduced its growth in terms of dry weight, height increase and number of new shoots during water deficiency, showing a low tolerance to water stress. Stressed Myrtus communis plants showed an increased R/S, with an improved capacity in wide soil exploration. Pistacia presented a intermediate growth rate, but seems unable to quickly adapt showing a strong decline in R/S after stress; the reduction in leaf water potential led to complete stomatal closure and subsequent impossibility in detecting any leaf gas exchange. Sarcococca also showed a sensibility to water stress, with control plants showing a slower growth than the other species.
42883388|The effect of removal of amino acids from lemon juice by cation exchange resin treatment was evaluated for reduction of browning and retention of nutritional and sensory quality of prepared concentrates (60Brix) during nine month's storage. The storage of concentrates prepared both from untreated and treated lemon juices brought about some increase in browning with consistent loss of sugars, ascorbic acid, amino acids and phenols. However, during storage, the removal of amino acids and subsequent storage of concentrates at low temperatures was highly effective to reduce browning of concentrate by about 7.14 fold as compared to their untreated counterparts and those stored under ambient conditions. The retention of titratable acidity, sugars, ascorbic acid and phenols was better in concentrates of treated juice as compared to those from untreated juice. The changes in various quality characteristics of concentrates stored at refrigerated temperatures were less marked as compared to those stored at ambient temperatures. In addition, the retention of sensory quality attributes was significantly better in concentrates prepared from treated juice than their untreated counterparts.
42881322|The frequency of embryo-sacs has been detected in ovules of shedding affected fruits of Malus domestica, cv. Golden Delicious (G.D.) and Starkrimson (S.). Flowers were collected in full anthesis with the aim to correlate a possible lack of gametophyte to early fruit drop. It has been found that about 25% of flowers of both cultivars shows no more than 2 ovules with gametophyte. The fate of these ovaries is indeed to be shed early during fruit development. Almost 30% of flowers shows 3-5 developed gametophytes and only 48% of flowers contains 6 or more ovules with embryo-sac. It has also been found that king flowers have generally the highest number of ovules containing gametophyte. When the two cultivars are compared, it is seen that S. flowers shows a lower number of ovules with embryo-sac than G.D. . The authors discuss the failure of embryo-sac conformation in relation to: i) abnormality of meiosis; ii) competition for nutrient substances; iii) earliest fruit-drop.
42883111|Tobacco necrosis virus produced local necrotic lesions in primary leaves of asparagus bean and stimulated ethylene production, ethylene-forming activity (EFA) and l-aminocyclopropane-l-car boxy lie acid (ACC) accumulation. These results indicate that biosynthesis of stress ethylene during the hypersensitive reaction proceeds via the methionine pathway Ethylene inhibitors (Co, aminoethoxyvinylglycine), which completely prevented ethylene production by the infected leaves, had no effect on lesion number and size. Scavengers of hydroxyl radicals (OH), such as sodium benzoate, dimethylsulphoxide and mannitol, did not affect ethylene biosynthesis. Propyl gallate, an inhibitor of lipoxygenase enzymes, substantially reduced the release of stress ethylene from hypersensitive leaves. This reduction was not attributable to an inhibitory effet on EFA, which was instead slightly stimulated, but to a strong reduction of free-ACC accumulation in leaf tissues. These results suggest that (OH) and the lipoxygenase system are not involved in the stress ethylene produced during the hypersensitive reaction of asparagus bean to virus.
42883364|Two potato cultivars belonging to an early-maturing group were harvested at different stages of maturity directly or after a ten-day period of defoliation. Tubers were evaluated for storability and processing quality during ambient temperature storage (16.5-36.5C, 37.4-91.3% RH). Mean tuber yield and tuber dry matter content increased up to last stage of harvest (80 days after planting). Tuber yield on fresh weight basis increased and dry matter content decreased during the ten-day period following defoliation mainly due to water uptake. Mean respiration rates of tubers decreased from 16.07 to 4.72 mg CO kg hr during the curing period up to 20 days after harvest. Respiration rate one day after harvest was highest in immature tubers harvested directly 60 days after planting and rates decreased as the harvest was delayed. Harvesting trauma was minimal in mature tubers harvested 90 days after planting following a ten-day period of defoliation, where the decline in respiration rate during the curing period was minimal. Weight loss in stored potatoes was affected by harvest date with more physically immature tubers losing more weight during curing and throughout storage.Rotting in tubers up to 120 days storage was also higher in immature tubers. Defoliation of the crop ten days prior to harvest further reduced weight loss and rotting in tubers during storage. Contents of reducing sugars and sucrose in tubers were also affected by harvest date: immature tubers of both the cultivars exhibited higher amounts at harvest and during storage and produced chips of unacceptable colour. Chip colour improved with maturity of tubers. Mature tubers were found suitable for short-term non-refrigerated storage due to reduced physiological losses and acceptable processing quality.
42882989|Sometimes well-rooted in vitro plantlets fail to survive when transferred outside for weaning. In this study we observed the histo-anatomical aspects of rhizogenesis of Damas GF 1869 (Prunus domestica x Prunus spinosa). The shoots were placed in a rooting medium containing half strength MS salts, 20 g/l sucrose, 6.5 g/l agar, 1 mg/l IBA and 0.1 mg/l GA. Shoot sampling started when shoots were transferred to rooting medium, continued at 2-3 day intervals and ended 16 days after transfer as the roots reached an average length of 10 mm. No callus formation was detected during rhizogenesis that started two days after shoot transfer to rooting medium. Roots originated principally from phloem parenchima cells near the cambium. The root system was already formed nine days after transfer, as evidenced by the 4-5 radial adventitious roots emerging from the base of each microcutting.
42882442|The chestnut is an important resource for the sustainable development of many marginal and internal areas of the Mediterranean countries and the re-evaluation of the culture passes through an appropriate recovery and management of the plantations according to the principles of sustainability. To survive in the third Millennium the chestnut ecosystems have to compete in a global and complex market where the quality of the commodities is essential. For this reason to obtain high quality food and timber, environmental, genetic and cultural factors influencing the quality have to be considered. Nowadays nut and timber productions are integrated with many activities related to a multitude of values. The nuts, with both new and traditional methods of storage and processing, reach the market as a large array of commodities and are a prized food for an increasingly large market sector, the wood is a valuable resource for many uses, the landscape has an incomparable value. The future of the chestnut industry involves the development of an integrated production system based on sound science for an increasing demand of commodities, but to compete in a globalised world research and development must be strengthened to obtain high quality nut, timber and externalities.
42881517|Cobalt uptake by cut 'Samantha' roses opened in cobalt solution was investigated. As the cobalt concentration of the holding solution increased (0 to 2 mM), there was a linear increase in cobalt uptake by the cut rose. At lower concentration (0.5 mM) about 95% of the cobalt was equally distributed between the lower and middle stem; as the concentration was raised (1 to 2 mM), these portions became almost saturated and the cobalt apparently accumulated in the lower leaves first, followed by the upper stem and then the upper leaves. After the cut flower sections became progressively saturated, cobalt eventually began to accumulate in the bloom. Some postharvest physiological changes were found to be associated with cobalt concentration in the holding solution as well as the tissue.
42881839|Results on the content of the major inorganic anions and cations $\left( {C{l^ - }, NO_3^ - , {H_2}PO_4^ - , SO_4^{2 - }, N{a^ + },{K^ + }, M{g^{2 + }} and C{a^{2 + }}} \right)$ in heads of hydroponically grown endive with two levels of N (8 and 16 mM) supplied in mixed form $\left( {NH_4^ +:NO_3^ - 50:50} \right)$ or as nitrate (0:100) are reported. The trial was performed over a 48 day period starting from the transfer of plants into nutritive solution treatments. Six samples were taken: the first five samples at one week intervals from transfer and the last after two more weeks. The ratio between the nitrogen forms distinctly affected the plant release of ${H^ + } or O{H^ - }/HCO_3^ - $ ions into the nutritive medium. The release of H, typical of ammonium nutrition, reached on average 16.4 meq-plant with the 50:50 $NH_4^ +:NO_3^ - $ ratio: $NO_3^ - $-fed plants released 16.3 meq-plant of $O{H^ - }/HCO_3^ - $. After 28 and 34 days from the beginning of treatments the total ions concentration was not affected by N level, but only by the ratio between its chemical forms. In these two samples, cations reached on average 229 and 241 meq-100 g dry matter, respectively, with N in mixed form and 202 and 219 meq-100 g dry matter with 100% $HCO_3^ --N$. This difference was even greater for total inorganic anions 34 days after the beginning of treatment, i.e. 247 vs 199 meq-100 g dry matter K and Cl concentrations were particularly high with an $NH_4^ + : NO_3^ - $ ratio 50:50. K ion could be related to the good capability of endive to assimilate $NH_4^ + - N$; Cl could have replaced $NO_3^ - $ in its osmoregulatory functions.
42883014|Experiments were conducted on "June-budded" nursery plum (Prunus salicina) trees to study the effects of early fall defoliation on leaf nitrogen remobilization and spring regrowth. Apparent remobilization of leaf N varied depending on the means of expression. That is, N remobilization was reduced by > 10% when expressed on the basis of leaf area as compared with percentage leaf weight. Leaf N remobilization was substantially decreased by defoliation treatments when data were expressed on a leaf area basis. Trees manually defoliated approximately one month prior to natural leaf-fall were only 46% as large as control trees after 3 months of regrowth the following spring. However, the size of trees receiving defoliating ZnSO sprays at the same time as the manual defoliation treatments did not differ significantly from control trees. Budbreak of manually defoliated trees occurred earlier than in control trees, but defoliation with ZnSO did not significantly affect budbreak. Fall defoliation treatments did not influence leaf N levels determined after the spring flush of regrowth. Therefore, although ZnSO sprays accelerated defoliation in the fall and reduced leaf N remobilization, these treatments did not reduce spring regrowth of nursery trees. In contrast, early fall manual defoliation had substantial effects on both budbreak and regrowth.
42881328|Microcuttings of Betula pendula Roth., cv. Purpurea, were rooted in vitro by the use of quick concentrated auxin dips. Shoot tips 10mm in length gave the best quality rooted microcuttings with 86.7% and 100% rooting when dipped in 0.1 and l. 0mM IBA respectively for 3 seconds. At 10mM IBA excessive callus was produced and at 0.01 mM IBA rooting declined to 76.7%. Similar results were obtained with dips of NAA except that more basal callus was produced and this was believed to inhibit growth of the microcuttings. Root formation on leaf veins provides evidence of acropetal auxin transport in the vascular system when quick dips of auxin to 10mM were used.
42882538|Investigations were carried out on 30 scab resistant genotypes in mid-hill conditions of Himachal Pradesh for various genetic parameters. Genotypic and phenotypic coefficient of variability was recorded for the characters fruit yield/plant (61.88%), non reducing sugar (53.88%), acidity (41.09%), number of seeds/fruit (38.61%) and spur frequency (34.31%). High heritability estimates associated with high gain were obtained for the characters non-reducing sugar (110.52%), fruit yield per plant (99.38%), acidity (84.78%), number of seeds (61.94%), spur frequency (48.08%), fruit set 40 days after full bloom (45.86%), fruit weight (43.36%), fruit retention (41.68%) and trunk girth (40.71%), indicating that selection for these traits would be effective.
42883350|This study was directed towards cryopreservation of shoot tips of bitter almond (Amygdalus communis) using encapsulation-dehydration and plant vitrification solution (PVS2) techniques. For encapsulation-dehydration, microshoots were precultured on a medium containing 0.3 M sucrose and exposed to cold acclimation (5C) for 0, 3 or 5 weeks. Shoot tips were then excised and treated with a medium containing 0.5 or 0.75 M sucrose for one day before dehydration for 4 or 6 hr. Highest survival (77 or 80%) or regrowth (50 or 60%) rates were obtained with cryopreserved shoot tips that were dehydrated for 4 or 6 hr, respectively, and pretreated with 0.75 M sucrose after 5 weeks of cold acclimation. Other microshoots were cold acclimated at 5C for 0, 2 or 4 weeks on media supplemented with 0.3 M sucrose. Shoot tips were then treated with PVS2 for 60, 90 or 120 min at 0C before liquid N. Highest survival (93 or 100%) and regrowth (57 or 67%) rates were obtained for shoot tips that were cold acclimated for 2 or 4 weeks, respectively, and treated with PVS2 for 120 min.
42883157|The action of the herbicide lenacil on spinach cultivation was evaluated, with the overall objective of reaching a compromise between an advanced agronomic technique and environmental protection. A spinach crop was treated at pre-emergence with Venzar at the dosage of 1.0 kg ha and the residues were analyzed in spinach plants collected 30 and 60 days later. One month after lenacil spraying, the concentration of residues in spinach leaves was 0.102 ppm, whereas two months after the treatment residues were drastically reduced to 0.009 ppm. The efficacy of lenacil in weed control, measured in 60% reduction of weed density, was assessed in comparison to untreated plots.
42882837|An intensive plum orchard model was created for two types of fruit harvesting: by hand and with a self-propelled straddle harvester working in continuous motion. Six plum cultivars grafted on semi dwarfing rootstock 'Prune Wangenheim' (Prunus domestica) were planted at three densities (1000,1250 and 1666 trees/ha). A new training system - central leader spindle - was applied. The leader was not headed after planting and summer training treatments were performed. From the third year onward renewal pruning was done after fruit harvesting. The new training and pruning system resulted in very rapid tree growth, much young wood, fruit bud formation on young wood and early bearing. Trees appeared to be suitable for hand and mechanical harvesting within four years from planting.
42883584|The effect of polybagging of mango (Mangifera indica L.) fruits was evaluated at different stages of fruit development (35,45,55 and 65 days after fruit set). Fruits were harvested at different stages of maturity (75,85 and 90 days after fruit set) and allowed to ripen at room temperature (34-36C, RH 85-90%). The use of bagging at different stages of fruit development improved the appearance of fruit, fruit weight and size through other effects such as increased relative humidity and a consequently reduced fruit water loss. The maturity of fruits, at all stages of fruit harvest, was delayed with increasing bagging duration. Early bagging of fruit (35 days after fruit set) delayed the development of ripening characteristics in comparison to delayed bagging and unbagged control fruit, which ripened earliest. This was clearly evident from the carotene content in the mango flesh, at the different stages of harvest and of ripening fruit, which was the result of higher temperature inside the bags. In bagged fruits usually day/night temperature fluctuations were reduced and there was a cut off in the temperature curve inside the bag. The total soluble solids and sugar content were higher and titratable acid content was always less in unbagged fruit at all stages of fruit harvest and fruit ripening. Mineral elements were also affected by the number of days of bagging. The reduced Ca concentration in long-duration bagging (early bagging) might be due to increased RH around the fruits. Fruits bagged for 55 days recorded an increased content of N, P, Zn, Mn and Fe while fruit calcium concentration was reduced by bagging for 55 days. Anthracnose and stemend-rot (SER) caused by Colletotrichum and Diplodia spp. respectively were reduced by bagging in both years through a reduction in contact between disease propagules and fruits. These results indicate that bagging can improve fruit quality by reducing disease, lead to a better appearance of fruit and increase fruit weight and size.
42883218|Thirty-six different ecotypes of garlic, Allium sativum, formerly collected in Southern Italy and in other Mediterranean areas, were grown at the "Chiancalata" (Matera, Italy) experimental farm. In the present paper morphological and productive characters of the selected clones are presented. The results of the yield and chemical analysis of the essential oils extracted from the garlic cloves as determined by GC and GC-MS are also discussed. The ecotypes Gravina 3 and Altamura 2 showed the highest productivity of bulbs, with a yield of 9 t ha. Plants of the Rose de Lautrec and Gravina 3 were the largest with a height of 84.0 and 89.4 cm, respectively. Diallyl trisulfide and diallyl disulfide were the two major volatiles found in the oils from all the selected garlic ecotypes. Their total amount ranges from 94 to 78%, suggesting that the studied ecotypes are rich in allicin.
42883027|Fall application of ethephon at 150 mgl at the 10, 50, and 100% leaf drop stages delayed 'Redhaven' peach bloom by 8, 5, and 3 days, respectively, in 1987. At the 10% leaf drop stage, ethephon reduced flower and fruit number by almost half the amount produced by trees untreated or treated with ethephon at the 50 and 100% leaf drop stages. Fruit set was not affected by any of the ethephon treatments. Hardiness measured as percentage of bud survival was greater following the 50% leaf drop treatment through the dormancy period. Chemical name used: (2-chloroethyl) phosphonic acid (ethephon).
42883570|Estimates of general combining ability of parents and specific combining ability of the crosses help to select desidered parents for hybridization and development of superior hybrids. Crosses among eight parents were attempted in a half-diallel fashion. The material comprising eight parents, 28 Fs and one check (Pusa Sanyog) was sown at two locations in Randomized Block Design with three replications. The highest estimates of general combining ability (gca) were exhibited by G and Gyn for most of the characters at both the locations. In general, there was close agreement between gca effects and per se performance, but in some cases it did not hold good, which may be due to a higher degree of gene action involved. The superior cross combinations which recorded high specific combining ability (sea) estimates and per se performance for yield and number of fruits were K-90  G and K-90  Gyn and hence may be exploited for the development of F hybrid (s) after testing their performance at multi-locations for two to three years.
42881403|The effect of grapevine virus and virus-like diseases on '420 A', 'Kober 5BB' and 'Teleki 5A' rootstock hybrids (Vitis berlandieri  V. riparia) was studied in a field trial. The rootstocks were infected by grafting different inoculum sources containing combinations of diseases commonly occurring in nature. Over an eight-year period, a great reduction in plant growth (79-89%) was observed in the vines inoculated with a combination of grapevine fanleaf virus (GFLV) and grapevine leafroll-associated virus 3 (GLRaV-3). A mixed infection of Kober stem grooving (KSG), Rupestris stem pitting (RSP), GLRaV-3 and vein necrosis (VN) induced a 42-57% reduction in cane pruning weight. A significant decrease was also observed in the growth of '420 A' (66%) and 'Kober 5BB' (48%) caused by an inoculum consisting of KSG + RSP + GLRaV-1 + vein mosaic (VM).On the contrary, the same multiple infection did not induce any significant effects on 'Teleki 5A'. Fleck (FK) with VN and VM also caused a 51% decrease in '420 A' and 37% decrease in 'Kober 5BB'; here again, 'Teleki 5A' appeared to be tolerant to infection.
42882561|RAPD and ISSR analysis was used to evaluate the genetic variation among 13 cultivars of Calathea across 11 species. In total, 262-marker loci were assessed; of which 252 were polymorphic revealing 96.1% polymorphism. Genetic diversity parameter was calculated for RAPD, ISSR and RAPD + ISSR approaches. Nei's similarity index varies from 0.49 to 0.80, 0.44 to 0.85 and 0.51 to 0.82 respectively. Cluster analysis by the unweighted pair group method (UPGMA) of Dice coefficient of similarity generated dendograms with similar topology that gave a better reflection of diversity and affinities between cultivars. The phylogenetic trees divided the 13 Calathea cultivars studied into two groups: group I consisting of only C. bella and the remaining 12 cultivars in group II. This molecular result is comparable to notable morphological characteristics. A mantel test of correlation analysis of the distance matrices was carried out that resulted in significant correlation (r = 0.427 at p = 0.998) between RAPD and ISSR markers. Thus, these markers have the potential for identification of species/varieties and variation within the species that are efficient for germplasm management. This is also helpful in breeding programs as well as a major input into conservation biology of the foliage crop.
42883103|Stigma receptivity and effective pollination period (EPP) were evaluated in Prunus avium L. (cv. Mora di Cazzano/seedling). Research showed that stigmas undergo significant changes through anthesis. At the beginning of bloom stigma papillae appear turgid and a very low amount of exdate is present. Later the papillae lose their turgidity and a large amount of exdate is produced. All these changes do not appear to limit pollen germination. Ovule longevity is 4 to 5 days and the EPP appears to be rather short (2 days). Double pollination extended the EPP from 2 to 3 days by hastening the pollen tube growth rate.
42882670|The experiment was conducted on nine-year-old 'Flemish Beauty' pear to investigate physiological and anatomical changes induced by paclobutrazol under drought stress conditions. Drought stress treatment reduced leaf water potential and increased membrane permeability. Paclobutrazol (PBZ) treatment at 1.0 g active ingredient (a. i.) per tree maintained significantly higher leaf water potential and decreased the membrane permeability under drought stress conditions. Proline accumulation was highest in the leaves of paclobutrazol-treated trees. PBZ-treated trees (1.0 g a.i./tree) showed higher activities of peroxidase (POD) and Superoxide dismutase (SOD) enzymes in their leaves in comparison to control trees during the drought period. Furthermore, paclobutrazol treatment induced permanent histological changes in the newly developed shoots, including reduction in number and diameter of xylem vessels under drought stress. The results of this study suggest that PBZ, in relation to its ability to confer drought resistance, acts at two levels; by activating antioxidant system; and by inducing permanent histological changes. As a result, treated trees acquire a better water balance during the drought period.
42883030|The occurrence of black ringspots disease in cauliflower (Brassica oleracea L. var. botrytis) cv. Hypop in Puglia (South Italy) is reported. The symptoms of this viral disease are small necrotic ringspots on the leaves and growth reduction. The causal agent was identified by electron microscopy observations ('leaf-dip'), mechanical inoculations on test plants, I.E.M. ('decoration') and optical microscopy as turnip mosaic virus (TuMV) 'cabbage' strain. Mechanical inoculations to infect healthy cauliflower cv. Hypop and turnip (B. campestris L. var. rapa Hart.) cv. Bianca di Milano seedlings, were made. The results of this study indicate that the cv. Hypop is highly susceptible to infection by the TuMV 'cabbage' strain. This is the first report of black ringspots in Italy.
42882325|The purpose of this work was to evaluate the behaviour of the plane tree (Platanus acerifolia) to micropropagation. Four clones (12-MS, C1, S-PM, 21-MS) obtained from plants selected in the city of Rome (Italy) for their presumed resistance to the Ceratocystis fimbriata, agent of canker stain, were tested. The effects of different culture medium mineral components (SH, DKW, MS, QL, WPM), different treatments with cytokinin (BA, TDZ, 2ip, Kinetin, adenine sulphate), carbohydrates (sucrose, glucose and fructose) and auxin (IBA, NAA) were studied. In general, the culture fresh weight and the formation of axillary shoots, even with some differences among the tested clones, were higher with the SH, DKW and MS mineral components. The most effective cytokinin was BA at the concentration of 0.4 mg I. The combination sucrose-glucose-fructose sometimes appeared more effective on culture growth than Sucrose alone. Shoot rooting, in the presence of IBA at concentrations of 0.5 - 1.0 mg I, reached 100% on three of the clones (C1, S-PM, 21-MS), while on the fourth (12-MS), where the natural rooting capacity was very high, the auxinic treatment did not modify rooting response in comparison to the control. Plantlet acclimatization, performed in the spring period, did not point to any particular problems and plantlet survival was always higher than 95%. In general, the results of this work demonstrate that, with a suitable set up of experimental procedure for the specific genotype, micropropagation can also be effective for Platanus acerifolia as a technique for rapid vegetative propagation.
42881415|The effects of chilling temperatures (12C day/8C night) at low photon fluxes (45 mol m s) on Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. cv. Marmande and cv. Precodor seedlings grown in vivo and in vitro were investigated. The aim was to demonstrate if the different chilling resistance shown in vivo by the two genotypes was maintained when the screening was performed on in vitro-grown plants. The evaluation of chilling resistance was carried out by measuring several growth parameters and the amount of leaf pigment; data show that the relative resistance proved by the two cultivars during in vivo growth was maintained in vitro. These results could be useful for in vitro selection procedures on tomato transgenic plants and genotypes, as well as ensuring better environment control and aseptic conditions than during in vivo selection.
42882831|This paper reviews cultural practices to improve fruit quality in table grape during vegetative and reproductive seasons. Summer pruning in table grape (Vites vinifera L.) has more effects than winter pruning, above all with regard to plant productivity and final number of bunches for harvesting. Thinning is one of the most cultural technique and it consists in the elimination of vegetative or reproductive organs in excess. Other summer canopy management techniques include leaf removal, fruit shoots positioning, shoot trimming and girdling.
42882308|Daily precipitation and potential evapotranspiration (ET) maps were used in a Geographic Information System (GIS) for the development of a high resolution water balance model. Meteorological data for model set up were obtained from 11 meteorological stations and seven raingauges in an alpine valley for the period 1994-1998. The problem of dealing with any complex terrain was tackled by applying spatial interpolation techniques to meteorological data. The interpolation method, chosen as a compromise between simplicity and performance, is the inverse squared distance. Temperature values must previously be homogenized for every daily water balance evaluation. Implementation of Hargreaves's equation in the GIS provides the spatial distribution of daily ET. The results of interpolation are used by the model IRRIGRASS for the computation of daily crop water requirements. For the selected experimental area, an on-line data base allows any user to retrieve his filestored pedological and irrigation data, speeding up model operation.
42883066|Xanthomonas campestris pv. pruni was isolated in plum orchards of central Italy all planted with 'Angeleno' a new Californian cultivar belonging to Prunus salicina. The pathogen severely attacked the young plantation. Selections for resistance to . campestris pv. pruni have to be taken into consideration in plum breeding programs and/or before introducing new cultivars in those areas exposed to the disease.
42883212|Cucumber (Cucumis sativa L.) fruits stored for two weeks at 5C had chilling injury (CI) symptoms on 50% of the fruit at removal. Symptoms increased during three days shelf life at 20C. Three treatments (heat, antioxidant, and ethanol) all alleviated CI to some extent. Heat treatment, both 1 hr in 40C water or 16 hr in 38C air, and ethanol vapour prevented the rise in respiration and ethylene seen in control fruits. The antioxidant, Xedefon, prevented the respiration increase, but did not affect ethylene production. In the control fruit there was an increase in the sterohphospholipid ratio and the fatty acid saturation ratio of peel lipids during storage. Hot water and Xedefon treatment caused a decrease in sterohphospholipid ratio and only a small increase in the fatty acid saturation ratio. Possible modes of action of the three treatments in alleviating CI on cucumber fruits are discussed.
42881677|A survey was carried out in Apulian peach orchards to assess the presence and distribution of viruses and viroids. About 2,500 trees in 64 commercial plantings were individually sampled and checked by ELISA for Prunus necrotic ringspot (PNRSV), prune dwarf (PDV) and apple mosaic (ApMV) ilarviruses, apple chlorotic leaf spot closterovirus (ACLSV) and plum pox potyvirus (PPV). Search for peach latent mosaic viroid (PLMVd) was limited to 113 plants. Slightly more than one third (35.3%) of the samples was infected by one or more viruses. The prevailing virus was PNRSV (52%), followed by ACLSV (26%), PDV (7.7%) and ApMV (4.5%). Mixed infections were about 10%. PPV was not detected in any of the samples. PLMVd was identified in 27.4% of the samples examined, most of American origin.
42882830|Crop yield and fruit quality performance determine the economic value of the orchard system. Once the basic traits of the orchard design are defined, pruning may represent a powerful tool to modulate the vegetative and productive behaviour of the trees. The various pruning manipulations involve variations in growth, size and geometry of the plant and their effects are explained in terms of correlate functions among the tree organs. In spite of its potential, pruning can not overcome the effects of some basic mistakes made in design and management of the orchard. Basic concepts about pruning developed in the past are reassessed in light of recent knowledge on architecture and growth of the tree.
42881350|Cyclodextrin complexation was used to improve solubility of indolebutyric acid by complexation. Between the two forms  and , -cyclodextrin was selected on the basis of its greater solubilizing power. Complexation of IBA with -cyclodextrin significantly increased the rhizogenic activity in Olea europaea cv. Leccio del Corno.
42882855|A recent technique developed for establishment of warm season turfgrasses is based on the transplant of single plug plantlets pre-rooted in the nursery. Plantlets are obtained from one-node sprigs about 2 cm long derived from stolon fragmentation. Usually, stolons must be cut several times to obtain sprigs of the right length because of overly long internodes. In the present study, potted plants of Patriot bermudagrass grown in the nursery were treated with trinexapac-ethyl (TE) at the rates 0.1,0.2,0.4 and 0.8 kg a.i. ha. TE application was aimed at obtaining internode shortening in order to facilitate the stolon division practice. In fact, TE-treated plants showed a decrease in the average length of internodes with respect to control at any applied rate. Nevertheless, the lowest rate applied (0.1 kg a.i. ha) did not assure a prolonged effect while the highest rate (0.8 kg a.i. ha) caused a decrease in the yield of sprigs. Therefore, our results suggest that TE may be advantageously used and at rates of 0.2-0.4 kg a.i. ha to control stolon development of Patriot bermudagrass for nursery purposes.
42883163|Mature green tomatoes (Lycopersicon esculentum Mill. cv. Vibelco) were stored at 2C for 2,3 or 4 weeks. Intermittent warming treatments at 24C were applied at the end of every week for 12, 24 and 36 hr. Control fruit were held continuously at 2C. All fruit were ripened post-storage at 24C for 6 days. Compared with continuous 2C storage, intermittent warming increased weight loss, reduced chilling injury, enhanced colour development, and suppressed titratable acidity (TA) and ion leakage. Fruit intermittently warmed for 36 hr/week had less chilling injury, more rapid reddening, and lower TA and ion leakage than fruit intermittently warmed for 12 or 24 hr/week. Seed discolouration and surface pitting were completely inhibited by intermittent warming for 36 hr for up to 2 and 3 weeks, respectively. Weight loss and ion leakage increased from 2 to 4 weeks, while TA declined.
42881921|Seeds o Olea europaea L. were collected from open-pollinated trees, removed of the fleshy exocarp and mesocarp, and stored at room temperature for seven months. Germination was induced in Erlenmayer flasks (100 cc) where various combinations of benzyladenine (BA, 10M), thidiazuron (10M), 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC, 100M), and aminoethoxy vinylglycine (AVG, 10M) were applied. After nine weeks, germination percentage and germination rate were evaluated. Ethylene level inside the flasks was assayed weekly by gas-chromatographic analysis. Both cytokinins enhanced the natural ethylene biosynthesis of olive seeds; however, when applied alone, thidiazuron was more effective than BA in the stimulation. A further increase in ethylene production was observed when BA was applied in combination with 100-M ACC. Combining thidiazuron and AVG resulted in ethylene accumulation comparable to that of untreated seeds. The percentage of germinated seeds was never affected by cytokinin applications, while supplementing BA and ACC in combination, the germinability of the cv. Canino seeds was significantly inhibited, presumably as a consequence of the high concentration of ethylene induced by the treatment. For both culti vars, the germination rate was significantly improved by the application of thidiazuron, alone or in combination with ACC or AVG. In a further trial, the aptitude of thidiazuron to stimulate the germination rate of olive seeds, independently of the concomitant elicitation of ethylene biosynthesis, was confirmed when seeds from other seven different olive cultivars were tested for germinability.
42883201|Four red raspberry cultivars, Autumn Bliss, Dincum, Polana and Heritage, established for two years in an unheated plastic house in Chania (Crete), Greece, were evaluated for quality characteristics. The fruits were collected on August 24, at three maturity stages (salmon red, red, dark red). 'Autumn Bliss' had the highest average fruit weight, length and diameter followed by 'Polana', 'Heritage' and 'Dincum'. 'Polana' had the highest druplet number. 'Heritage' had fruit with the greatest firmness, highest soluble solids content and titratable acidity, at all maturity stages. 'Autumn Bliss' developed the highest anthocyanin content. HPLC analysis revealed fructose and glucose to be the main carbohydrates with values ranging from 20-30 g/l of juice while citric and malic acids ranged from 5-35 g/l. Cyanidin-3-sophoroside was found to be the main anthocyanin pigment.
42882856|Plant tissue culture is a reliable tool for conservation and multiplication of many plants, including medicinal plants. Tecomella undulata (Roxb.) Seem, is a plant native to tropical regions such as Iran, India and Pakistan; this precious plant which contains lapachol (a strong antiseptic used against jaundice) is an endangered species, therefore its conservation is of prime importance. The aim of this experiment was to evaluate the effects of silver nanoparticles (SNPs) at concentrations ranging from 5 to 80 mg I alone or combined with 6-benzyl-amino-purine (BAP) and indoleacetic acid (IAA) on growth properties of T. undulata in aseptic condition. Thidiazuron (TDZ) at concentrations from 0.001 to 20 mg was used in proliferation medium of T. undulata single nodes; combinations of BAP (from 03 to 1.2 mg), and 2,4-dichloro-phenoxy-acetic acid (2,4-D, 0.2 and 0.4 mg) were also used in callus production and in indirect bud regeneration media. Expiants were surface sterilized using 10% Clorox for 7-8 minutes. Results indicated that adding of SNPs in MS medium increased the mean number of fresh shoots per explants (MNFS/E), the percentage of expiants producing shoots (PEPS) and also plant survival, due to its action on ethylene blockage. TDZ at the concentration of 0.1 mg increased bud proliferation up to two buds per expiants, however higher concentration inhibited growth and in some cases caused death of the explants.
42883142|Four-year-old olives cv. Frantoio were grown in 120 1 pots, and treated with 0, 60, and 120 mM NaCl, from May through October. Pollen viability and germination, fruit-set and fruit-drop were estimated. Leaf calcium and leaf sodium were also determined on June 15, August 1, and September 15. On November 15, shoot elongation, whole plant leaf area, plant yield, and yield efficiency were measured. Olive oil was analysed for fatty acid and alcohol composition. Salinity imposition decreased pollen viability and germination and consequently fruit-set. Salt treatments did not affect fruit-drop and fruit size. Yield of salt treated plants was decreased by 17% and 35% with respect to control plants, respectively for 60 and 120 mM NaCl treatments. Similar effects were observed on shoot elongation and whole plant leaf area. On the whole, olive oil composition indicated an accelerated ripening of fruits induced by salinization.
42883405|Morphological features have been used to evaluate growth characteristics of two olive seedlings (Olea europea L., cv. Djilt and Dan) grown in container. Olive seedlings of both cultivars responded positively to different applications of kaolin particle film or biostimulant. Seedlings treated with kaolin particle film applied at half the rate (3% solids) or at the label recommended rate (6% solids) and biostimulant significantly outperformed their untreated counterparts in terms of diameter, height, leaf area, numbers of leaves and branches, and chlorophyll content. However, growth of seedlings was greatly promoted through the combined use of biostimulant applied to the soil surface and kaolin particle film (full rate) sprayed on foliage; this resulted in healthier and more vigorous seedlings with respect to sturdiness ratio, leaf dry: fresh ratio, shoot: root ratio, and quality index. The biostimulant/kaolin particle film approach could be successfully used to speed up growth and produce higher quality olive seedlings.
42882922|Several studies have pointed out that ground flora in olive groves, such as in any orchard, should ideally combine adequate positive effects on the agro-environment with only marginal negative competitive effects on the olive plants. This paper reports the results of an experiment carried out in an irrigated olive orchard (cv. Leccino), located in the area of Savelletri, Puglia (southern Italy), regarding the effects of ground flora as a consequence of different management techniques. An aggregate index is proposed, able to provide a comprehensive evaluation of flora from both an ecological and agronomic point of view. Four different weed control strategies were compared: A) seeding, every other year, of a cover crop (Vicia sativa L.) chopped in springtime; B) weed control using a mixture of a systemic herbicide and a residual herbicide; C) weed control using a systemic herbicide only; D) chopping. The results revealed that the different management practices largely influenced the ground cover values in each study year, but not the yield. Ground cover features, assessed both from an agronomic and ecological point of view varied in particular, as was well reflected by the applied index, which proved to easily and effectively describe the flora features in different plots.
42883331|The volatile components of olive oil have been studied from several perspectives: qualitative and quantitative description of the volatile profile; relating specific compounds to sensory perceptions; influence of processing variables such as malaxation time, temperature and mill types; and the biogenesis of volatiles. Of these, current and future research are focussed on a fundamental understanding of the biogenesis of olive volatiles and the effect of processing variables. Most studies have emphasised the C-6 and C-5 volatile compounds and in European oils E-2-hexenal is the major volatile, which preliminary data suggest may not be the case in Australian oils.
42882248|The root surface microflora of sweet potato consists of a small group of fungi, i.e. Aspergillus niger, A. awamori, Botryodiplodia theobromae, Cochliobolus lunatus (Curvularia lunata), Fusarium oxysporum, F. pallidoroseum, Penicillium decumbens, Rhizopus oryzae and Trichoderma sp., three yeast species i.e. Debaryomyces hansenii, Pichia anomala and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and some bacteria. The fungal isolates i.e. B. theobromae, Fusarium spp. and R. oryzae were aggressively pathogenic on freshly harvested sweet potato tubers causing extensive rots while Cochliobolus lunatus (Curvularia lunata) was mildly pathogenic. Species of Aspergillus, Penicillium and Trichoderma were found as secondary invaders on tubers previously colonized by the mentioned species. The three yeast species and bacteria were not pathogenic at all for sweet potato. Removal of the rhizoplane microflora by surface sterilization using 1% sodium hypochlorite solution prevented fungal rot, thus extending the storage life of the tubers.
42882192|The effect of seven light qualities (dark, far-red, far-red+blue, blue, white, red+ blue, red) on induction and growth of MM106 apple callus cultures was studied comparatively. Internodes, collected from in vitro cultures grown under white light, were cultured under the various light qualities on gelled B5 medium supplemented with 6.8 M 2,4-D and 0.9 M BA. After 42 days, calluses were separated from the expiants and placed under the same light qualities and growth medium. Callus cultures from two subsequent experiments were grown up to 112 and 126 days, respectively. Every 14 days, the cultures were weighed and transferred to fresh medium. At the end of these experiments another one was performed to test the effect of red, blue and white lights on some characteristics of cells grown in liquid media with the same chemical composition. The fresh weight of calluses appeared to be strongly increased by red light but inhibited by dark and blue light. Callus growth was also stimulated in the cultures grown under far-red light which differentiated friable and actively growing callus masses. Such cultures, after about two months of growth, showed fresh weight values not statistically different from those induced by red+blue light. In cell suspension cultures, cell size and shape appeared to be differently influenced by the various lights applied. When cells were transferred to growth medium without 2,4-D, formation of some nodules was observed regardless of light treatment. Histological analysis showed these nodules to have an organized structure, but regeneration was never observed during the experiment.
42883211|The in vitro response of the "Mr.S 2/5" rootstock to increasing concentrations of NaCl or CaCl and proline in the medium is reported. Expiants of "Mr.S 2/5" were grown in vitro for five weeks in MS medium containing NaCl or CaCl in concentrations ranging from 0 to 100 and 0 to 20 mM, respectively. Two additional NaCl treatments, 20 and 100 mM, also contained 1 g I proline. Salinity significantly affected the growth of in vitro cultures of the rootstock. Dry weight of cultures was greatly increased by the presence of NaCl at concentrations between 5 and 40 mM. The number of roots and their weight was increased at 10 and 15 mM NaCl, but decreased significantly at NaCl concentrations greater than 40 mM. Root length was reduced at NaCl concentrations greater than 20 mM. Of the two tested salts, CaCl did not promote growth to the same degree as NaCl. The presence of proline in the substrate alleviated the harmful effects of 100 mM NaCl. Chlorophyll content was significantly decreased, almost in direct proportion to the increase of NaCl doses. Certain nutrients, like K, were decreased, Na and Cl increased, while Mg concentration was decreased at 40 mM NaCl and increased at higher NaCl concentrations.
42882307|The pollen of five olive cultivars ('Nabali Muhassan', 'Coratina', 'Ascolano', 'Muraillo', and 'Telmisani') was studied with attention to differences hi morphology, viability, in vitro germination and auxin content. The general shape and exine pattern of pollen of the five olive cultivars were very similar: elliptical and trizonocolpate. Germination and viability percentages of fresh pollen were the highest for 'Muraillo' and 'Nabali Muhassan'. After two months of cold storage (-20C), germination and viability percentages of pollen of the five olive cultivars decreased; after four or six months of storage germination percentage was zero. For pollen auxin content, results indicated that indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) concentration in 'Ascolano' pollen was the highest, followed by 'Nabali Muhassan' and 'Telmisani'. Indole-3-butyric-acid (IBA) concentration in 'Nabali Muhassan' pollen was the highest, followed by 'Muraillo'; 'Telmisani' had the lowest concentration.
42881574|Five temperate cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis) varieties, KT-9, KT-16, PSB-1, PSBK-1 (from Katrain, H. P., India) and KPS-1 (Kalimpong, West Bengal, India) were evaluated in the field over a period of 2 years for their multiple resistance to alternaria blight (Alternaria brassicae, A. brassicicola), black rot (Xanthomonas campestris pv. campestris) and downy mildew (Peronospora parastica) diseases and for their performance for some economic characters. Varietal response to individual disease varied with the year. Whereas KT-9 performed better against alternara blight and black rot, KPS-1 did so against downy mildew. The former had more deposition of epicuticular wax on its foliage. The test varieties did not reflect significant differences in their biochemical traits. The relationship among diseases and that between diseases and economic characters differed in different years. Downy mildew had the potential markedly to reduce curd yield (r = 0.8604). Black rot could effectively predispose plants towards increased attack of alternaria blight (r = 0.9073). The latter produced bigger lesions (r = 0.8821) on black rot affected plants. The mean multiple disease score for 1987-88 and 1988-89 was the least in the case of KPS-1 and PSB-1. Whereas these varieties hold promise in their disease reaction, the latter seemed better as far as horticultural traits are concerned.
42883387|Three German potato cultivars (Tomensa, Producent and Linda) were grown in a growth chamber in tanks with flowing solutions containing K-concentrations of 5,20 and 80 M to investigate and compare changes in K uptake efficiency (K-influx in particular) during their growth and to find reasons for different K responsiveness. Potato cultivars differed in their K response. Potato cv. Tomensa was more responsive than other cultivars. Both shoot and root growth rates of more responsive cv. Tomensa depended on solution K levels in the initial stage and were greater at higher K levels. Causes of high K responsiveness were high relative shoot growth rate, low root length/shoot weight ratio and low K uptake rate per unit root (K-influx) at low K supply, particularly in the initial stages of growth. Highly responsive cv. Tomensa adapted to low K supply by increasing K influx at low K concentration in solution but due to time lag to adapt to low K supply it left behind other cultivars in K requirement.
42883215|Some physiological changes accompanying iris flower (Iris kashmiriana) senescence were monitored. Flower development and senescence was catagorized into six stages, each separated by one day. Fresh and dry weight of flowers increased as they developed and opened (stages 1 to 4) and then declined with senescence (stages 5 and 6). Total soluble sugars and reducing sugars in the perianth tissue increased as the flower opening was completed and then declined, whereas concentration of tissue phenolics followed a declining trend with development and senescence. The soluble protein content decreased throughout flower development and senescence with a concomitant increase in free amino acids. Floral buds were detached from the plant at stage 2 and placed in distilled water (control), silverthiosulphate (0.5 mM) and cycloheximide (0.5 mM). Some buds were only given pulse treatment with these chemicals before placing them in distilled water. The life span of opened flowers on the plant and also of detached flowers in distilled water was two days. Silverthiosulphate had no effect on the senescence and longevity of flowers. Senescence probably was caused by selective degradation of certain proteins as cycloheximide treatment maintained a higher protein content in the perianth tissue of flowers and effectively delayed senescence and significantly enhanced the longevity of detached flowers to five days compared to two days in untreated flowers.
42881564|The length (L) and diameter (D) of eggplant (Solanum melongena L.)) fruits grown under four irrigation regimes were used in the development of fruit volume and weight predictive models. Regression analysis indicated that the inclusion of both fruit measurements provides accurate fruit volume and weight estimates. A single, non-irrigated regimedependent model Y= a.LD can be used (a= 0.5610 for volume and a= 0.3482 for weight).
42882282|An experiment was conducted at Balipatna block of Khurda district in Orissa, India to study the effect of four different treatments on hydrothermal state, nutrient availability, growth and tuber yield in sweet potato. The treatments were: T1, no irrigation and no mulch; T2, one irrigation of 30 mm given 30 days after planting (DAP); T3, one irrigation of 30 mm given 60 DAP; and T4, mulching with paddy straw at 5 t/ha applied just after planting. The pattern of soil moisture depletion did not show significant differences among treatments up to 30 DAP. The no mulch and no irrigation treatment (T1) showed the lowest level of soil moisture at any given stage of the crop, in comparison to the other treatments. The rate of depletion of soil moisture was fastest in T2 and the slowest in T4. Soil moisture in two other treatments (T3 and T1) was intermediate between T2 and T4. Maximum water depletion occurred at 0-30 cm depth, followed by 30-60 cm depth, and was lowest in the 60-90 cm soil depth. In 0-90 cm soil profile, the highest water depletion (291 mm) was found with early irrigation treatment, followed by late irrigation (285 mm), and no irrigation and no mulch treatment (272 mm). The lowest water depletion was observed with mulch treatment (241 mm). Soil moisture under two irrigated treatments (T2 and T3) was found to be intermediate between T1 and T4. Straw mulch treatment also lowered soil temperature by 2-3C compared to non-mulch treatment during the early tuber-bulking period (77-96 DAP). Higher soil penetration resistance was observed in non-mulched T1, T3 and T2 treatments in comparison to mulched treatment (T4). Application of straw mulch (T4) increased the availability of inorganic N (NH plus NON) by 87%, Bray and Kurtz P by 13% and exchangeable K by 36% in the 0-45 cm soil profile. The highest tuber yield of 16.35 t/ha was obtained with mulch (T4) treatment followed by T2, T1 and T3 treatments.
42883298|Sangiovese is the most widely grown red wine-grape cultivar in Italy: more than 50 clones have been registered to date by breeders working in differing environments on local populations. Yet, to our knowledge, no comparative testing of these clones has been attempted in their breeding districts. It was thus deemed opportune to test comparatively eight groups of vines from a single Sangiovese clone, the SG 12T virus-indexed, in varying agronomic and environmental conditions. The investigation was also extended to a further three groups of plants from the same clone: two groups made up of the virus-indexed vines derived from buds irradiated with gamma rays and the other from vines derived from the non-indexed mother plant exhibiting symptoms of Grape Fanleaf Virus (GFV). The subsequent analyses, which were based on 34 UPOV trait descriptors, showed that: (a) the eight groups of identical origin (the virus-indexed SG 12T clone) exhibited differences for seven traits; and (b) the GFV-infected vines and those derived from gamma-irradiated buds differed from the virus-indexed SG 12T vines. The biometrie data were then subjected to multivariate canonical discriminant analysis, carried out, first, separately for phyllometric values and then jointly for both carpometric and phyllometric values. These results showed that (a) the eight identical groups gave rise to differing sets that separated along the plane formed by the first two canonical discriminant functions; (b) the carpo-phyllometric analysis separated the virus-indexed GDC-trained plants from other identical vines trained to other systems and separated the irradiated vines from the other groups; (c) the phyllometric and the carpo-phyllometric analyses separated the GFV-infected vines from all the others; and (d) the carpometric analysis sometimes confounded the groups, e. g. indicating that the virus-indexed SG 12T clone had cluster and berry traits similar to those of the GFV-infected plants. Several crop management and environmental factors determined differences in leaf and cluster typology of the virus-indexed vines having the same origin and, of course, among virus-infected, virus-indexed and the indexed and irradiated vines, the latter possibly having slight genetic alterations. Thus, if on the one hand it can be assumed that many registered Sangiovese clones have certain differences, it can also be assumed on the other that some of these clones may well prove to be identical if tested under the same conditions.
42883140|Embryos of Sechium edule were isolated from fruits at different development stages and analysed for the presence of PA (phaseic acid) and DPA (dihydrophaseic acid). GC-MS (gas chromatography-mass sectrometry) analysis found only DPA. The endogenous levels of DPA found in the embryo during development suggest that low endogenous ABA (abscisic acid) level is not regulated by an intensification of its oxidative metabolism. The results are discussed in relation to the viviparous condition that is a normal development event in S. edule.
42883386|Water-storing, synthetic polymers are soil conditioners developed to improve water retention. A propenamide-propeonate co-polymer was added to coarse-structured substrates to evaluate growth and quality of sweet pepper seedlings under irrigation regimes of 12,24 and 48 hour intervals. Two peat-based substrates [Mix-I (60% peat + 40% perlite) and Mix-II (45% peat + 30% perlite + 25% compost)] were used, and each of them was also amended with polymers [Mix-III and Mix-IV, respectively]. Weight and leaf area measurements were used to calculate net assimilation rates, shoot: root ratios and the relative growth and leaf expansion rates. Earliness, uniformity and seedling size improved by polymer addition, especially for the substrate without compost; seedlings grown on this type of substrate had also smaller shoot: root ratios. Seedling quality was improved by adding polymers, to coarse-structured substrates, increasing their water and nutrient holding capacity while allowing a favourable root-relative-to-shoot development to ensure survival after transplanting.
42882774|The objective of this study was to compare the effect of different phosphorus levels in the nutrient solution (0,1 and 3 me I) on spinach oxalate content and its effect on growth parameters. Fresh and dry weight, dry matter percentage, leaf number, petiole length, absolute growth rate, colour and oxalic acid content in leaves were measured. The highest fresh weight was found in the treatment without additional phosphorus in the nutrient solution at harvest. Dry weight increased from transplanting to harvest in an inverse manner with additional phosphorus in the nutrient solution. Phosphorus level had a significant effect on plant architecture. Spinach grown without additional phosphorous was more compact and had more leaves at harvest. In addition, an inverse relationship between leaf number and length of petioles was observed. At harvest the highest level of oxalic acid content was in treatment with additional phosphorus in the nutrient solution.
42881743|A non-destructive method to estimate leaf area was developed from linear measurements in four cultivare of Gladiolus: White Friendship and Friendship, under three NPK fertilization treatments, and Jester and Spic& Span, under four irrigation treatments. Plant material for leaf area determination was collected and measured at spike harvest; about 1200 leaves were used. On the basis of correlation and regression analyses, measurement of width alone or of length alone is not satisfactory (r = 0.877 and r = 0.929) whereas the leaf area can be predicted accurately according to the model area = 0.62*Length*Width (r = 0.982). The same equation is applicable to the four varieties, irrespective of management conditions and leaf size.
42883487|Performance of 'Forastero' [Prunus persica (L.) Batsch] peach grafted on six rootstocks (Brompton, Cuaresmillo, Ferdor Julior, GF305, GF655/2 and Mr.S. 2/5) was evaluated in an experimental orchard characterized by a silty clay loam soil type. Significant rootstock-induced effects were noted for vegetative development (average leaf size, specific leaf area, trunk cross-sectional area, canopy volume and weight of pruned wood), leaf nutrient content (K, Mg, N, Ca and P), fruit quality (diameter, weight, flesh, firmness and color), total yield (TY), cumulative total yield (CTY), yield efficiency expressed as total yield per unit land area occupied by the tree (YE), yield efficiency expressed as total yield per unit weight of pruned wood (PE), and percentage of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) interception. Neither leaf sucrose content nor yield efficiency expressed as total yield per unit trunk-cross sectional area was affected by the rootstock, while PAR interception was positively related to canopy volume, average leaf size and leaf Mg content. TY and CTY were positively related to both PAR interception and leaf Mg content. The rootstocks that induced intermediate and low tree growth, such as Brompton and MrJS. 2/5, had the highest YE and PE, suggesting that these rootstocks induced the best scion performance in the studied orchard.
42882065|This study evaluates the effects of different factors on anther culture of the cultivar Nules of Citrus clementina Hort, ex Tan. The effects of different media (Murashige and Skoog, Nitsch and Nitsch and N6), carbon sources (sucrose, glycerol and sucrose + glycerol), pre-treatments (chilling, high temperature and centrifugation) and gelling agents (agar and starch) were examined. Nitsch and Nitsch and N6 media induced higher callus production than MS. MS medium lacking macronutrients gave a higher production of calli when compared with both the complete formulation and the medium lacking macronutrients and carbon source. Among carbon sources, the highest percentage of anthers producing calli was found in the medium which had a combination of sucrose and glycerol added. Among pre-treatments, chilling induced the highest regeneration rate and potato starch was the best gelling agent in promoting callus formation and anther swelling.
42881423|Late-harvested 'Hass' avocado (Persea americana Mill.) fruits were stored at 5C for 0,2,4 or 6 weeks after being conditioned at 38C for 0,12,24 or 36 hr. High temperature conditioning advanced the carbon dioxide peak in fruit exposed for 12 hr to high temperature and slightly lowered the magnitude of the climacteric in fruit heated for 36 hr. Ethylene evolution rate decreased as the time in storage and the exposure to high temperature increased. Heat treatment was detrimental in fruits exposed for 36 hr. These failed to ripen and showed severe heat injury, decay incidence and internal browning. In 24-hour heat-treated fruit, a significant delay in reaching the soft-ripe stage was obtained following removal to shelf-life 'exposure'. Results of this study indicate that 'Hass' avocado fruit do not tolerate exposure at 38C for longer than 24 hr, and that even shorter times of exposure may cause heat injury.
42882643|In vitro-grown meristems of Rosa hybrida cv. First Red was used with various concentrations [0,0.5, 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0% (v/v)] of ethylmethanesulfonate (EMS) to develop mutants. Depending on the concentration used, 50% survival was obtained in microshoots pretreated with 1.0% (v/v) EMS for 6 hours. The treated microshoots were used for further shoot multiplication. The maximum rate of shoot multiplication was obtained on MS medium supplemented with various concentrations and combinations of 2.0 mg/1 BA (6-benzylaminopurine), 0.25 mg/1 NAA (1-napthalene acetic acid), 100 mg/1 Ads (adenine sulfate), 0.5 mg/1 GA (gibberellic acid) and 1.0% (v/v) EMS. The elongated shoots were rooted on half-strength MS medium supplemented with 0.25 mg/1 IBA (indole-3-butyric acid) within two weeks of culture. About 70% of rooted plantlets survived in the green house. The genetic variation was detected among the in vitro raised plants by using RAPD markers. The result showed that 21.5% polymorphism was obtained among the in vitro raised plants. The in vitro raised mutants, as well as control plants, were grown in the pots. There was morphological variation between mutant and control plants, with regard to plants height, number of branches, number of flowers, stalk length of the flower, leaf size and number of petals/flower. This study will be of help for developing mutants for rose improvement programs.
42883200|Actinidia plants (Actinidia deliciosa cv. Hayward), exposed to simulated acid rain at two levels of acidity, showed leaf damage and increased plant growth, photosynthetic pigment synthesis, nitrogen and oxalic acid levels. Simulated acidity enhanced growth by increasing the amount of photosynthetic pigments, while the altered cell metabolism, due to the reduction of nitrates and sulphates supplied by simulated acid rain, further increased oxalic acid formation.
42881576|Fruit set from the cross-pollination of the 100% of the flowers of the self-incompatible almond cultivars Ne Plus Ultra and Ferragnes was not influenced by any of the 12 pollens used from 1988 to 1990. The results indicate that for optimum fruit set of self-incompatible almonds some pollinators may not be better than others and that each pollen, when viable and fully or partially compatible, can be effectively used provided that cross-pollination is optimized. The pattern of the monofactorial gametophytic sterility affecting the almond as well as any other fruit tree species is the same: therefore it cannot be ruled out that the usual differences in fruit set found with current methods to detect pollinators of self-incompatible cultivars may be due not to a really different fertilizing power among pollens but rather to faulty techniques. It is indeed questionable whether current methods account for the real number of flowers usefully cross-pollinated in comparison to the number of blossoms initially counted for each intervarietal combination.
42881706|Commercial tomato and bell pepper cultivars grown in Florida were inoculated with Glomus intraradices in greenhouses to determine relative dependency (RD) of the cultivars to the fungus. Dry shoot RD ratings for seven pepper cultivars ranged from 17.4 to 49.9. Fresh root weight RD ratings were lower, but did not alter the relative rankings of the two most dependent cultivars, Bell Captain and Early Calwonder. Dry shoot RD ratings for nine tomato cultivars ranged from 13.7 to - 20.9. Heatwave was the most dependent using shoot weight and fresh root weight parameters, and Bonita the least. RD of cultivars was not related to plant size because Bell Captain was the tallest and Early Calwonder the shortest. Levels of G. intraradices infection in roots were not correlated with RD ratings. These data suggest that pepper cultivars may be more responsive to VAM fungus infection in the field than tomato cultivars.
42883001|A survery for viral diseases in babaco (Carica pentagona H.) plants grown in greenhouses in the Emilia-Romagna region near Ferrara showed that some of the plants in the inspected plots exhibited virus-like symptoms. Ultrastructural observations of thin sectioned tissues from symptomatic plants revealed the occurrence of spherical and filamentous virus-like particles. Spherical particles of varying diameters (from 28.20 to 120 nm) were also found in negative staining preparations for electron microscopy. This is the first report of the presence of spherical virus-like particles in babaco.
42883181|Transgenic 'Harris Special' eggplant genotypes containing a modified cryIIIA gene of Bacillus thuringiensis tenebrionis CryIIIA -endotoxin were evaluated in the field for resistance to the Colorado potato beetle, Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say). Selfed progenies of six transgenic primary transformants were evaluated against susceptible plants and susceptible plants treated with imidacloprid using a randomized complete block design. The buildup of Colorado potato beetle populations in the study field was encouraged through the use of potato nurse plots and direct seeding of the field with adult beetles. For six weeks during June and July, the density of eggmasses, larvae, and adults present was determined. To confirm the results seen in the field, a laboratory feeding study using field collected leaves was conducted. In this study, the use of transgenic eggplant significantly reduced field populations of Colorado potato beetle when compared to non-transgenic plants. Overall, each transgenic line suppressed all life stages of the Colorado potato beetle populations in the field at levels not significantly different from the insecticide check. The results seen in the field were confirmed by the feeding study. In the laboratory, feeding by Colorado potato beetle adults was significantly reduced by all transgenic lines when compared to the non-transgenic plants. Only one of the six progenies tested decreased feeding at a level higher than the insecticide treated plants. Development of these transgenic strains into a commercially acceptable eggplant variety should provide an alternative to the use of chemical insecticides against Colorado potato beetle.
42882833|This paper reviews the effect of summer pruning in persimmon (Diospyros kaki Thunb.) with regard to its positive and negative aspects on tree growth and fruit production. In order for this practice to be of a significant value, a clear understanding is needed to appreciate the fact that so many variables are involved and much remains to be substantiated. Major reasons for summer pruning of persimmon are to improve fruit quality by enhancing light penetration into the tree canopy and to restrict vegetative shoot growth. Summer pruning generally suppresses tree growth even though it elevates leaf activity. Positive effects of summer pruning on skin color, soluble solids, and appearance of fruits are observed mainly in those orchards where the trees are heavily dormant-pruned to lower tree height and to secure space in high density plantings. Secondary shoot pruning and topping could also improve fruit quality, increasing flower bud formation of remaining shoots. Summer-pruning effects are highly dependent on its severity and timing to affect tree growth, shoot regrowth, reserve accumulation, and fruit quality.
42881795|Groups of field-grown adult apple trees (Malus domestica Borkh, cv. Summerred) were exposed to rainfall or simulated acid rain at pH 4.0 or pH 3.0 from pre-bloom to harvest for four years in an experiment to study the effects of acidity on production. In the spring of the fourth year, the trees exposed to acid sprays, particularly at pH 3.0, had become infested with Eriosoma lanigerum. The greater intensity of infestation after exposure to the higher acidity, and likewise the fact that the upper portion of the shoots remained free from aphids, is due to differences in anatomical structure between the upper and lower portions of the shoot, and to differences in the phenol/nitrogen ratio. Current ambient rain acid levels did not produce E. lanigerum infestation.
42883483|Unilateral sexual polyploidization through 4x  2x crosses is widely used to introgress genes from the diploid gene pool to the tetraploid cultivated potato Solarium tuberosum. Clones of eight 4x  2x families, from crosses between four tetraploid cultivated potatoes and two diploid 5. phureja - 5. tuberosum hybrids, producing 2n pollen, were evaluated for yield performances and resistance to tuber soft rot. Significant differences in terms of tuber yield and number were found between families and clones, with several clones outyielding their tetraploid parents. The source of variation due to females (4x females GCA) was significant for both tuber yield and number. A number of clones displayed inheritance of resistance to tuber soft rot. No relationship was found between agronomic traits and resistance to soft rot. Results suggest that the genotypes produced represent genetic material with good potentiality in the constitution of new genotypes with interesting trait combinations.
42882868|Pear psylla, Cacopsylla pyri L., is one of the most important insect pests in European pear production areas. Control measures are directed specifically at controlling pear psylla and require accurate and timely information about insect densities in the orchard. Thus, there is a widespread interest in the search for suitable biological control agents and in breeding for resistance to pear psylla. Modes of host plant resistance to pear psylla damage have been studied extensively by several authors and the susceptibility of many European pear genotypes have been investigated in order to detect cultivare resistant or highly tolerant to this pest useful in breeding programs. This review presents an update of published results and knowledge on psylla life, host finding for feeding and oviposition, type of damages, monitoring and control strategies with renewed and improved efficacies, resistance characterization and breeding, with particular regard to the identified sources of resistance and the screening methods.
42881860|Papaya seeds collected from unripe fruits were submitted to various treatments. They were desiccated in the sun or in the shade. A lot of seeds was deprived of sclerotesta. Germination increased in seeds desiccated in the shade and treated with gibberellic acid, while average time of germination decreased with the increase of the desiccation time in the seeds deprived of sclerotesta and treated with GA.
42883456|Two experiments were carried out to evaluate the effect on quality and field performance of organic lettuce (Lactuca sativa L. cv. Rosario) transplants grown in media containing different proportions of coir, peat and sand in order to optimize the composition of the growing transplant medium using mixture theory. The lowest total emergence (TE) value was recorded in the Ts (high proportion of sand) treatment (68.5%) compared to the remaining media (mean 86.0%). Transplants grown in Tc (high proportion of coir), Tpc (intermediate proportion of peat and coir) and T cs (intermediate proportion of coir and sand) treatments had greater leaf number and area, shoot and root dry weight than transplants grown in other media. Total lettuce yield was positively and significantly correlated with transplant shoot dry weight. Total yield exhibited a linear response to an increase in transplant shoot dry weight when the shoot dry weight value was lower than 32.8 mg plant 1 , while no improvement of lettuce yield was recorded above this threshold, showing that transplants grown with Tc, Tpc and Tcs treatments gave a greater total yield than transplants grown in other media. Application of mixture theory showed that the calculated medium component proportions for shoot and root dry weight were characterized by a higher proportion of coir (0.80), and an equal proportion of peat and sand (0.10), while the calculated medium component proportions for TE showed that less coir proportion was necessary to maximise the TE (coir 0.60, peat 0.20 and sand 0.20).
42883363|Ninety (15 females  6 males) cross populations and their parents were evaluated for early blight incidence in 1998-99 and 1999-2000 crop seasons with disease in epiphytotic form. The mean squares for combining ability due to males, females and female  male were significant. Both non-additive and additive components of variance were significant. However, non-additive component of variance was more important than additive component in the inheritance of resistance to early blight. Superior parents and parental combinations for early blight resistance were identified. Most of the superior cross combinations involved at least one parent with good general combining ability. General combining ability-parent and mid parent-progeny correlations were too low to be of any use in prediction of mean performance of the progeny.
42881351|Three soil management systems for almond (Amygdalus communis L., Syn. Prunus amygdalus Batsch) orchards were compared under dry farming conditions in Southern Spain: reduced tillage at low depth (T); non-tillage, chemical weeding, bare floor, (NT); and non-tillage in rows with cover crops in middles on 50% of soil surface (C). Reduced tillage (T) yielded more nuts and kernel mass per m of top volume than cover crops (C) and non-tillage (NT), due primarily to greater size of the almond fruit. Thus, for 80 nuts/m, the yield increases in T over C and NT were 8% and 12%, respectively. The cracking percentage (percent kernel) was higher with cover crops, and lower in non-tillage areas, varying significantly within years due to different meteorological conditions during fruit growth and maturation periods. Soil surface compaction and the consequent low water infiltration rates may be responsible for the lower yield in non-tillage areas.
42883533|The aim of this study was to develop a cryogenic procedure for the conservation of an ancient Citrus collection, maintained at the botanical garden of the "Villa Medicea di Castello" in Florence, Italy. The collection was initiated by Cosimo I de' Medici in the 16th century, and it includes more than 600 accessions, conserved mainly in big earthenware basins. An effective procedure of seed dehydration and direct immersion in liquid nitrogen was developed for a sample of five polyembryonic Citrus accessions, i. e., C. aurantium 'Foetifera', C. volkameriana, C lumia 'Pyriformis', C. sinensis and the hybrid C. aurantium  C. paradisi. The initial seed moisture content was between 33 and 55%. Seed dehydration was performed in open Petri dishes, exposed to sterile air flow. All the accessions showed adaptability to seed cryopreservation, after the seeds were appropriately dehydrated between 25 (C lumia) and 15% (C. aurantium  C. paradisi). Maximum post-freezing germinability ranged from 27 (C aurantium) to 100% (C. aurantium  C paradisi). In general, one seedling per seed was obtained after the dehydration/cryopreservation procedure. Molecular analysis showed the nucellar origin of seedlings. Only in C. volkameriana the occasional development of zygotic embryos was pointed out.
42881728|We compared the initiation of rooting in various Malus rootstocks (easy/difficult-to-root). Rooting depended on the amount of IAA taken up (time by concentration). We tentatively identified the cells from which roots originate.
42883031|The germination process of eggplant seeds was studied in twelve trials over a period of approximately ten years. Seeds belonging to three cultivars ('Black Beauty', 'Di Sicilia' and 'Violetta di New York') were investigated under nine different combinations of lighting and temperature conditions. Germination and rate of germination were greatly influenced by test conditions, but these parameters also varied widely from one cultivar to the other. The largest number of germinated seeds was obtained under the alternating light and temperature regime suggested by the International Seed Testing Association. High temperatures generally increased rate of germination, but many fresh ungerminated seeds were found at the end of the test, suggesting a secondary dormancy induction. The effect of lighting conditions upon gemination was monitored too: its influence was clear upon mean germination time, less in the dark than in the light.
42882048|Pulsing Electromagnetic Field (PEMF) treatments were tested on seed germination, callus induction and growth, and shoot regeneration in Nicotiana tabacum L. cv. BEL W3. The experimental procedure consisted of placing cultured materials in a system of two parallel rectangular coils through which the current was passed. A continuous PEMF treatment increased seed germination and callus growth. A treatment of 5 hr per day also caused a significant stimulation of shoot regeneration and development compared with the controls.
42883143|Mother bulbs of two Finnish local garlic strains, 'Joutseno' and 'Rautjrvi', were kept in cold storage before being planted outdoors under cover. Storage periods and storage temperatures were designed to form pairs, which had equal sums of low temperature. All cold-treatments advanced the emergence and early foliage growth of 'Joutseno', but not of 'Rautjrvi'. Cold-treatments accelerated the false stem growth of both cultivars, shortened the period of leaf growth and hastened the maturity of the plants. However, the treatments did not influence the quantity or quality of bulb yield, nor were they essential for normal development.
42883297|Forty seven grapevine accessions, including major and minor local germplasm and cultivars presently grown in Oltrep pavese (Pavia, Italy) as well as in other regions, were analysed by molecular, chemotaxonomic and morphological markers. Eleven microsatellite loci were analysed; all except one were highly polymorphic. The analysed germplasm turned out to have a wide genetic constitution. With the exception of three 'Pinot' clones, all the accessions were identified by unique genetic fingerprinting, and comparisons among homonymous accessions showed that genetic distances were greater than those expected among clones belonging to the same variety. The anthocyanin profile of berry skin in coloured accessions, as determined by HPLC, and leaf shape descriptors, confirmed the conclusions drawn for the microsatellite analysis.
42882243|Bush snap beans (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) cv. Larma and Montano were grown in the soil of two unheated glasshouses after tomato cultivation, and irrigated with the following nutrient media: (1) control of water only (0:0), (2) N:K (1:1), (3) N:K (1:3) and (4) N:K (3:1). Each of these irrigation treatments was applied twice a week from planting until four stages of plant growth: (1) until the start of flowering, 17 days after transplanting, (2) until 50% of the pods had filled, 28 days after transplanting, (3) until the first-formed pods were dry, 58 days after transplanting, and (4) until harvest, 88 days after transplanting. The results of this study showed that due to a high concentration of N and K in the soil from the preceding crop, plants that were irrigated solely with water (0:0) had a higher number of pods, seed weight, seed size and dry weight per plant than those of the three fertilizer treatments. Irrigation of plants after 50% of the pods had filled (28 days after transplanting) did not increase seed yield. This means that when beans are grown for seed after a fertilizer-demanding crop (e.g. tomato) and irrigation is stopped at 50% pod-filling, significant savings of water and fertilizer may be achieved. Continuation of irrigation and nutrient application until the fourth stage (i.e. 88 days after transplanting) would seem to result in significant water and nutrient waste leading to soil and underground contamination as well as a waste of energy.
42883580|In vitro responses of two fig cultivare, 'Sabz' and 'Siah', were evaluated in MS media containing four levels of polyethylene glycol (PEG) (0,2,4,6%) as a simulation of water stress. The results showed that hi Sabz cultivar, shoot length, shoot fresh and dry weights were 43,36 and 25%, respectively, lower than control hi drought treatments caused by 4% PEG, while the leaf area and specific leaf area were not significantly (P> 0.05) affected. In Siah cultivar, shoot length, fresh and dry weights were 57,58 and 40%, respectively, lower in stressed media hi comparison to control. In contrast to Sabz cultivar, leaf area and specific leaf area of Siah cultivar were significantly reduced by addition of 6% PEG (56 and 215%, respectively). Naturally, the amount of proline hi ' Sabz' was higher than in 'Siah' (81.8 mole g versus 16.7 mole g). However, in both cultivare, with addition of PEG in culture media, leaf proline content was increased, hi comparison to control. With increasing PEG% hi culture media, the amount of leaf soluble sugare content increased and the amount of starch decreased. The result show that 'Siah' is more sensitive to drought than 'Sabz' and that in vitro culture can be used to evaluate drought tolerance of cultivare.
42883036|Gene sbm-4 located on chromosome 6 and conferring resistance in pea to the P-4 pathotype of pea seed-borne mosaic virus, is closely linked (about 10% recombination) to the plastidic glutamine synthetase RFLP marker GS 185. In contrast to two available reports in the literature, the allele encoding the Prx-3 allozyme was found to be only loosely linked (about 20% recombination) to this resistance gene. Marker GS 185 could thus have practical utility in selection for resistance to pea seed-borne mosaic virus.
42883507|Field experiments were conducted at the Teaching and Research Farm of the Federal University of Technology, Akure, in the rainforest zone of southwestern Nigeria, for two consecutive seasons to evaluate the use of mixed cropping as a pest control strategy in leaf vegetables. Three leaf vegetables, Amaranthus hybridus, Ceiosia argentea and Cor chorus olitorius, were grown as sole-or mixed-crop. The insect pest populations and their associated damage were significantly reduced in the A. hybridus + C. argentea + C. olitorius mixtures compared to the C. argentea + C. olitorius, A. hybridus + C olitorius, and A. hybridus + C. argentea mixtures. Solecropping increased the pest density on the vegetables. Results indicated that mixed-cropping can be an important component of integrated pest management of vegetables.
42883057|Multiple application of 80g agritone /100 liter water in spring resulted in significantly enhanced early, mid, late and total yields of summer squash with larger fruits. This treatment also induced the highest fruit set and number of seedless fruits and the lowest number of aborted fruits compared to control. In autumn, all treatments elicited similar responses in fruit set, abortion and seedlessness; however, the 100 g agritone 100 liter water treatment produced larger fruits and higher total yields compared to control. Sex expression was not affected in any season; the dry weight of vegetative growth was reduced by the 100 g agritone /100 liter water treatment.
42882677|Young leaf explants of Ananas comosus (L.) Merr. var. Smooth Cayenne cv. Serrana were grown in vitro using several experimental procedures, such as different growth regulators or their combinations together in dark or light alone or dark followed by light treatments. Organogenic callus cultures were induced. Shoot regeneration occurred in 100% of the explant/calluses in two completely different cultural conditions: culture on Murashige and Skoog (1962) medium supplemented with dicamba and benzyladenine in the dark for two months and then in presence of BA alone for another three months in the light; and culture under continuous light in the same medium with a high BA concentration and subsequent growth in a very low BA dose for two and one month, respectively. Callus formation and the organogenic pattern were analysed by light microscopy. This investigation confirmed previous observations on the absence of any somatic embryo differentiation in the callus masses and the association of other processes strictly related to shoot regeneration.
42883481|A system for Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer to embryogenie callus of date palm was developed. The callus was produced from shoot tip expiants grown on callus induction medium (CIM), which contained basal MS salts, B5 vitamins, 30 g/l sucrose, 10 mg/l 2,4-D, 3 mg/l 2ip, 170 mg/l KHPO and 3 g/l activated charcoal. Microcalli were efficiently mass propagated on MS medium supplemented with 0.4 mg/l NAA and 0.1 mg/l 2ip, which showed superiority in callus fresh weight and growth measurements, compared with three other tested media. Factors influencing transient expression of the beta-glucuronidase (gus) gene were evaluated following infection of date palm embryognie callus with Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The obtained results indicated that high bacterial density (OD 1-1.5) and prolonged infection (2 hr) gave the highest percentage of gus expressing calli. A further improvement of transient gus expression was obtained through desiccation generated by exposing the embryogenic calli to a gentle air-flow at 45C, followed by rehydration in Agrobacterium suspension, which significantly enhanced transient gus expression. In contrast, sonication pre-treatment of the calli negatively affected the frequency of gus expression. The results presented indicate that Agrobacterium-medmted gene transfer to date palm cells can be achieved, and thus represent a first step towards the establishment of stable genetic transformation of this agro-economically important monocot crop species.
42882987|Three grapevine cultivars (Sangiovese, Malvasia and Trebbiano, grown in a sandy soil of the Pisa plain, were overhead-sprinkled for different periods in late Winter and Spring for three years, to delay bud development by evaporative cooling. The treatment was applied when the temperature was above 8C, beginning about 30 days be ore bud opening (stage D) in the first year, 63 days in the second year, and 30 and 40 days in the third year. The cycles were controlled automatically with wetness sensors during the first two years; in the third year, a timer permitted an increase in sprinkling time to one third of the total cycle. The bud opening delays were greater (10-12 days corresponding to 2000-2600 GDH) in the third year. Regardless of the extent of the delay obtained, several negative effects were noted after treatment. These included reduced cluster berry number, reduced average weight of the cluster and berry, reduced soluble solids content (by about 10%) and increased acidity. In our conditions, these quality deficiences might not be recovered, even if harvesting were delayed by 10 to 18 days, depending on the cultivar. Evaporative cooling does not seem to have a practical application for grapevines in our climatic area.
42883164|The interest of breeders and plant geneticists in haploids is due to the fact that the gametophytic number of chromosomes makes the induction and selection of mutants easier, and makes possible, also for woody plants, the production of homozygous doubled haploids. Moreover the availability of haploids should facilitate the study of karyotype, the construction of genetic maps, the transformation and the protoplast fusion to obtain diploids or seedless triploids. A better knowledge of the androgenesis process in Citrus is augurable in order to improve the frequency of microspores which form embryos and the number of genotypes producing haploids. In fact, although much research has been carried out to obtain haploids by anther culture in Citrus, only a few have been, until now, successful. This research on androgenesis in the 'Mapo' tangelo (Citrus deliciosa  C, paradisi) was carried out with the aim to increase the number of genotypes producing haploids in Citrus. Haploid callus and albino embryos were obtained by 'Mapo' tangelo anther culture.
42883336|This paper includes information on the historical aspects of commercial olive growing in Australia and personal experiences encountered in working for over 40 years in the Australian olive industry. Suitable land is available in southern Australia for olive growing. Early olive plantings were established at a number of sites in New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia, Victoria and to a lesser extent in other Australian states. Early commercial olive groves had limited impact and success. A resurgence of interest in olive growing occurred with post Second World War migration to Australia where new Australians came from southern European countries. These new settlers were familiar with olives and olive oil. Most olive products consumed by Australians are imported from southern Europe. With the recognition of the Mediterranean diet by Australians, olive oil has become more popular and substantial olive groves have been planted. Both olive oil and table olive production in Australia is increasing, with an emphasis on quality products. Research and development at the commercial level has focussed on efficient harvesting for quality fruit.
42881766|Meristem culture is a potential regeneration technique for obtaining virus-indexed stock plants for the mass propagation of Passiflora edulis f. edulis. The effects of various ratios and concentrations of the cytokinin 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and the auxin indolebutyric acid (IBA) on meristem culture of P. edulis are reported and discussed. BA (with or without IBA) appeared to induce a rapid meristem enlargement, with the formation of clusters of young leaves, and histological and anatomical monitoring showed the formation of expiant callus. The meristems did not regenerate any shoots althbugh they survived for a long time. In a second experiment, meristems excised from a greenhouse grown plant were micrografted onto in vitro germinated seedlings. 50% of the micrografted meristems developed a small leaf two weeks after micrografting. Micrografted plants were successfully transplanted in a greenhouse into a standard soil mix in small pots.
42881639|Studies to determine the accumulation and partitioning of dry matter in bambara groundnut from anthesis to seed maturity were undertaken. Dry matter accumulation in the vegetative organs continued simultaneously with that in the reproductive organs up to 69 days after anthesis. There was, however, a preferential distribution of assimilates from current photosynthesis of the shoots (leaves and stems) to the reproductive organs. Assimilates predominantly from leaves, and also from roots, stems and pod shells were then remobilized to the seed between 69 and 83 days after anthesis, i.e., two weeks before maturity. Grain yield was positively and significantly correlated with harvest index, seed size, pod (seed + pod shell) weight, pod number and seed number per plant, total dry weight and days to maturity.
42881418|Electrical impedance parameters were measured in shoots and leaves of Olea europaea L. plants, with the aim of following variations in extracellular resistance, intracellular resistance and the state of membranes in mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plants subjected to saline stress. The effects of calcium with regards to salt tolerance of plants were evaluated. A double-DCE (ZARC) model and a single-DCE (ZARC) model were used as equivalent circuit for shoots and leaves, respectively. Results indicated an evident reduction in extra-and intracellular resistance values for non-mycorrhizal plants with increased NaCl concentration. Mycorrhization brought about a noticeable improvement in salt tolerance in olive plants, a fact which was clearly demonstrated by impedance parameter trends. The different responses of the impedance parameters induced by salt stress in mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal plants are discussed.
42883109|Three soil matric water potentials (-0.03, -0.1 and -0.3 MPa) and three saline treatments were factorially combined to investigate their possible additive and interactive effects on the growth, flowering, yield, net photosynthesis and water use efficiency of pot grown pepper in greenhouse. Matric potential was indirectly monitored by frequent pot weighing. Rewatering to field capacity was made when the desired thresholds were reached. Saline solutions, with a relative ionic ratio as in the fresh irrigation water composition, were used to establish the osmotic treatments. Periodic leachings were made to overcome salt accumulation and suction was applied after watering to the bottom of the pots to avoid the formation of a water table. Substantial differences in planbt response were noticed among matric treatments. The wellirrigated treatment proved to be more responsive than the others for all the tested parameters. No statistically appreciable differences were found among the osmotic treatments for most of the traits, with a mean response equivalent to the intermediate matric treatment. The intermediate saline treatment showed consistently higher values than the other treatments in all the traits under observation. No significant interaction between matric and osmotic treatments were detected. In most circumstances the lowest saline treatment proved to be less detrimental than the corresponding matric treatment.
42881534|About one hundred watercolours scattered throughout Aldrovandi's monumental herbal, the Iconographia Plantarum, Tomi X, depict a great number of fruits and fruit trees known in the sixteenth century, including the main cultivars of nearly all the domestic species. This marks the birth of pomology as a distinct science from botany. The shape of this monumental work by U. Aldrovandi is described and its scientific and historic meaning discussed.
42881835|In this paper in vitro micrografting of pear is suggested as a technique to produce virus-free plantlets from some expiants of pear vein yellows virus (PVYV) infected cultivars and rootstocks. It is the first time that this technique has been used to eliminate viruses from pear germplasm. The use of different methods applied to seed disinfestation allowed overcoming the problems that often arise with pear seed germination. The survival rate of micrografted plantlets was good, and directly related to the size of the utilized apices. Moreover, in vitro micrografting was successful in eliminating PVYV from pear germplasm and the effectiveness of the method was influenced by the generit characteristics of the variety.
42882536|At present, the olive tree collection of the CRA - Istituto Sperimentale per l'Olivicoltura (CRA-ISO1) is the largest Italian germplasm collection and contains at least 400 Italian olive varieties. As such, it provides an opportunity to study the DNA relationships in cultivars for subsequent identification of trees of unknown parentage. The aim of this report was to estimate the genetic variability among 44 Sicilian olive accessions and contribute to the clarification of problems related to cases of homonymy and synonymy using RAPD markers. Young leaves were collected from 44 accessions of the CRA-ISO1 collection. Thirty-nine random decamers were screened as primers for PCR amplifications and 406 reproducible amplification fragments were used as polymorphic markers. The samples were analyzed several times and the data assembled into a data matrix for cluster analysis. All cultivars were readily separated from one another. Our results show that the use of RAPD molecular markers is efficient for olive germplasm identification and can be employed to characterize accessions and establish genetic relationships between cultivars in the CRA-ISO1 Sicilian olive collection. In addition, we constructed a molecular data base that can be used to make a reference collection of Sicily olive germplasm by comparing the molecular pattern of each identified accession.
42883294|The variety 'Moscato rosa' is a low yielding red grapevine whose grapes are harvested over-ripened in order to obtain a high quality rose-like flavoured dessert wine. This grape, which is cultivated in northern Italy in small production areas of Trentino, Alto Adige and Friuli, is also known as 'Rosa Muskat', 'Rosenmuskateller' or 'Muskateller rot'. It is very likely that the variety 'Moscato rosa', considered native in Dalmatia, was introduced to South Tyrol towards the end of 19th century following the establishment of important agricultural stations in some countries of the Austria-Hungarian Empire. Two of these schools are now the Institute for Agriculture in Pore (Croatia) and the Istituto Agrario in San Michele all'Adige (Italy). A clonal selection programme based on evaluation of the sanitary status and performance of about 50 accessions of 'Moscato rosa' collected around five viticultural areas in northern Italy and Croatia was recently started by the Istituto Agrario in San Michele all'Adige. In order to assess the common genetic origin of the grape material investigated and for an initial characterisation of selected vines, which will be subjected to a clonal comparison protocol, the profiles at nine microsatellite loci as well the anthocyanin patterns were determined.
42883503|Hazelnuts were grown on a naturally cover-cropped plot rather than tilled soil and then harvested either with a single or a double harvest. The data collected showed that the double harvest technique with cover crops enhanced the quality and state of preservation of the hazelnuts. The costs regarding both growing techniques were estimated and it was determined that the double harvest and single harvest had the same costs, while cover cropping was economically advantageous in comparison to tillage. The fresh hazelnuts were stored for six months in order to evaluate their qualitative characteristics.
42883540|A survey is presented regarding the cryopreservation activities in Germany as was discussed in the first German COST group meeting held in Gatersleben in January 2007. The activities are rather different with respect to the various crops of potential interest. Whereas in vitro genebanks exist for potato (> 1000 accessions), elm (444 clones), garlic and mint, in many other crops activities are in the initial stage or on the level of interest expression. The potato cryobank has already been subject of analyses. Regeneration capacity was re-tested during the German genebank unification, leading to the conclusion that no decline of regeneration ability appeared even after 10 years of storage. Several scenarios are possible as has been mentioned for Allium. The German COST group found four main topics of interest for further investigation in Work Package 2: 1) inter-laboratory referee tests, 2) comparison of methods, 3) economical analyses and 4) international integration of cryobanks.
42881575|Measurements of photosynthesis were made on 5-year-old 'Stark Red Gold' nectarine trees in order to identify canopy architecture factors affecting the photosynthetic rate. Results showed that the leaves of a peach canopy can be divided into 3 groups, within which the CO assimilation rate is uniform under given environmental conditions: (i) light-exposed mature leaves, which registered the maximum photosynthetic rate; (ii) light-exposed young leaves, which averaged an assimilation rate of only 58% as compared to that of mature leaves at the same PPFD; (iii) shaded leaves regardless of age, which had a net photosynthesis of about 12% in comparison to well-exposed mature leaves. The presence or absence of fruit had but a negligible effect on leaf photosynthesis. None of the other factors tested (position on shoot and in tree) seemed to be of appreciable importance.
42882998|Trials were carried out in 1983 and 1984 on zucchini (Cucurbita pepo L., 'Spidy') grown in unheated greenhouses (tunnel) in late summer-autumn. The foliar application of 0.2% Chlormequat reduced stem and petiole length and stem weight ratio, and increased leaf weight ratio and leaf thickness compared to control. Leaf area and plant dry weight were reduced by the chemical only up to 30 days after treatment. In 1983, Chlormequat increased net assimilation rate, harvest index and total fruit fresh weight while in 1984 it did not affect these parameters. Perhaps this may be related to the different light intensity, due to the covering tunnels, over the two trial years. In the 1983 trial, the light intensity was strongly reduced by the covering tunnel (more than 40% of the incident light) while in 1984 the light intensity was reduced by only 21%.
24586788|'Kinnow' mandarin is an attractive and nutritious fruit available only for a short period due to its poor shelf life. The effect of different postharvest treatments and storage conditions on the postharvest quality of 'Kinnow' up to 60 days was examined. With progression of the storage period, TSS and total sugars tended to increase whereas acidity, ascorbic acid, juice content, and overall acceptability decreased. Fruits stored at low temperature (41C, RH 85-95%) and Zero Energy Cool Chamber (ZECC) (12-22C, RH 85-95%) showed a slower rate of physico-chemical changes compared to ambient conditions (18-32C, RH 45-65%). Both waxing and PE-packaging maintained the external appearance of fruits irrespective of storage systems. However, off-flavour development was noticed in PE-packed fruits after 15 days at room temperature and 40 days in cold storage and ZECC. Waxing of 'Kinnow' mandarin with undiluted Sta-fresh 960 along with low temperature and low cost storage (ZECC) may be recommended to extend the availability of fruits.
42881859|Two woodcuts on pages 296 and 631 of Aldrovandi's Dendrologia (Bologna, 1668) show small, subspherical woody nodules which look very like the sphaeroblasts described, two hundred years later, as included in the bark of a number of trees. The origin of such nodules and their physiological relevance are reviewed on the basis of their pertaining literature.
42882821|Chestnut was introduced to the Canary Islands at the beginning of the 16th century during the time of the Spanish Conquest. It was utilised by the conquerors as a means of claiming property for communal lands. From that time until today, chestnut has been an important crop in the Canary Islands. It is important both as a source of food and timber and has contributed to the subsistence of the population, particularly at times when both resources were scarce. Nowadays it is mainly cultivated on the Islands of Tenerife (around 1300 ha) and La Palma. On other islands, such as Gran Canaria, La Gomera and El Hierro, semi-wild chestnut forests and small plots where farmers collect fruit still exist. Morphological and molecular marker (SSRs) studies have shown a great variability within the local population of chestnut trees in the Canaries. The main use for chestnut is fruit consumption, but it was also utilised in the past as an exchange commodity to obtain fish and other food. The fruit is consumed in many different ways, mainly toasted or roasted, but also cooked in soups, fish or meat dishes and even as an ingredient for the typical Canary Islands' sweet 'morcillas' (a type of sausage). The wood of the tree has been used for furniture, with some shoots being utilised for basket making, and also as cattle food. The trunk of the chestnut has also been used to obtain cork or as a bee hive. Recent efforts to add value to chestnut cultivation in the Canary Islands have included the creation of a Chestnut Farmers Association in Tenerife that commercializes their products under a brand name.
42883288|This paper highlights the basic knowledge and the latest achievements in regard to the relationship between net photosynthesis (Pn), radiation, and leaf age in the grapevine. Variation of photosynthesis versus the above factors is discussed at both the single leaf and the whole canopy levels and practical guidelines for improved canopy management are inferred as well. The effects of radiation on leaf net photosynthesis are examined in terms of light saturation curves, type of light regime (continuous versus intermittent lighting) and light exposure during and after leaf development. Scaling up of Pn/radiation relationship to the whole canopy level is also tackled and methods to assess performance of trellises varying in form and type of pruning with respect to light use and distribution are discussed. Variation of Pn as related to leaf age is treated as both seasonal trends and modifications depending upon leaf position along the stem. Factors involved in the grapevine leaf senescence pattern are presented and sensitivity of the leaf aging process as related to environmental conditions (i.e. radiation) and cultural factors (i.e. winter or summer pruning techniques) is analyzed. Seasonal modification of whole canopy photosynthesis is also reported to suggest that maximum Pn is reached around veraison. Basic information reported on the Pn/ leaf-canopy age patterns is also highlighted to be of valuable use as a guide for operations which typically alter the leaf demography in a canopy (i.e. shoot removal and trimming, defoliation).
42883116|Callus was obtained from stem expiants of Pittosporum tobira Ait. plants in Murashige and Skoog's medium enriched with NAA and BAP. This callus, which showed no external morphogenetic activity, was investigated in an ultrastructural study with the main purpose to study possible relationships between this characteristic and the status of the intercellular connections. The callus was comprised of small meristem-like cells, with cytoplasm rich in organdes, and large parenchymatous cells, in some of which starch (storage products) accumulated; young and mature phloem and xylem cells were also frequently found. In all the various cell types an abundance of junctions (plasmodesmata) was observed. The plasmodesmata were well differentiated, showed characteristics correlated to the extent of cell specialization and function, and were distributed in a manner which secured a good flux of solutes in the symplast. The results are discussed in relation to callus cell organization and to possible cell morphogenetic competence in this in vitro system.
42883521|Over the past ten years the CRA-VIV of Pescia, the CRA FSO-Sanremo and the CRA-SFM Palermo have undertaken research aimed at the enhancement and genetic improvement of Limonium, a genus that includes over 300 species, of which about 200 originate in the Mediterranean. The present work aimed to: (1) confirm or identify parental species of four new Limonium interspecific hybrids; 2) apply nuclear and chloroplastic SSR markers to potentially marketable new Limonium varieties; and 3 evaluate the efficiency of three different detection methods (morphological markers, RAPDs and SSRs) to define the hybrid nature of Limonium selections. Selected hybrids and their putative parental species resulting from CRA breeding programmes were divided into two main groups, GME (from the ' Gmelini hybrids' group) and CAS (from the 'Capsia hybrids' group). Despite their very low cost, morphometric analyses, based on UPOV descriptors, are not discriminating enough in our opinion in the case of phenotypically similar species. Instead, the use of RAPDs markers allowed a fairly certain parental attribution, with significant cost savings but poor reproducibility. In contrast, SSR molecular markers were reproducible and reliable, although most costly compared to other techniques.
42882449|Chestnut blight caused by Cryphonectria parasitica (Murr.) can be controlled by transmissible hypovirulence. Relatively recent research has shown that cytoplasmic double stranded RNA (dsRNA) viruses, when present in the fungus, can convert it from virulent to hypovirulent. Transmission of viruses by mycelial anastomosis from hypovirulent to virulent strains is feasible only if the two strains fall in the same type of vegetative compatibility (vc type). Such transmissible hypovirulence has been used in practice to control chestnut blight satisfactorily in several countries. Chestnut blight is a rapid spreading disease. Only simultaneous intervention over a large area, or even better on a national scale, can be effective. An integrated work plan towards blight management of chestnut blight should include: i) application of biological control by using transmissible hypovirulence and ii) silvicultural/horticultural measures towards reducing the disease potential. For the application of biological control, it is essential to conduct a survey and identify the vc types of Cryphonectria parastica occurring in the country concerned and compose studies for each major chestnut area stating the vc types, their distribution, severity of infection, etc. After having evaluated the severity of infection, coppice stands or orchards should be assigned to three disease categories: Least concerned (LC) with disease severity 0-10%; Unstable (U) with disease severity 11-40%; Critical (C) with disease severity over 50%. Silvicultural/horticultural measures should be applied according to disease category and should include clear felling of stands or orchards in critical condition and salvage thinning or pruning in unstable stands or orchards, respectively. Hypovirulence may appear naturally in old-infection chestnut areas. Before introducing hypovirulence, the decision maker should consider the rate of loss, the history of the disease in the particular country and the availability of the necessary funds.
42883504|This study was carried out in one of the most important strawberry (Fragaria  ananasso Duch.) producing regions of Portugal, the Ribatejo, and aims to describe the quantitative component of visits by strawberry floral visitors under open field conditions. The main objectives were: (1) to assess the flower-visiting insects of the strawberry crop; (2) to evaluate the percentage of frequency (F) and activity rate (AR) in order to determine an Index of Visitation Rate (IVR) for the different categories of visitors. This study allowed us to access the vast spectrum of flower-visiting insects of the strawberry crop and to characterize their visits regarding parameters such as F and AR, used to calculate IVR. Based on the referred index it was possible to highlight three categories of insect visitors: Syrphidae (Diptera), Apis mellifera L. (Hymenoptera) and native bees (Hymenoptera). Other aspects were evaluated such as no. ind/flower throughout three different phases of the blooming period and field conditions. All the parameters allowed us to gather a set of information inherent to each of these categories, which will be useful for conservation and management procedures aiming at adequate pollination of the strawberry crop.
42883300|Reducing factors are responsible for the final amount of crop production. Among these, foliar diseases can decrease carbon uptake and thus biomass accumulation. The knowledge of these mechanisms can represent the basis for improvement of protection method, also by means of simulation models. The responses of grapevine (Vitis vinifera) to downy (Plasmopara viticola) and powdery mildew (Uncinuta necator) infections are analysed in this paper. Natural field infections were studied during 1997 on Sangiovese variety, measuring agrometeorological, ecophysiological and growth variables. Downy mildew was observed at a very low intensity and no effect was determined on infected leaves and plants. Powdery mildew intensity was very high (about 60%) and a significant reduction of gas exchanges was measured throughout the season. However the reduction of biomass accumulation was lower than expected, probably because of a modification of storage organ dry matter.
42883588|An artificial neural network approach, based on fractal leaf parameters, and classical ampelography were used to identify nine grapevine varieties cultivated at the St. Claire's vineyard, Prague Botanic Garden. Fifty healthy, fully-expanded leaves were collected for each variety, scanned using an optical scanner and then elaborated by computer programs. Fourteen phyllometric parameters were qualitatively and quantitatively analysed by the digital image analysis. Comparative frames were constructed for each variety and the relationships among varieties were assessed using artificial neural networks. Results were then compared with the outcome from traditional ampelographic analysis. The Artificial Neural Network technique appears to be a complementary approach to the traditional ampelography methods commonly used for cultivar discrimination, since the equipment necessary for this analysis is very inexpensive and available. Application of the technique led to the distinction of nine selected varieties of Vitis vinifera.
42883068|Dry matter (DM) appears to be a more reliable maturity test for kiwifruit than Soluble Solids Content. A rapid method for DM determination is presented. Data show a high correlation between it and the A.O.A.C. method. A practical application of DM as a maturity index for kiwifruit is possible, since this method takes less than 30 minutes to complete.
42881796|Effects of pre-planting storage temperature of seed cloves (Room, 10 and 0C) and planting date (Oct., Nov., Dec. 1990 and Jan. 1991) on growth and bulbing of 'Kisswani' garlic cultivar were studied in the Jordan Valley and Jubeiha during the 1990-91 season. In the Jordan Valley, emergence rate was promoted by decreasing storage temperature to 0C and by delaying planting to Dec. and Jan. Early planting in Oct. or Nov., and decreased storage temperature to 0C promoted emergence rate in Jubeiha. Emergence percentage of garlic in the Jordan Valley was increased significantly by delaying planting to Dec. and by increased storage temperature. In Jubeiha, although storage temperature had no significant effect on emergence percentage, early planting in Oct. and Nov. increased emergence percentage significantly. High storage temperature and early planting increased plant height, neck diameter and leaf number per plant. Number of days to definite bulbing and maturity was reduced with decreased storage temperature of seed cloves and with delayed planting. The effects of storage temperature and planting date on bulbing and maturity were not the same in the two locations.
42882145|In the present paper, we compare, in photomorphogenic mutants of tomato, the effect of a single exposure to light of etiolated seedlings on acquisition of competence for subsequent adventitious shoot formation in hypocotyl segments cultured in vitro under continuous white it light. The results indicate that the efficiency of 1 hr white light is maximal and constant in time in apical segments, while decreases with age in middle and basal segments. In apical segments of wild type (WT), au and hp-1 mutant of tomato the promoting effect of 1 hr pulse of far red light was similar to that of red and blue light, while it was substantial but reduced in phyA, phyB1, and phyA/phyB1 mutants. The residual response displayed by phyA, phyB1 and phyA/phyB1 background indicates that besides phyA and phyB1 some other phytochromes are involved in the far-red mediated response. Pre-irradiation with fluence of red light inducing very low fluence responses (VLFR, 10 - 10 mol m) as well as low fluence responses (LFR, > 10 mol m) enhanced the frequency of shoot formation in apical segments of all the genotypes, whereas it was ineffective in middle and basal segments of phyA, phyB1 and phyA/phyB1 mutants. Only in WT tomato VLFR induced substantial enhancement of capability for shoot regeneration in middle and basal segments. Thus presence of phyB1 and phyA appears to be absolutely necessary for LFR- and VLFR-induced acquisition of competence for shoot formation in middle and basal segments of tomato hypocotyl, whereas in apical segments the remaining phytochromes, besides phyA and phyB1, are sufficient.
42882558|A mutation breeding program was conducted to improve potato (Solanum tuberosum) tolerance to salinity. In vitro cultured explants from potato cvs. Draga, Diamant, and Spunta were irradiated with gamma ray doses of 25, 30, and 35 Gy. Growing plantlets were subsequently propagated to obtain enough explants for in vitro selection of plants tolerant to salinity. Around 1300 MV plantlets from the three cultivars were subjected to selection pressure. The fourth mutation vegetative generation (MV) explants were cultured on an MS medium supplemented with NaCl in varying concentrations ranging from 50 to 200 mM. Surviving plantlets were propagated and re-cultured on a similar medium to insure their tolerance to salinity. Salt tolerant plantlets were acclimatized and transferred to pots and grown under greenhouse conditions. Mutant and control plants were later subjected to a second selection pressure by irrigating them with water containing NaCl in concentrations ranging from 50 to 250 mM. Cultivar Spunta produced the highest number of tolerant plants. Four plants of Spunta appeared to be tolerant to salinity whereas only one plant from Diamant was tolerant and no plants from cultivar Draga were tolerant. The average number of produced minitubers per plant varied in the mutant plants from eight to 14. Also, weight of these minitubers varied from less than 1 to 31 grams.
42883166|Qualitative differences in protein profiles of leaf extracts of grafted rose plants were revealed by gelelectrophoresis. Several new groups of proteins, absent in the leaves of own-root plants, appeared in the protein profiles of grafted ones. The role of this rootstock-imposed formation of proteins in rose plants is discussed.
42882873|Two uniferous strawberry cultivars, 'MarmoladaOnebor' and 'Elsanta', were tested in three experimental fields located at 1,200 m asl; phenological phases and fruit quality of first and second season crops were compared. Harvesting tune in the first year crop occurred 40 days later than in the second season crop. Cultivar significantly affected fruit skin brightness and chroma index, flesh firmness, titratable acidity and yield in the first season crop; the experimental field location exerted a significant effect also on fruit weight and diameter, but not on total acidity. Fruit weight was higher in the second season crop, and 'MarmoladadDOnebor' fruits (22.7 g) resulted heavier than those of 'Elsanta 9 (19.7 g). Total solid soluble content ranged from 1A to 8Brix in 'Elsanta', compared to 6.2 to 7.4Brix in 'MarmoladaOnebor'. Neither diseases nor arthropod attacks were noticed on plants and fruits.
42882690|This trial represents the first experience regarding the insertion of microchips (TAG) based on radiofrequency identification (RFId) technology into grapevine plants for nursery purposes. The research was performed considering five economically-important grapevine clones, involving 2500 plants. Microchips were inserted directly into medulla tissue during grafting procedures. Two methods were developed, one based on medulla perforation and the other characterized by a lateral cut on rootstock performed by a specific machine. The presence of electronic tagging (TAG) inside plants did not compromise growth start-up, vegetative growth, sanitary condition, histological status of graft point, or quality of plants, considering the first year of farming. In addition to rapid identification, the TAGs permit the access to a specific online database, in which all plant information is contained, in a particular grapevine certification datasheet with sanitarian status (2005/43/CE). Results obtained suggest RFId technology as a useful tool for replacing traditional labelling and providing an up-to-date traceability system for grapevine nurseries.
42882247|Nondestructive and rapid methods to estimate leaf area from linear measurements are valuable tools when portable leaf area meters are not available. A model to estimate leaf area for one population and one hybrid of Broccoli was developed in a previous experiment. Since leaf morphology may vary among different genetic materials, it is necessary to test the available models on other cultivars. The objective of the present study was to determine whether an existing broccoli leaf area model developed for one population and one hybrid would apply to other broccoli sources, and if not, to develop models for such sources; ten hybrids were used. In a previous work, a model based on the product of leaf length (L) times the leaf width at the widest point (W) was the best leaf area predictor in terms of coefficient of determination (R = 0.99). The best equation based on a single measurement included W and had less predicting ability (R = 0.96) than the model based on L  W but required measurement only of the leaf width at the widest point. The model based on L  M fit the data o eight of the ten hybrids tested, and the model based on W fit the data of nine of the ten hybrids. This study demonstrates that broccoli leaf area can be estimated by using models derived from linear measurements. The product of L  W was a good predictor for most genotypes, but not for all of them. W was a good predictor for all of the hybrids used in this study, even though it was less precise than L  W.
42881323|Establishment and maintenance of in vitro expiants free from bacteria is extremely important to micropropagate plants. In fact the presence of bacterial contaminants causes big losses of cultures. To reduce such a risk it is necessary to determine either techniques to detect latent contamination or techniques to heal explants from bacteria. The presence of latent contamination was pointed out on nectarine expiants by means of different techniques: 1) adding 88 mg/1 of yeast extract powder (YE) to the proliferation medium (BM); 2) streaking some remnants of this medium (BM plus YE) on nutrient agar (NA); 3) imprinting the upper half part of the expiant onto the NA. The first technique allowed detection of only some base contaminations (BC), the second revealed the residual BC, and the imprinting was proved to be very efficient in showing the latent bacteria of the upper half of the expiants. Among antibiotic compounds utilized, only streptomycin sulphate at least at 30 mg/1 concentration allowed to heal some explants, in short term. Only gentamycin sulphate had a marked phytotoxic effect.
42881912|A systematic appraisal of the effects of exogenous ethylene, CO and GA on budbreak and growth of in vitro developing shoots is lacking. In particular, these effects have not been studied extensively for the micropropagation of sweet cherry cultures. Therefore, three experiments were conducted to study in more detail the influence of the mentioned three substances on budbreak and shoot length of in vitro sweet cherry (Prunus avium L, cv. Tragana Edessis). Exogenous ethylene (0.01-10 l/l) or GA (0-10 mg/l) caused a marked increase in the percentage of bud break and shoot length, while exogenous CO decreased bud sprouting and at 1200 l/l also reduced shoot length.
42881991|Phenol composition changed seasonally in sweet cherry (Prunus avium L.) phloem tissues. At the end of winter, the first rise of flavanols happened at the same time with transiently increased temperatures. In early spring, just before bud breaking, a further increase in flavanols took place. During mid-July, a third flavanol maximum coincided with the decline of shoot growth. Correspondingly, during the back flow of carbohydrates from the leaves in the fall a fourth flavanol peak in the shoot phloem was observed. Repeated accumulation of phenols is not a simple event but should be viewed under the aspects of developmental and environmental changes.
42883138|The competitive effect and nutrient accumulation of cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. Capitata L.) and fathen (Chenopodium album L.) were investigated under glasshouse conditions. Competition reduced growth of both species compared with the control. The reduction of cabbage in competition with five plants of fat-hen was about 50% of shoot dry matter while that of fat-hen was 31%. In pure and mixed stands, fat-hen accumulated higher amounts of N, P, K and Mg in shoots but lower amounts of Ca than cabbage. In competion, K was the most reduced element in shoot tissues of cabbage and Ca was the most in fat-hen. Fat-hen and cabbage were different in their response to K level. The weed required higher concentration of K in the medium for optimum growth than cabbage. Growth and competitive ability of cabbage were increased at low rather than high K level.
42881833|Research was carried out from 1993 to 1995 in order to verify which species of Euphyllura occur in Tuscany. While the presence of E. straminea Loginova can be excluded, E. olivina (Costa) occasionally infests olive trees and E. phillyreae Foerster is spread on spontaneous and cultivated phillyrea. The biology of the two species was studied in the outskirts of Florence, at Pescia (Pistoia) and in the pine-stand of Cecina (Leghorn). E. olivina can complete three life cycles on olive trees (among which one is facultative) overwintering at every stage. The adults of the three generations are present continuously during the year. Adults of the spring generation spend the months from July to September in reproductive diapause, which has been verified studying the gametogenesis in females. The 2nd generation is the most dangerous as it can cause some losses of the crop. E. phillyreae is monovoltine and overwinters as a quiescent adult. Adults appear in June and, after having spent an obliged period of summer diapause, they remain in quiescence from September until January-March. This species, because of the emission of waxy secretion and honeydew, can cause aesthetic damage on ornamental hedges.
42883489|Trials were conducted in northern Nigeria to evaluate the growth and yield of four varieties of squash pumpkin (Cucumis maxima L.) to varying rates of NPK compound fertilizer. Analyzed data showed that number of leaves, total dry matter (TDM), days to anthesis, and fruit weight per plant responded to applied fertilizer up to the highest rate of 600 kg ha, vine length, leaf area index (LAI) and fruit circumference responded only up to 450 kg ha while foliar spread, number of branches, flower, fruit and seed were not significantly affected by treatment. The variety 'Ta gidan gona' was superior to other varieties evaluated with respect to number of leaves, vine length, LAI, TDM and fruit weight per plant.
42881928|Bioreactor techniques for large-scale production of plant propagules are promising systems for industrial plant propagation. The basic construction and characteristics of the bioreactors and the operation techniques are reviewed with reference to large-scale production of various plant propagules such as shoots, bulbs, microtubers and corms.
42883524|Propagation by meristems represents the only way to obtain disease-free artichoke plantlets but further effort is still necessary to optimize the in vitro technique for the different genotypes. Furthermore, genotypic differences play an important role in the response of this species to in vitro culture. In the present work, the effects of five gelling agents (three different agar brands, gellan gum and agarose) on secondary shoot formation and development were investigated in one late ('Romanesco C3') and two early genotypes ('Violetto di Sicilia' and 'Violetto di Provenza') of globe artichoke. The gelling agents notably affected the proliferation rate in the late variety, but also in the two early ones, which are the most difficult to micropropagate. The highest number of normally developed shoots was observed on Lickson bacto agar (5.6 shoots per expiant) and agar agar (5.0 shoots per expiant). Even if low sodium content seems to be an essential prerequisite for gelling agents, greater water availability and the occurrence of relevant quantities of Ca and Mg ions, which may counteract sodium effects, may also play an important role, as evidenced by the good performances of the two best agar brands. Further trials may assess the opportunity to enhance the level of these elements in the medium in order to use the best performing gelling agents.
42883581|The present work was carried out in northern Tunisia (3640'N, 1016'E) during a single growing season in order to examine how water is distributed within young drip-irrigated olive orchards on the basis of distance to trunk and depth. Soil water content was measured by using a time domain reflectometer (TDR) and a neutron probe calibrated by concurrently measuring soil water content gravimetrically. Measurements were made below the canopies, along the Une of drippers and out of the projected canopy area, at distances of 1.4 m, 2.2 m, 2.8 m and 4.2 m from trunks (Compartments G, G, G and G), taking into account the heterogeneous distribution of roots. Results showed significant and positive correlations between the series of data collected simultaneously with the PVC and aluminium access tubes and those collected using the different methods and apparatus, demonstrating that any device may be employed, depending only on their availability. Results showed significant changes in soil water contents and stocks according to the season, depth and distance to trunk. During the rainy period, the stocks of water increased homogeneously within all soil compartments, but varied consistently during the dry season with lower values recorded within the upper soil layers. The area situated at 4.2 m from trunks was the driest in summer but it was the wettest during the rainy period. No roots were found at this distance while maximum root densities were observed at 0.4 m from trunk within the upper layers. The lack of water recorded after June affected tree height and fruit growth rates, although irrigation application was sufficient to meet the seasonal crop water needs.
42882323|Raspberry plants, cv. Autumn Bliss cultivated under greenhouse, were sprayed once with propargite and fenbutatin oxide. In separate experimental plots, propargite and fenbutatin oxide doses of 45 g a.i./100 1 water and 22 ml a.i./100 1 of water respectively, were applied during spring. Propargite concentration in raspberries harvested at the light-red stage 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 days after spraying was 3.48, 0.96, 0.56, 0.47 and 0.34 mg/kg, while fenbutatin oxide concentration in raspberries at the same time intervals after spraying was 0.46, 0.35, 0.20, 0.17 and 0.17 mg/kg.
42881797|Six fungi and a bacteria, Erwinia sp. were isolated from spoilage of sweet potato tubers. The primary pathogenic fungi were Botryodiplodia theobromae, Cochliobolus lunatus (Curvularia lunata), Rhizopus oryzae, Fusarium oxysporum, F. pallidoroseum. Other fungi, i.e., Aspergillus terreus, A. flavus and A. fumigatus, were, at best, secondary invaders.
42882459|The chestnut crop in Spain is spread from the northern Iberian Peninsula to the Canary Islands. During a 15-year period we have located 210 cultivar denominations of which 152 can be classified by morphology and isoenzymes; 58 of which are important and 94 very local ones. In 2004, we begun to study ten microsatellites to determine the relationships between them, including those found in the Canary Islands. Microsatellites confirmed the high variability found in Spain. A total of 73 alieles were found and heterozygosity was double that with isoenzymes. As a whole, the population of cultivars were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. While these results are preliminary, cultivars from northern Spain can be said to be closely related, due to common cultivars such as 'Parede', and cultivars from Tenerife could have their origin in eastern Andaluca.
42883362|The objectives of this research were to use prolonged storage simulation and actual long distant trial shipment by sea to distant markets, to examine the possibility of storing sweet pepper for more than three weeks. The market quality of three coloured commercial bell pepper cultivars (Parker-red, Nibla-yellow and Lyon-orange) harvested in January and March was assessed immediately after harvest, and after 21 days storage at 7C plus three days at 20C in parallel with the trial sea shipment experiment. Generally, Parker and Nibla were outstanding in all the parameters examined, withstood prolonged storage of 23 days at 7C plus four days shelf life at 15-17C, and therefore are suitable for export by sea transport to distant markets. Lyon was not suitable due to its poor physical characteristics such as thin pericarp tissue and low skin wax content that led to high weight loss and softening, high incidence of decay and poor general appearance. Maintaining a low rate of weight loss and softening in bell pepper after harvest is important for prolonged storage of over three weeks, good general appearance and regular supply of high quality fruits to consumers and high income to the farmers.
42881726|The development of adventitious flower buds on pedicel explants of tobacco was used as a model system to study hormone action in regeneration. Bud induction is preceded by a process of dedifferentiation in which a number of cell divisions give rise to small, seemingly unordered cells. These cells have the competence to react to the hormones in a way that results in the formation of meristems. During the subsequent morphogenesis that leads to the shaping of the buds, the tissue becomes committed, which means that development no longer depends on the presence of hormones. The various physiological stages are difficult to delineate in practice because of the unknown activity of the hormones trapped in the tissue in earlier stages. Only in some cases do competence acquirement and induction require different hormonal complements. The study of hormonal action is further complicated by interactions of hormones, which obscure the effect of each of them. However, in the process of regeneration of tobacco flower buds, auxin and cytokinin act independently so that their roles in development can be studied separately.
42881979|Shoot regeneration from leaf expiants has been achieved in Nipponanthemum nipponicum (syn. Chrysanthemum nipponicum), a diploid-related species to cultivated hexaploid chrysanthemums. Effects of 6-benzylaminopurine (BA) and indolacetic acid (IAA), each at three levels of concentration, were tested on three progenies derived from self-fertilisation of a cultivated clone. Optimal BA concentration for regeneration was 2.2 M, while no significant differences were detected between the IAA concentrations tested. Significant differences between the progenies were observed. Several genotypes were then tested for their shoot-forming ability. Seven out of 23 did not produce shoots, six produced shoots in more than 50% of the expiants. The mean number of shoots per regenerating expiant was up to three.
42883349|Artificially sheltered cultivation of anthurium has replaced natural shade in many tropical countries in order to improve yields and flower quality. But the choice of the shade net remains empirical and the physiological involvement is uncertainly known. The aim of this work was to evaluate the influence of shade level on crop growth and flowering. The development and yield of soilless plants grown in greenhouses having different light intensity conditions (average PAR = 3.6, 8.5, 10.2, and 14.6 mol of photons.day.m) were followed during two and a half years and the net photosynthesis rate of leaves was measured on mature plants. The largest leaves and flowers and the highest photosynthesis rate were observed under the lowest light intensity. But, in this treatment, a brief increase of the incident PAR enhances the net photosynthesis rate of the leaf. Growing the anthurium plants without shade net induces severe damage that can lead to plant death. The results of this study may lead the horticulturist to cultivate anthurium under very low light intensity in tropical areas.
42882303|Unilateral sexual polyploidization through 4x  2x crosses is an alternative breeding strategy available for the improvement of cultivated potato, allowing the introgression of genetic diversity from the diploid gene pool. Clones of ten 4x  2x families from crosses between six tetraploid cultivated varieties/advanced clones and two diploid S. phureja - S. tuberosum hybrids producing 2n pollen were evaluated for tuber yield, tuber number and morphological characteristics. Significant differences in terms of tuber yield and number were found between families and clones. Out of 151 clones tested, 28% and 65% gave a tuber yield higher than their 4x parents in 2001 and 2002, respectively. The two-year average data also indicated that 27% of the clones have an heterosis value higher than 300%. Results suggest that the genotypes produced represent genetic material with good potentiality in the constitution of new genotypes with interesting trait combinations.
42882241|In northern Italy, several local varieties are grown in regional field trials with the aim of selecting the best cultivars for specific environments. In this paper, two northern varieties from Liguria (Razzola and Taggiasca) are compared to a widespread cultivar (Frantoio) to test the degree of plasticity and adaptation in leaf characters. Leaf gas exchange, N content and morphological parameters were measured throughout the growing season. Daytime gas exchange ranked cultivars more effectively than light response curves. The highest values of photosynthesis and stomatal conductance were observed in 'Frantoio', while 'Razzola' and 'Taggiasca' did not show consistent differences in gas exchange. Differences in leaf N content as well as leaf mass/area ratio among the three cultivars were small. Differences between cultivars in foliage structural plasticity and gas exchange, and correlations among leaf N content, photosynthetic parameters and morphological traits are discussed in relation to the seasonal course.
42882487|A field experiment was conducted during autumn 2002-03 and 2003-04 on an alkaline loam, deep alluvial soil (Ustochrept) of Jalandhar (Punjab) with ten potato cultivars and four rates of N (0,80,160 and 240 kg N/ha) to identify N-efficient and eco-friendly genotypes of potato in green manured and unmanured soil through an analysis of their response to N. Application of N significantly increased the number and yield of tubers of all the cultivars. Results showed wide variation in the N efficiency and eco-friendliness of different potato cultivars. 'Kufri Pukhraj' was the most N-efficient cultivar followed by 'Kufri Sutlej', 'Kufri Bahar', 'Kufri Ashoka', 'Kufri Sindhuri', 'Kufri Badshah', 'Kufri Jawahar', 'Kufri Chandramukhi', 'Kufri Jyotf and 'Kufri Lalima' in the absence as well as presence of green manure. The N-efficient cultivars gave a higher tuber yield with a lower dose of N fertilizer than less efficient cultivars. The mechanism of different N efficiency of potato genotypes was different in the absence and presence of green manure. The main cause of higher N efficiency without green manure was the capability of a genotype to use absorbed N from the soil for more potato production (i.e. higher potato production per unit N absorbed). While in the presence of green manure, the dominant cause was the capacity of a genotype to use/absorb more N per unit green manured soil (i.e. the ability of the root system of a genotype to acquire more N from green manured soil). The cv. Kufri Badshah was the poorest user of N from green manure, whereas cv. Kufri Sutlej has the highest capacity to use N from green manure.
42882383|The study, carried out during the years 2001-2003, surveyed the species composition of parasitoids and predators associated with aphids in streets, avenues, parks and small public gardens in order to obtain basic information for further use in integrated pest management. Forty per cent of the plant-aphid associations recorded was found to be parasitized. Nineteen different parasitoid species or genus were identified. The polyphagous aphid species Aphis gossypii and Aphis craccivora were the most frequently parasitized. Lysiphlebus testaceipes was the most abundant parasitoid species, parasitizing several aphids on different host plants. Coccinellidae, mainly Scymnus sp. and Oenopia conglobata, were the most common predators recorded. The results pointed out the potential of natural enemies in controlling aphids in urban environments.
42882460|European chestnut is grown extensively for its fruit and timber and is important not only for rural diversification, local economies and cultures, but also for its contribution to the landscape and environment. The species is threatened across Europe by human activities and by the ravages of fungal attacks such as Phytophtora spp. causing ink disease. European chestnut is therefore proposed as a model species for the development of long-term strategies combining conservation of evolutionary and adaptive potential, exploitation of breeding stocks and preservation of Mediterranean landscapes. The results of a four year EU funded project (CASCADEEVK2-CT-1999-00006) are reported. The main objective of the project was to develop a strategy for long-term gene conservation and management of European chestnut. It was a multidisciplinary project involving scientists from 11 research institutions in five European countries covering areas such s ecology, ecophysiology, pathology, molecular genetics, population genetics, quantitative genetics, gene conservation, tree breeding, environmental economics and forest management. Both results obtained in different fields of investigation as well as synthetic considerations and recommendations related to gene conservation programs to be applied to this complex multipurpose tree species are given.
42882997|The seasonal partitioning of dry matter among vegetative and reproductive organs within the olive fruit-bearing limb was studied in the cv. Picual in one on year of the alternate bearing cycle. The distribution of dry matter was determined by the growth and development of the reproductive organ. Before anthesis the accumulation of dry matter in the inflorescences was higher than in shoots and leaves. The abscission period of flowers and fruits in postanthesis - from full bloom (FB) to FB+42 - was critical for the establishment of the persisting fruits as the permanent and strongest sinks within the limb. Higher accumulation of water in the fruits during the abscission period was observed. Once this period ended the fruits accumulated most of the dry matter and the vegetative growth stopped soon and was significantly less than that of the previous off year.
42883024|From a two-year trial (1983/84 and 1984/85) carriedout in the Sele River Plain (Salerno) with two alliaceae (Allium cepa L. and A. sativum L.) planted in autumn, both straw mulching and selective herbicides were found to be useful. Straw mulching seemed to be most appropriate for the seeded onion because, with a low plant density, a more uniform distribution of the mulching layer was possible; 3.0 t ha proved to be the optimal amount of mulching. Both active elements (p.a.) tested (oxyfluorfen and pendimethalin) have shown to be of maximum effectiveness when applied in a single application as a post-emergence treatment at the end of winter, in the amounts of 0.30 and 1.30 Kg ha respectively.
42882636|Newly laid phylloxera eggs and phylloxera nymphs at different ages were exposed to different doses of gamma irradiation. The percentage of phylloxera eggs hatched decreased as eggs were subjected to increasing doses. The percentage of matured phylloxera females significantly increased as older nymphs and lower doses were used. On the contrary, the fecundity was markedly reduced when older nymphs and higher doses were used. Additionally, a great reduction in fecundity was observed when phylloxera females were reared on 50 Gy-irradiated root pieces.
42881570|Vegetative and cropping behaviour of kiwifruit was investigated by comparing four cane orientations (+ 90, +45, 0 and -45 degrees to horizontal plane). Cane orientation had practically no effect on bud burst (%), as vines responded by rearranging it along the cane, but did affect shoot length. Downward trained canes enhanced bud break in basal nodes, whereas basal shoots representing good renewal canes for the following year's crop showed greater length. The cropping data revealed that fruit weight and, hence, yield were enhanced in horizontally trained canes, while no significant differences were recorded in the other treatments.
42882220|Comparative studies were undertaken with 17 of the most common cover crops and native species in an organic olive grove in the hills of Florence, Tuscany (I). The trial was carried out over a three-year period. Some cultivars of annual legumes and certain native species spread rapidly and profusely. Subterranean clovers (T. brachycalycinuym 'Clare', T. subterraneum 'Denmark' and 'Woogenellup') and some native grasses (A. fatua, D. glomerata, H. murnum) developed shallow root systems that interfere only marginally with the olives and grapevines. These species are recommended for organic olives, grapes and low-input agricultural and horticultural production.
42883097|Along the asparagus (Asparagus officinalis L.) spear, fresh and dry weight as well as activity of four enzymes involved in the lignification process, i.e. phenylalanine ammonia lyase (EC: 4.3.1.5), hydroxycinnate CoA ligase (EC: 6.2.1.12), cinnamylalcohol dehydrogenase (EC: 1.1.1.195) and syringaldazine oxidase (EC: 1.11.1.7) increase basipetally, from tip to butt. By contrast, protein content is higher in the tip. Hydroponic culture did not appear to change the direction of these gradients.
42881694|Twenty of 98 Bacillus subtilis strains isolated from cold-stored citrus fruits significantly inhibited (60-92%) and PM9, PM11, PM12, AT191 and AT176 totally inhibited the growth of the six pathogenic fungi tested. The strain PM12 significantly inhibited the growth in vivo of Pnicillium italicum (70.2%), P. digitatum (63.2%), Botrytis cinerea (89.5%), Alternaria citri (71.1%) and Colletotrichum gloeosporioides (65.7%) in artificial lesions of cv ' Eureka' lemons.
42883541|The National Plant Genetic Resources Programme of Finland was established in 2003. MTT Agrifood Research Finland is responsible for the coordination and execution of the programme on field and horticultural crop genetic resources. Four genetic resource working groups have the organisational responsibility. National genetic resources are maintained mainly in field, greenhouse and in vitro collections. MTT was nominated as the main keeper of vegetative collections. The first task was to draw preservation guidelines. The work was started by evaluating the collections at MTT. The genetic resource working groups drew up and published guidelines for the long-term preservation of Finnish plant genetic resources of fruits and berries, woody ornamentals and vegetables, herbs and medicinal plants. Cryopreservation was recommended as the first back-up preservation method for most plant species. Cryopreservation was introduced in 2004 at MTT and different plant cryopreservation methods were tested. Modified droplet vitrification was chosen as the method to be modified for different plant species. Species-specific cryopreservation applications were developed and this development still continues. This development has permitted the instigation of the use of cryopreservation for the conservation of collections, for example of raspberry, strawberry, currants, and hop. In some cases it is appropriate to maintain plant material under slow growth conditions in vitro.
42882638|A rotation experiment was conducted on an alluvial soil at the Central Potato Research Station, Jalandhar, India between 1998 and 2001 to develop an integrated nutrient management program for a potatoonion-groundnut rotation with 300% cropping intensity. It tested seven fertilizer treatments that combined application of 0,50 and 100% of the recommended rates of inorganic nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium with and without the incorporation of residue of each crop to the succeeding crop grown in rotation. The residues of potato haulms were applied to onion, that of onion to groundnut and those of groundnut to potato. The crop residues added 62 q/ha/year residues, on dry weight basis, which contained 103 kg N, 21 kg P and 86 kg K/ha/year. Potato and onion crops were more nutrient-responsive than groundnut. Results indicated that the fertilizer dose of NPK to onion could be reduced to 50% (i.e. 70 kg N, 13 kg P and 25 kg K/ha) of the currently recommended rate if potato is fertilized with the recommended NPK (i.e. 180 kg N, 35 kg P and 100 kg K/ha) and crop residues of all the crops produced in situ were incorporated into the soil. The effects of crop residues became evident from the second year onwards. No addition of NPK to the third crop of the rotation (groundnut) was required. Incorporation of crop residues of all the crops increased NPK fertilizer use efficiency by 14 and 15% in potato and by 22 and 27% in onion during the second and third years, respectively. The NPK fertility of the soil was also enhanced and more organic carbon was present following crop residue incorporation. The recycling of crop residue, along with fertilizers, also resulted in a higher positive NPK balance in the soil than the use of fertilizers alone.
42882488|A novel somaclonal variant of rootstock Mr.S.2/5, tolerant to prolonged soil waterlogging, was regenerated from callus derived from leaf expiants of in vitro-grown plantlets. In vitro pressure selection conditions were induced by adding N-methyl-D-glucamine to the medium. Among regeneration events, only four cases of conversion into shoots were recorded. Under in vivo conditions, plants of line S.4 exposed to waterlogging survived for up to 15 days of hypoxic stress, while Mr.S.2/5 wild type and Barrier1 rootstock plants died after seven days of continuous exposure to stress. Physiological and morphological modifications occurred in clone S.4 plants: e.g. change in stem and leaf water retention, chlorophyll stability, formation of adventitious roots and modifications in leaf tissue free hexoses. Agronomic, physiological and molecular studies are in progress to investigate the origin of mutations.
42881816|A 5-year field experiment, involving fertilization with N urea was carried out to elucidate the N-economy of apple trees (Malus puntila) in northern Italy. Plants were grown on a coarse-textured calcareous soil. Unlabeled urea was applied yearly at three different times to three adjacent apple trees, which were fertilized with N enriched urea. Thus all these plants fertilized with labeled urea in the year of harvest received unlabeled urea in the previous year. Both labeled and unlabeled urea were applied following the same amount and procedure. Nitrogen fertilizer uptake increased with the apple tree age accounting for 10% of the total N fertilizer applied at the end of the experiment. The amount of N derived from the fertilizer (NDFF) in the plant material decreased from 50% in the first two years to 20% (leaves) and 10% (roots) of the total N at the end of the experiment when trees were much larger. The percentage of fertilizer present as total N in soil increased with apple tree age while the unaccounted N showed the opposite behaviour.
42883073|Encapsulation with sodium alginate of M.26 apple rootstock microcuttings (uninodal cuttings excised from micropropagated shoots) for short-term and medium-term storage was investigated. Activated charcoal, nutrients and growth regulators (artificial endosperm) were added to the alginate capsule to maintain viability and regrowth ability of the microcuttings after cold storage. When capsules were enriched with inorganic and organic nutrients, activated charcoal was not necessary to maintain viability of the explants after 0 and 30 days of storage at 4C. Instead, activated charcoal had a detrimental effect on microcuttings regrowth. Capsules enriched with nutrients, also without growth regulators, maintained high viability and regrowth percentages M.26 microcuttings after 0, 2 and 4 months storage at 4C. Applicability of alginate encapsulation for Malus synthetic seed is discussed.
42882365|Kiwifruit or Chinese gooseberry (Actinidia deliciosa) has tremendous commercial potential in the Sub-Himalayan regions and other temperate fruit-growing regions of India. Yield varies from 50 to 100 kg per tree after seven years. Being a new fruit on the market, there is an ever increasing demand for planting material of kiwifruit and growers are facing great difficulty in meeting this demand. Keeping this in view, efforts were made to standardize an easy and low cost technique for multiplication of kiwifruit plants. Six cultivars were evaluated for rooting performance of the cuttings. Maximum rooting from hardwood cuttings was exhibited by cultivar Allison (78.6%), followed by 'Hayward' (75.2%), 'Bruno' (70.3%), and 'Abbott' (68.4%) whereas, minimum was recorded in 'Toumri Male' (60.5%) followed by 'Monty' (66.6%). The rooting quality varied with the cultivar. The fruiting characteristics of these cultivars were also evaluated. Based on horticultural traits; farmers can select the particular cultivar according to the demand and multiply it accordingly. All the cultivars were susceptible to white root rot (Dematophora necatrix), though degree of susceptibility varied.
42883296|The present work is a contribution to the knowledge of the Campanian viticultural patrimony and, in particular, of the Greco di Tufo vine variety, one of the most interesting varieties from an ampelographic and oenological perspective. For ten presumed clones and six standard grapevine varieties, eighteen phyllometric parameters (giving 29 determinations) were measured for ten adult leaves. Data were statistically analysed to generate the similarity matrix and a dendrogram. The results obtained from the present work have indicated that, from an ampelometric point of view, the Greco di Tufo group appears clearly separated from the grapevine varieties chosen as standard. Moreover, among the Greco presumed clones some interesting ampelographic differentiations have emerged, permitting the distinction of two separate groups: presumed clones 1, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 10 and presumed clones 2, 6 and 7. Presumed clone 9 exhibited phyllometric characteristics, which differentiate it from the two groups. Important analogies in leaf shape have been confirmed in the present work, for example the well-known one between Pinot bianco and Chardonnay.
42883486|Three potato cultivars were grown in low nitrogen and medium organic carbon soil with four rates of N (0, 1.79, 3.58 and 7.16 m mol kg soil) in a pot experiment to test their N efficiency and to find the cause of high N efficiency. Two harvests (9 and 63 days after emergence) were taken to obtain final dry matter (shoot + tuber) accumulation (DMA) and N uptake rate per unit root (N influx). The cv. Kufri Pukhraj was more N efficient than other cultivars because it was able to obtain higher tuber and total dry matter at lower N rates. At 1.79 m mol N kg 'Kufri Pukhraj' produced significantly higher total dry matter of 2213 mg plant than 1700 and 1820 mg plant obtained by 'Kufri Jyoti' and 'Kufri Jawahar', respectively. The more N-efficient cv. Kufri Pukhraj had much higher N influx than less N-efficient cultivars, Kufri Jyoti and Kufri Jawahar at all rates of N application. At 358 m mol N kg the N-influx into the roots of more N-efficient cv. Kufri Pukhraj was 119  10 mol cm S in comparison to 39 and 81  10 mol cm S in less N-efficient cultivars, Kufri Jyoti and kufri Jawahar, respectively. Total uptake of N by all the cultivars was higher than the amount of N applied at all N rates. 'Kufri Pukhraj' was able to maintain higher N influx than other cultivars because of its capacity to use a greater amount of N from soil. At 358 m mol N kg 'Kufri Pukhraj' used 133% of total soil organic N in comparison to 6.4 and 10.0% used by 'Kufri Jyoti' and 'Kufri Jawahar', respectively.
42881637|Characteristics of pollen tube growth in the pistils of sour cherry cvs. aanski Rubin and umadinka were studied in three combinations of pollination (self-, cross- and open pollination) over two years in relation to fruit set. The quantitative characteristics of pollen tube growth (the average number of pollen tubes in the upper third of the style and ovary, as well as the percentage of pistils containing pollen tubes that penetrated to the nucellus) in 'aanski Rubin' showed a positive correlation with the percentage of fruit set. In 'umadinka', the changes in quantitative parameters of pollen tube growth in the pistil were not followed by a corresponding change in the percentage of fruit set, i.e. no clear relationship could be established between these parameters in the study years. Self-incompatibility occurring in 'aanski Rubin' displayed year-to-year variability. It had no appreciable effect on fruit set in relation to the other combinations of pollination.
42883003|Propylene reduces the growth in length of etiolated epicotyl of pea (Pisum sativum L.) but, in the straight growth test, does not compete with ethylene action.
42883213|A new race of Peronospora farinosa f. sp. spinaciae was identified on spinach in Italy. Differential cultivars used for identification included Esaharer OP (resistance to races: none); Symphonie (resistance to races: 1 and 2); Parent line (resistance to races: 1 and 3); Polka (resistance to races: 1,2 and 3); Bolero, Palco, Previa, S. Carlos and Tamura (resistance to races: 1, 2, 3 and 4). All nine differentials were susceptible to the new race, as indicated by the mean disease incidence on cotyledons and true leaves of intact plants, detached leaves and leaf disks. The origin of this new race in Italy is not known. Results obtained with the seed-washing method indicated that oospores of P. farinosa were not present in the commercial seed lots examined.
42883501|The ability of a local strain of grape phylloxera to develop and reproduce on irradiated in vitro cultured rootstocks (Rul40, R99 and 3309C and one local variety 'Helwani') was determined. The results showed that there was great variation in developmental time and reproduction of phylloxera between irradiated and unirradiated in vitro cultured plants. Survival, number of eggs and mean developmental time were greatly reduced when phylloxera was reared on irradiated rootstocks. Based on the examined biological parameters of phylloxera, all tested rootstocks would be more resistant toward such destructive insect when they were irradiated. Thus, phylloxera resistance was enhanced when in vitro cultured plants were treated with low doses of gamma irradiation.
42881981|A study of grapevine yellows (GY) was carried out to ascertain the diffusion and incidence on Albarola and Vermentino grapevine cultivars (Vitis vinifera L.) in eastern Liguria (northern Italy). The symptoms caused by GY varied from mild to severe, affecting the leaves and fruits, and sometime the death of the plants. Information on the percentage of GY diffusion in vineyards was collected in 1994 and 1995 through a questionnaire survey of 41 sample farms located in 32 different places in Genoa and La Spezia districts. In addition, statistical analysis was carried out to compare disease incidence with the various pedo-environmental and agronomic characteristics and the chemical composition of the soil in order to determine if a cause-effect relationship exists among them. The plants were more susceptible to disease when they were highly productive and planted in shallow soils which were slightly fertilized with nitrogen, poor in boron and rich in phosphorus and organic matter. The disease incidence and severity were examined from 1992 to 1996 in five sites in eastern Liguria. Albarola and Vermentino grapevine cultivars had a higher incidence of the disease in sites 3 and 4, which were at first mildly damaged. As regards the Albarola cultivar, GY incidence and severity increased for the first four years, and subsequently decreased in 1996, with an evident subsidence of symptoms. In 'Vermentino', GY incidence and severity increased for the first four years, although in 1996 there was no significant subsidence in symptoms, with the consequent death of many plants. The disease has spread from its initial infestation sites.
42881821|The response of 'Ovale' kumquat fruit to postharvest water dip treatments at 53C, with or without Semperfresh FLO (SPF) edible sucrose ester coating, after 6 weeks of storage at 6C and the subsequent one week of simulated shelf-life at 20C, was compared to the response to water dip treatments at 20C, with or without SPF. Hot water or SPF at 53C significantly reduced rot development and fruit weight loss with respect to dipping at 20C, with minimal differences between treatments. No significant differences in rot percentage and fruit weight loss were detected between fruit dipped in water or in SPF at 20C after 3 or 6 weeks of storage at 6C, while the percentage of rot was significantly higher in fruit treated with SPF following subsequent simulated shelf-life. The physiological response of fruit, as measured by respiration rate and ethylene production rate, after simulated shelf-life following storage was quite similar in all cases. Minimal differences occurred in juice acidity and TSS. Acetaldehyde and ethanol amounts were higher in fruit treated with SPF as compared to those dipped in water in both temperature conditions. At the end of simulated shelf-life no treatment-dependent differences were detected in fruit flavour and taste, but fruit appearance was judged to be better with SPF dipping at 53C. It was concluded that postharvest water dip treatment at 53C represents a viable method for defending kumquats against pathogens during and after cold storage. Fruit appearance may be improved when hot water is used in combination with SPF.
42883063|The aim of this investigation was to evaluate variations in the main parameters characterizing canopy development under different planting systems and during the first years of orchard life. Trees of Stark Redgold nectarine trained to free spindle and free palmetta at 2,222, 1,480 and 1,111 trees/ha and 888 and 740 trees/ha respectively, and grafted on P.S. A5, P.S. B2 and GF 655/2 were compared. Canopy volume and total length of one year shoots after winter pruning proved closely correlated with yield per tree. Leaf area unit efficiency (kg of fruit/m 2 leaf area) tended to increase with tree age. In general, during this first stage of orchard life free spindle and free palmetta did not substantially differ in . leaf density; neither did fruit production per m 3 of canopy seem to be different between the two training systems. Under the experimental conditions of the trial the results would indicate the superiority of the free spindle training system, particularly at the greater planting densities, as confirmed by the higher leaf area index, a greater and more rapid ground cover, a higher canopy volume per hectare as well as a higher yield than obtained with free palmetta trees.
42881664|Putrescine (PUT) treatment of tomato pericarp discs increased the production of cut-stress induced ethylene compared to water-treated discs. The significant increase was evident within two hours from cut and one hour from treatment. The higher the concentration of PUT the greater the response was of pericarp discs of tomato fruits. This stimulatory effect was also observed when putrescine and spermine (SPM) were applied at the time of wound-ethylene decline. The lower the basal ethylene production the more pronounced the rate of the increase was within 9 hours from the excision. Spermine treatment exhibited the stimulatory effect only at a high concentration (3 mM). Spermidine (SPD) did not affect ethylene production.
42881336|Bell pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) seed were primed in -5 bar polyethylene glycol-600 (PEG) for 5 days at 15C, pregerminated in distilled water (radicle length was 1-3 mm) or left untreated (raw). Seeds from each treatment were inserted into individual growth pouches and placed in a growth chamber at 15, 25, or 35C. Days to germination and taproot length were measured every 24 hours for the first 7 days after germination (radical protrusion). Primed seeds germinated significantly faster than raw seeds at 15 and 25C but not at 35C. Taproot elongation rate during the first 7 days after germination was slower for pregerminated seeds than for raw or primed seeds at 15C. In 25 or 35C conditions, taproot elongation rates were similar for all seed treatments. However, after 7 days from germination, pregerminated seeds had significantly shorter taproots than primed or raw seeds at each temperature regime. These results suggest that in comparison to raw or primed seeds, the advantage of pregerminating bell pepper seeds was a reduced initiation time for taproot growth, particularly under cold stressed conditions, but not an accelerated taproot growth rate.
42882784|The goal of the research was to evaluate the influence of different Mediterranean'market/shelf life' temperatures (12, 20 and 30C) on external and internal quality of tomato after five and nine days in storage. Keeping tomatoes at 30C signifcantly accelerated water loss and fruit softening compared with fruits kept at 20 or 12C, after five and nine days. Color development was signifcantly inhibited by exposure to both 12 and 30C, compared with fruit kept at 20C. Very little change was observed in percentages of total soluble solids (TSS) and acidity (TA) in fruit kept at the three temperatures for the two storage periods. Vitamin C (AA) was signifcantly higher in fruits kept at 20C, especially after nine days. The amount of total aroma volatiles after nine days storage was less than that after five days storage. After five or nine days at 30C, the total amounts of the volatiles were significantly less than those in fruits held at 20 or 12C. The 'green' notes were the most prominent volatiles after the two storage periods at the three temperatures. After five days, volatiles associated with the 'fruity' note were relatively high in fruit held at 20 and 30C; after nine days, the volatiles associated with 'fruity' and 'sweet' notes signifcantly increased in fruit kept at 12 and 20C, whereas linalool, an important 'flowery' note in tomato, increased in fruit kept at 20C. It is concluded that tomato fruits can be kept at high temperature (30C) for up to five days without deterioration of external, internal and sensory quality parameters. For further storage, tomatoes should be purchased from retail markets and kept at temperatures around 20C.
42882386|De-icing salts are essentially composed of sodium chloride (NaCl) and represent a serious problem in temperate countries since they damage plants along the streets. At the Experimental Centre of the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Turin, two trials determining the resistance to salinity of six ornamental species (Vinca minor, Hedera helix, Mahonia aquifolium, Lonicera pile at a, Euonymus fortunei and Symphoricarpos racemosus) were carried out. The first trial concerned the study of the effects of NaCl, KC1, and K CO on V. minor, H. helix and M. aquifolium. Each salt was applied at two concentrations, 0.125 N and 0.25 N. The second trial consisted of a comparison of the resistance of L. pileata, E. fortunei and 5. racemosus to NaCl, applied at the concentration of 0.25 N. V. minor and M. aquifolium showed a marked sensitivity following exposure to sodium chloride at the higher concentration. On the contrary, it was possible to verify a fair resistance of H. helix to saline treatments with NaCl at 0.25 N. In L. pileata the treatment with NaCl determined a progressive browning from the end of the leaf to its base. In E. fortunei the treatment with NaCl determined a progressive and diffused yellowing on all the leaf followed by withering. In the cases of V. minor and M. aquifolium, the possibility to use potassium carbonate appears promising.
42883465|The nutraceutic value of persimmon (Diospyros kaki Thunb. cv. Triumph) and its influence on some indices of atherosclerosis were studied in vitro and in experiment on rats fed cholesterol-containing diet. It was found that persimmon possesses a high nutraceutical value: it contains soluble fibers, total poly phenols and phenolic acids. The content of dietary fiber was 1.83  0.11,0.69  0.07 and 1.14  0.12 g/100 g fresh weight (FW) for total, soluble and insoluble fibers, respectively, 1.55  0.11 g/100 g FW of total poh phenols and 10.29  0.9, 21.89  2.2,6.5  0.5,0.71  0.05 and 58.2  5.1 mg/100 g FW of ferulic, gallic, protocatechuic, vanillic and p-coumaric acids, respectively. Radical scavenging activity (RSA) with the 1, 1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) method, a nitric oxide and -carotene tests has shown 88% for methanolic persimmon extracts. The properties of fresh and dry persimmon were compared. High correlation was found between polyphenols and RSA with different tests (R 2 ranges between 0.9535 and 0.9934). Addition of persimmon to the diets did not affect diet intake, its efficiency or body weight gains of rats. Other persimmon cultivars (Fuyu and Jiro) were compared with cv. Triumph in vitro and in vivo studies. 'Fuyu' was more effective than 'Jiro'. Diets supplemented with whole fruit positively influenced some indices of atherosclerosis in serum of rats fed a cholesterol-containing diet: it hindered the rise of lipid levels and the decrease in the antioxidant activity.
42883550|Since the first successful cryopreservation of plant tissues was reported about 50 years ago, this technique has been rapidly developed. To date, this technique has been applied to a great number of plant germplasm including woody and herbaceous species ranging from tropical to temperate regions. Recently, cryotherapy of shoot tips was found to efficiently eliminate viruses and phytoplasma. Until now, cryotherapy has been extended to elimination of Plum pox virus (PPV) from Prunus , Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) from banana, Banana streak virus (BSV) from banana, Grapevine virus A (GVA) from grapevine, Potato leafroll virus (PLRV) from potato, Potato virus Y (PVY) from potato, Raspberry bushy dwarf virus (RBDV) from raspberry and Sweet potato little leaf (SPLL) phytoplasma from sweet potato. By analysing all previous studies on elimination of viruses and phytoplasma by cryotherapy of shoot tips, especially in comparison of effects of cryotherapy and traditional methods on survival, plant regeneration, and frequency of virus and phytoplasma elimination, we suggest that cryotherapy of shoot tips would be a simple and efficient method for virus and phytoplasma elimination and could be used simultaneously for long-term storage of plant germplasm and production of virus-and phytoplasma-free plants.
42882370|This study analyses the seasonal and daily dynamics of pulp temperature of olive tree (Olea europaea) fruit, measured by inserting a thermistor into the flesh of the olive to record the hourly values on a data logger. The effects of weather conditions and drupe exposures on fruit temperature are considered, as well as the relationships with thermal patterns measured by a standard agrometeorological station. A model for olive fly (Bactrocera oleae) is applied to compare insect development simulations using air and fruit temperatures as model input.
42882489|The purpose of the work was to compare the effects of Kinetin (Kin), N-benzylaminopurine (BA) and Thidiazuron (TDZ) on somatic embryo, adventitious root and shoot regeneration from in vitro cultured quince (Cydonia oblonga Mill.) leaves collected from the apical portion of actively proliferating shoots. After a two-day treatment with 2,4-D the leaves were treated with cytokinins at 4.5 M in combination with naphthalenacetic acid (NAA) at 0.5 or 5 M. At the 9th day of culture, the leaves from each treatment were transferred to a culture medium without growth regulators (GR-) or containing BA 2.66 M + indole-3-butyric acid (IBA) 0.30 M + gibberellic acid (GA) 0.58 M (GR+). Regeneration response was assessed after 52 days of culture. When 0.5 M NAA was used, Kinetin treatment induced the highest formation of somatic embryos, particularly when the leaves were transferred to GR+ culture medium. TDZ exerted a pronounced positive effect on shoot production, while it strongly reduced somatic embryos and totally inhibited root regeneration. BA determined intermediate responses on all morphogenic structures regenerated. The increase of NAA concentration from 0.5 M to 5.0 M in the combination with Kin resulted in a decrease of somatic embryo-regenerating leaves both on GR- and GR+, while root-forming leaves increased on GR-. With TDZ, the higher concentration of NAA reduced the shoot-regenerating leaves, and exerted positive effects on somatic embryo-and root-regenerating leaves, which were very few or completely absent with NAA 0.5 M.
42882221|Results of two years of field trials carried out in 2000 and 2001 are reported in this paper. The field research was conducted in Tuscany in two different vineyards with protocols planned to control the activity against powdery mildew and downy mildew and to discover the impact of different fungicides on Phytoseiids present on vine trees at the two sites. The results confirm Sulphur and Copper-Oxychloride as the most selective fungicides but with unsatisfactory control of both diseases in seasons with high disease pressure. The field trials basically involved powdery mildicide products, whereas against downy mildew, Copper-Oxychloride was tank mix applied for all treatments. The program of applications which included the alternation of Sulphur and Quinoxyfen gave the best results against powdery mildew with a moderate impact on phytoseiids. Typhlodromus exhilaratus Ragusa and Phytoseius finitimus Ribaga sensu Denmark (1966) were the phytoseiids detected. Both predatory mites showed a strong resistance to the various strategies used.
42883502|Sweet bell pepper (Capsicum annuum L.) is a subtropical fruit. It is chilling-sensitive when stored at temperatures below 7C for more than a week, while exported peppers are required to undergo a quarantine treatment of 3 weeks at 15C against fruit fly which exacerbates chilling injury. Physical treatments to prevent chilling injury were investigated together with storage at 1.5C to develop a successful quarantine protocol. The treatments, given both separately and in combination, were a hot water rinse (55C for 15 s) over brushes (HWRB), and sealing each fruit in individual shrink packaging (Cryovac). Data from two research seasons indicated that the combined treatment maintained the best fruit quality. This was evidenced by lower decay incidence, due to the HWRB, and almost no chilling injury due to the individual shrink packaging. Reduction in chilling injury was associated with a significant reduction in membrane leakage and lipoxygenase activity, and the induction of heat shock proteins (HSP) from the HSP70 family. Packing sweet pepper in shrink plastic film following HWRB enables pepper storage at 1.5C for 3 weeks and, therefore, can serve as a good quarantine treatment.
42883076|Leaf expiants of Peperomia obtusifolia were cultured on Murashige and Skoog basal medium (MS) with various growth substances in order to regenerate shoots. On MS basal medium associated with auxines (IAA or NAA) and kinetin, the expiants favoured green callus, many roots but scarce shoots. On MS supplemented with auxines and BAP, 30-40% of the expiants produced green callus and numerous shoots per explant, but no roots. The shoots, after 4-5 months, were removed from initial expiants and transferred separately onto MS basal medium or MS supplemented with IBA for their elongation and successive rooting. Histological studies showed that the callus was essentially associated with the spongy parenchyma cells near the vascular tissue from which shoots regenerated. The subcultures were obtained from leaf expiants or apical meristems from the previous generation (up to 5th -6th) with more numerous productive expiants and also more shoots per expiant in less time than the initial cultures. Chromosome numbers of root tip cells of the mother plant and of all in vitro plant generations remained constant: 2n = 22.
42883451|Soil steaming has become an important practice in commercial greenhouse production as an alternative to chemicals to control soil-borne pathogens. In addition to their effect on pests, due to soil temperature increase, steaming methods may also have an impact on soil chemical properties, on plant nutrient regime and, consequently, on crop yield. The aim of this work was to investigate the effect of two steam disinfection methods (deep or shallow steam injection) with or without the addition of an exothermic reacting compound (1000 kg CaO ha) on two consecutive greenhouse radish crops. The steam disinfection methods had a significant impact on soil thermal dynamics, on soil chemical properties and on radish crop production (with similar but more marked effects in the first than in the second crop cycle). The best results, in terms of both yield and quality, were obtained with shallow steam injection, while deep steam injection without CaO addition, resulted in a similar or lower yield than that obtained in the control soil. The main changes observed in soil chemical parameters were a temporary increase of pH following the incorporation of CaO and an increase of exchangeable K in the case of shallow steam injection.
42883000|The growth and the accumulation of macro and micro elements in various stages of the cultural cycle of two cultivars of broccoli raab (Brassica rapa L.) was determined in an experimental feld in southern Italy. Plant samples were obtained every two weeks beginning at the time of thinning and continuing for 112 and 126 days, respectively, for 'Di Gennaio' and 'Di Marzo'. In spite of the different cultural cycle, the two cultivars had almost the same performance in relation to both yield and element uptake. 'Di Gennaio' and 'Di Marzo' plants - 50,000 plants on a hectare basis - removed on average about 460 kg N, 140 kg PO, 692 kg HO, 330 kg Ca, 75 kg Na, and 42 kg Mg. Microelements, determined only on 'Di Gennaio', were 77 kg S, 20 kg Al, 12 kg Fe, 1 kg Mn, 479 g Zn, 443 g Sr, 411 g B, 72 g Cu, 26 g Mo, 23 g Ni, and 20 g Cd. Total growth averaged 136 t ha fresh matter, which included 14 t ha of main heads and 28 t ha of secondary heads, and 14 t ha dry matter. Highest growth and removal rates from flower stem emission to main head production were recorded.
42883159|Greenhouse experiments were conducted to study the effects on gas exchange parameters in asymptomatic leaves of susceptible tomato plants, cv. Bonny Best, inoculated with tracheomycotic fungi Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici or Verticillium albo-atrum. The gas exchanges of the asymptomatic leaves of infected plants were influenced by the presence of the respective fungi. Photosynthesis decreased in the first leaf above the highest colonization point and the gas exchange-related parameters were affected. For Fusarium, the only asymptomatic leaf affected was the first above the highest colonization point. Both stomatal closure and alteration in photosynthetic machinery appeared to be involved in the photosynthesis limitation. In the upper leaves photosynthesis was only marginally, or not at all depressed. In plants infected by Verticillium, in addition to the first leaf, the upper two were affected. Our results indicate a mechanism of photosynthesis limitation mainly attributable to an alteration of mesophyllic activity. In the last two leaves photosynthesis was not reduced.
42882245|Diurnal changes in single leaf photosynthetic rate, leaf diffusive resistance, and stomatal conductance were observed in three sweet potato cultivars, S-108, Kanhangad, and Sree Badhra (S-1010), grown under field conditions. The highest photosynthetic rate and stomatal conductance were observed between 10.00 and 11.00 hr. The two parameters declined between 11.00 and 14.00 hr and increased between 14.00 and 15.00 hr. Stomatal resistance was low between 10.00 and 11.00 hr, increased between 11.00 and 14.00 hr and then declined between 14.00 and 17.00 hr. The diurnal variations in single leaf photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance and diffusive resistance are attributed to changes in solar radiation, relative humidity and air temperature. There was no significant difference among the three cultivars in diurnal photosynthesis and storage root yield.
42883469|Key consumer drivers are fruit appearance, taste and healthfulness. The New Zealand persimmon industry has identified the following key factors in persimmon: for appearance - colour, size and freedom from blemishes, and for taste - sweetness, good texture, and lack of astringency. Researchers and industry together have developed a range of pre-and postharvest tools to meet consumer desires. Preharvest areas examined and modified include tree architecture (pruning and training systems), use of reflective mulches, leaf thinning around fruit, seed/pollination, and harvesting fruit at higher colour grade. New postharvest solutions include use of 1-MCP and hot water drenching of fruit to reduce postharvest diseases.
42882471|Two field experiments were carried out in 2002 and 2004 rainy seasons at the Teaching and Research Farms of National Horticultural Research Institute Bagauda and Bayero University Kano, respectively to test the effect of plant population and nitrogen levels on growth and yield of okra. The treatments consisted of four plant populations (12,000, 17,000, 30,000 and 50,000 plants/ha) factorially combined with four nitrogen levels (0, 50, 90 and 120 kgN/ha) and laid out in a randomised complete block design with three replications. The results showed that plant population significantly affected plant height, number of leaves per plant and number of fruits per plant, but there was no effect on number of branches per plant and fruit weight. However, increasing plant population increased yield up to 50,000 plants/ha. Nitrogen application was observed to increase plant height, number of branches per plant and number of fruits per plant but there was no effect on fruit weight. High nitrogen content of the experimental fields was perhaps the major reason why the yield response to nitrogen was not significant although there was an increasing trend in yield with increase in nitrogen.
42882085|Yield, quality attributes, processing and nutritional losses were determined during the preparation of dehydrated chips from seven Indian and five exotic cultivars after 100 days of storage in the cold store (3-4C) and in an evaporatively cooled store (15-29C, RH 80-94%). Yield and quality attributes such as oil uptake, colour, texture and taste of fried dehydrated chips were affected by the cultivar and storage temperature. The average yield of dehydrated chips was 22% higher and their oil uptake about 50% lower when made from potatoes stored in evaporatively cooled store as compared to the cold store. The processing quality of the product was adversely affected when prepared from the tubers stored at low temperature. Colour appearance, taste and texture of the fried dehydrated chips prepared from all the cultivars stored in the evaporatively cooled store were acceptable as against unacceptably dark colour and bitter taste of chips made from cold stored potatoes. Among cultivars stored in the evaporatively cooled store, exotic cultivars, in general, gave higher yield and produced better colour quality chips in comparison to Indian varieties. The chip colour was positively correlated to the reducing sugar content of tubers as well as dehydrated chips. The average per cent losses in reducing sugars, sucrose, soluble protein, free amino acids, total phenols, tyrosine, vitamin C, nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium and calcium were 26, 78, 39, 66, 70, 43, 46, 46, 48, 80 and 68, respectively during preparation of dehydrated chips from evaporatively cooled stored tubers as against 27, 63, 29, 35, 92, 54, 66, 44, 44, 81 and 70, respectively from the tubers stored in cold store. The study suggests storage of potatoes in the evaporatively cooled store up to 100 days to obtain high yield of good quality dehydrated chips with reasonable retention of nutrients.
42883485|Mulches have a substantial impact on enhancing the sustainable yield and quality of fruit. It improves the physical and chemical qualities of the soil and availability of nutrient pool and biological qualities by increasing beneficial soil microbes. Mulches help in controlling evaporation of water from the soil surface and hence they conserve water, which is utilized by the crop plants especially in the dry red and laterite tract of West Bengal. With this in mind and to improve fruit quality, the present experiment was undertaken to study the effect of different types of mulching on post harvest quality of guava. Black polythene mulch (gauge, 50 micron) was applied around the tree basin while other mulches were applied uniformly to a thickness of 8 to 10 cm. Mature (turned light greenish yellow in colour), rainy-season fruits were harvested for physico-chemical analysis and post harvest storage life. Results revealed that mulching with different materials significantly increased the physico-chemical qualities of guava fruit, except fruit diameter. Among different mulching treatments, black polyethyene mulch showed maximum qualities in all respects, followed by mulching with paddy husk, while the lowest acid content of fruit was noted in mulches with black polythene. Leaf mineral content was also influenced by mulching. Maximum N, P and K values were obtained from black polythene, followed by paddy husk mulch. Post harvest storage life of fruit was also affected by different mulch treatments. Black polythene mulch gave 89% marketable fruit on the ninth day of storage while control (without mulch) showed minimum storage life, as evident from CO evolution and soluble solid content of fruit.
42883566|The aim of this research was to determine seed contents of Coriander (Coriandrum sativum). Research was conducted in the Jordan Valley at 150 m below sea level and in northern Jordan at 200 m above. Analyses of fertilized seeds showed that they contain 14.9% protein while non fertilized seeds had a significantly lower content (4.7%). The seeds contain 7.4% oil, which can vary according to strain. The fatty acid composition varied significantly among the seeds from the selected locations. Petroselinic acid was significantly the most concentrated fatty acid (80.10%). This acid (C18:1) can be split to produce C6 (adipic acid) and C12:0 (lauric acid) molecules. Adipic acid is used for the manufacture of a wide range of polymers including high grade engineering plastics; at present it is derived from mineral oil by a process that damages the ozone layer and contributes to the releases of gasses such as N2, which affect global warming. Petroselinic acid is abundant in C. sativum and could be an alternative, more environmentally friendly raw material for use in industry.
42883455|Aiming at in vitro plantlet regeneration via direct somatic embryogenesis in lily (Lilium spp.), stamens, styles, filaments and flower pedicel sections of the Oriental hybrid 'Star Gazer' and the Asiatic hybrid 'Pollyanna' were cultured on MS (Murashige and Skoog) medium supplemented with NAA (-naphthaleneacetic acid), 2,4-D (2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid), dicamba or picloram at different concentrations. None of 'Pollyanna 9 expiants showed any cell proliferation and browned and died after four weeks from culture onset. Styles and filaments of 'Star Gazer' could sustain organognesis and callus formation, according to the different auxin treatments. Flower pedicel sections of 'Star Gazer' cultured on media containing NAA, dicamba or picloram underwent direct somatic embryogenesis. When transferred to hormone-free medium, somatic embryos readily germinated forming complete plantlets.
42883235|The objective of the present study was to elicit stress responses in flower buds of 'AprilGlo' nectarine by water and temperature stress treatments, and to evaluate five potential stress indicators for quantifying the stress status in tissue. The flower bud abscission force gradually increased as the bud development proceeded. The bud abscission force of the drought-stressed trees was significantly lower than that under either the standard or the excess irrigation regime; it was also significantly dependent on the external temperature conditions. Free proline concentration in open flowers increased in response to defcit or excess stress irrigation; it also responded distinctively to low or high temperature. Nitrate reducase activity increased following defcit or excess irrigation stress. Water content of open flowers was not influenced by the previous season's irrigation stress. Photosystem II fluorescence of first expanded apical leaves decreased significantly, in a season-dependent manner, following either excess or defcit irrigation regimes. The intra-indicator types correlation was less signifcant following either defcit or excess water stress than following standard irrigation. It seems that except for the water content, the investigated indicators could reflect the physiological stress status prevailing in the tissue at the time of measurement. Combinations of different indicators might be needed to reliably quantify the overall condition of the reproductive organs.
42883198|In order to investigate whether excessive elongation growth is a possible cause of stem curvature and stem break in cut gerbera flowers (Gerbera jamesonii), stems were placed in aqueous solutions of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), alpha-naphtalene acetic acid (NAA), or 3-indole butyric acid (IBA). Stem elongation and stem curvature was increased by these treatments but no close relationship was found. Auxins produced a rather sharp angle about 10 cm below the inflorescence, unlike the smooth stem curvature in water controls. At 10, 10 and 10 M IAA the rate of elongation and the number of bent stems increased progressively. It is concluded that stem bending of cut gerbera flowers is increased by auxins as a consequence of an auxin-type bending, probably mediated by ethylene.
42882405|In a cherry orchard located in the South of Italy, with 15 sweet cherry varieties producing fruit suitable for processing, the occurrence of the visual symptoms of some biotic and abiotic adversities was monitored. Among the former, Archips rosanus, Cylindrosporium padi, Monosteira unicostata, Operophthera brumata, Tetranicus spp. and summer phylloptosis are described, whilst the main abiotic adversity was fruit cracking. After three years of observations, it is concluded that the incidence of damage seems to be influenced by genotype and year. No variety is fully resistant, although fruit obtained under organic cultivation remains suitable for processing.
42882565|Vine-ripe tomatoes are known to possess higher sensorial qualities than the corresponding berries harvested at earlier maturity stages, although their short postharvest life precludes an effective distribution to distant potential markets. Fresh tomatoes harvested beyond the climacteric peak, at the light red-red color stage, were treated with 1-MCP (0.5 ppm for 24 hr). Initially and after four and 10 days of storage at 15C, the following attributes were measured: firmness, color, total soluble solids, respiration rate and ethylene production. 1-MCP slowed down firmness loss with a 16% lower relative deformation value than that for untreated berries. The treatment with 1-MCP also slowed down color evolution, with a mean a* value for all storage durations 6% lower than the value for untreated fruits, and a 12% higher hue angle. Respiration rate, ethylene production, and soluble solids did not result affected by 1-MCP treatment. The possibility to maintain quality attributes of vineripe tomatoes for a longer time after harvest may effectively contribute to extend their shelf life and, in turn, to enable producers to market berries of superior sensorial quality.
42881356|The effects of foliar-applied nutrients on fruit-set and oil quality were investigated. Leaf treatments based on urea, biammonia phosphate and potassium sulphate applied at five different times from approximately 25 days prior to full bloom to one month before harvest were tested on cv. Leccino olive trees to determine their effects on fruit-set. Increased fruit-set exhibited by plants receiving foliar treatments does not appear to be attributable to a reduction in pistil-related malformations. Foliar-applied nutrients increased the yield of olive oil and had no effects on the composition of the oil fatty acids and unsaponifiable fraction.
42883180|The implementation of IPM on protected eggplant is difficult due to several arthropod pests that can attack this crop. In a two-year survey, two thrips species were found: Frankliniella occidentalis (Perg.) - the most harmful one - and Thrips tabaci Lind. During a three-year period, the possibility to control thrips by means of the pirate bug Orius laevigatus (Fieber) releases was tested in eggplant plastic tunnels. This native predator was able to control effectively the exotic F. occidentalis despite chemical insecticides sprayed against Aphis gossypii Glov. The pirate bug releases, conducted as soon as thrips were detected, allowed to establish an early interaction between prey and predator at a low level of density. When insecticides were used the mass-reared predators were released more than once. The chemical control alone, carried out in check eggplant tunnels against F. occidentalis, showed a low degree of efficacy. Wide-spectrum insecticide treatments disrupted the enhancement of natural control and the releases of mass-reared beneficial arthropods.
42883011|Scald (S) aetiopathogenesis was investigated in regard to the quantitative effect of conjugated triene hydroperoxides (CTH) on this apple disorder. Direct spectrophotometry (DSM) and an iodimetric method (IM) were used to evaluate CTH content. A direct relationship between CTH and S was confirmed: CTH started increasing about 50 days after harvest and reached its maximum concentration about 100 days after harvest, i.e. the time of S appearance. The CTH content of 'Granny Smith' apples was found to be related to climatic conditions: dry, warm field conditions led to a rapid increase of CTH and S injury. Diphenylamine, a scald inhibitor and powerful antioxidant, blocked CTH formation even when applied after the increase of CTH. The pathological CTH threshold value appeared to be in a range below 5 optical density  cm of apple area 10,000.
42881980|In a greenhouse experiment the combined effects of drought and salinity on growth, ion distribution and daily patterns of dadode CO gas exchange in four Opuntia ficus-indica genotypes were investigated. Plants were cultivated in quartz sand and supplied with nutrient solution at daily (control) or weekly intervals (low water treatment, LW). For the salinity treatments in both variants the nutrient solution was supplemented with 100 mM NaCl (NaCl and NaCl/LW). The growth potential of the Opuntia genotypes differed markedly. Cladode growth was reduced by LW and NaCl treatments, with the effect of NaCl being more pronounced compared to LW. Application of NaCl resulted in increased Na and Cl concentrations in the cladodes. Salinity decreased Ca uptake whereas K uptake was enhanced. Drought did not affect the CAM-like diurnal pattern of CO gas exchange of Opuntia cladodes with nocturnal CO uptake. In contrast, CO assimilation of salt-stressed plants was severely inhibited, resulting in a very low daily CO gain as compared to control plants.
42881720|Roots were excavated from 31 elite mature trees and cuttings from these were cultivated in compost for the production of shoot suckers as sources of buds for in vitro establishment. Only 14 of the 31 clones gave buds/shoots in 100% of root cuttings and 8 clones failed to produce buds/shoots. Sucker production within clones was variable giving from 4 to 59 buds/shoots per 100 cm of root cutting. In addition each clone responded variably in different years and seasons. The use of buds from root suckers of mature trees was superior to using forced crown buds in terms of bud sterility, bud viability and clone viability in vitro. For culture initiation, the results obtained using buds from root suckers were similar to those from juvenile trees.
42882070|A study of electrophysiological responses obtained from olive (Olea europaea L.) leaf cells subjected to treatments with NaCl at 25 and 100 mM is reported. Trials were conducted on two cultivars characterized by different salt sensitivities: 'Frantoio' and 'Leccino'. In both cultivars, the response to salt is articulated in three sequential phases: depolarization, lag and repolarization. From an energetic perspective, the first phase was revealed to be a passive process while the last phase demonstrated a close metabolic dependence. In 'Frantoio' (the more tolerant cultivar), the repolarization phase was greater and was completed more quickly than in 'Leccino'. Activation of a plasmalemma ATP-driven proton pump appears to be a common event in the response to NaCl. Other causes, however, are not to be excluded (such as alteration of the membrane selectivity) to explain the different behavior in the two cultivars. Considering the ease with which material can be obtained and the relatively brief time required for testing, these electrophysiological responses can constitute an integrative tool in salt tolerance screening.
42882919|Delaying bud break is an approach to avoid spring frost damage. Field experiments were conducted during the winters of 2009 and 2010 at James Arthur Vineyards in Raymond, Nebraska to study the effect of spraying naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) and Amigo Oil to delay bud break in 'Edelweiss' grapevines to avoid such damage. In 2009, the experiment consisted of five treatments: NAA (500, 750, and 1000 mg/1), oil applied at 10%, and a non-sprayed control. There were four application dates: 6 January, 3 February, 3 March, and 1 April. In 2010, treatments were NAA at 500, 1000, and 1500 mg/1,10% oil, and the control; application dates were 28 January, 25 February, and 25 March. Bud break was evaluated throughout spring. During harvest, number and weight of clusters were recorded. Berry samples were analyzed for pH, Brix, and titratable acidity (TA). Pruning weights and number of clusters of the 2009 treated vines were recorded in March and August 2010, respectively. In the 2009 field experiment, oil and NAA at 1000 mg/1 significantly delayed bud break by two to six days, compared to the control. Pruning weights were not significantly affected by the treatments. In 2010, oil applications significantly delayed bud break by eight to 12 days compared to the control and no significant differences were found between NAA at 1500 and 1000 mg/1. In both years, treatments had no significant effects on yields, cluster weights, berry weights, Brix, pH or TA.
42882312|PR 204/84 rootstock (peach  almond) is a promising rootstock for peach trees as an alternative to GF 677. The present paper reports the first attempt for its micropropagation. Shoots were grown in MS media supplemented with three benzylaminopurine (BAP) (2,4,8 m) concentrations combined with four a-napthaleneacetic acid (NAA) (0, 0.05, 0.5, 5 m) and four gibberellic acid (GA) (0, 0.028, 0.28, 2.8 m) concentrations. It was concluded that treatments containing 4 m BAP + 0 or 0.05 M NAA + 0 or 0.028 M GA were considered to be the most appropriate for shoot proliferation and growth of the PR 204/84 rootstock shoots in vitro.
42881528|Horticultural crops usually form a symbiotic root association called vesicular arbuscular (VA) endomycorrhiza with certain soil fungi belonging to the Endogonaceae. Exceptions to this are ericaceous and orchid species which develop other types of endomycorrhiza with Ascomycetes and Basidiomycetes, respectively. Many high-value ornamental and edible horticultural crops are very dependent upon an endomycorrhizal infection for satisfactory growth and development; the root organ in endomycorrhizal plants becomes more active and the aerial part grows better, so that rootrshoot ratios are often lower than those in non-endomycorrhizal plants. The main explanation for these beneficial effects is that the symbiotic fungi develop extensively within cells of the root cortex and out into the soil, providing roots with a supplementary pathway for absorbing mineral nutrients and water from the soil. Furthermore, precolonization of roots by endomycorrhizal fungi frequently leads to reduced damage by certain soil-borne pathogens. Many horticultural practices (e.g. soil sterilization, potting mixtures or substrata, micropropagation, etc.) eliminate or reduce the possibility that endomycorrhizal infection will occur, with consequent reductions in plant growth rates, high fertiliser requirements and even failure of seedling establishment. There is considerable interest in endomycorrhizal inoculation to overcome these problems and to guarantee production of healthy plants with a low input of fertilizer and pesticides. Endomycorrhiza technology is already in use in the citrus industry in California, in blueberry production in New Zealand and is developing in nurseries in Europe. Conceptual approaches for the rational use of endomycorrhizal fungi have already been defined and suitable tests and techniques have been developed to ensure their successful introduction into different plant production systems. It is, however, still necessary to overcome problems linked to inoculum production, especially as far as the widely marketable VA endomycorrhizal fungi are concerned. Concrete examples of endomycorrhizal technology applied to horticultural crops are presented and its interest as a modern nursery practice for high quality crop production in horticulture are discussed.
42883160|Phospholipid content in both dormant vegetative and floral peach buds increased markedly with exposure to chilling sufficient to break dormancy, whereas intermittent chilling that did not satisfy the chilling requirement caused a loss of phospholipids on both a fresh and dry weight basis. The relative level of linoleate in phospholipids of peach vegetative and floral buds increased with continuous but not with intermittent chilling. Forty-eight hours after transfer of shoots from cold to warm conditions, after the chilling requirement was satisfied, a decrease in linoleate and a rise in linolenate were noted in phospholipids. In the glycolipid fraction, the level of linolenate was higher in chilled compared with intermittently chilled vegetative buds throughout the dormant period. A minor rise in linoleate was also noted in chilled vegetative buds. An inconsistent pattern was found in floral buds. On the basis of these results and previously published findings, a hypothesis is proposed on the involvement of restructuring of membrane lipids in dormancy development and release.
42883432|Authors assessed the flower density, fruit set, number of fruits, and number of seeds per fruit over the growing season three times up to the harvest time, in 2004 and 2005. The number (density) of flowers per tree varied greatly according to varieties but differences were substantial between the years. High density of flowers was found in 'Elstar', 'Red Elstar' and 'Gala'. According to the number of flowers, a tendency to alternate bearing was recognised in 'Golden Reinders', 'Red Elstar' and 'Summerred'. The values expressing the specific flower density were higher in diploid varieties than in the triploid ones. The time-dependent change of fruit set was caught in the act of fruit shedding. High rate of fruit set (and low inclination to fruit drop) was met in 'Golden FGA', 'Golden Reinders', 'Pink Lady' and 'Gala'. Low rate of fruit set and high tendency of shedding was observed in 'Boskoop', 'Summerred', and 'Braeburn'. The high fruit load at harvest was not always the highest in varieties characterised by high rates of fruit set and varied yearly depending on the tendency toward alternate bearing. The number of fruits per tree and specific density of fruits was outstanding in 'Golden Russet' and 'Gala'. Changes in the number of stout and empty seeds per fruit during the growing season were correlated with fruit drop. As a consequence of high rates in fruit drop the ratio of stout seeds per fruit increased as well as that of the empty seeds decreased. High rates of stout seeds were registered in 'Pink Lady' and 'Jonagold Jonagored', and in the group of varieties of 'Golden Delicious'. The scale of differences between the varieties regarding the number of seeds per tree and the specific density of seeds was especially wide (more than tenfold). Low values were experienced in 'Boskoop', 'Braeburn' and 'Summerred'. The content of empty seeds in triploid varieties was significantly higher, in 2004, than in diploid varieties. Authors confirmed the tight positive correlation between fruit set and seed content per fruit. A loose negative correlation was stated between the number of flowers per tree and the rate of fruit set, and between the number of flowers and fruits per tree. No correlation could be proved between the rate of fruit set and the number of fruits per tree at harvest.
42881705|Decreasing humidity levels in in vitro culture vessels containing actively proliferating shoot clusters of the plum rootstock Mr.S.2/5 (Prunus cerasifera) induced a progressive decrease in stomatal density and index. Stomatal closure, during both the light and dark period, showed no definite trend at varying RH, whereas reduction of openings was detected in all treatments when the light was turned off.
42882051|This work suggests a descriptive model for peach fruit growth. In particular, using some qualitative considerations, the mathematical expressions for the fruit diameter curve and the fruit weight curve were obtained. The functions fit the experimental data very well for several cultivars and in different environments.
42882693|Changes in physicochemical properties of starch were studied in relation to cultivar, growing location, season and crop maturity. Among the local cultivars grown in Meghalaya, India, 'Lah Sow Simit' showed higher amylose content of starch (24.4%), while 'Lah Sow Khasi' showed higher viscosity (2991 cP) and swelling volume (41 ml/g) of starch. Among the improved cultivars, higher amylose content (22.5%) was observed in 'Kufri Anand', while higher viscosity (2724 cP) of starch was observed in 'Kufri Lalima'. The amylose content, viscosity, swelling volume and clarity of starch were higher in cv. Kufri Jyoti grown at Kufri as compared to Modipuram, Jorhat and Shillong. The viscosity and swelling volume of starch were higher in the main season crop as compared to the early crop. The amylose content, viscosity and swelling volume of starch showed a significant increase with crop maturity.
42882446|The increasing interest in chestnut trees and their products needs to be supported by a sustainable management of chestnut orchards and stands, which is required from farmers and operators. Chestnut blight and ink disease can be considered as the main constraining factors for cultivation. Investigations carried out in different European countries (Italy, France, Spain, and Portugal) have confirmed the increase of damage caused by ink disease, which appears to be in expansion with a wide-spread presence of hytophthora cambivora and P. cinnamomi. The availability of effective methods to control the disease can reduce the severity of the damage and encouraging results were achieved by means of chicken manure dispersal under the crown of the symptomatic trees, with the goal of improving the biological activity of soils. This simple and cheap biological control method could be proposed to farmers. The damage produced by Cryphonectria parasitica, the causal agent of chestnut blight, appears quite limited and the recovery of chestnut trees in orchards and stands is detectable everywhere. The natural spread of hypo virulence is the main factor responsible in the European countries studied. This phenomenon. is very effective but more complex than supposed because of the presence of the different factors involved, besides hypo virus. Simple protocols, completely based on biological control, for the management of the diseases can be proposed.
42882147|A pure source of an almond isolate of Prunus necrotic ringspot ilarvirus (PNRSV) has been ascertained by biological, serological and molecular techniques. The isolate characterization was approached by bioassays (sap transmission and grafting to herbaceous hosts and GF 305 peach), monoclonal antibodies in ELISA-DASI, RT-PCR and restriction mapping. Several species and cultivars of the Cucurbitaceae family are shown to be the suitable herbaceous indicators for virus strain identification. GF 305 peach seedlings showed typical chlorotic and necrotic ringshaped lesions and tatter leaf symptoms. In serotyping, more reliable results were obtained with virus source extracted from cucumber than from almond. PNRSV isolate reacted with seven out of nine monoclonal antibodies. Amplified cDNA was cloned into pCR2.1 vector (Invitrogen) for restriction typing and for further and extensive molecular purposes. A 282 bp amplified genomic fragment by RT-PCR was cleaved by Ava II and Nla III endonucleases indicating the presence of at least two restriction sites. A further comparative study implicating several PNRSV isolates would give precise and detailed information about their genetic variability.
42882621|The origin and phylogenesis of olive (Olea europaea L.) remain unclear. The olive's early domestication and the use of vegetative propagation have resulted in the development of a huge number of varieties. Olive breeding has been achieved both by clonal selection and by cross-breeding. Clonal selection has been widely adopted and has been utilized for morphological characterization and identification of germplasm, cultivare true-to-typeness and disease-free certification. The olive industry is seeking new cultivars better suited to modern cultivation techniques. However, cross-breeding is hindered in olive by phylogenetic, morphological, caryologic and physiological characteristics of this species. A few novel cultivars have been released in Israel and Italy in recent years. A brief summary of olive breeding programs world-wide is presented. The SelnOlTa project is evaluating 134 genotypes pre-selected for dual-purpose use (oil and table) obtained by cross-breeding in 1971. A few papers, presented in this issue of Advances in Horticultural Science, illustrate the main results achieved by the SelnOlTa project in the period 2005-2007.
42882246|One of the colorants with the greatest number of commercial uses is obtained from the haemolymph of the insect known as carmine cochineal Dactylopius coccus Costa. The insect, originally from Mexico or Peru, was first exported from Mexico to Europe in 1523 and was considered a very precious product. Today, cochineal is reared for marketing purposes in Peru, the Canary Islands, Chile, Bolivia, South Africa, Argentina, Mexico and Ecuador. Insects are reared by placing the female cochineal in containers of different materials, on cladodes or on plants of Opuntia ficus-indica. Carminic cochineal is one of the 26 known and certified natural colorants. The active ingredient of the colorant which characterises the cochineal extract is carminic acid and the quantity of compound found in the insect varies between 10 and 25% of the total dry weight. At present there is a significant demand for natural colorants, also in the industrial sector: in the pharmaceutical industry, in the cosmetic industry and for the preparation of food products. Carminic acid also finds other applications as an indicator of pH in oxidation-reduction and in histology and microscopy.
42883128|One possible approach to study phytochrome is a spectrophotometric assay, which is based on the difference in the absorbance at 600 and 730 nm of the Pr and Pfr forms of the phytochrome molecule. However, this method cannot be used with any light-grown plant material. Phytochrome immunodetermination, for light grown plants in vitro or in field, provides the only possible method for the direct study of photoreceptor levels and distribution. Different monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies were screened for their ability to recognize Prunus cerasifera and Olea europaea phytochromes. It was necessary make changes in protein extraction methods and in SDS-PAGE separation. The polyclonal antibodies 39/6 and C/52 were able to recognize Prunus phytochrome with strong signal for PHYA and faint signal for PHYB, while PB3 another polyclonal preparation showed faint staining of phytochrome A. The monoclonal antibody MAC 197 was able to recognize only the phytochrome of dark-grown plant material. Only two polyclonal antibodies C/51 and C/52 appeared to recognize the olive phytochrome, the first showing a stronger staining than the second.
42883488|Two field trials were conducted at the research farm of the Institute for Agricultural Research, Ahmadu Bello University, Samaru-Nigeria for two years (2004,2005), to determine the important attributes that contribute to squash pumpkin (Cucurbita maxima L.) fruit yield. Path coefficient analysis was used to determine the strength of contribution of each of the evaluated yield attributes. Mesocarp thickness (0.58166) and number of leaves per plant (0.03846) were the highest and least contributors to pumpkin fruit yield, respectively. The combined contribution of mesocarp thickness through number of days to anthesis (20.368%) was highest. The least combined contribution (-0.902%) was ascribed to number of seed per fruit through number of days to anthesis.
42882285|A maximum maturity index based on critical bruising thresholds was developed for different stone fruit cultivars. In general, plums tolerated more physical abuse than yellow flesh peach and nectarine cultivars. Impact location on the fruit was an important factor in the determination of critical bruising thresholds. Potential sources of bruising damage during fruit packing were located using an accelerometer (IS-100).
42881817|Effects of pre-planting storage temperature of seed cloves (Room, 10 and 0C) and planting date (Oct., Nov., Dec, 1990 and Jan., 1991) on secondary growth, yield and quality of 'Kisswani' garlic cultivar were studied in the Jordan Valley and in Jubeiha during the 1990-91 season. Highest bulb yield was produced when seed cloves were stored at room temperature and planted early in October. This yield was decreased with each decrease in storage temperature and with each month delay in planting from October to January. However, delayed planting was more effective than decreased storage temperature in reducing bulb yield. Secondary growth was increased significantly by decreasing storage temperature to 0C and by early planting in October and November. The values of quality parameters of bulb fresh and dry weights and bulb diameter were decreased with decrease in storage temperature from room, 10C to 0C and with each month delay in planting from October to January in both locations. Greater number of cloves per bulb was produced from low storage temperature and with earlier planting.
42882089|Field trials were conducted during the 1999 and 2000 rainy seasons on the influence of weeding regimes and spacings on the growth and yield of red variant roselle. The treatments, which consisted of four weeding regimes and two spacings, were factorially combined to give eight treatment combinations. These were laid out in a randomized complete block design with four replications. Most of the growth parameters were not significantly different but the yield and yield-related components were significant (P= 0.01). However, it was obvious that: (a) closer spacing (60  40 cm) increased fibre yield by 51.7% when compared with wider spacing (60  80 cm); (b) the higher the weeding regimes, the lower the weed biomass and vice versa; and (c) the higher the weeding regime, the higher the plant biomass, fibre, pulp, calyx and seed yield. For optimality in production of red variant roselle, a wide spacing of about 60  80 cm, as well as two to three weeding regimes are recommended.
42881913|Leaf nutrient levels in relation to the rootstock/scion trunk girth (t.g.) ratio in twelve apricot cultivars grafted on the rootstocks Manicot and GF 31, were determined. Leaf samples analysed for mineral content and t.g. was measured below and above the graft union. The rootstock/scion t.g. ratio was found greater on rootstock GF 31 than on Manicot Multiple regression analysis of the rootstock/scion t.g. ratio related to leaf mineral content revealed high R (adj.) for the rootstocks Manicot and GF 31 (0.996 and 0.993, respectively). Furthermore, N, K, Ca, Mg, B and N, Ca, Mn were identified as significant for the scions on Manicot and GF 31, respectively. In addition, leaf nutrient levels were defined in relation to rootstock/scion t.g. ratio.
42882477|This research aims to assess polymorphism among three Jordanian endemic genotypes of olive (Olea europaea L.) with 30 other cultivars from eleven countries. The genotypes were assessed using randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technique. Seven of the 19 screened primers showed reproducible polymeric profiles. A total of 74 bands were polymorphic. They have generated 2442 data entries (1207 for present and 1235 for absent bands). After determining Jaccard similarity index, six pairs showed high genetic similarities between 70 and 77% (e.g. 'Kaissy' and 'Sorani'), while 38 pairs had similarities between 60 and 69%; 68.6% of cultivar pairs showed low similarities (20-49%). The primers were evaluated for their discriminating power: primer RAPD15 showed the weakest power (0.862); the highest values of 0.991 and 0.994 were achieved for primers RAPD02 and RAPD03, respectively. In addition, a consensus phylogenic unrooted tree was constructed after bootstrapping (500 replicates). The genotypes were clustered into four major clades: first clade (14 cultivars), second clade (10 cultivars), third clade (six cultivars), and fourth clade ('Jlott' and 'Nabali Muhasan')  However, Ayvalik, Rasie and Canino cultivars did not group with any of them. Jordanian olive cultivar Nasuhi clustered with 'Leccino' (Italian) with the highest fidelity (72%), and 'Nabali Muhasan' with 'Jlott' (Syrian) with low fidelity; 'Rasie' did not cluster with any of the tested cultivars. The analyzed data illustrates a large variability in the genetic pool of the endemic olive, making it a valuable source for incorporation into potential regional breeding programs.
42882768|Pollination systems of Nigella sativa were studied during the 2009 growing season under semiarid Mediterranean climate. Nigella flowers were subjected to different pollination conditions, open versus covered and hand-self versus cross pollination and emasculated open pollinated flowers. Also the role of style movements in pollination of Nigella flowers was evaluated. The results indicate that Nigella sativa is completely self compatible; the main visitors were honeybees and the flowers were unattractive to other wild bees under study conditions. The results also show that Nigella sativa is not fully pollinated in the absence of insect pollinators; wind plays little or no role in its pollination processes. The mechanism of style movement and its role in flower pollination are discussed. Under arid conditions the bees synchronized their flying activities outside the hives with the availability of nectar and pollen grains in flowers in the morning at the time of style bending near the stamens to ensure effective contact with the visitors.
