4311965|An attempt is made to summarize the achievements of the UN Conference on the Human Environment and to describe the other environment conferences and activities that took place simultaneously in Stockholm this June, such as the Environment Forum, Dai Dong, etc.
4312018|The joint efforts of several research units have been directed towards four levels in the ecosystems of lake reservoirs: the physicochemical environment, the plants, the bottom animals and zooplankton, and the fish. To get a comprehensive picture of the effects of the lake transformations, information from different lake reservoirs must be compiled, and the aim of the present survey is to compile information from some recent Swedish studies. The overall effect of the transformations is a decrease in the production capacity and a simplification of the ecosystems of lake reservoirs. Fishing can be maintained, if based mainly on the production in the pelagic block of the ecosystem.
4314941|Flows of plant nutrients in the food and the fodder cycle were quantified in a district in southern Sweden. In the agricultural system with a livestock density 30% higher than the Swedish average, the N-surplus was 100 kg N ha
4313487|Implications of long-term resource exploitation in an eastern Canadian forest are examined. Resource use was strongly conditioned by the opportunity for society to achieve social benefits at no apparent cost of maintaining the publicly owned forest. Final realization that continued use of the resource for social development was imperiled, has led society to initiate management in the forest it owns. Redevelopment of the forest is complicated because the society which mandated the degradation wishes to continue receiving benefits from the resource. Controlled management of a forest imposes costs which reduce the flow of benefits available to society, and the implementation of management also constrains the way society uses the forest. While technical aspects of redeveloping the forest are straightforward, the social implications of the costs and constraints lead to conflict in the initiation of redevelopment. The technical design and implementation of redevelopment must account for the social conflicts if management is to be successfully introduced.
4314757| A sensitive bioassay, based on EROD induction in cultured chicken embryo livers, was used together with chemical analysis to determine levels of dioxin-like contaminants in particulate matter in Emn. Extracts of sediment and settling particulate matter (SPM) collected in the river system before, during, and after dredging of a PCB-contaminated lake, Jrnsjn, were separated into three fractions containing a) monoaromatic/aliphatic; b) diaromatic (e.g., PCBs and polychlorinated dibenzodioxins and dibenzofurans); and c) polyaromatic compounds (e.g., polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons). The samples from Jrnsjn contained the highest PCB concentrations and the diaromatic extracts from Jrnsjn samples showed the highest activities of EROD-inducing diaromatic compounds. The dioxin-like activity of the diaromatic fraction in sediment collected after the dredging of Jrnsjn had only around 1% of the activity of the pre-dredging sediment, showing that the remediation was successful in terms of removal of the PCB-contaminated sediment from the lake. In SPM collected immediately downstream from Jrnsjn, levels of diaromatic dioxin-like compounds were elevated during the dredging, and decreased after that. The post-dredging concentrations were however higher than in SPM from lakes upstream of Lake Jrnsjn, showing that elevated levels of dioxin-like diaromatic compounds were still present in the water system downstream of Jrnsjn a couple of years after the dredging. 
4313868|United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) considers desertification to be one of the major environmental problems of our time. According to UNEP, 35% of the world's land surface is currently at risk and more than 20 million hectares are reduced annually to near or complete uselessness. The Sahel of Africa is supposed to be the most stricken region of the world. The Saharan desert has been described to encroach southwards at an increasing rate. The desertification phenomenon is considered to be mainly man-made. The prevailing concept of desertification, status and rate of change has been seriously challenged during the 1980s by a growing number of individuals, research groups and international organisations. In particular, this is true for the Sahelian zone of Africa. It has even been questioned whether desertification is actually occurring and the word "myth" has been mentioned. There is a lack of data to substantiate the hypothesis of a secular, mainly man-made, trend towards desertlike conditions in the Sahel. The need for a "desertification" assessment, based on scientific principles, is strongly felt.
4314790| The Lomi region, located east of the Dja Faunal Reserve, is characteristic of the Cameroon humid forest biodiversity. The ecosystem has a rich and diverse fauna and flora, notably tree species. Since the end of the 1980s, the use of biodiversity resources has been motivated for the creation of income. The current economic crisis and the Structural Adjustment Program that followed are the sources of this evolution. The IUCN/DJA Project, implemented at the beginning of 1996 by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and its partners, aims to conserve the Dja Faunal Reserve and promote sustainable use of biodiversity by local people. Meanwhile, data collected through the main tools of the Participatory Rural Appraisal method have shown that there is an aggravation of proverty and a serious erosion of biodiversity in the region. This paper gives a qualitative description of this context and opens up some prospects. 
40928387|This study analyses the relation of forest cover and stream flow on the 266 km Koga watershed in a headwater of Blue Nile Basin using both observed hydrological data and community perception. The watershed declined from 16% forest cover in 1957 to 1% by 1986. The hydrological record did not reveal changes in the flow regime between 1960 and 2002 despite the reduction in forest area. This agrees with the perception of the downstream community living near the gauging station. The upstream community, however, reported both decreases in low flows and increases in high flows shortly after the forest cover was reduced. The upstream deforestation effect appeared to have been buffered by a wetland lower in the watershed. This study concludes that community perception can be a complement to observational data for better understanding how forest cover influences the flow regime.
4313769|The lateral distributions of plutonium and other metals of natural and anthropogenic origin were studied in recent sediments from the Gulf of Bothnia. Nonparametric rank and multivariate factor analysis indicate that the distribution of Pu is governed by runoff processes and by the deposition of metals and organic matter in deposition basins. Plutonium is probably adsorbed onto or complexed with organic matter in the sediments. Plutonium is interrelated with Mn, As, Mo, Pb, Cd and Fe from both natural sources and industrial emissions. Ni, Co, V, and Cu followed another distribution pattern, probably due to conservative mixing in the water column and due to the absence of local sources. Activity rations for
4314199|We examine whether and how global food production may be increased to provide for a world population expected to double by about 2050. Increasing current food production more than proportional to population growth is required so as to provide most humans with an adequate diet. We examine the possible expansion of food supplies to the year 2050, the inventory of presently utilized and potentially available arable land, rates of land degradation, and the limitations of water and biological resources. Serious degradation and loss of the world's arable land is taking place and expansion of irrigation, vital for food production, is becoming more costly and difficult. A business-as-usual scenario points to looming shortages of food. Additional stress from possible climatic alteration and enhanced ultraviolet radiation may make the provision of adequate food supplies extremely difficult to achieve. The nature of the changes that are required to make sufficient food available are identified.
4315756|Projected shifts in climate forcing variables such as temperature and precipitation are of great relevance to arctic freshwater ecosystems and biota. These will result in many direct and indirect effects upon the ecosystems and fish present therein. Shifts projected for fish populations will range from positive to negative in overall effect, differ among species and also among populations within species depending upon their biology and tolerances, and will be integrated by the fish within their local aquascapes. This results in a wide range of future possibilities for arctic freshwater and diadromous fishes. Owing to a dearth of basic knowledge regarding fish biology and habitat interactions in the north, complicated by scaling issues and uncertainty in future climate projections, only qualitative scenarios can be developed in most cases. This limits preparedness to meet challenges of climate change in the Arctic with respect to fish and fisheries.
40801586|The Energy Committee of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences has in a series of projects gathered information and knowledge on renewable energy from various sources, both within and outside the academic world. In this article, we synthesize and summarize some of the main points on renewable energy from the various Energy Committee projects and the Committee's Energy 2050 symposium, regarding energy from water and wind, bioenergy, and solar energy. We further summarize the Energy Committee's scenario estimates of future renewable energy contributions to the global energy system, and other presentations given at the Energy 2050 symposium. In general, international coordination and investment in energy research and development is crucial to enable future reliance on renewable energy sources with minimal fossil fuel use.
4311983|Urbanization disrupts the natural hydrological cycle and creates problems concerning the quality, quantity and distribution of water. Urbanization causes changes in the microclimate, the ground's hydrological response, the quality and quantity of groundwater, and the water balance. Urbanization often makes it necessary to transfer water from other regions. There is presently a great need for research on urban hydrology. The use of statistical and mathematical methods, especially systems analysis, has spurred progress in certain areas of hydrology.
4315015|The geomorphology of the present day and Holocene (3000 years ago) Humber estuary, United Kingdom, are described. More than 90% of the intertidal area and sediment accumulation capacity of the estuary has been lost to reclamation over this period. A similar situation prevails in many other urbanized estuaries. Nutrient budgets for the modern estuary are presented demonstrating little trapping of nutrients, due to the loss of intertidal areas. A speculative budget for the Humber during the Holocene is constructed, which suggests that the estuary was then an efficient sink for nitrogen and phosphorus. A budget is presented describing how nutrient cycling might operate in the Humber with contemporary nutrient loadings, but with the pre-reclamation geography. This suggests that in this form the estuary would significantly attenuate nutrient fluxes to the North Sea. The results are discussed in terms of options for managed realignment of estuaries in response to predicted sea-level rise.
4312055|From integrated biological studies of six acidified lakes in western Sweden it has been concluded that primary changes in the composition of plant and animal populations, caused by the supply of acid substances, induce other, long-term processes that will perturb the whole lake ecosystem and accelerate further acidification.
40390424|Ozone was measured using passive diffusion samplers at alpine Latnjajaure (980 m above sea level [asl]) in the northern Scandian Mountain Range during spring and summer 2006-2008, and year-round at three further sites in northernmost Sweden 2004-2008. These observations were compared with ozone concentrations from three permanent monitoring stations using ultraviolet absorption instruments. Ozone concentrations at Latnjajaure were higher than at the closest monitoring site, illustrating the importance of high elevation for ozone. At the northern sites the ozone spring peak was more pronounced, higher, and earlier (April maximum) compared to a site in south Sweden (May maximum). During summer, ozone concentrations were higher in south Sweden. Presently, the growing season largely starts after the ozone spring peak in north Sweden but is likely to start earlier in the future climate. This could lead to an increased risk for ozone effects on vegetation if the current yearly ozone cycle persists.
4312474|Chlorinated paraffins form a large group of products, used mainly as secondary plasticizers, oil additives and flame retardants. World production amounts to about 230 000 metric tons per year. Lack of specific sensitive analytical methods has made it impossible to explore the spread of these persistent chemicals in the environment. The extent of their degradation and the degradation products formed under natural conditions are not known. Uptake from water and accumulation in fish is dependent on the chemical structure of the product. Their acute toxicity to mammals is considered low but very little is known concerning their chronic toxicity. Symptoms of toxic effects in exposed fish, however, have been observed.
4313203|589 different pesticides of over 1,000 formulations are available for use in the South Pacific. Actual amounts used are hard to determine. Some of these pesticides are banned or are highly restricted elsewhere in the world. Despite this, neither effective legislation controlling pesticide importation and use, nor infrastructure for enforcement exist. The South Pacific Regional Environment Program established a Pesticide Project to review the availability and use of pesticides and make recommendations concerning their control and regulation.
4315186| The large lakes of Sweden, Mlaren, Hjlmaren, Vttern and Vnern, have been subjected to water-quality monitoring for almost four decades. Physicochemical variables, plankton and benthic invertebrates have been regularly assessed. Hydrological and sediment conditions, macrophytes, fish, primary production, bacteria and attached algae have been periodically investigated. The human impact, including industrial activities, was reflected in excessive amounts of organic matter, nutrients, metals and persistent organic compounds. From the late 1960s all municipal sewage works in the catchments of the lakes were upgraded to the highest technical standard, including chemical precipitation of phosphorus, and phosphorus discharge from the sewage works was thereby reduced by 90-95%. In addition, industries were obliged to restrict discharge of harmful substances. The reactions of the lakes to the remedial measures are discussed as well as the value of various indicators. The studies were instrumental in designing a national lake monitoring program. Additionally, results from large lake monitoring have contributed to the establishment of national water-quality criteria including, physical, chemical, and biological indicators. 
25434350|Greenland, and more specifically the present-day south west coastal district, is that exact spot on the world map where humankind completed its conquest of the Earth. As Norsemen coming over the Atlantic from Iceland and Norway encountered first North-American natives in present-day Labrador around year 1000, and about 150 years later the Inuit coming in from Baffin, slowly occupying the Greenland west coast, humankind had finally encircled the globe, unaware of the extraordinary aspect of the situation. The first few encounters in Labrador were violent, but later, cohabitation in South West Greenland had a mainly peaceful character. Present-day Narsaq district is the precise area where archeology gives witness to peaceful cohabitation between Inuit and Norsemen in the first half of the 15th century.
4314453|Each day millions of urban and rural poor around the world are forced to consume and bathe in water that contains high levels of bacteria and a vast number of commercial and industrial contaminates. Water resources have been considered endless and their exploitation a god-given right. This study focuses on the extent of the problem and the development of a step-by-step procedure for establishing a sustainable water-management plan for the Rio Yaque del Norte watershed.
4315645| The key objective of the European Water Framework Directive (WFD) is to promote sustainable water use by protecting water resources. Here, we investigate how the economic consequences of a set of water management regulations is received by a group of stakeholders in the Rnne catchment. We explore three themes from an economic point of view: i) perceived causes of eutrophication, ii) preferences regarding water use, and iii) the extent to which the polluter-pays principle should be applied. There is a common understanding about the intentions in the WFD to enhance cost-effective water use. All stakeholder groups largely share a similar picture of the causes of water quality deterioration. However, there is not one cost-effective and fair solution. Several mixes of remedial measures within the same catchment are possible, depending on the scale of action. Despite potential economic gains from cooperation between sectors, the participants regard the individual polluter-pays principle as the most feasible mode of funding for remedial programs, supported by subsidies. There is little demand for more market institutions (emission fees, tradable emission permits). The stakeholders have a conservative view of water management, i.e. they accept the present combination of regulations and economic incentives, and they are fully aware of the complexity of the issue. In general, the WFD recommendations for the calculation of cost-effective abatement strategies seem to imply an underestimation of the value of external effects in the decision-making process. 
4315047|In 1991, in order to assess changes in soil acidity, we resampled the mineral soil from 95 plots in beech forests distributed throughout northeastern France, ca. 20 years after a first sampling in 1970-1973. Changes between the two sampling dates were more conspicuous for acidic soils than for mesotrophic or calcareous soils. We observed a significant decrease in base saturation, exchangeable calcium, magnesium, and potassium in the whole profile of the acidic soils. Median cation losses calculated for these soils down to a depth of 80 cm were 18.7 kg ha
4315324|Evidence is provided for an internal CO
4312850|UNEP's Geneva-based Regional Seas Program is succeeding despite financial constraints: some 120 states, 14 UN agencies, and 12 other international organizations take part in it. UNEP's net now covers 10 regional seas around the world. But there is some danger that the "crown jewels" will be hocked for short-term financial gains. At a time when more money is needed to keep Regional Seas afloat, governments continue to pare the meat to the bone. The future of this program is still uncertain.
4312201|"Black episode" and "white episode" are terms used for situations when high concentrations of dark or colorless particles, respectively, are transported in over Sweden from distant sources. Particles in black episodes come from the European continent. They contain, ia, ammonium sulfate and nitrate, and are slightly acid. Black episodes are at times accompanied by increased concentrations of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide. Characteristic of white episodes are small particles consisting mainly of acid ammonium sulfates, probably formed photochemically over the North Sea during dry and sunny weather. Air flowing into Sweden from the north contains low concentration of particles consisting mainly of common salt and neutral ammonium sulfate.
4312347|Fishes were exposed to chlorinated paraffins in the water. Neutron activation analysis of chlorine in lipophilic extracts from the fishes indicated a considerable uptake from water containing 0.1 and 1.0 mg chloroparaffin/l. Symptoms of neurotoxic effects were observed after about two weeks of exposure.
4311966|In connection with a lake restoration project in which the hypolimnion was aerated, the distribution of the bottom fauna and the oil content of the sediment were studied. The oil content of the surface sediment is highest near the run-off water outlets from an industrial area and two filling stations. The high mineral oil content of the sediments seems to be an inhibiting factor. Although the hypolimnion aeration was a success, as the oxygen concentration was raised from almost zero to above 7 mg/l, the bottom fauna did not invade the bottom areas which had been anoxic earlier.
4314393|Spatial and temporal variations of dissolved inorganic nutrients, (phosphate, ammonia, nitrate and nitrite) were investigated in the Mapopwe Creek, Chwaka Bay, Zanzibar. Results indicate that there is a strong spatial variability in the nutrients in the creek with concentrations decreasing as the water traverses the waterway towards the open bay. There were significant differences in the concentration of ammonia with respect to wet and dry seasons, with average values of ammonia being higher in the dry season than during the wet season. However, this situation was reversed for nitrate/nitrite. It is thought that this may be due to a number of contributing factors such as changes in benthic oxygen concentrations, differences in water salinity, and changes in water movement and exchange with the open bay. Also, water-column primary production and benthic microbial processes are thought to play a role. Overall, this study showed no net export of these dissolved nutrients from the Mapopwe Creek into the adjacent bay.
41417348|Recovery from anthropogenic acidification in streams and lakes is well documented across the northern hemisphere. In this study, we use 1996-2009 data from the four Swedish Integrated Monitoring catchments to evaluate how the declining sulfur deposition has affected sulfate, pH, acid neutralizing capacity, ionic strength, aluminum, and dissolved organic carbon in soil water, groundwater and runoff. Differences in recovery rates between catchments, between recharge and discharge areas and between soil water and groundwater are assessed. At the IM sites, atmospheric deposition is the main human impact. The chemical trends were weakly correlated to the sulfur deposition decline. Other factors, such as marine influence and catchment features, seem to be as important. Except for pH and DOC, soil water and groundwater showed similar trends. Discharge areas acted as buffers, dampening the trends in streamwater. Further monitoring and modeling of these hydraulically active sites should be encouraged.
4313937|India has rich traditions of nature conservation as well as a vigorous official program of protection of nature reserves developed over the last 40 years. However, the official program suffers from total reliance on authoritarian management arrangements in which decisions are made centrally and coercion is used to implement them. At the same time, the state apparatus organizes subsidized resource flows to the urban-industrial-intensive agricultural complex which promote inefficient, non-sustainable resource-use patterns that are inimical to conservation of biodiversity. These processes are illustrated within the concrete setting of the district of Uttara Kannada in southern India. It is suggested that the interests of conservation would be served far better by an approach that withdraws the subsidies to the elite so that a much more efficient, sustainable and equitable pattern of resource use, compatible with conservation of biodiversity, can be instituted. In conjunction with this, the larger society should involve local people in working out detailed plants for conservation of biodiversity and offer them adequate authority as well as appropriate financial incentives to implement these plans. The paper goes on to illustrate how such an approach may be implemented in the case of Uttara Kannada.
4314517|The main miombo trees in Morogoro, Tanzania, were studied in the nursery and in the field to determine the ecological strategies by which they survive in the miombo woodland, i.e. in a hostile climate, bush fires and low soil fertility. Aspects studied included seed production, seed germination, nursery techniques, symbiosis and seedling growth characteristics. Miombo trees are known to produce huge amounts of seeds germinating immediately in most species studied, or have dormancy arresting germination until conditions are favorable. The tree's big seeds feed the seedlings in the initial establishment process. Miombo seedlings develop a strong taproot as a sure source of food and energy. Pruning this taproot proved to negatively affect seedling growth. Miombo trees were shown to form ectomycorrhizae with a wide range of fungi. Seedlings are colonized before epigeal germination is completed. Many strategies interact in complex ways to ensure tree regeneration and survival.
40730902|Climate policy has assumed an extreme degree of urgency in the international debate in recent years. This article begins by taking a critical look at the scientific underpinnings of the efforts to stabilize the climate. It points to several serious question marks on the purported relationship between greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, and expresses distrust about claims of impending catastrophes related to rising sea levels, hurricanes, and spread of infectious disease. It then reviews the concurrent climate policy efforts and concludes that they are incoherent, misguided and unduly costly, and that they have so far had no perceptible impact on anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions. The exceedingly ambitious policy plans currently under preparation suffer from similar fallacies. For these reasons, but also because of the remaining scientific doubts and the exorbitant costs that have to be incurred, skepticism is expressed about the preparedness to implement the climate policy plans currently on the table.
4314718|Projects conceived and implemented internally by local communities in the developing world (Internally Motivated Projects = IMPs), inherently meet local needs, often addressing issues of livelihood security and income generation, and thus are more sustainable than externally motivated projects focused primarily on biological conservation. This paper evaluates whether internally motivated development projects exhibit resource conservation payoffs and offer an avenue for low cost and sustainable conservation outside of protected areas. IMPs were identified from the files of conservation and development agencies. Project activities were evaluated for their potential payoffs to soil, water, biodiversity conservation, and air quality. Results show that on-farm soil and water conservation are common, and acknowledged payoffs of IMPs. Biodiversity conservation payoffs do occur, but are not often explicitly recognized by the project implementers and are the secondary consequences of other activities. IMPs offer an avenue for direct resource conservation of on-farm soil, water and genetic resources, and indirect conservation of biodiversity by reducing off-farm impacts.
4313489|Man uses energy to produce order. The second law of thermodynamics requires that the energy used be degraded and that increased disorder (or entropy) results. This disorder can be thought of as environmental degradation and has been steadily increasing as a consequence of industrialization. World energy consumption is presently 10 TW which leads to an entropy increase of the order of 4TW. In addition, factors such as removal of vegetation cover result in an additional natural energy input removing soil cover. The total energy input devoted to environmental degradation as a result of man's activities is therefore substantial. This article challenges the view that environmental degradation (disorder) can be eliminated by better management. Rather, it emphasizes that environmental degradation is a corollary of human energy consumption and therefore of economic activity. This view is of importance in assessing the possible extent of environmental change in the Twenty-First Century and the remedies required to ameliorate the situation.
4313115|A new kind of forest damage has increased rapidly in range and severity in West Germany over the past ten years. There is considerable circumstantial evidence that ozone may be a contributing factor in this damage. Ozone concentrations in central Europe have increased over the past 30 years and the concentrations now recorded at rural mountain sites in Germany are similar to those recorded in areas of the United States, where ozone is known to cause forest damage, and above those which have been shown to damage sensitive tree species in fumigation experiments. However, there is, as yet, little direct experimental evidence relating to the species affected in Germany and until this is available it is impossible to assess the importance of the contribution of ozone in causing forest damage.
40730906|Humanity has entered a new phase of sustainability challenges, the Anthropocene, in which human development has reached a scale where it affects vital planetary processes. Under the pressure from a quadruple squeeze from population and development pressures, the anthropogenic climate crisis, the anthropogenic ecosystem crisis, and the risk of deleterious tipping points in the Earth system the degrees of freedom for sustainable human exploitation of planet Earth are severely restrained. It is in this reality that a new green revolution in world food production needs to occur, to attain food security and human development over the coming decades. Global freshwater resources are, and will increasingly be, a fundamental limiting factor in feeding the world. Current water vulnerabilities in the regions in most need of large agricultural productivity improvements are projected to increase under the pressure from global environmental change. The sustainability challenge for world agriculture has to be set within the new global sustainability context. We present new proposed sustainability criteria for world agriculture, where world food production systems are transformed in order to allow humanity to stay within the safe operating space of planetary boundaries. In order to secure global resilience and thereby raise the chances of planet Earth to remain in the current desired state, conducive for human development on the long-term, these planetary boundaries need to be respected. This calls for a triply green revolution, which not only more than doubles food production in many regions of the world, but which also is environmentally sustainable, and invests in the untapped opportunities to use green water in rainfed agriculture as a key source of future productivity enhancement. To achieve such a global transformation of agriculture, there is a need for more innovative options for water interventions at the landscape scale, accounting for both green and blue water, as well as a new focus on cross-scale interactions, feed-backs and risks for unwanted regime shifts in the agro-ecological landscape.
4314864|Northeast Asia is one of the most dynamic and diverse regions of the world. Fueled by high population growth and vibrant economies, energy consumption is currently 12% of the world's total and projected to increase by a factor of 2 to 3 by 2030. Because fossil fuels will provide much of this energy, emissions of sulfur dioxide are projected to increase by about the same amount. Northeast China is the main emitting region, and sulfur is transported across the Korean peninsula to Japan and beyond. Acid deposition is evident today and will increase dramatically in the future. It is projected that severe damage to ecosystems will occur throughout the region without the introduction of emission controls. Abatement technology could cost USD 10-30 billion annually by 2030 and still provide only partial protection. There is an urgent need for regional cooperation to improve the level of scientific understanding and develop a basis for regionwide control strategies.
4313154|The article describes development research conducted by the Kenya Woodfuel Development Program (KWDP) in Kakamega District in western Kenya. KWDP is concerned with alleviating the domestic fuelwood crisis in one of Kenya's most densely populated areas. Research has followed a line of increasingly detailed investigations at progressively more localized sites. The first part of the article describes a district-wide land-use survey based on aerial photography and a questionnaire survey of more than 500 households. The second part brings into focus the situation experienced by individual households. On-farm tree-growing practices indicate a strong potential for agroforestry, but the real issue seems to lie in the differing ways men and women perceive the problem.
40390242|The aim of this study was to investigate a combination of satellite images of leaf area index (LAI) with processbased vegetation modeling for the accurate assessment of the carbon balances of Swedish forest ecosystems at the scale of a landscape. Monthly climatologie data were used as inputs in a dynamic vegetation model, the Lund Potsdam Jena-General Ecosystem Simulator. Model estimates of net primary production (NPP) and the fraction of absorbed photosynthetic active radiation were constrained by combining them with satellite-based LAI images using a general light use efficiency (LUE) model and the Beer-Lambert law. LAI estimates were compared with satellite-extrapolated field estimates of LAI, and the results were generally acceptable. NPP estimates directly from the dynamic vegetation model and estimates obtained by combining the model estimates with remote sensing information were, on average, well simulated but too homogeneous among vegetation types when compared with field estimates using forest inventory data.
4312196| The yeast Scharomycopsis lipolytica was grown in seawater with Ekofisk oil as the carbon source, and the pH was kept constant by the automatic addition of NaOH. The experiments were performed at 8C and 20C respectively. In addition, the yeast was grown at 20C without pH control. The results indicated that the end products of biodegradation were similar in the experiments, and that the oil was dispersed thorugh the microbial activity. 
4315691|Carbon dioxide ( CO
4314124|Highly developed countries with expensive water-related infrastructure, sophisticated waterworks and treatment plants, still contribute to local and global pollution. Many developing countries still lack water-treatment facilities and environmentally-sound water management. These problems are especially accentuated in some of the large and fast growing cities of the world. Means of solving the problems involve a new holistic approach to resource management. The goal of such an approach is to close the cycles of residuals that damage the environment, and to recover resources lost in residuals emitted from human activities. The most important step is to apply pollution prevention, i.e. pollution control at the source. Present knowledge suggests technologies that can solve the problem of pollution from human settlements on a single-house level. Alternatively, wastewater may be treated locally and reused. Ecologically-sound technologies that already exist should be used whenever possible. Water management can be integrated with management of other human activities, such as waste handling, industrial production, transportation, etc. Tools for implementation of such solutions are: legislation coupled with education programs; changing competition rules of the market economy; i.e. developing a sustainable society through resource recovery and reuse. Demonstration projects, in which the rules of preventive approach and novel technology are applied, may constitute a practical means of implementing such an approach.
4313947|Desertification of arid and semiarid grazingland ecosystems is a serious problem in North China. Although desertification has historical precedence, the scale and extent of current grazingland desertification is without parallel. The contemporary desertification arises from the improper land use and production practices that are associated with economic, social and political agendas having precedence over ecological stability. Although degradation of grazingland leading to desertification is obvious and acknowledged, development emphasis continues to focus on sedentary agriculture. Academic and research institutions have an understanding of the desertification process on grazinglands, but until practical solutions acceptable to government and the agricultural administration are devised and tested, it is unlikely that the current apathy towards desertification will be surmounted.
4314219|This paper is an overview of the environmental situation in Greece in recent years: air, noise, water, soil, nature conservation, and the marine environment. The survey covers the whole country; large towns, the provinces, and enclosed seas. Available evidence indicates that the quality of the air, land, and water environment over the Greek region has deteriorated significantly during the past 10 years. The urban environments of Athens, Thessaloniki and other towns are subject to pressure from rapidly growing populations, increasing traffic, industrial expansion and uncontrolled development, and have become seriously degraded. The rapid and unplanned growth of the tourist industry has already resulted in damage to the natural environment, repercussions on the man-made environment, and disruption of the sociocultural environment. Air, water, and soil pollution, noise, sewage, oil, increasing desertification, water shortage, widespread and serious degradation of the maquis, forest fires, and nature conservation, appear to be the major problems. Recently compiled physical and chemical data and other available information on air, fresh water, soil, and sea pollution are reported. Nature conservation and fauna-flora extinction in Greece are also discussed.
4315850|Two backcountry trails located within the Mount Robson Provincial Park boundaries in British Columbia, Canada, are compared for the type of ecological characteristics and the influence of topographical use level and management on trail degradation. Data on five trail impact variables were collected at 68 fixed line transects, and information on management features, use level, and water-related problems were based on a survey of 31 km of trails. Results show that the two trails are similar in several ecological characteristics. The Berg Lake Trail (BLT), considered to be highly used and intensively managed, had more significant ecological problems than did Mount Fitzwilliam Trail (FWT), considered to be less highly used and intensively managed. However, ecological impacts on the FWT appear to be statistically no less different than on the BLT. It is concluded that effective trail management can mitigate many ecological problems that result due to the natural topographic conditions and use levels.
4314528|Nutrient stocks and budgets (positive minus negative flows) are quantifiable indicators of sustainability, and are applied in this paper to classify agro-ecosystems. Earlier work revealed that most agricultural systems in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) can be labelled nonsustainable due to low nutrient stocks and negative nutrient budgets. To increase production and build sustainable agro-ecosystems in SSA, technologies that rank under "integrated nutrient management" (INM) should be adopted, to save nutrients from being lost, and to add new nutrient supplies to the system. An account is given of the socioeconomic factors at national and farm level, the interplay of which determines the actual adoption rate of INM. Based on an overview of what we do know and what we don't know, an INM research agenda is proposed that is based on the knowledge gaps.
4314093|Running waters are sensitive and rapid indicators of how whole watersheds become anthropogenically affected by, e.g. acidification. This paper reports and discusses the results of Swedish freshwater acidification research, for the period 1988-1993 and earlier. Changed biotic patterns are exemplified by increased occurrence of those green algae that indicate an increase in nutrients (nitrogen), reduced species richness of invertebrates (especially mayflies, crustaceans, gastropods), a general shift in proportion from invertebrate grazers towards shredders, decreasing populations of fish (salmonids, roach, burbot, minnow). Impact on birds (dipper, grey wagtail) appears less validated. The mechanisms for the changes in individual, population and community levels include elevated hydrogen, aluminum and cadmium concentrations that affect ion balance and respiration in fish and invertebrates, but also various behavior patterns (avoidance reaction, downstream movement, choice of spawning site), and developmental stages (molt and emergence of insects, hatching and growth of early fish stages). Al can ameliorate low pH temporarily, but does not biomagnify along food chains and neither predatory insects nor flycatchers seem to accumulate Al. It seems less likely that cadmium is a serious threat to invertebrates in "normal" concentrations at low pH. Iron precipitation can affect feeding ability and respiration of mayfly nymphs. That humic substances may mitigate metals still seems uncertain for fish and invertebrates. Generally, most changes in the biotic patterns of streams seem to be related to abiotic impact routes. Fewer changes are due to changed biotic interrelations, but some examples of changed competitive situations are given for invertebrates and fish. In all these cases of sublethal acidification stress, the ultimate effect is that growth, development and reproduction of the organisms are retarded. Relevant and sufficient knowledge seems to be lacking in three research fields of acidification impact on streams; viz increasing occurrence of green algae in acidified streams; role of invertebrates in decomposition of leaves in acid waters; and recovery processes of fish and invertebrates after liming.
4314853| The results from an investigation performed at the Ar Laboratory, Gotland, Sweden during the period 1994-1998 revealed no reproduction disturbances in brown trout similar to those found in Atlantic salmon from the Baltic sea. Female-specific mortality of yolk-sac fry never exceeded 11%. The mean total thiamine concentration in yolk-sac fry (
4315044|Emissions of ozone precursors are expected to multiply the next 20 years in China, and the levels of photo-oxidants may increase substantially. Increased surface ozone gives cause for concern regarding the prospects for Chinese agricultural production. We show that crop production may be substantially reduced in the future due to elevated ozone concentrations, and that productivity may already be affected for some crops. However, crop-yield loss estimates obtained by using alternative exposure-response functions vary substantially. Spring wheat, soybean, and corn may be especially vulnerable to future ozone increases, due to a likely concurrence of peak levels of ozone and the growth season of these crops.
4314411|Following rapid industrialization in China, traditional integrated-farming techniques are being lost before their potentials have been properly assessed. South of Canton, organic farming and waste recycling has been practiced for centuries in a dike-pond system, which still offers sustainable income opportunities and a multiple-crop yield which is, per area, among the highest in the world. Within the system, leakage of nutrients and the use of chemicals are minimized. A study of the dike-pond concept points at simple ways to reduce unfavorable environmental impacts of food production.
4314942|On two Brazilian sites (Acre and Rondonia), and on two Peruvian sites (Yurimaguas and Pucallpa), deforestation rates and patterns are very different. To illustrate these differences, two major factors contributing to deforestation are selected: how accessible the frontier is for people including access to markets; and land abundance and land rights and markets. Even if there are commonalties between Brazil and Peru, major differences are identified. Road access to the frontier is much greater in Brazil, linking the forest to the rest of the country; most of the Brazilian farmers have gained legal title through colonization projects or by claiming land after clearing. However, access to good land in Brazil is limited and land speculation is high, whereas, in Peru there is plenty of room for expansion and land access is free.
4313276|About a quarter of the earth's surface is water deficient. It has long been recognized that manipulation of the natural water cycle in arid lands is necessary to feed existing and future populations. This paper emphasizes the role of cloud seeding in potential cycle changes and details the condensation process and the actual techniques involved. Cloud seeding is analyzed vis-a-vis alternative schemes related to other processes in the water cycle, especially soil moisture conservation and groundwater management.
