3881550|The heart in all mammals is composed of four separate chambers and in broad outline is very similar in monotremes, marsupials, and placental mammals. The functional anatomy of the chambers and valves of the dog's heart has been investigated by Rushmer (1961) and others. They concluded that the atria serve as reservoirs and the ventricles as reciprocating pumps, the right ventricle being a volume pump and the left ventricle a pressure pump. Similar investigations in man, horses, cattle, sheep, and goats suggest that other mammalian hearts act in the same way. However, there is a wide range of variation in heart weight relative to body weight, in heart shape, and in minor points of internal anatomy. The general contention in this paper is that these differences should be considered functionally significant unless proven otherwise. Certain morphological structures such as the valves of the posterior vena cava, Lower's tubercle, the atrial appendages, and the more extreme forms of double ventricular apex may not have functional significance. Verbal descriptive anatomy has probably reached the end of its usefulness and should be replaced with measurements. A correlation of quantitative anatomy and hemodynamics would seem to be the most promising line of future research.
3883059| 1) Large temperature differences have a measurable effect on ectothermic power consumption both at rest and during locomotion, yet this question remains to be satisfactorily addressed in ecological studies looking at optimal foraging strategy and performance. 2) Acclimation may influence the enzyme complement present in ectotherms and this could influence the energetic cost and efficiency of locomotion for ectotherms. 3) There may be an optimal temperature for ectothermic locomotion and this may vary from species to species, yet we measure power consumption during locomotion uniformly at 30C. 4) Endothermic locomotion as demonstrated by birds is temperature sensitive, as was shown by Paladino and King (1984). Although the locomotory cost may not change, thermoregulatory adaptations allow the bird to use the heat produced during locomotion in the cold to reduce thermoregulatory power requirements. 5) Avian hypothermia and inactivity is not a last ditch effort to save energy, but a strategy that allows endotherms to conserve energy reserves during inactivity or stressful environmental conditions. 
3881776|Populations of the Neodiprion abietis complex occur on firs and spruces in North America. A distinct western population on white fir differs greatly in appearance from the four eastern strains, of which two feed on balsam fir and one each on black and white spruce, respectively. Differences in developmental rates, larval survival on the various food plants, and host selection by the females supply the isolating mechanisms between the strains in the field. All populations cross-mated freely in the laboratory, and the resulting hybrids indicate the transmission of several morphological and physiological characters. It is speculated that the ancestral line of the complex fed on pine before a jump to spruce and then to balsam was made.
3884428| A G+C-rich satellite DNA (stDNA) in Gecarcinus lateralis with a repeat unit of 2.1 kbp makes up approximately 3% (16,000 copies/nucleus) of the land crab genome. We used sequences from conserved domains of the repeat unit to construct probes for exploring the possibility of the repeat units being transcribed into RNA, their distribution in genomic DNA, and their methylation status. A transcription product hybridizing with TRU-EXON, a region of the satellite bordered by possible exon splice junctions, was found only in land crabs, whereas transcription products that hybridized to 3END, a 368 bp fragment at the 3-end of the satellite, were also found in several other crustaceans. Transcription products that hybridized to AMPL-3, a probe from an amplified segment of the satellite, were not found in land crabs but were found in lobsters. In land crabs, several poly(A)+RNA transcripts that hybridized to 3END were specific for DNA strand, tissue, and intermolt stage. The diversity of transcripts suggests that transcription of the satellite is related to the organization of the repeated DNA in the crab genome, and that some satellite domains may be transcribed because of their position relative to functional genes. This observation is supported by the additional observation that the satellite is differentially methylated. Repeats organized in tandem in the satellite are methylated, whereas those interspersed in main component DNA (mcDNA) are not. Because DNA methylation is a means of silencing transcription, our results suggest that satellite sequences that are transcribed are those interpersed in mcDNA. DNA methylation patterns are also tissue-specific; of the seven tissues examined (gill, claw muscle, body muscle, limb buds, midgut gland, testis, and ovary), gill stDNA is the least methylated. The observed differences in methylation levels are not attributable to stage in the intermolt cycle or to sex. This is the first report indicating the presence of 5-methylcytosine
3883769|There exists a difference in oxygen affinity between fetal and maternal bloods in almost all vertebrates examined and this difference in affinities probably facilitates oxygen transfer to the fetus. It is likely that the high oxygen affinity of fetal blood represents a biochemical pre-adaptation from an ancestral oviparous embryo for oxygen uptake in a relatively hypoxic environment. In most cases, the maternal-fetal difference in blood oxygen affinities is due to the characteristics of the fetal red cell and not due to any changes in the adult red cell during pregnancy. These characteristics are based on the presence of a unique fetal hemoglobin with an intrinsically high affinity for oxygen or on the absence of high red cell concentrations of organic phosphates-allosteric modulators of hemoglobin function. However, in several species of snake, representing different families, it appears that pregnancy is associated with a pronounced decrease in the oxygen affinity of the adult red cell. This suggests that the blood of the pregnant female is better able to unload oxygen to the fetus than could the blood of the nonpregnant adult. The maternal-fetal difference in blood oxygen affinities in these species is probably due to the characteristics of the fetal red cell as well as to the change in the affinity of the adult cell during pregnancy. Nonetheless, although the magnitude of the pregnancy-associated change in oxygen affinity of the adult cell in these snakes suggests that it is physiologically significant, the actual significance remains to be determined.
3882696|Disparate rates of change in the surfaces and volumes of organisms with change in size combine with the interdependence of surface-limited and volume-limited functional attributes to define criteria for the size-dependency of shapes. Size contributes to the specification of types of structures required, limits to their functional range, and the scaling relationships among components of systems. Size-dependency may be stated in terms of a null hypothesis in morphology, with departures indicative of special adaptations which may be of particular interest. The study of size-dependency in shape and function is approaching a general theory of form with content comparable in scope to a general theory of diversity.
3881173|Corymorpha, like Porpita, exhibits a synchronous oral flexion, or "concert," of its proximal tentacles. As this is unlike the contractile writhings of siphonophoran zooids, the concert may be a significant character in linking the behavior of Porpita more closely to hydroids than to siphonophores. Except for this response the behavior of Corymorpha and Porpita are different. In Porpita a through-conducting system forms the only link between tentacles, whereas in Corymorpha both local and through-conducting systems connect tentacles. Corymorpha engages in rhythmic bottom-feeding using distal tentacles which have no homologue in Porpita. The mechanical properties of the musculo-skeletal system are different in the two, giving tentacle motions in Corymorpha a continuous appearance, and in Porpita a spasmodic appearance. Reduced glutathione, glycine, DL-serine, L-cysteine and L-glutamic acid can elicit a feeding response in Corymorpha. Sodium thioglycollate and sucrose elicit no response. Glycine is the most effective stimulant, ca. 5 10
3883717|Coral reefs, with their vast diversity of invertebrate, vertebrate and algal species, have undoubtedly been subjected to natural disturbance since their appearance millions of years ago. Anthropogenic disturbance has been a factor affecting reefs for a fraction of that time, yet in terms of overall impact, may be of greater concern. Data on habitat destruction, pesticide and heavy metal accumulation, nutrient loading, sedimentation, runoff and related impacts of man's activities indicate that many coastal reefs are endangered by these processes through alterations in animal-algal symbioses, shifts in competitive interactions, direct mortality, reproductive failure, and insufficient recruitment. The death of corals critically affects reef communities, as corals provide an important trophic link as well as the main habitat structure. While natural disturbance is an important factor affecting reef interactions, species diversity and evolution, chronic anthropogenic disturbances combined with unsuitable environments for recovery, are of great concern. Physiological stress can be measured in corals in addition to outright mortality, allowing the impacts of specific disturbances to be assessed. Sufficient data for distinguishing real problems from temporal variability are becoming available, allowing scientists to focus on practical solutions to problems in coral reef management and preservation.
3883233|This paper discusses the validity of hypotheses based on morphological data, and distinguishes between hypotheses, which are testable, and speculation, which is not. Specific examples from the mammalian auditory system are examined: a recently evolved, highly derived character (enlarged middle ears in desert rodents); and an older, more general character (the inner and outer hair cells of the mammalian organ of Corti). It is concluded that morphologically-based hypotheses are powerful and important when accompanied by experimental data.
3881389|Electron microscopic observations of the fine structure and ontogeny of melanin granules in various inbred strains of mice have provided new information about the origin and structure of these organelles. The general features of granule development, consisting of the aggregation of subunits into fibers and the cross-linking of these fibers to form a sheet-like matrix on which melanin is deposited, are shared by all but one of the genotypes examined. The formation of the matrix sheet is coincident with the deposition of melanin which begins at periodic intervals along the matrix sheet. The deposition of melanin continues until the details of the underlying matrix are obscured. The alleles at the B, C, and P loci alter the sequence of development of melanosomes in a manner suggesting that they are structural genes for different macromolecules contained in the subunits. This theory helps to integrate diverse observations on the origin of melanin granules and the genetic control of their fine structure. The effects of alleles at the D and Ln loci indicate that these loci alter the differentiation of the melanocyte by somehow altering the mechanisms controlling the location within the cell where matrix protein begins to be synthesized. The major effect of the Ru locus is to alter the time of onset of synthesis of melanin granules; thus, it may be a regulatory gene. These observations demonstrate the importance to cellular differentiation of genetic mechanisms that alter the expression of other genes by changing time and space relationships in protein synthesis. The A locus appears to act by altering the chemical environment in which the melanocyte of the hair follicle is differentiating. The effect of this alteration is on the aggregation of the matrix subunits which the melanocyte is producing. The altered aggregation leads to different enzymatic activity, and phaeomelanin is produced instead of eumelanin. Thus, the path along which a melanocyte from a hair follicle is differentiating may be altered at the level of aggregation of newly-synthesized protein, a fact which has interesting implications regarding embryonic induction.
3884019|Originally utilized or developed as human poisons, anticholinesterase compounds are among the most widely used pesticides in the world and non-target wildlife are frequently exposed. Because these compounds primarily act by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase at synapses within the central and peripheral nervous systems, the potential for altering physiological and behavioral responses essential for survival and reproduction in exposed animals is great. We review the effects of acute but sublethal exposure to organophosphates and carbamates on thermo-regulation (hypothermia), food consumption (anorexia and altered foraging behavior), and reproduction (altered hormone levels, reductions in clutch and litter size, and alterations in reproductive behavior), and the mechanisms believed to cause them. We believe these are the direct toxic effects most likely to reduce populations of free-living birds and mammals within treated areas. Data from studies of captive birds and laboratory mammals and free-living individuals given controlled dosages are included with an emphasis on information published within the last 5 years. The limitations of existing data for determining the biological and regulatory significance of these effects are discussed.
3881175|The contraction reponse of hydra to intermittent light stimulation may be inhibited by exposing the animal to reduced glutathione (GSH). Such inhibitory activity is dependent on: (1) the concentration of GSH; (2) the pH of the medium; (3) previous exposure to GSH; and (4) the nutritional state of the animal. Hydra adapt to 10
3884126|Sex determination and sex differentiation are two separate but related phenomena. Sex differentiation is a programmed cascade of events in which the indifferent gonad develops as a testis or an ovary with the appropriate urogenital and secondary sex characters. Sex determination is the event that sets this cascade in motion. In placental mammals, there is good evidence that sex is determined by a gene on the Y chromosome (SRY) that initiates testis formation. In the absence of SRY an ovary develops. There are, however, examples of placental mammals that develop as normal males with no detectable SRY. In reptiles, sex differentiation appears to be similar to mammals (i.e., the same genes and hormones act in a similar manner), but sex determination is clearly very different. Ovarian differentiation in placental mammals can occur in the absence of estrogen or an estrogen receptor. Ovarian differentiation in reptiles requires the presence of estrogen. In the absence of estrogen a testis develops. In TSD reptiles, embryos will develop as females when treated with estrogen even if eggs are incubated at male-inducing temperatures, and conversely, will develop as males when estrogen synthesis is blocked in eggs incubated at female-inducing temperatures. A number of other genes have also been shown to be important in mammalian sex determination. One of these genes, Sox9, which is expressed in differentiating mouse testis, has recently been found to be expressed in embryonic reptile testis. Other genes that appear to be common to both mammals and reptiles in the sex determining cascade are SF-1, MIH, and possibly DAX-1. Current research is now focused on how the gene that produces the enzyme necessary for estrogen synthesis (aromatase) is regulated in the embryos of reptiles with genetic or environmental sex determination. Controversial issues in reptilian sex determination are 1) the role of the brain in gonadal sex determination, and 2) the role of steroid hormones in the yolk prior to sex determination.
3883444|Pain and cognitive dissonance abounds amongst biologists: the plant-animal, botany-zoology wound has nearly healed and the new gash-revealed by department and budget reorganizations-is "molecular" vs. "organismic" biology. Here I contend that resolution of these tensions within zoology requires that an autopoietic-gaian view replace a mechanical-neodarwinian perspective; in the interest of brevity and since many points have been discussed elsewhere, rather than develop detailed arguments I must make staccato statements and refer to a burgeoning literature. The first central concept is that animals, all organisms developing from blastular embryos, evolved from single protist cells that were unable to reproduce their undulipodia. The second points to the usefulness of recognizing the analogy between cyclically established symbioses and meiotic sexuality.
3884209|The sea urchin embryo is known to show considerable powers of regulation. This developmental plasticity has been taken to indicate that many of the early events of determination are a result of cell interactions. We inquire here whether such interactions do in fact occur during normal development, what is their character, and possible mechanisms of these interactions. Attempts from our laboratory to answer these questions will be reviewed. Experiments in which marked cells are recombined with one another confirm the remarkable plasticity of the animal hemisphere cells of these early embryos. The effect of vegetal cells other than micromeres is to suppress formation of gut and spicules in animal hemisphere cells. Micromeres differentiate into spicules in any location and stimulate animal cells to form gut. Li ion stimulates the formation of gut and spicules in cells from the animal hemisphere. Experiments with phorbol esters and myo-inositol support the idea that the inositol tris phosphate second messenger cycle, acting on protein kinase C, is a key component of these cell interactions.
3884393|Many organisms whose body temperatures ( T
3882695|This essay presents a method for measuring the degree to which one biological outline form lies in between two others. The procedure does not measure forms separately, but rather compares pairs of tensors expressing D'Arcy Thompson's "Cartesian transformations" according to the biorthogonal formalism of Bookstein. In analogy with conventional methods, betweenness is computed as a similarity score, the cosine of a non-Euclidean angle between the tensors. The new quantities, size-betweenness and shape-betweenness, enable comparisons of form series against a priori orderings intra- and interspecifically.
3881334|Six varieties of Leishmaniasis are briefly described, namely, visceral leishmaniasis, oriental sore, Chiclero's ulcer, Panamanian cutaneous leishmaniasis, mucocutaneous leishmaniasis, and Uta. The natural foci of these disease are described, and the evolution of each infection from its original location in the animal reservoir to total humanisation is followed. In the main, the wild canidae form the reservoir of the visceral diseases, and rodents of the cutaneous form. Many fallacies exist in the interpretation of what constitutes a zoonosis in leishmaniasis, and each situation must be looked at very carefully to ascertain the precise epidemiology. The control measures depend entirely upon a correct assessment of the position.
3882931|Melanophores, xanthophores, and iridophores are fundamentally distinct chromatophores in their appearance, composition, and function. All migrate from their neural crest site of origin to populate the integument. Their respective pigments, melanins, pteridines, and purines are found in organelles designated respectively as melanosomes, pterinosomes and reflecting platelets. These organelles are all derived from an endoplasmic reticular vesicle. This is in keeping with a hypothesis about the common origin of pigment cells from a stem cell containing a primordial organelle with the potential of becoming any of the circumscribed pigmentary organelles. It is believed that chromatoblasts may not be specifically determined until they reach a final destination where they will differentiate in accordance with a pattern already specified in the integument. In leopard frogs, it appears that the initial induction of pattern in the skin is general, but later it becomes highly specific.
3882955|Analyses of papers published in General and Comparative Endocrinology from 1961 to 1981 were made from several aspects. Number of papers published has increased year after year. Molluscan endocrinology papers have increased and overtaken annelid publications. During the past 20 yr studies using crustaceans and insects have comprised 25-50% of all endocrine research on invertebrate groups. Papers on protochordates, elasmobranchs, and cyclostomes are few but constant in number, indicating that these three groups are important from phylogenic aspects. Studies on birds and teleosts have increased, while those on amphibians have decreased. Biochemical techniques were employed in 50% of all publications in this journal. Radioimmunoassay has replaced autoradiography. Immunohistochemistry increased in popularity. Studies on the pars distalis and gonads are predominant among all endocrine organs. Research at the molecular level is decreasing, but is increasing at the organismal level. Research at the organismal level may be characteristic of comparative endocrinology. Largely through the initiative of Aubrey Gorbman, General and Comparative Endocrinology was first published in 1961, and the International Committee of the Symposium on Comparative Endocrinology was formed in 1957. Gorbman has produced many students. His original and important contributions are in diversified areas: thyroid physiology and its evolution, hormones and the brain and behavior, cyclostome endocrinology and neurosecretory systems in lower vertebrates. In addition, he has influenced investigators through his ideas of evolution. He has had particular impact on the development of comparative endocrinology in Japan.
3881602|Snails are vectors of several important diseases and parasites of man, especially schistosomiasis. They can be killed with chemicals such as copper chloride, sodium pentachlorophenate, organic tin derivatives, or niclosamide. Biological control methods include the use of predators such as crayfish, leeches, other snails, ducks, or geese, and the use of parasites such as nematodes and certain Protozoa. Management practices have also been recommended. These include cleaning ditches, building them with concrete sides or covering them so that plants - the food of snails - will not grow in them, or draining ditches periodically to kill the snails. However, some molluscicides may kill the nitrogen-fixing algae which help fertilize rice paddies, and thermal pollution may raise the temperature of streams and estuaries in the temperate zone enough so that tropical and subtropical schistosomes may be able to propagate. More research is needed to develop the ideal methods of controlling snails.
3881403|Two aspects of metabolic adaptation to increased terrestrialism are considered: (1) respiratory adaptations as reflected by comparative cytochrome c oxidase activity in tissues of crabs from aquatic and terrestrial habitats, and (2) thermal acclimation patterns in cytochrome c oxidase activity in tissues from these crabs. Enzymatic assays were done spectrophotometrically on gill, muscle, and mid-gut gland tissues from two aquatic species, Libinia emarginata and Callinectes spidus, and the terrestrial Ocypode quadrata. Cytochrome c oxidase was chosen for this study since it is generally believed that the more aerobic the cells or tissues become, the more fully developed the cytochrome system will be. This enzyme is also thought to have a role in thermal acclimation. In gill tissue the activity of cytochrome c oxidase is enhanced with the advent of aerial respiration. Enzymatic activity of gill tissue from Ocypode quadrata was significantly greater than it was in tissue from the aquatic species. No correlation was observed with increased terrestrialism and enzymatic activity of muscle or mid-gut gland tissue. The thermal acclimation patterns of tissues of these three species of crabs indicate a clear-cut tendency for less enzymatic adaptation to temperature at the tissue level as these crabs evolve toward a land habitat.
3882807| Along a line of the four nemertean orders, Archi-, Palaeo-, Hetero-, and Hoplonemertea established by Iwata, formation of the foregut is described in detail on the basis of data hitherto recorded. The axiality of the egg, larva and adult worm of a species may change as a function of foregut morphogenesis in the embryo. During foregut formation the mouth moves from the vegetal pole to the ventral side of the body. In Archinemertea, the larva has an angle of 60 formed by the long axis of the body and the foregut, while in Palaeonemertea the angle is 45. This relationship is retained in the adult. The placement of the mouth thus obtained in the larva and adult worm seems to be important for the systematics of the Nemertea, especially for the Archinemertea and Palaeonemertea. 
3883583| Hemoglobins, found in members of almost all invertebrate phyla, display an extraordinary diversity of form and function. Although some are intracellular with chains and assemblies similar in size to those of vertebrates, others are giant extracellular proteins with masses as large as 8,000 kilodaltons. Two very different strategies have evolved for the stabilization of these large molecules. The first is the formation of both intra- and inter-chain disulfide bonds that effectively immobilize segments of the protein, and the second is the evolution by gene duplication of multi-domain chains with from two to eighteen myoglobin-like, heme-containing domains in a single polypeptide that may be as large as 260 kilodaltons. The genes for vertebrate globins have a characteristic two-intron, three-exon structure. The gene encoding chain c of the hemoglobin of the earthworm Lumbricus terrestris has precisely the same organization and splice junction positions. This shows that these positions have been conserved for at least 600 million years, the estimated time of divergence of annelids and the ancestor to chordates. The gene encoding a hemoglobin (leghemoglobin) of higher plants shows exactly the same splice junctions as in the globin genes of vertebrates except that the middle exon is split by an additional intron which is believed to have been lost early in animal evolution. The occurrence of hemoglobins in diverse higher plants suggests that they might be present in all plants albeit at very low concentrations and perhaps serving an enzymatic function. Hemoglobin, broadly defined as a heme-containing protein capable of reversibel combination with oxygen, also occurs in bacteria and fungi. The discovery of a bacterial hemoglobin that is 26% identical with lupin leghemoglobin indicates a procaryotic origin. The possibility that hemoglobin may have evolved from a cytochrome is suggested by the presence of hemoglobins in the yeast, Candida, and the bacterium, Alcaligenes, that contain both heme and flavin. They must therefore have evolved by the fusion of the genes for two different proteins. However, the possible homology of the heme domains with plant or animal hemoglobins remains to be determined. The lactic dehydrogenase of yeast, cytochrome b
3884008|The biological world is full of systems whose component parts interact in a coupled non-linear fashion. As a result, studying any component of the system in isolation may not be representative of its natural behavior due to the coupling, and predicting the behavior of the entire system as a function of variation in any one parameter may be quite difficult due to the non-linear nature of the interactions. Swimming with whole body undulations is just such a system. The component parts of the swimming-system (muscle, skeleton, soft-tissue, and the surrounding fluid), are mechanically and physiologically coupled in a strongly non-linear manner. Therefore, to predict the outcome of the entire system, i.e., swimming behavior, or to understand the role any one component plays as a determinant of the outcome, a mechanistic approach encompassing the form of the component's interactions is required. This approach is essential for developing scaling arguments, or discussing the consequences of morphological and physiological variation on behavioral and evolutionary "performance." Below I outline an example of this method: a simplistic model of the mechanical interactions between the swimming-system components of a leech. The model is based on in vitro characterizations of these components and first principle descriptions of their interactions. Solving the model's governing equations generates swimming behavior in the model organism. In addition, the model can predict the behavior of the swimming-system's component parts, allowing calculations of swimming performance and parameter variation not possible with other approaches.
3882365|Middle and inner ear structure and auditory sensitivity have been studied in all five genera of the rodent family Heteromyidae. In the most xeric genera (Dipodomys and Microdipodops) the middle ears are greatly inflated, the tympano-ossicular system very efficient, the organ of Corti extremely modified, and low-frequency sensitivity extremely acute. In the most mesic genera (Heteromys and Liomys) the middle and inner ears show few modifications and the low-frequency sensitivity is rather poor. Perognathus is intermediate in habitat, structure, and low-frequency sensitivity. Experimental data demonstrate that the low-frequency sensitivity in Dipodomys is adaptive in predator avoidance.
3882312|Many sex differences in the regulation of reproductive function in rats are the result of a differentiation of the brain which occurs neonatally. Although injections of either androgens or estrogens are capable during the neonatal period of altering hypothalamic systems involved in reproductive behavior and gonadotropin regulation, the physiological role of each type of hormone has not been clearly established. In both sexes, circulating estrogens are normally kept from interacting with estrogen receptors in the limbic brain by the high levels of alpha-fetoprotein in the blood. The local aromatization of androgens in the brain could circumvent alpha-fetoprotein, since androgens do not bind to this serum protein. The "aromatization hypothesis" states that testosterone, which is abundant in neonatal male circulation but absent in females, is locally converted to estradiol in the limbic brain. There it binds to estrogen receptor proteins to produce tissue differentiation. The ontogeny of estradiol binding proteins in limbic areas is consistent with the aromatization hypothesis, with a rapid increase in receptor levels occurring shortly after birth. Also, the presence of endogenous estradiol-receptor complexes has been demonstrated in the cell nuclei of male neonates but not female neonates. Furthermore, the presence of estradiol binding proteins in other regions of the neonatal male and female brain suggests an additional role of estradiol, unknown as of yet. Several studies with agents which block the aromatization of androgens to estrogens or the binding of estrogens to their receptors are consistent with the aromatization hypothesis, since these agents prevent the differentiation of intact neonatal males. However, specific androgen binding proteins are also present in neonatal brains, and androgen-receptor complexes can be found in cell nuclei of neonates after an injection of tritiated androgen. The possible involvement of these receptors in sexual differentiation of the brain is suggested by the finding that an antiandrogen inhibits both the binding of androgens (but not estrogens) and the differentiation of males.
3882300|Following the isolation, synthesis and subsequent development of specific and sensitive radioimmunoassays for the hypothalamic hormones thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) and growth hormone release-inhibiting hormone (somatostatin), it was recognized that these peptides were not localized solely in the hypothalamus, but were widely distributed throughout the mammalian nervous system. Somatostatin occurs outside the nervous system altogether, being located in the gastrointestinal tract of vertebrates where it may have a physiologic role in the secretion of gastrointestinal hormones. TRH, also, has been located outside the nervous system, occurring in large quantities in the skin of Rana species where it may be of physiologic importance in skin function. This tripeptide is found throughout the nervous system of vertebrate and invertebrate species in situations where it has no pituitary-thyroid function. These peptides are present in brain synaptosomes and enzymatic degrading systems have been recognized for each in brain tissue. For TRH, specific receptors and synthesizing activity have been detected outside the hypothalamic-pituitary system. The anatomic location, phylogenetic distribution, neurophysiologic and behavioral effects strongly support a role for these substances in neuronal regulation, apart from control of pituitary secretion. Evolutionary studies, especially of TRH, suggest that their primary function may be as neurotransmitters.
3884458|Much attention has been paid to the role of developmental information in estimating phylogenetic relationships and, more recently, to the use of phylogenies in understanding the evolution of development. At the moment, however, we lack a sufficiently general theory connecting phylogenetic patterns of character evolution to properties of developmental systems. Here we outline a simple model relating homoplasy to the rate of character change and the number of evolvable states, both of which may reflect developmental constraints. Given a particular rate of character change, the fewer the evolvable states the more homoplasy is expected, and vice versa. The repeated evolution of a limited number of forms of bilateral flower symmetry may reflect constraints imposed by overall flower orientation and underlying mechanisms of differentiation.
3882464|Cladistic analysis of free-living soil nematodes of the Leptonchoidea (Nematoda: Dorylaimida) resulted in groupings different from those obtained by traditional methods. We can interpret distributions of species groups obtained by phyletic analysis in relation to plate tectonic events. Similar techniques are applicable to plant parasitic nematodes. Grouping on the basis of synapomorphies produced a cladogram of genera of the family Heteroderidae (Nematoda: Tylenchida) in which Meloidodera and Cryphodera appear to be the most ancestral genera and the cyst forming genera the most derived. A cladogram of groups of species in Heterodera sensu lato showed a major division, with the round cyst nematodes and the Cacti group in one grouping and the rest of the Heterodera species in the second. I interpret present-day distributions by a strict vicariance view and suggest potential falsifiers; and also discuss ancient dispersal routes as alternative ways of thinking about nematode distribution.
3882757|Virtually all animals swim unsteadily. They oscillate appendages, undulate, and produce periodic propulsive forces so that the velocity of some part of their bodies changes in time. Because of their unsteady motion, animals experience a fluid force in addition to drag-the acceleration reaction. The acceleration reaction dominates the forces resisting rapid accelerations of animals and may be responsible for generating thrust in oscillating appendages and undulating bodies. The ever-present unsteady nature of animal swimming implies diverse applications of the acceleration reaction.
3881854|The enteric plexuses of the automatic nervous system may be considered, on the basis of both function and morphology, to be a simple integrative nervous system of vertebrate animals. Microelectrode studies of single-unit activity within enteric ganglia reveal four distinct types of ganglion cells distinguished on the basis of pattern of spike discharge. These are (i) burst-type units which spontaneously discharge bursts of spikes at periodic intervals; (ii) fast- and slowly-adapting mechanoreceptors; (iii) tonic-type units which respond to mechanical stimulation with prolonged, all-or-nothing trains of spikes; (iv) single-spike units which spontaneously discharge single action potentials at variable intervals. The enteric plexuses are adapted for control of the intestinal musculature which behaves as an electrical syncytium activated by myogenic pacemaker potentials. The mechanism of neural control is integration of continuous neurogenic inhibition of the inherently excitable musculature.
3882866|Deep ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm excised from gastrulating amphibian embryos spontaneously undergo liquid-like movements in organ culture. Cell populations of these tissues on nonadhesive substrata will round up into spheres, spread over one another and segregate (sort out) from one another just as immiscible liquid droplets do. In ordinary liquids, movements like these are controlled by surface tensions; perhaps surface tensions also control the similar movements of liquid-like tissues. One necessary condition for tissue surface tension analysis is that the tissue must be able (just as ordinary liquids are able) to spontaneously relax internal stretching forces (shear stresses). When cellular aggregates of the germ layers were deformed by gentle compression between parallel glass plates, cells within the aggregates were initially stretched. However, the cells soon returned to their original undistorted shapes. Thus, cell stretching forces were gradually relaxed by cell rearrangements. The in vitro spreading movements of the deep germ layers imply that the surface tension of ectoderm should be greater than the surface tension of mesoderm which should be greater than the surface tension of endoderm. Quantitative measurements of tissue surface tensions made by parallel plate compression confirm precisely that relationship. Furthermore, the surface tensions of these tissues remain constant regardless of the amount of aggregate flattening-another necessary condition for valid surface tension measurements. These results demonstrate that amphibian deep germ layers possess fundamental liquid properties which are sufficient to direct their liquid-like rearrangements in organ culture. Furthermore, I also report that one of these properties, surface tension, displays a preliminary correlation with density of cell surface charge (assessed by electrophoretic mobility) and with the onset of in vivo mesodermal involution.
3883329|Axial muscles used for oscillatory swimming are found not only in fish and other vertebrates but also in some protochordates and invertebrates. Chaetognaths have unsegmented locomotor musculature with some unusual features, but larvacean tunicates and the tadpole larvae of ascidians show the simplest variant of the chordate segmented axial muscle arrangement for flexing a notochordal column, where all muscle cells along one side are electrically coupled. With amphioxus, the basic fish myotomal layout is established, with two main fibre types probably used for different patterns of swimming (as in fish). There are, however, several unique features, including the flattened fibre shape and the paramyosin system of the notochord. Agnatha have two fibre types in the myotomes, a third type perhaps being a developmental stage in the ontogeny of fast fibres. In lampreys, the central fibres of the characteristic fibre sandwiches in the myotomes are flattened (though less so than in amphioxus); they have a dual innervation of unknown function seen also in the fast fibre system of many Gnathostome fish groups. Hagfish fast fibres are not flattened nor do they have a dual innervation. Gnathostome fish axial muscles are strikingly uniform in design with two possible exceptions: (1) higher teleost fast fibres which, unlike those of other groups, are multiply-innervated and (2) tonic fibres in a few fish, which seem not to be involved in locomotion.
3883117|This article summarizes the role of cell contact in regulation of gene expression in the neural retina. It reviews evidence that contact-dependent communication between Muller glia cells and neurons, mediated by cell-membrane molecules, plays an important role in the expression and stability of the phenotype of Muller glia cells. Disruption of glia-neuron cell contacts and continued cell separation elicit changes in the glia cells that lead to their transformation into lens-like (lentoidal) cell type. It is proposed that, deprivation of normal contacts with neurons brings about changes in the cell membrane of the glia cell which are signalled internally and result in altered gene expression and phenotype modification.
3882646|Mechanisms of two constituent steps of the hatching process, i.e., secretion of hatching enzyme from the gland cells and enzymatic choriolysis, in the Medaka, Oryzias latipes, are described. The ultrastructural changes of the hatching gland cells occurring at the initiation of electrically induced secretion as well as of natural secretion were the swelling of each gland cell and the separation of joints of the epithelial cells covering the gland cells, followed by a resultant exposure of the apical part of the gland cells. These changes, though their triggering mechanisms are not sufficiently clarified, suggest an intervention of some mechanical stimuli in the initiation of secretion. Decrease in electron density of the secretory granules also occurred immediately prior to the initiation of secretion. The secreted hatching enzyme was found to dissolve the inner layer of chorion by attacking the scleroprotein of the inner layer at some restricted sites and liberating a group of soluble glycoproteins of high molecular weights. This selective digestion appears to be the reason why choriolysis proceeds efficiently during a short period of time at hatching.
3883473|Many species of insects exhibit wing dimorphism, one morph having fully developed wings and the other morph having reduced wings and being incapable of flight. These wing dimorphisms provide visible manifestations of migratory polymorphisms. Since winged individuals do not, in principle, have to fly, the existence of forms with reduced wings suggests that there is a tradeoff between flight capability and other fitness components. Comparisons of the life histories of the fully winged and wing reduced morphs demonstrate that this tradeoff is most commonly expressed as a decrease in the age of first reproduction and increased fecundity in the morph with reduced wings. Given these tradeoffs, the evolution of wing dimorphism will depend upon its genetic basis, including correlations with other life history components. A review of the recent literature suggests that the heritability of wing morphology is high, and we suggest that this high heritability could be maintained, in part, by antagonistic pleiotropy. In dimorphic species, the winged morph is generally considered to be the migrant form. However, there are significant correlations, both within and among species, between the proportion of winged individuals, the proportion of winged individuals with functional flight muscles, and the flight propensity of those individuals. This suggests that the proportion of winged individuals and the propensity of the winged morph to migrate are intimately connected at both the physiological and population level. Therefore, the study of the evolution of wing dimorphism is important not only in its own right but also as a model of how migratory propensity evolves in monomorphically winged species.
3883974|At Eastern Pacific hydrothermal vents, alvinellid polychaetes are among the first metazoans to colonize newly formed surfaces of sulfide chimneys. In this environment of rapid mineral precipitation, alvinellids are confronted by steep physico-chemical gradients and high temporal variability. This paper examines the interaction of alvinellids with chimney mineralization processes and then reviews what is known of mechanisms that could enable these worms to deal with potentially toxic levels of sulfide in their environment. Studies of sulfide chimneys consistently show mineralogy to be locally modified around alvinellid tubes. This may be linked to sulfide oxidation products that accumulate in tube material or to the circulation of seawater through the tube. At high worm densities, these local effects may have a significant influence on larger scale sulfide accretion processes that determine chimney morphology. Alvinellid polychaetes may have several lines of defense against sulfide. Tubes and mucous layers could act as passive barriers to reduce inward diffusion of sulfide across posterior surfaces. Colonization of epidermal and tube surfaces by bacteria that might be sulfide oxidizing, could create an active external barrier in some species. Sulfide oxidation by tissue homogenates has been demonstrated in two Paralvinella species, where it may serve to protect oxidative respiration from sulfide entering worm tissues. Sulfide binding in blood has not been studied in any of the alvinellids.
3884129|The day 13-14 chicken embryo is a useful model for studies on prenatal stress responses. Free dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine in its plasma, amniotic and allantoic fluid respond to a variety of stresses. The allantoic fluid also contains conjugated catecholamines and conjugated steroids. However, a blood/allantois barrier excludes free thyroid hormones and free steroids, and insulin. On the other hand, the allantoic fluid contains at least 40 amino acids (including six excitatory amino acids) and related compounds. Most, possibly all, components of the allantoic fluid are regulated at specific blood/allantois and amnion/allantois barriers, and they respond to ethanol stress and metabolite loading differentially. The avian allantois is a depot for important metabolites and messenger substances which seems to be controlled by as yet unidentified hormones.
3883881|A study of common snapping turtles conducted from 1975 through 1992 in southeastern Michigan provided sufficient demographic data to examine how life history characteristics may constrain population responses of long-lived organisms. Females reached sexual maturity between 11 and 16 years of age. Minimum reproductive frequency was less than annual (0.85), and nest survivorship over 17 years ranged from 0 to 64% and averaged 23%. Survivorship of yearlings had to be estimated since hatchlings can pass through the mesh on traps. Actual survivorship of juveniles was over 0.65 by age 2 and averaged 0.77 between the ages of 2 and 12 years. Annual survivorship of adult females ranged from 0.88 to 0.97. A life table for the population resulted in a cohort generation time of 25 years. Population stability was most sensitive to changes in adult or juvenile survival, and less sensitive to changes in age at sexual maturity, nest survival or fecundity. An increase in annual mortality of 0.1 on adults over 15 years of age with no density-dependent compensation would halve the number of adults in less than 20 years. The results from the present study indicate that life history traits of long-lived organisms consist of co-evolved traits that severely constrain the ability of populations to respond to chronic disturbances. Successful management and conservation programs for long-lived organisms will be those that recognize that protection of all life stages is necessary. Without protection of adults and older juveniles, programs that protect nests and headstart hatchlings have a low probability of success. Carefully managed sport harvests of turtles or other long-lived organisms may be sustainable; however, commercial harvests will certainly cause substantial population declines.
3882032|The nature and rate of gas exchange in intertidal organisms is variable and is the product of an extremely complex environmental situation. Such influences may be grouped into tidal-dependent factors such as the proportion of time spent exposed to air, the magnitude of environmental temperature fluctuations, and the availability of food. Factors which may be regarded as generally operating independently of tidal level include latitudinal variations in environmental temperature. Superimposed upon such spatial environmental variations are seasonal factors such as temperature and photoperiod, which impose a temporal cycle upon the metabolic rate. Finally, there are numerous endogenous factors such as body size, activity level, and stage of development which profoundly influence the rate of respiration. It can be shown that some factors, such as aerial or aquatic conditions, may affect respiration qualitatively. Under aquatic conditions gas exchange is with the surrounding sea water, but with increasing exposure to air intertidal invertebrates are able to respire aerially and to withstand the water loss associated with this process. Many are also able to respire anaerobically under conditions of stress. In contrast, factors such as activity level, body size, nutritional conditions, and exposure temperature affect respiration quantitatively and are often interdependent. The metabolism of intertidal animals is then endowed with considerable flexibility between the extremes set by the active and standard rates of respiration. This active rate of respiration is markedly temperature-dependent in most instances, whereas the standard rate, which is characteristic of quiescent animals, is not only lower but often has a low temperature coefficient. A reduction in respiration conserves metabolic reserves during periods of stress, and the low temperature coefficient further minimizes depletion of such reserves despite the high environmental temperatures which often prevail during the intertidal period.
3881493| Sticky silk from webs of the spiders, Uloborus diversus and Filistata arizonicus, were examined by electron microscopy. The silk of U. diversus contains long fibrils, 200-300  in diameter, consisting of an electron-dense central filament, 30-60  across, embedded in a lighter matrix. Transverse banding is distinguished in the matrix at intervals from over 200 to less than 50 . Similar features are observed in the silk of F. arizonicus. Extended fibrils have an altered structure. 
3884299|Crustaceans have the remarkable ability to regenerate limbs. Unlike insects, crustaceans also continue to increase in body size with age, and new limb regeneration must occur in concert with the growth and reproductive activities of the adult. In the fiddler crab, Uca pugilator, regeneration consists of the formation of a blastema (limb primordium) from cells migrating into the site of the wound. Over a time course related to the physiology and growth cycle of the animal, these cells proliferate and differentiate into an intact miniature limb, which will then increase in size and emerge as a functional appendage with the next molting of the body exoskeleton. In arthropods, changes in gene expression mediating both growth (e.g., cuticular molting) and differentiation (e.g., insect metamorphosis) are regulated by ecdysteroids. We hypothesize that ecdysteroids and their receptors are also involved in the regulation of limb regeneration in crabs. To investigate this hypothesis, clones representing the crustacean ecdysteroid receptor have been isolated and are providing the basis for the development of nucleic acid and immunological probes to identify, at the tissue level, the pattern of receptor expression relative to changes in hormone titer during all stages of regeneration. In support of this hypothesis, we have detected the expression of the nuclear receptor genes encoding the ecdysteroid receptor at the earliest stages of blastemal development. We have also shown that receptor transcript synthesis can be influenced by external factors (retinoid exposure) which disrupt Uca blastemal differentiation. These studies allow us to identify and characterize putative ecdysteroid target tissues. They begin to address the goal of defining how a common signal (e.g., circulating hormones) can influence a variety of discrete developmental programs.
3882767|The role of carbonic anhydrase (CA) in ion transport processes of aquatic and terrestrial arthropod species is reviewed. In both insects and crustaceans CA is found in a variety of ion transporting tissues. The bulk of CA activity in crustaceans is concentrated in the posterior gills, which are morphologically and biochemically adapted for ion transport. The enzyme can be specifically localized to gill lamellae which contain large populations of salt transporting chloride cells. Enzyme activity in the posterior gills of species having the ability to regulate blood ion concentrations increases when these organisms are acclimated to environmental salinities in which they ion regulate. In stenohaline, ion conforming species branchial CA activity is uniformly low, being only 5-10% that in regulating species. Studies on the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, using the specific CA inhibitor acetazolamide have shown that the enzyme is indeed important in blood ion regulation. Blood Na
3882311|We have demonstrated and partially characterized putative estrogen and androgen receptors from mouse hypothalamus for a range of perinatal ages. For the first time, estrogen and androgen receptors from embryonic mouse and rat hypothalamus are described and characterized; they display similar parameters as the receptor proteins of adult mice and rats. The ontogeny of these proteins is discussed in the context of models for the control of the "critical period" of sexual differentiation of the brain. The androgen-binding proteins, presumed to be receptors, are compared for hypothalamus and kidney and for the androgen-resistant mutant mouse, testicular feminization (Tfm). The putative receptor forms that are observed help to define the possible function of brain androgen receptors during sexual differentiation. Development and modification of DNA-cellulose chromatography for the affinity separation of steroid receptors of brain is described. The methods allow complete separations of receptor proteins from non-receptor, steroid-binding proteins and subsequent analysis of the resultant receptors.
