41809936|Modern molecular phylogenetic studies of the Pteridaceae have recognized a well supported cheilanthoid clade that includes four major subclades: myriopteroids, pellaeoids, hemionitidoids and notholaenoids. Many of the morphological characters used in delimitation of the cheilanthoid lineages and genera appear to be the result of convergent evolution, a result of adaptation to xeric environments. Faced with the apparent lack of sporophytic synapomorphies for the cheilanthoid subclades, farina production by gametophytes has been proposed as a character of possible phylogenetic utility. All the notholaenoid species observed to date produce farina in their gametophytes, but species of the other cheilanthoid clades (pellaeoids, hemionitidoids, and myriopteroids) do not. In this work we provide the first account of farina production in the gametophyte of a non-notholaenoid: two accessions of Argyrochosma nivea from different geographical localities were found to have farina on their gametophytes, suggesting that this gametophytic character is not a synapomorphy for the notholaenoids, and may have had several independent evolutionary origins.
10.2307/1547537|The taxonomic status of Pteris deflexa and P. polita and the nomenclatural status of three other names used in this species group are clarified.
1547166|Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast trnL-trnF intergenic spacer were obtained for 21 of the 22 indigenous Asplenium taxa presently recognized from New Zealand. Nucleotide sequences of the chloroplast rbcL gene were also obtained from eleven New Zealand species representative of the diversity found in the trnL-trnF intergenic spacer. Phylogenetic analyses of these chloroplast sequence data indicate that the Asplenium species of New Zealand are not monophyletic. More specifically, the Asplenium species participating in hybridization in New Zealand form a closely related 'Austral' group, whereas the non-hybridizing species have closer affinities to species from outside New Zealand. Within the Austral group, three well-supported sub-groups are recognized, represented by the species A. bulbiferum, A. flaccidum, and A. obtusatum. Dating analyses reject an 80 million year old vicariant origin for any of the Asplenium lineages in New Zealand, and the distributions of the many Asplenium species disjunct between New Zealand and elsewhere appear best explained by long-distance dispersal. The likely chloroplast/maternal parent for each of the New Zealand octoploid species is discussed.
4496864| While compiling a plant inventory for a 20 acre forest fragment in Florida City, Miami-Dade County, Florida, on March 30, 2006, an unusual Thelypteris species was collected. The specimens did not correspond to any species reported from Florida (Wunderlin and Hansen, 2000). Using keys in Proctor (1989), Snchez et al. (2006), and Morton (1963) it was tentatively identified as T. sancta (L.) Ching. A specimen was sent to Alan R. Smith, an expert on the genus, who confirmed this identification. 
4095190|The gametophytes of four tropical, terrestrial species of Huperzia - H. crassa, H. cumingii, H. hypogaea, and H. saururus - grow in axenic culture on a nutrient medium containing inorganic nutrients and glucose. The gametophytes of all species are dorsiventral, axial structures, which can be straight, curved, narrow, or wide. Paraphyses and gametangia form on the dorsal surface and rhizoids on the ventral surface. The apical meristem is overarched by immature dorsal tissue. Minor differences in the paraphyses and gametangia exist among the species. These gametophytes are Type III gametophytes as is the case for the previously described gametophytes of two other terrestrial species of Huperzia.
10.2307/1547270| Genetic variation was surveyed in eleven populations from throughout the range of the diploid Isotes karstenii, as well as in two populations of a closely related tetraploid, I. palmeri, using allozyme electrophoresis. Genetic variation was high in I. karstenii and appears to be highly structured, as evidenced by analyses of F-statistics and genetic vs. geographic distance. No fixed unique alleles were found that could distinguish between I. karstenii and I. palmeri, although one allele was observed that was unique to I. palmeri. These analyses confirm earlier observations suggesting low levels of interpopulational gene flow and have implications for sampling strategies. 
